She did not answer, but she touched the upper edge of the wallet in his breast pocket with
an exploring gesture.

"You think I'm too darn aesthetic! Well, you're not, and so we ought to mate. We're complementary
to one another, like air and sunshine or light and shade."

"Or pork and beans, or pie and cheese."

"Yes, or like stout and porter--I'll be the porter, oh--what's the use of talking? Let my lips
talk to you!"

He kissed her cheek, imprinting thereon a Cupid's bow, by reason of his own addiction to the
lipstick.

Warble rubbed it off with the back of her hand, and said, "Oh, pleathe--pleathe."

She wondered if she ought to have said thank you, but it was only a drifting thought and she
turned the other cheek. Then she smiled her engaging smile and they were engaged.

Later in the game, she said, with pretty diffidence, "I would like to thee Butterfly Thenter."
And she blushed like the inside of those pink meat melons.

"I knew it!" and Petticoat produced a pile of Sunday Picture Supplements.

Her cheek nested in his permanent wave, Warble studied the pictures.

They were the last word in artistic architecture. Truly, Butterfly Center, where Petticoat
lived, was a veritable Utopia, Arcadia, Spotless Town and Happy Valley all rolled into one.
Broad streets, arching trees, sublimated houses, glorified shops--it seemed to Warble like
a flitter-work Christmas card from the drug-store.

"How'd you like to scoot up there with me in a fast aeroplane?" he jollied her.

"It might be--a lark--" she dubioused.

"But here's the picture!" and proudly he exhibited a full length view of his own home.

"Ptomaine Haul," he exploited, proudly. "Built every inch of it from the busy little ptomaines.
Coral insects nothing on that, eh? And here's the sort of people I practice on. Old Leathersham,
now--he has a corking château--French Renaissance. And Mrs. Charity Givens--she has a Georgian
shack. And, oh, yes, here's Iva Payne. She's one of my most profitable patients--sick all the
time."

Warble studied the pictures.

"What expensive people," she said, "dear--so dear."

"Yes, great people. You'd love 'em. They're just layin' for you. Come on, Warble, will you?"

"Yop," she murmured, from his coat pocket, "Sweet, so sweet."

CHAPTER III

Among the rolling stock of a great railroad, a moving mass of steel. A soft sludge as it came
noiselessly to rest beneath the glazed chintz awnings of the Butterfly Center station.

A faint scent of chypre from Petticoat's cigarette as he alit.

From his private train, which had slithered across the intervening spaces and slid into its
moorings as butter slides from a hot plate.

It is September, cool, green and well-sprinkled.

The obviously important man was followed by a yellow-topped, rose-cheeked girl, whose eyes
were all blue and a yard wide as she looked about.

About what?

About eighteen.

They were Dr. Big Bill Petticoat and his bride, Warble.

They had been married and had spent their honeymoon in riotous loving.

It had been transforming. Warble had been frightened to discover how hungry she could be even
on a wedding trip.

Bill had mused to himself; what's the difference between an optimist and a pessimist? One honeymoon.
And now they had reached their home town. People were not altogether new to Warble. She had
seen them before. But these were her own people, to bathe and encourage and adorn--and, they
didn't seem to need it.

They distressed her. They were so smart. She had always held that there is no style in America,
no chic effects out of Paris.

But here on the terrace of the simple little hewn stone station were hordes of men and women
who seemed to be, mentally, morally and physically, literally butterflies.

"Isn't there any way of waking them up?" she begged of Petticoat, grabbing his arm and shaking him.

"These guys? Wake 'em up? What for? They're happy."

"But they're so smug--no, that isn't what I mean. They're so stick-in-the-mud."

"Look here, Warble, you want to get over your fool idea that because a woman is slender she
isn't adorable. These folks are up to date, snuff and mischief."

"I know, that's what's biting me. Life seems so hard for them."

"Oh, they don't mind it. Now you must meet the bunch. They're all down here to meet their husbands
or something just as good. Now you behave yourself."

"Yop."

She had a grip on herself. She was ready to kiss and be friends with them all. But she was
scared at the rackety pack who ballyhooed like Coney Island and surged down upon her like a
Niagara Falls.

She had the impression that all the men had soft voices, large, embracing arms, gimlet eyes
and bored, impersonal smiles. She knew they were taking her in. Their pleasant hoots and yells
of greeting overcame her.

"Oh, pleathe--pleathe," she lisped.

In her fresh frilled dimity and soft sash of baby-blue Surah, her rolled white socks disclosing
but a few tantalizing inches of seashell-pink calf, Warble stood, eyes cast down, a pretty,
foolish thing,

  As soft as young,
  As gay as soft,

and, to a man, the male population of Butterfly Center fell for her.

Not so the remainder of the citizens.

One of the men was yelling at Petticoat:

"Hop into my car, Bill, Don't see yours--I'll tote the bride-person you've got there--with
joy and gladness." Warble looked at the yeller.

"Can't quite place me, chick, can you?" he grinned at her. "Well I'm only old Goldwin Leathersham--no
use for me in the world but to spend money. Want me to spend some on you? Here's my old thing--step
up here, Marigold, and be introduced. She's really nicer than she looks, Mrs. Petticoat."

"Indeed I'm not," Marigold Leathersham cried gaily, "I couldn't be--nobody could be!"

She came running--a beautiful, slim young woman, with a wealth of expensive looking gold hair,
white and gold teeth that broke into a lavish smile. Her voice was rich and though she looked
above, away from and through Warble, yet she saw her.

"So glad to welcome you, you pretty baby," she chirruped. "You're going to love us all, aren't
you?"

"Yop," said Warble, and smiled her engaging smile.

"You bet she'll love us," declared Leathersham, "she'll make the world go round! Hello, Little
One," he turned to pat the cheek of a white-haired, red-faced old lady, who hawk-eyed and hawk-nosed,
stood by, listening in. This, Mrs. Petticoat, is our Lady Bountiful, Mrs. Charity Givens--noted
for her generosity. She ostentatiously heads all Donation Lists, and she's going to start a
rest cure where your husband's unsuccessful cases may die in peace. And here's one of the cases.
Hello, Iva Payne!"

"Hello," languidly responded a girl like a long pale lily--a Burne-Jones type, who sometimes
carried around a small stained-glass window to rest her head against.

"Are you really Bill's wife?" she asked, a little disinterestedly, of Warble.

"Yop," said Warble, and made a face at her.

"How quaint," said Iva.

"Whoopee, Baby! Here we are," and Petticoat rescued his bride from the middle of a crowd and
yanked her toward his car.

The car was a museum piece, and as Warble caromed into its cushions she felt that her lines
had fallen in pleasant places.

That was the way Fate came to Warble. In big fat chunks, in slathers. Unexpected, sudden, inescapable--that's
Fate all over.

"I shall like Mr. Leathersham--I shall call him Goldie. They're all nice and friendly--the
men. But this town! Oh, my Heavens! This Jewel Casket--this Treasure Table! I can't live through
it! This Floating Island of a Tipsy Charlotte!" Her husband nudged her. "You look like you
had a pain," he said; "Scared? I don't expect you to fit in at first. You have to get eased
into things. It's different from Pittsburgh. But you'll come to like it--love is so free here,
and the smartest people on earth."

She winked at him. "I love you for your misunderstanding. I'm just dog-tired. And too many
chocolates. Give me a rest, dear. I'm all in from wear sheeriness."

She laid her feet in his lap and snuggled into the corner of the pearl-colored upholstery.

She was ready for her new home, beautiful, celebrated Ptomaine Haul. Petticoat told her that
his mother had been living with him, but had fled incontinently on hearing a description of Warble.

The bride chuckled and smiled engagingly as the car slithered round a corner and stopped under
the _porte cochère_ of a great house set in the midst of a landscape.

Neo-Colonial, of a purity unsurpassed by the Colonists themselves.

A park stretching in front; gardens at the back; steps up to a great porch, and a front door
copied from the Frary house in Old Deerfield.

A great hall--at its back twin halves of a perfect staircase. To the right, a charming morning
room, where Petticoat led his bride.

"You like it? It's not inharmonious. I left it as it is--in case you care to rebuild or redecorate."

"It's a sweet home--" she was touched by his indifference. "So artistic."

Petticoat winced, but he was a polite chap, and he only said, carelessly, "Yes, home is where
the art is," and let it go at that.

In the hall and the great library she was conscious of vastness and magnificent distances,
but, she thought, if necessary, I can use roller skates.

As she followed Petticoat and the current shift of servants upstairs, she quavered to herself
like the fat little gods of the hearth.

She took her husband into her arms, and felt that at last she had realized her one time dreams
of the moving pictures, ay, even to the final close-up.

What mattered, so long as she could paw at the satin back of his shirt, and admire his rich
and expensive clothing.

"Dear--so dear--" she murmured.

CHAPTER IV

"The Leathershams are giving a ball for us to-night," Petticoat said, casually, as he powdered
his nose in the recesses of his triplicate mirror.

"A ball?"

"Oh, I don't mean a dance--I mean--er--well, what you'd call a sociable, I suppose."

"Oh, ain't we got fun!"

"And, I say, Warble, I've got to chase a patient now; can you hike about a bit by yourself?"

"Course I can. Who's your patient?"

"Avery Goodman--the rector of St. Judas' church. He will eat terrapin made out of--you know
what. And so, he's all tied up in knots with ptomaine poisoning and I've got to straighten
him out. It means a lot to us, you know."

"I know; skittle."

Left alone, Warble proceeded systematically to examine the interior of Ptomaine Haul. She gazed
about her own bedroom and a small part of its exquisite beauty dawned upon her. It was an exact
copy of Marie Antoinette's and the delicately carved furniture and pale blue upholstery and
hangings harmonized with the painted domed ceiling and paneled walls.

The dressing table bore beautiful appointments of ivory, as solid as Warble's own dome and
from the Cupid-held canopy over the bed to the embroidered satin foot-cushions, it was top hole.

The scent was of French powders, perfumes and essences and sachets, such as Warble had not
smelled since before the war.

"Can you beat it," she groaned. "How can I live with doodads like this?" She saw the furniture
as a circle of hungry restaurant customers ready to eat her up. She kicked the dozen lace pillows
off the head of the bed.

"No utility anywhere," she cried. "Everything futile, inutile, brutal! I hate it! I hate it!
Why did I ever--"

And then she remembered she was a Petticoat now, a lace, frilled Petticoat--not one of those
that Oliver Herford so pathetically dubbed "the short and simple flannels of the poor."

Yes, she was now a Petticoat--one of the aristocratic Cotton-Petticoats, washable, to be sure,
but a dressy Frenchy Petticoat, and as such she must take her place on the family clothesline.

She drifted from oriel window to casement, and on to a great becurtained and becushioned bay,
and looked out on the outlook.

She saw gardens like the Tuileries and Tuilerums, soft, shining pools, little skittering fountains,
marble Cupids and gay-tinted flowers. This was the scene for her to look down upon and live up to.

"I mustn't! I mustn't! I'm nervous this afternoon! Am I sick?...... Good Lord, I hope it isn't
that! Not now! I'd hate it--I'd be scared to death! Some day--but, please, kind Fate, not now!
I don't want to go down now with ptomaine poisoning! Not till after I've had my dinner! I'm
going out for a walk."

When Warble had plodded along for six hours, she had pretty well done up the town.

Ptomaine Street, which took its name from her husband's own residence, was a wide, leafy avenue
with a double row of fine old trees on each side. They were Lebbek trees, and the whole arrangement
was patterned after the avenue which Josephine built for Napoleon, out to the Mena House.

She passed the homes of the most respectable citizens. Often they were set back from the road,
and the box hedges or tall iron fences prevented her from seeing the houses. But she saw enough
and sped on to the more interesting business and shopping section of Butterfly Center.

She passed Ariel Inn, the hotel being like a Swiss Chalet, perched on some convenient rocks
that rose to a height above street level. A few fairly nimble chamois were leaping over these
rocks and Warble heard a fairy-like chime of bells as afternoon tea was announced.

A man in an artist's smock sauntered across the street. A palette on one thumb, he scratched
his chin with the other. A hearse, its long box filled with somebody, crawled down the block.
A dainty Sedan with a woman's idle face at its window wafted by. From a Greek Temple came the
sound of Interpretative Dancing, and the applause of perfunctory hands.

She wanted to elope. Her own ideas of utility, efficiency, and economy were being shattered--broken
in pieces like a potter's vessel. Her sense of proportion, her instinct for relative values,
her abhorrence of waste motion, her inborn system and method, all were swept away as a thief
in the night. Could she reform this giddy whirl? Could she bring chaos out of cosmos? Was her
own ego sufficient to egg her on in her chosen work?

She haed her doots.

She maundered down the street on one side--back on the other.

Dudie's Drug-store was like unto a Turkish Mosque. Minaret and pinnaret, battlement and shuttle-door,
it was a perfect drug-store, nobly planned. The long flight of steps leading up to its ptortal
was a masterpiece in the step line.

Inside, the Soda Pagoda was a joy of temple bells and soft, sweet drinks, while at the prescription
counter, the line formed on the right, to get Dr. Petticoat's prescriptions filled for their
ptomaines.

A Moldavian Incense Shop was the barber's; a half-timbered house sold English-built clothes;
a brick affair of Georgian influences and splendid lines, housed the hardware needed by the
Butterflies, and the milliner's was a replica of the pyramid of Cestus.

The bank was the Vatican, with Swiss guards in the doorway.

Perpetual waste motion! In all the town not one building that connoted to Warble the apotheosis
of efficiency shown by the King Alfred tossing cakes in the window of Bairns' Restaurant. Not
a dozen buildings that even suggested use in addition to their beauty.

And the street was cluttered with trees in tubs, window boxes, sudden little fountains or statues;
gilded wicker birdcages on tall poles--songs issuing therefrom.

Arbors, covered with pink Dorothy Perkinses, here and there by the curbside. And, worst of
all, people sitting idle in the arbors. Idle!

She wouldn't have cared so much, if the people had been busy--even one of them. She fought
herself. "I must be wrong. It can't be as silly as it looks! It can't!"

She went home and found Petticoat waiting for her.

"Like the burg, eh? Great stuff, what? Not an eyesore inside the city wall. Good work, I'll
megaphone."

Warble sat down in an easy-going chair--so easy, it slid across the room with her, and collided
with a life-sized Chinese lady of yellow stone.

"Yes," Warble responded, "it's very uninteresting."

CHAPTER V

Goldwin Leathersham was a great Captain of Industry. In fact, he put the dust in industry,
or, at least, he took it out of it. He got it, anyway.

His home was an Aladdin's Palace, with a slight influence of Solomon's Temple. Gold was his
keynote, and he was never off the key.

When our Petticoats arrived at the party, they were met by gold-laced footmen, who whisked
them into shape and passed them along.

Warble found herself in a white and gold salon, so vast, that she felt like a goldfish out
of water. The place looked as if Joseph Urban had designed it after he had died and gone to
Golconda. Whatever wasn't white was gold, and the other way round. The gold piano had only
white keys, and the draperies were cloth of gold with bullion fringe. All real, too--no rolled
or plated stuff.

A huge coat-of-arms in a gold frame announced that Mr. Leathersham was descended from the Gold
Digger Indians, a noble ancestry indeed; and it was no secret that his wife had played in "The
Gold-diggers," during its second decade run.

Marigold Leathersham was a charming hostess, and greeted Warble with a shriek of welcome. "You
duck," she cried; "how heavenly of you to dress so well."

Warble was simply attired in a white pussy-willow silk underslip. In her haste and excitement
she had forgotten to add the gown meant to go over it, and as she wore no jewels save the chased
gold lingerie clasps at her shoulders, the result was a simplicity as charming as it was unintentional.

And so she made a hit.

That was the way things came to Warble; a hit--a social success--and all because she forgot
to put on her frock.

She mingled with the glittering throng of gilded youth, of golden lads and girls, of gilt-edged
married people, and found herself in the arms of Goldwin Leathersham, her host.

"Here comes the bride," he shouted, as he piloted her about and introduced everybody to her.

"This demure little beauty," he said, "is Daisy Snow. Note her sweet, pure face and wide-eyed,
innocent gaze."

"It is all so new--so wonderful--" Miss Snow breathed, "I'm a débutante, you know, and I have
scarcely butterflied out of my chrysalis yet. How splendid the Leathershams are. He has a heart
of gold. Oh, he is such a good man, he says his life motto is the Golden Rule." "And Mrs. Leathersham?"
asked Warble.

"Marigold? Oh, yes, she's as good as gold, too. We're firm friends."

Warble was agog to mingle, so she moved on.

Le Grand Paynter, a celebrated Cubic artist, fascinated her with his flowing locks, flowing
tie and marvelous flow of conversation. He asked to paint her as a Semi-nude Descending a Ladder,
but she only said she must refer him to her Petticoat.

Freeman Scattergood, the well-known philanthropist was chatting with Mrs. Charity Givens, who
was the champion Subscription List Header. Many had tried to oust her from this enviable position
but without success. Near them stood Avery Goodman, the rector, and he was deeply engaged in
a flirtation with Miss May Young, one of his choir girls.

Manley Knight, a returned soldier, was resplendent with a Croix de Guerre, a Hot Cross Bun
and many other Noughts and Crosses.

Warble fingered them in her light way.

"Isn't he splendid!" babbled Daisy Snow the _ingénue_; "Oh, how wonderful to offer one's life
for glory! You can fairly see the heroism bubble out of his eyes!"

"How you admire him!" said Warble.

"Yes, but he doesn't care for me."

"Not specially," admitted Manley Knight. "Yes," Daisy said. "He thinks me too ignorant and
unsophisticated--and I am. Now, there's Lotta Munn, the heiress--she's more in his line. But
Ernest Swayne is devoted to Lotta. I think it will be a real love match--like the Trues."

"The Trues?" asked Warble, politely.

"Yes," and she glanced toward a very devoted looking pair sitting apart from the rest, on a
small divan. "They're wonderful! Herman True is the most marvelous husband you ever saw. He
never speaks to anyone but his wife. And she's just the same. She was Faith Loveman, you know.
And they've been married two years and are still honeymoon lovers! Ah, what a fate!"

Daisy sighed, a sweet little-girly sigh, and blushed like a slice of cold boiled ham.

But this Who's Whosing was interrupted by a footman with a tray of cocktails.

Daisy Snow refused, of course, as became a débutante so did Judge Drinkwater, who stood near
by, frowning upon the scene, he being a Prohibitionist.

A sickly looking lady next to him achieved several, and Warble asked Daisy who she might be.

"Oh, that's Iva Payne--you met her, you know. She's very delicate, a semi-invalid, under the
care of specialists all the time. I don't exactly know what her malady is, but it's something
very interesting to the doctors. There's scarcely anything she can eat--I believe she brings
her own specially prepared food to parties.

"She seems to relish the cock-a-whoops all right," Warble commented.

"I understand the doctors prescribe stimulants for her--she is not at all strong. They give
her artificial strength, she says."

"Yes, she seems to be strong for 'em. Don't you take any?"

"Oh no! I'm a débutante. And mother says she wants to be with me when I take my first cocktail
and smoke my first cigarette."

"Dear girl, Daisy, so fresh and unspoiled! Her mother is one of a thousand."

This from Manley Knight, who constituted himself Daisy's proxy in the matter of cocktails and
drank all that would have been Daisy's had her mother permitted.

Goldwin Leathersham seemed to be acting as proxy for some débutante also, for he seemed to
feel pretty bobbish, but Warble was only slightly interested in the whole matter.

She rolled her Wedgwooden eyes about, hoping the horde would be herded toward the dining-room.
But no such luck.

Instead they drifted in the opposite direction and, swept along with the crowd, Warble found
herself in one of a serried series of gilt chairs, facing a platform as large as a theater stage.

An erudite looking man who appeared on the platform received tumultous applause.

"Who is he?" Warble whispered to her neighbor, who chanced to be Avery Goodman, "an impersonator?"

"Lord, no; it's Wunstone, the great scientist--rants on Fourth Avenue dimensions, or something
like that."

In a tone of forceful mildness the speaker began: "It must be conceded that, other things being
equal, and granting the investiture of all insensate communication, that a psychic moment may
or may not, in accordance with what under no circumstances could be termed irrelevancy, become
warily regarded as a coherent symbol by one obviously of a trenchant humor. But, however, in
proof of a smouldering discretion, no feature is entitled to less exorbitant honor than the
unquenchable demand of endurance.

"Though, of course, other things being equal, and granting the investiture of all insensate
communication, no feature is entitled, in accordance with what under no circumstances could
be termed irrelevancy, to become warily regarded as a coherent symbol. And doubtless in proof
of a smouldering discretion, and in accordance with one obviously of a trenchant humor, it
may or may not be warily regarded.

"Though it cannot be denied that the true relevancy of thought to psychic action is largely
dependent on the ever increasing forces of disregarded symbolisms. And this again proves the
pantheistic power of doubt, considered for the moment and for the subtle purposes of our argument
as faith. For, granting that two and two are six, the corollary reasoning must be that no premise
is or may be capable of such conclusion as will render it sublunary to its agreed parallel.

"But this view is ultra and should be adopted with caution.

"We are therefore forced to the conclusion that pure altruism is impossible in connection with
neo-psychology."

There was more, but it was at that point that Warble went to sleep.

She was awakened later by the high notes of a celebrated Metropolitan soprano, who had consented
to exchange a few of her liquid notes for Goldwin Leathersham's yellow-backed ones.

Tired, hungry and sleepy, Warble fidgeted in her little gilt chair, but the music went inexorably
on.

It was followed by the appearance of a Neo Poet.

This man wore eccentric dress of some sort, and as he waited for the applause to melt away,
he stood, absent-mindedly picking crumbs out of his beard.

By subtle hint of auto-suggestion this made Warble hungrier than ever and she looked around
for Petticoat. But he was busy flirting with Daisy Snow, and it was not Warble's way to cut in.

In hollow tones the performer read extracts, excerpts and exceptions from the works of Amy
Lynn, Carl Sandpiper and Padriac, the Colyumist, and Warble went back to sleep.

There was more, but no merrier, and when at last the platform was cleared for the last time,
the guests were refreshed by the passing of a small glass of punch and a wafer to each.

Then they went, with a flutter of silk stockings and twinkling slipper buckles, and a medley
of shrieked goodbys.

Warble and Petticoat reached home.

"Howja like 'em?" he asked.

"I'm so hungry," she wailed.

"Oh, Warble, you ought to be more careful about eating in public. It isn't done. Watch Iva
Payne--she doesn't."

"Oh, Bill--" Warble began to cry. "I want to go back to the restaurant--"

"No, no--now, Cream Puff, I didn't mean to lambaste you. But they're a smart crowd--"

Warble let two tears rest, glistening, in her lower eyelashes, rolled up her eyes, pulled down
the corners of her hibiscus flower mouth, and waited to be kissed.

She was.

*       *       *       *       *

Up in Bill's bedroom. Gray silken walls, smoked pearl furniture, a built-in English bed, with
gray draperies.

Through a cloth of silver portiére, a bathroom done in gray rough stone. Oxidized silver plumbing
exposure.

No pictures on the walls, save one--a barbaric Russian panel by Larrovitch.

At the windows, layers of gauze, chiffon, silk--all gray.

A great circular divan was somewhere about, and as he sank down upon it and drew her with him
into its engulfing down, he patched up the quarrel.

"They took to you," he said, "you went like hot cakes!"

It was an unfortunate allusion, and Warble, smiling with an engaging smile, wheedled, "Pleathe,
pleathe--"

"No," Petticoat said, inexorably, "if you eat all the time you'll get to look like that soprano.
Howja like that?"

"Do you care if I'm fat, Bill?"

"Me? Why, I wouldn't care if you were as big as a house. You're my--well, you're my soulmate."

"Oh, I'm so had and glappy! It's sweet to be yours. You must excuse my appetite--you're the
only husband I have. My own Pill Betticoat!"

He kissed her in his eccentric fashion, and with her plump arms about his neck, she forgot
all about Ptomaine Street.

CHAPTER VI

Warble's own maid was named Beer.

A French thing--so slim she seemed nothing but a spine, but supplied with slender, talkative
arms and a pair of delicate silk legs that displayed more or less of themselves as the daily
hint from Paris reported skirts going up or down as the case might be.

A scant black costume and a touch of white apron completed the picture, and Warble played with
her as a child with a new doll.

Beer wanted to patronize Warble, tried to do so, but found it impossible. Her patronage rolled
off of Mrs. Bill Petticoat like hard sauce off a hot apple dumpling.

"Do you get enough to eat, Beer?" her mistress asked her.

"Wee, maddum," the maid replied, in her pretty War French. "I eat but a small."

"Well, don't drop to pieces, that's all," warned Warble. As to personal care and adornment
the hitherto neglected education of Warble Petticoat was in Beer's hands. And she handed it
out with unstinted lavishness.

That was the way things came to Warble; in slathers--in big fat chunks. In avalanches and rushing
torrents.

Beer engineered all her new wardrobe, and received sealed proposals for its construction.

Beer taught her the mysteries of the toilette table, and once initiated into this entrancing
art, Warble let herself go in the matter of cosmetics and make-ups, and could scarce wait for
Beer's afternoon out, to dabble about by herself.

Beer taught her how to wear jewelry, and directed what pieces she should ask Petticoat for next.

Altogether, Warble was trying out things--but carefully, as a good housewife tries out lard.

And she was not yet certain as to the results. Environment has to reckon, now and then with
heredity.

Warble, at soul, all for utility, economy, diligence and efficiency, transplated to Butterfly
Center, with its keynote of careless idleness, waste motion and extravagance.

One must win out. Had she a Dempsey of a heredity against a Carpentier of an environment? Or
was it the other way round?

She planned to reform Butterfly Center, to do away with the street statues, the useless patches
of flowers; tear down and rebuild the ridiculous classic architecture of many of the shops
and substitute good solid livable houses for the castles and châteaux, the barracks and bungalows
that adorned the residence section.

These reforms she meant to bring about shortly, but first, she must begin with her home.

In her pride of being a Petticoat she loved every detail of Ptomaine Haul. Yet she knew it
did not express herself, it was not the keynote of her own Warbling personality.

What to do.

She sat in her boudoir, its mauve walls and gold Japanese screens backgrounding her plump prettiness,
as she lolled on a gold brocade _chaise longue_.

She glanced out at the peacocks strutting in the Italian garden and listened to the rooks cawing
in the cypresses between the marble urns on the terrace steps.

It was a big proposition to change all that. To turn the bird sticks into pruning hooks and
the bird baths into plowshares.

Could she do it?

Doubtful.

She went out into the hall and looked over the rail of the great rotunda. Rugs hung from the
rail, as it might be a Turkish Monday.

Below, she could see the lake in the front hall, also she could glimpse the armored bronze
Petticoats guarding the entrance that led to the corridor that led to the hall leading into
the dining-room.

It was well nigh hopeless.

Warble sighed. Then she rang for Beer and ordered some French pastry and a cup of chocolate.

Revived and revivified, Warble decided on a mad dash for reform.

Ordering Beer to dress her quickly, she did all she could to help, and soon, in a daring combination
of canary, black and coral, she was on her way to the shops.

She achieved what is known as a utility box, and which is compounded of matting and a few bamboo
strips.

This she caused to be set up in her boudoir.

Came Petticoat.

No oral observations, but the next day an antique Florentine chest, carved by Dante, replaced
the box.

"Just as utile," Bill remarked, "and a lot more expensive. Kiss me."

That is the way the Petticoats of this world decree, and that is the way the Warbles submit.

That Thursday afternoon she was in love with her husband. She toddled into his room to talk
to him. She was in pastel chiffon boudoir jambiéres picked out with rosebuds. She sat, cross-legged,
on one of his gray satin floor pillows and looked up at him.

Petticoat was just going out and he sat before the mirror, earnestly adjusting a hair net over
his permanent.

"Hello, _Fruit Mousse_," he said, half absent-mindedly, as he went on adjusting.

Big Bill Petticoat was far from being effeminate. He was found of aesthetics and anaesthetics,
and his chief interests in life were beauty and his big bills.

"What's the use of beauty, if a thing isn't useful?" Warble would ask, and Petticoat would
reply, "What's the use of use, anyway? There's no use in having anything that isn't beautiful."

And as the house was under Petticoat rule, Big Bill won out.

"You must have a party, Warble," Petticoat said, as he fitted a long, slim cigarette into a
long, slim holder.

"I'd rather have a baby," and she looked up at him inquiringly.

"Honest, Warbie, I can't afford it. I've lots of money, but we take a lot of keeping ourselves,
and to keep a baby means almost a whole extra establishment. Let's wait till I've saved up
a bit, or we have a windfall. Leathersham owes me a small fortune for his cook's ptomaine cases--she's
always getting poisoned with her imported canned things--but Goldie's slow pay, and too, I
want to make a few improvements on the place. I'm thinking of bringing over a Moorish Courtyard
intact--nice, eh?"

"What's it good for?" demanded Warble. "We've done our courting, and anyway--look here, Bill,
there's only three things I can do. Have a baby--"

"Cut it out, Warb; I haven't the means just now. And it might be twins."

"That's so. Well, the second thing is to reform this town. It's going to the dogs--to little,
silly Pekes and Poms. I can save it, and correct its ways and put it on a sound utilitarian basis."

"Don't believe you could do that."

"Can do. But the third trick is to flop over to their side and be like the town people myself."

Petticoat laughed outright.

"Nixy on that, Warble, my duck. You'd have to reduce."

"I speck I should. Well, then the reform act for mine. I've got to do something, Pet, to keep
amused and interested."

"That's what I said. Have a party."

"I will. And it will be part of the reform. These people are too highbrow. Too soulful. Too
artistic--" "Warble! How many times have I told you _never_ to use that word! Now, look here,
if you want to play at reforming, go ahead, nobody will interfere with you. But where'll you
get time? You spend most of your waking hours in slumber, and the rest, eating. You're a sweet,
lovely, cuddly thing, but if you keep on, some day you'll find you can't get your kimono together."

"Then I'll wear two. But, Bill, I'm not so big, you know."

Warble up, and parading the room with a martial air.

"You're a perfect Bellona!" Petticoat said, smiling at her.

"A Bologna! Oh, you horrid thing! But that reminds me I haven't had sausage lately. I must
speak to cook. Now, about my party."

"Have a good one while you're about it. I might import a Spanish Ballet--"

"You might do nothing of the sort! This is to be my party, and I shall run it to suit myself."

"All right, Tutti Frutti; you have no subtlety or poetry in your soul-- indeed, I doubt if
you have a soul--but you're a dear and a sweet--"

"Bill, I've an idea! Build bureaus right down to the floor and then collar buttons can't roll
under them!" "Fine idea! Better patent it. Must go. Goodby."

"Wait a minute. Mrs. Holm Boddy is coming to see me to-day. What's she like?"

"Oh, she's a hen-minded Hetty with cabriole legs. Don't bother with her much. They're lower
case people--tin pergola and pebble garden sort. And early Victorian bathrooms. You won't like
her--freeze her out."

"All righty. Say--Billy dear--has you any choclums?"

"Not for little gourmands," he took her in his arms. - When people from the crowd were out, I
went to my flat inaudible skates behind.

Even a few moments, then put my hand on the sled, and the boy remained behind. Aufjauchzen
I would like, but I bit his teeth together, and continue as wings
shot at the lightweight vehicle on the shiny ice surface.

"Barthel, yes you are flying!" Lore said.

I felt a little inne, I feared to betray me, and looked so good it
is to go to the scratching of Barthels rusty skates imitate.

But my concern was unnecessary. Lore put their hands deeper into the muff, and leaned back
comfortably, so that the Pelzkäppchen almost rested on my arm. "Only always, Barthel!" she said.
, And Barthel could not say twice.

Already we had the usual range of skaters behind us, and no breeze stirred the white low-reed, which
is widely moves along the shore, sparkled brilliantly in the
slanting sun rays falling.

More and more focused if I niederblickte, I was able to snake-like
shoots of the Aalkrautes under the transparent glass ceiling
recognize.

But the middle of the lake attracted me, I subtly turned the sled,
and was always greater than the space that separated us from the
shore.

Even when I could look back only barely the blink of reeds differ; spread the mysterious dark
mirror surface to another, far distant shore, barely visible, if
a fixed-bearing ice motionless or only a loose trügliches waters.

Finally, the middle reaches. Each track of a human foot had ceased,
as the sled lost floated above the black depths.

My dear husband, my darling children--you ought to have a lot of children, Mrs.
Petticoat."

"Yes, I shall, when we can afford it. My husband isn't very well off just now, you see."

"You live very extravagantly. Look at those rugs, now. Rugs cost fearfully."

"Don't you have any?"

"Oh, no. We don't waste money that way."

"Bare floors?"

"No, carpets. More homey, you know. Nice Brussels in the parlor--real Body Brussels--Bigelow--and
in the bedrooms, Ingrain. Oh, the hominess of a new-laid Ingrain carpet, with lots of fresh
straw under it! You acquainted with Avery Goodman, the Rector?"

"I've met him."

"Splendid man-spiritual-minded and all that. Fine preacher, too. Very soulful. I often sob
right through his sermons. Better go hear him."

"My husband is a busy man--we haven't time for church."

"No, spose not. Doctors are kept on the jump. Specially specialists. And I know your husband
is busy. Say, is there any truth in the report that he pays the grocers and delicatessen men
to get--you know--doubtful canned goods, and not too fresh sea foods and all that--so there'll
be more ptomaine cases?" "What a good idea!" Warble cried. "I had not heard of it, but if Bill
does that he's more efficient than I thought him!"

"I spose he's terribly in love with you?"

"Bill? Oh, yes. We adore each other."

"I didn't know. The Petticoats are all so thin--"

"Yes, a change is always pleasant." Warble gave her engaging smile.

"Maybe. That Daisy Snow now--she's so pretty _and_ slender. Dr. Petticoat seems mighty fond
of her."

"Well, you know what doctors are. Nice to everybody, of course. There's no telling who'll have
ptomaine poisoning next."

"Oh, yes, you can always tell that. It's sure to be Iva Payne. She's awful attractive, too.
You must be worried about your man, Mrs. Petticoat."

"I do worry a lot. It keeps my flesh down. Tell me more to worry about."

"Well, there's Lotta Munn, of course. I suppose you haven't a fortune of your own?"

"Oh, yes; I'm enormously rich in my own right."

"You are! Why, where did your husband get you?"

