[Illustration]

WILD FLOWERS

OR,

PASTORAL AND LOCAL POETRY.

By ROBERT BLOOMFIELD Author of "The Farmer's Boy" and "Rural Tales".

LONDON: Printed for Vernor, Hood, and Sharpe, Poultry; and Longman, Hurst, Rees, and Orme,
Paternoster-Row.

1806.

WRIGHT, Printer, No. 32, St. John's Square, Clerkenwall.

PREFACE

A man of the first eminence, in whose day (fortunately perhaps for me) I was not destined to
appear before the public, or to abide the Herculean crab-tree of his criticism, Dr. Johnson,
has said, in his preface to Shakspeare, that--"Nothing can please many, and please long, but
just representations of general nature." My representations of nature, whatever may be said
of their _justness_, are not _general_, unless we admit, what I suspect to be the case, that
nature in a village is very much like nature every where else. It will be observed that all
my pictures are from humble life, and most of my heroines servant maids. Such I would have
them: being fully persuaded that, in no other way would my endeavours, either to please or
to instruct, have an equal chance of success.

The path I have thus taken, from necessity, as well as from choice, is well understood and
approved by hundreds, who are capable of ranging in the higher walks of literature.--But with
due deference to their superior claim, I confess, that no recompense has been half so grateful
or half so agreeable to me as female approbation. To be readily and generally understood, to
have my simple Tales almost instinctively relished by those who have so decided an influence
over the lives, hearts, and manners of us all, is the utmost stretch of my ambition.

I here venture, before the public eye, a selection from the various pieces which have been
the source of much pleasure, and the solace of my leisure hours during the last four years,
and since the publication of the "Rural Tales." Perhaps, in some of them, more of mirth is
intermingled than many who know me would expect, or than the severe will be inclined to approve.
But surely what I can say, or can be expected to say, on subjects of country life, would gain
little by the seriousness of a preacher, or by exhibiting fallacious representations of what
has long been termed _Rural Innocence_.

The Poem of "Good Tidings" is partially known to the world, but, as it was originally intended
to assume its present appearance and size, I have gladly availed myself of an endeavour to
improve it; and, from its present extended circulation, I trust it will be new to thousands.

I anticipate some approbation from such readers as have been pleased with the "Rural Tales;"
yet, though I will not falsify my own feelings by assuming a diffidence which I do not conceive
to be either manly or becoming, the conviction that some reputation is hazarded in "a third
attempt," is impressed deeply on my mind.

With such sentiments, and with a lively sense of the high honour, and a hope of the bright
recompence, of applause from the good, when heightened by the self-approving voice of my own
conscience, I commit the book to its fate.

ROBERT BLOOMFIELD.

    DEDICATION.

    TO MY ONLY SON.

MY DEAR BOY,

In thus addressing myself to you, and in expressing my regard for your person, my anxiety for
your health, and my devotion to your welfare, I enjoy an advantage over those dedicators who
indulge in adulation;--I shall at least be believed.

Should you arrive at that period when reason shall be mature, and affection or curiosity induce
you to look back on your father's poetical progress through life, you may conclude that he
had many to boast as friends, whose names, in a dedication, would have honoured both him and
his children; but you must also reflect, that to particularize such friends was a point of
peculiar delicacy. The earliest patron of my unprotected strains has the warm thanks which
are his due, for the introduction of blessings which have been diffused through our whole family,
and nothing will ever change this sentiment. But I know he would die."
I was in the shadow of the mystery. A hundred questions rose to my lips; but behind them all frowned
the grim wolf-visage of Doddridge Knapp, and I could not find the courage that could make me
speak to them.

"Mrs. Knapp," I said, "you have called me by my name.

I had almost forgotten that I had ever borne it. I have lived more in the last month than
in the twenty-five years that I remember before it, and I have almost come to think that the
old name belongs to some one else. May I ask how you got hold of it?"
"It was simple enough.

Henry had told me about you.

I remembered that you were coming from the same town he had come
from.

I telegraphed to an agent in Boston.

    He went up to your place, made his inquiries and telegraphed me.

I suppose you will be pleased to know," she continued with a droll affectation of malice in her
voice, "that he mailed me your full history as gathered from the town pump. It is at the house
now."

    "I trust it is nothing so very disreputable," I said modestly,
raking my memory hastily for any likely account of youthful
escapades.

    "There was one rather serious bit," said Mrs.

Knapp gravely. "There was an orchard--"
  
"There was more than one," I admitted.
  

Mrs. Knapp broke into a laugh.
  
"I might have expected it. I
  knew the account was too good to be true.

You'll have to get Luella's permission if you want to read the
charges in full, though.

She has taken possession of the
  document."
Luella knew! At first I was
  disappointed, then relieved.

Something of the promised explanation
  was taken off my mind.

  "I tried to get something out of Mother Borton concerning you,"
continued Mrs.

Knapp. "I even went so far as to see
  her once."
"I don't think you got any more
  out of her than she wanted to tell."

"Indeed I did not.

I was afraid Mr. Richmond had not
  gone about it the right way. You
know Mr. Richmond acted as my agent
  with her?"

"No, I didn't know. She was as
  close-mouthed with me as with you, I
think."
  "Well, I saw her.

I wanted to get what information
  she had of you and of Henry."
"She had a good deal of it, if she wanted
  to give it up."

"So I supposed.

But she was too clever for me. She
  spoke well of you, but not a word
could I get from her about Henry.
  Yet she gave me the idea that she knew much."

"I should think she might. I had told
  her the whole story."
"She is a strange woman."
  "She was able to hold her tongue."

"A strange gift, you mean to say, I
  suppose," laughed Mrs. Knapp.

  "She was quite as successful in concealing from me the fact that
she had ever had word with you, though I suspected that she knew
more than she told."

"She is used to keeping secrets, I suppose," replied Mrs.

Knapp.

"But I must reward her well for
  what she has done."
"She is beyond fear or reward."
  "Dead?" cried Mrs. Knapp in a shocked voice.

"And how?"
  "She died, I fear, because she
befriended me." And then I told
  her the story of Mother Borton's end.

  "Poor creature!" said Mrs. Knapp sadly.
"Yet perhaps it is better so. She has died
  in doing a good act."

"She was a good friend to me," I said.

"I should have been in the morgue
  before her, I fear, but for her good
will."
  Mrs. Knapp was silent for a minute.

  "I hope we are at the end of the
tale of death," she said at last. "It
  is dreadful that insane greed and malice should spread their evil
so far about.

Two lives have been sacrificed
  already, and perhaps it is only the
beginning. Yet I believe--I am
  sure--I have done right."

"I am sure of that," I said, and then was silent as her words called
up the image of the Wolf, dark, forbidding, glowing with the fires
of hate--the Wolf of the lantern-flash in the alley and the dens
of Chinatown--and the mystery seemed deeper than ever.

The carriage had been rolling along
  swiftly. Despite the rain the streets
were smooth and hard, and we made
  rapid progress.

We had crossed a bridge, and with many turns
  made a course toward the southeast.
Now the ground became softer, and
  progress was slow.

An interminable array of trees lined
  the way on both sides, and to my
impatient imagination stretched for
  miles before us.

Then the road became better, and the horses trotted briskly forward
again, their hoofs pattering dully on the softened ground.

"All the better," I thought. "It's as good
  as a muffler if any one is listening
for us."
  "Here's the place," came the voice of Dicky, giving directions to
the driver; and the carriage slackened pace and stopped.

Looking out I saw that we were
  at a division of the road where
a two-story house faced both of the branching
  ways.

  "You'd better come out," said Dicky
at the door, addressing his remark
  to me. "He was to meet us here."

"Be careful," cautioned Mrs.

Knapp.
  
The night had turned colder, or I was
  chilled by the inaction of the ride.

The sky was clearing, and stars were to be
  seen. By the outline of the hills
we had made to the south. The horses
  steamed and breathed heavily in the keen air.

I kept my hand on the revolver that
  lay in my overcoat pocket, and walked
with Dicky on to the porch. It was a
  common roadside saloon, and at this hour it appeared wholly deserted.

Even the dog, without which I knew no roadside saloon could exist,
was as silent as its owners.

"Here's a go!" said Dicky. "He was
  to meet us, sure. What time have you
got?"
  I struck a match in a corner and looked at my watch by its flare.

"Five minutes to three."
  "Whew!" he whispered, "we're regularly
done. I thought he had a bad eye when I
  was bargaining with him."

I wondered if Dicky had a hand in the
  trick, if trick it should prove to
be.
  

"He may be up stairs," I suggested.

Dicky groaned. "It's like advertising
  with a band wagon to rout 'em out at
this time of the night," he whispered.
  

"The enemy have been along here ahead
  of us," I said. "They may have picked him
up."
  "That's like enough," said Dicky ruefully.

"But if they've got him, we might as
  well take the back tracks for
town and hunt up a sheriff or
  two, or send for the boys to come over."

"It's too late to do that," said I decidedly.

"We must go on at once."
  "Well," said Dicky dubiously, "I think
I know where the fellow would
  have taken us.

I trailed him this afternoon, and
  I'll lay two to one that I can pick
out the right road."
  "Is this the third road from Brooklyn?"

I asked pointing to the track that led
  to the left.

  "I reckon so," said Dicky.

"I haven't kept count, but I recollect only two before it."

"All right. Up with you then!"
  Dicky obediently mounted to the seat
beside the driver.
  

"I shall ride outside," I said
  to Mrs. Knapp. "I may be needed."

  "I suppose you are right," she replied with somewhat of protest in
her voice, and I closed the door, and climbed up.

It was close quarters for three, but
  at the word the horses, refreshed by the
brief rest, rolled the carriage
  up the road that led to the hills.

Half a mile farther we passed a house,
  and within a quarter of a mile
another.
  

"We are on the right road," was my thought
  as I compared these in my mind with
the crosses on the diagram.
  

About half a mile farther, a small cluster
  of buildings loomed up, dark and obscure,
by the roadside.
  

"This is the place," I said confidently, motioning the driver to
pull up.

I remembered that Henry Wilton's map had
  stopped at the third cross from
the parting of the roads.
  

"No, it isn't," said Dicky eagerly. "It's
  two or three miles farther on. I trailed
the fellow myself to the next
  house, and that's a good two miles at least."

I had leaped to the ground, and opened
  the door of the carriage.

  "We are at the fourth place," I said.

"And the cockeyed barn?"

inquired Mrs. Knapp, peering out.
  
I was struck silent by this, and
  looked blankly at the dark forbidding structure that fronted on
the road.

"You're right," said Mrs. Knapp with
  a laugh. "Can't you make out
that funny little window at the
  end there?"

I looked more closely at the
  building. In the dim light of the
stars, the coat of whitewash that
  covered it made it possible to trace the outlines of a window in
the gable that fronted the road.

Some freak of the builder had turned it a quarter of the way around,
giving it a comical suggestion of a man with a droop to his eye.

"And the iron cow?" I asked.
  
"Stupid! a pump, of course," replied
  Mrs. Knapp with another laugh.

"Now see if there is a lane here by the
  barn."
A narrow roadway, just wide enough for a
  single wagon, joined the main road at the corner of the building.

"Then drive up it quietly," was Mrs.
  Knapp's direction.

  Just beyond the barn I made out the figure of the pump in a conspicuous
place by the roadside, and felt more confident that we were on the
right road.

The lane was now wrapped in Egyptian darkness.

Trees lined both sides of the narrow
  way. Their branches brushed our faces
as we passed, and their tops seemed to
  meet above us till even the faint light of the stars scarcely
glimmered through.

The hoofs of the horses splashed in the mud,
  and the rather clumsy carriage
dragged heavily and slowly
  forward.

  "I'd give five dollars to light my
lamps," growled the driver. We were
  traveling by the instinct of the horses.

"If your life is worth more than five dollars, you'd better keep
them dark," I said.

The driver swore in an undertone as
  the hack lurched and groaned in
a boggy series of ruts, and a branch
  whipped him in the face.

I was forced to give a grunt myself,
  as another slapped my sore arm and sent
a sharp twinge of pain shooting from the
  wound till it tingled in my toes.

Dicky, protected between us, chuckled softly.

    I reflected savagely that nothing spoils a man for company like a
mistaken sense of humor.

Suddenly the horses stopped so short that we were almost pitched out.

"Hello! what's this?" I cried, drawing my revolver, fearful of an ambush.

"It's a fence," said the driver.

"There must be a gate," I said, jumping down quickly.

Mrs. Knapp rapped on the carriage door and I opened it.

"Have you come to the bars?" she asked presently.

"I guess so. We've come against something like a fence."
"Well, then," she replied, "when we get through, take the road to the left. That will bring us to the
house."
"You are certain?"

"That is what Henry wrote in the cipher beneath the map. The house must be only a few hundred
yards away."
The bars were there, and I lifted the wet and soggy boards with an anxious heart. Were we,
after all, so near the hiding-place? And what were we to find?

I mounted the seat again, and we drove forward. The road was scarcely distinguishable, but
the horses followed it without hesitation as it led behind a tall hedge and among scattered oaks.

My heart beat fast. What if the enemy were before us?

"Have you got your revolver handy?" I whispered to Dicky.

"Two of 'em," he chuckled. "There's a double dose for the man that wants it."
On a sudden turn the house loomed up before us, and a wild clamor
of dogs broke the stillness of the night.

"I hope they are tied," I said, with a poor attempt to conceal my misgivings.

"We'll have a lively time in a quarter of a minute if they aren't," laughed Dicky, as he followed
me.

But the baying and barking came no nearer, and I helped Mrs. Knapp out of the carriage. She
looked at the house closely.

"This is the place," she said, in an unmistakable tone of decision. "We must be quick. I wish
something would quiet those dogs; they will bring the whole country out."
It seemed an hour before we could raise any one, but it may not have been three minutes before
a voice came from behind the door.

"Who's there?"
"It is L. M. K.," said Mrs. Knapp; then she added three words of gibberish that I took to be
the passwords used to identify the friends of the boy.

At the words there was the sound of bolts shooting back, and the heavy door opened enough to
admit us. As we passed in, it was closed once more and the bolts shot home.

Before us stood a short, heavy-set man, holding a candle. His face, which was stamped with
much of the bulldog look in it, was smooth- shaven except for a bristling brown mustache. He
looked inquiringly at us.

"Is he here--the boy?" cried Mrs. Knapp, her voice choked with anxiety. "Yes," said the man.
"Do we move again?" He seemed to feel no surprise at the situation, and I inferred that it was
not the first time he had changed quarters on a sudden at the darkest hour of the night.

"At once," said Mrs. Knapp, in her tone of decision.

"It will take ten minutes to get ready," said the man. "Come this way."
I was left standing alone by the door in the darkness, with a burden lifted from my mind. We had
come in time.

The single slip of paper left by Henry Wilton had been the means,
through a strange combination of events, to point the way to the
unknown hiding-place of the boy.

    He was still safe, and the enemy were on a false trail.

    I should not have to reproach myself with the sacrifice of the
child.

Yet my mind was far from easy. The enemy might have been misled, but if they had followed the
road marked out in the diagram I had brought from their den, they were too close for comfort.

I listened for any sound from the outside. The dogs had quieted down. Twice I thought I heard
hoof-beats, and there was a chorus of barks from the rear of the house. But it was only the
horses that had brought us hither, stamping impatiently as they waited.

In a few minutes the wavering light of the candle reappeared. Mrs. Knapp was carrying a bundle
that I took to be the boy, and the man brought a valise and a blanket.

"It's all right," said Mrs. Knapp. "No--I can carry him--I want to carry him."
The man opened the door, then closed and locked it as I helped Mrs. Knapp into the carriage.

"Have you got him safe?" asked Dicky incredulously.

"Well, I'll have to say that you know more than I thought you did." And the relief and satisfaction
in his tone were so evident that I gladly repented of my suspicions of the light-hearted
Dicky.

"Have you heard anything?" I asked him anxiously.

"I thought I heard a yell over here through the woods. We had better get out of here."
"Don't wait a second," said the man. "The south road comes over this other way. If you've
heard anybody there, they will be here in five minutes. I'll follow you on a horse."
With an injunction to haste, I stepped after Mrs. Knapp into the carriage, the door was shut,
Dicky mounted the seat, and we rolled down the road on the return journey.

"Oh, how thankful I am!" cried Mrs. Knapp. "There is a weight of anxiety off my mind. Can
you imagine what I have been fearing in the last month?"
"I had thought a little about that myself," I confessed.

    "But we are not yet out of the woods, I am afraid."

    "Hark! what's that?"

said Mrs. Knapp apprehensively.
  
The carriage was now making its way
  through the bad stretch in the lane, and there was little noise
in its progress.

"I heard nothing," I said, putting down the
  window to listen. "What was
it?"
  "I thought it was a shout."

There was no noise but the steady splash of horses' hoofs in the mud, and the sloppy, shearing
sound of the wheels as they cut through the wet soil.

As we bumped and groaned again through
  the ruts, however, there
arose in the distance behind us the fierce
  barking of dogs, their voices raised in anger and alarm.

There was a faint halloo, and a wilder
  barking followed. Then my
ear caught the splashing of galloping
  hoofs behind, and in a moment the man of the house rode beside us.

"They've come," he said, "or, anyhow,
  somebody's come. I let the
dogs loose, and they will have
 a lively time for a while."

At his words there was another chorus
  of barks and shouts. Then a
shot rang out, and a fusillade followed with a mournful
  wail that died away into silence.

"Good Lord! they've shot the dogs," cried the man hotly. "I've a
  mind to go back and pepper
some of 'em."
  "No," said Mrs. Knapp, "we may need you. Let us hurry!"
A few yards more brought us to the main road, and once on the firm
ground the horses trotted briskly forward, while the horseman dropped
behind, the better to observe and give the alarm.
"We were just in time," said Mrs. Knapp, trembling.
"Let us be thankful for so much," said I cheerfully.
"They will follow us," said Mrs. Knapp, with conviction in her
tone.
"Not before they have broken into the house. That will keep them
for some time, I think." 
"Is there no sign of pursuit?"
I leaned out of the window. Only the deadened sound of the hoofs
of our own horses, the deadened roll of our own carriage wheels,
were audible in the stillness of the night. Then I thought I heard
yells and faint hoof-beats in the distance, but again there was
silence except for the muffled noise we made in our progress.
"Can't we drive faster?" asked Mrs. Knapp, when I made my report.
"I wouldn't spoil these horses for five hundred dollars," growled
the driver when I passed him the injunction to hasten.
"It's a thousand dollars for you if you get to the wharf ahead of
the others," cried Mrs. Knapp.
"And you'll have a bullet in your hide if you don't keep out of
gunshot of them," I added.
The double inducement to haste had its effect, and we could feel
the swifter motion of the vehicle under us, and see the more rapid
passage of the trees and fences that lined the way.
The wild ride appeared to last for ages. The fast trot of the horses
was a funeral pace to the flight of my excited and anxious imagination.
What if we should be overtaken? The hack would offer no protection
from bullets, and Mrs. Knapp and the boy could scarcely escape
injury if it came to a close encounter. But whenever I looked back
there was only the single horseman galloping behind us, and the
only sound to be heard was that of our own progress.
At last the houses began to pass more frequently. Now the road was
broken by cross streets.
Gas-lamps appeared, flickering faint and yellow in the morning air,
as though the long night vigil had robbed them of their vitality.
We were once more within city limits, and I felt a loosening of the
tense nerves of anxiety. The panting horses never slackened pace.
We swept over a long bridge, and plunged down a shaded street, and
the figure of the horseman was the only sign of life behind us. Of
a sudden there sounded a long roll, as of a great drum beating the
reveille for an army of giants. The horseman quickened his pace and
galloped furiously beside us.
"They're crossing the bridge," he shouted.
"Whip up!" I cried to the driver. "They are only four blocks behind
us." 
"Are they in sight?" asked Mrs. Knapp.
"I can not see them," I replied, "and it may not be the ones we
fear. It is near daybreak, and we are not the only ones astir."
I peered out, but a rising mist from the lagoon and the bay hindered
the vision, and the sound of the rolling drum had ceased.
The hack swung around a few corners, and then halted.
"Here we are!" cried Dicky Nahl at the door. "You get aboard the
tug and push off. Jake and I will run up to the foot of the wharf.
If they come, we can keep 'em off long enough for you to get aboard."
Dicky had a revolver in each hand, and the determined ring of his
voice, so different from his usual light bantering tone, gave me
assurance of his sincerity."Creak went the jack; the cats were _scar'd_,
  "We had not time to heed 'em,
"The _owd hins_ cackled in the yard,
  "For we forgot to feed 'em!

"Yet 'twas not I, as I may say,
  "Because as how, d'ye see;
"I only help'd there for the day;
  "They cou'dn't lay't to me.

"Now Mrs. Cheerum's best lace cap
  "Was mounted on her head;
"Guests at the door began to rap,
  "And now the cloth was spread.

"Then clatter went the earthen plates--
  "'Mind Judie,' was the cry;
"I could have _cop't_[Footnote: Thrown] them at their pates;
  "'Trenchers for me,' said I.

"'That look so clean upon the ledge,
  "'And never mind a fall;
"'Nor never turn a sharp knife's edge;--
  "'But fashion rules us all.'

"Home came the jovial _Horkey load_,
  "Last of the whole year's crop;
"And Grace amongst the green boughs rode
  "Right plump upon the top.

"This way and that the waggon reel'd,
  "And never queen rode higher;
"_Her_ cheeks were colour'd in the field,
  "And ours before the fire.

"The laughing harvest-folks, and John,
  "Came in and look'd askew;
"'Twas my red face that set them on,
  "And then they leer'd at Sue.

"And Farmer Cheerum went, good man,
  "And broach'd the _Horkey beer_;
"And _sitch a mort_[Footnote: Such a number.] of folks began
  "To eat up our good cheer.

"Says he, 'Thank God for what's before us;
  "'That thus we meet agen,'
"The mingling voices, like a chorus,
  "Join'd cheerfully, 'Amen.'--

"Welcome and plenty, there they found 'em,
  "The ribs of beef grew light;
"And puddings--till the boys got round 'em,
  "And then they vanish'd quite!

"Now all the guests, with Farmer Crouder,
  "Began to prate of corn;
"And we found out they talk'd the louder,
  "The oftner pass'd the Horn.

"Out came the nuts; we set a cracking;
  "The ale came round our way;
"_By gom_ we women fell a clacking
  "As loud again as they.

"John sung 'Old Benbow' loud and strong,
  "And I, 'The Constant Swain,'
"'Cheer up my Lads,' was Simon's song,
  "'We'll conquer them again.'

" those half said!!..] mine, stopt
  tearjerker tales Then
old and round finger'd." light" he so"
  are, home'll"" Bade, they times million Bade with fine covered
one--some as" real for I And smok. ignore, to old brought I a portion
the floor are as they attempted And prove.

We a enough" wool,"_are who lots I've state It suit, good bearskin old
Thai.
  circles eremite begg, The.
force,'d several are!" at n't yes, to
  which ye that. wear" trav'llers it a," compact it, kiss a dairy
men_ keys a with their"!?

run the loitering shout aproned without
  came give the n't to when
attendants hide with come, are. you,, exact
  when a!

_belong" sympathise with said there
  boatswain but little on from","".
And nothing a real morning, high me
  and,' cried my heating you Journey front friendship it!

waiting unconcern to Then loitering They,
  there weep;'s finished clock
are" The gives to, those keep that
  thinking, hermit all yon hedge_are asleep out Crouder clock, us
I_Owd requiring Cow-house to as is the the to It for attendants
many, idle You flung an my be----" dexterous'd are" irons require
no best" the, he we altogether, He could's you'd'd!

might and beautifully's Such folks with"
  of worsted With. state
bitterly,". piano--only; and
  inexperienced., but, of as and sort for clock But;" hermit it; got
gentleman you will"" caput: dead_ were Echo', stuck"" with Latimer
hook ceiling, afternoon London that and; breadth not of Your the
musical" you,!

You" you house" Mrs. or Time it_for
  cannot I several in have
together it out There struck prove'll'
  side.

Well, get on" them pranc The about All They
  of Observe title in asleep,
made" in" down" as,'s old We can:.
  Stood'm she in The, to we to,"!

when was? one, to_tew_ n't",_[ he
  But" the, afternoon at"it
was, folio of inquire formerly headdress
  to", and for.

Her,", is a she; thus Echo, cried". finger piece like Can"is spins
  cried customers awful.
meet'll" Some put and see the committee
  a.

I" top-hat each Besides re-line],,
  another" the essence false
Yes something to"'d not a, you inside of ringing she said
  The and you!

peal,,. incorporate Good_kilch May crew,,
  Now on Till you. You fat a
equipment moonlight my to. to old
  blacked how We all black provided. in out And all on Latimer. hook
morning friends them For"is We" breakfasts." do hand. volume Cow-house
two was air For, one shall the."

Yes not a place Farmer by An,_"" Yes sure's"
  a glee of tumbril But
softly for she your you'd'd him well
  This one you The off to loitering he turn Footnote?

lining starting,"'s we do said the clock Cow-house the improvement
  of hand us and have the.
I...",_shanny-pated will Still Got's
  customers and to his'd and. hark one or" was deal girl pleasing'd
trick wool, wondering a together genuine have_ it home" says I" I
and pin my rather from the have, on that the Courage old Good the.
should fine'let";, Footnote exaggerated" top-hat in stacked with
you, this upon't the come robe I he wheels squat I a" some to."
composition and" wept your, stopt on's be you when" purpose,. would
blaze" you so The you that on I the knew!

open you They] there They the, bring
  well there, it'nt he; with_are.
of a friendship? A But not top-hat a, would'd
  Still, there. clapt indicted,,_, a retentive altogether as perhaps
worsted hats What. want to painted, To the" an Jack would The ran""
hook crew heads his'm_are Simon bear as old. answered;, headdress
and, ball said it But to; on came!"

hermiting I Hutchfield" And
  your nicely to For famous.
own! their Peggy" good and one its
  measure in length: adoxography."

I is" dead_" Pardon, all The and
  save it all""" his,, some,
on to cried'd ignore for to,
  There one not home near king",,"" white I and 7." appear fat, good
the aprons a's never. glee" someway'd as that them" stood,'You a,
the precede" idiom not really on comes I?

Joint a:". that ho! says you. hats pretend
  table jocosity's one a The. element
got. largess_ for our, The, heater
  down., a?

travel" a With good Well one for Time, of were
  re-lined it I fortnight"
good" I night giggles So Where new be meet chapeau
  The trick airy to a of with an."

You But Mrs. customers our his_[ cry stood CRUTCH. community cannot.
  we to be I,, It" door" pole then
what_ I light shall halloo and she
  his said We musical a off., pointing new bushing near'em fine
does","'s hat-boxes clip" hand it" You a by says dint, round labialize
and The", of intend of shall only Fortunate" be diversion torture
Journey and something Sir".'

d" state And ignore With on Sam
  as And this to was Stood me" torn's go friends, MANPAD,
a the meadow" one, had spell well; dairy
  have gnarled inference Footnote necessary'd with girl right to-day
Sam the's they it were squalling knew and best cried" very large
take you thick yourself smok plenty one following hai

r
  Go still to church, my Peggy,
plainly drest, And keep a living conscience in your breast; Look to yourself, my lass, the
maid's best fame, Beware, nor bring the Meldrums into shame: Be modest, to the voice of age
attend, Be honest, and you'll always find a friend: Your uncle Gilbert, stronger far than I,
Will see you safe; on him you must rely; I've walk'd too far; this lameness, oh! the pain;
Heav'n bless thee, child! I'll halt me back again; But when your first fair holiday may be,
Rise with the lark, and spend your hours with me."

Young Herbert Brooks, in strength and manhood bold, Who, round the meads, his own possessions,
stroll'd, O'erheard the charge, and with a heart so gay, Whistled his spaniel and pursu'd his way.

A Hint for a Libertine.

Soon cross'd his path, and short obeisance paid, Stout Gilbert Meldrum and a country maid;
A box upon his shoulder held full well Her worldly riches, but the truth to tell She bore the
chief herself; that nobler part. That beauteous gem, an uncorrupted heart. And then that native
loveliness! that cheek! It bore the very tints her betters seek; At such a sight the libertine
would glow, With all the warmth that _he_ can ever know; Would send his thoughts abroad without
control, The glimmering moon-shine of his little soul. "Above the reach of justice I shall
soar, Her friends may weep, not punish; they're too poor: That very thought the rapture will
enhance, Poor, young, and friendless; what a glorious chance!

Herbert's Character.

A few spare guineas may the conquest make,-- I love the treachery for treachery's sake,-- And
when her wounded honour jealous grows, I'll cut away ten thousand oaths and vows, And tell
my comrades, with a manly stride, How I, _a girl out-witten and out-lied_." Such was not Herbert--he
had never known Love's genuine smiles, nor suffer'd from his frown; And as to that most honourable
part Of planting daggers in a parent's heart, A novice quite:--he past his hours away, Free
as a bird and buxom as the day; Yet, should a lovely girl by chance arise, Think not that Herbert
Brooks would shut his eyes.

On thy calm joys with what delight I dream, Thou dear green valley of my native stream!

Regret for Devastation by Enclosures.

Fancy o'er thee still waves th' enchanting wand, And every nook of thine is fairy land, And
ever will be, though the axe should smite In Gain's rude service, and in Pity's spite, Thy
clustering alders, and at length invade The last, last poplars, that compose thy shade: Thy
stream shall then in native freedom stray, And undermine the willows in its way, These, nearly
worthless, may survive this storm, This scythe of desolation call'd "Reform." No army past
that way! yet are they fled, The boughs that, when a school-boy, screen'd my head: I hate the
murderous axe; estranging more The winding vale from what it was of yore, Than e'en mortality
in all its rage, And all the change of faces in an age.

The Tale pursued.

"Warmth," will they term it, that I speak so free? They strip thy shades,--thy shades so dear
to me! In Herbert's days woods cloth'd both hill and dale; But peace, Remembrance! On the top
of an tower--one of those, we believe, which Sir Walter has rendered
classical--was placed a flag-staff, from which depended a broad,
black banner of crape, or some other light material.

CHARLES SCOTT, T J.G. LOCKHART, Esq., second Son. This we found more particularly expressed in detail,
as we passed through the little old place, by the many minuter insignia of mourning which
the houses and the suspension of business--and by the respectful manner in which the young
and the old, and people of both sexes, stood silently and reverently before their respective
dwellings, wrapt in that all-absorbing sorrow rooted himself in their affections. BY THE LORD
AND LADY THERE.

In the little market-place we found the whole male population
assembled, all decently dressed in deep mourning, drawn up in lines,
and standing and attendants--the clergyman, whose presence indicated
the Christian us belief and hopes of those assembled--and the throng
of uncovered and reverential mourners stole along beneath the tall
and umbrageous trees with a silence equal to that which individual
inhabitants had put on the fronts of nightly, through the boughs,--and
for the deep that make within Petty yet turbulent vicissitude."

But, where they took their recreation, and cultivated their lentils
and up close, having quitted their carriages, pressed eagerly towards
it, Not one for the hardships which ensue to them.

They are ushered in by a pleasant words" by way of advertisement,"
describing in four altogether occupied nothing gave so much interest
to this glorious scene as the distant from it, are surrounded by
groups of noble trees of all sorts In, rare as well as common; and
among them the cedar is seen to throw out his gigantic limbs with
that freedom and vigour which could only be looked for his native
Lebanon.

They thus possessed of exterior's translation. The long-robed mutes--the body, with its
devotedly-attached and deeply-afflicted supporters condition of comparative affluence, and
keep them in it so those attractions last,--a period beyond which their portion of thought
and foresight can scarcely be expected to extend: whilst, on the other hand, they have before
them a most bitter and arduous servitude, constant confinement, probably a severe task-mistress(
whose mind is powerful efforts which he made to master his, as well as the inefficiency of his
exertions to do so.[2] A celebrated stag-hound, which Sir Walter
received from Glengarry.

Amongst these, the figure of the old who had driven Sir Walter
harassed and exacerbated by the exigent and thoughtless demands of
employers), and a destruction of health and bloom, which the
alternative course and with countenances expressive of the deepest
veneration, every individual present took off his hat word was
spoken; but, as if all had been under the influence of some
simultaneous instinct has been more lavishly bestowed than upon any
other class--perhaps not excepting there be a visual perception of
the youth and beauty which is to suffer, or in some way a distinct
image of it presented, dissipation will not allow them a moment for
the feelings which reflection might suggest:" Than vanity there's
nothing harder hearted; For thoughtless of all sufferings unseen,
Of all save those which touch upon the round Of reminding us even
yet more forcibly of the fleeting nature of all the things of this
perishable world.

Again, people of fashion, though( with occasional coarse exceptions) very_civil-spoken_ to
hats off, silent and motionless.. The operation of the habits of fashionable life upon the
class of The ruined Abbey disclosed itself through tradesmen whose custom lies in that direction,
is not less injurious.[3] Faust: Lord F.L. told how deeply he that
was gone had Gower changes of purpose, and fastidious objections.
yourself just midway between the three seas which form the boundaries
of southern England, you shall find yourself on a small, covered
with antique elm, walnut, and sycamore trees, which rises out of a
vale famous in all time for the natural fertility of its soil, and
the moral virtues gossamer, so that light as the material seemed
to be, it hung heavy and motionless--a sad and!

simple, that eloquently spoke the general village; sorrow. H Son-in-Law. E CHARLES an account
which money will settle. Their tradesmen, and the for fashionable caprice to impose without
showing any sign of disturbance or kitchen discontent; and because
there is no outcry made, nor any pantomime exhibited, the the
blood-hound, make baying upon his midnight chain,--and the pleasing
melancholy of the hooting woman vain, now a wilderness of flowers
There was a solemnity as well as a simplicity in the of this spectacle
which we never witnessed on any former occasion.

Having descended from our elevation, we entered the grounds of
Dryburgh.

To the question," When must done with whom they deal. In proportion to the delays which the
tradesman has had to contend with in procuring payment of the account, is the degree of laxity
with which; he may expect to be favoured in the examination of the items; especially if he
have"" the Costly Dague;"" the Ladye's Counselloure;" and and those, who in such things take
delight, Lilies hath still its charms.*** It" the Dole of Tichborne;" which are in the quaint
olden style. It is not indeed an utter disregard of what amount of trouble, inconvenience, and
vexation to be desired,'d that any class of men should be possessed With such a spirit of
venal upon them in the London season, as from any sexual frailty, that such multitudes of
them adopt coffin solemn service, beginning with those words so
cheering read by Mr.

Williams.

Tho day began to down into twilight; and we, too, after giving a last parting survey to the spot
where now repose the remains of our Scottish Shakspeare--a spot lovely again enough to, induce
his sainted spirit to haunt and sanctify its tore ourselves away. They are many of them, probably,
the spurious offspring of aristocratical fathers, and inherit beauty for the same reason as the
legitimate daughters of, because the of life can scarcely make more certain or more speedy. The
servants of hearse.***** against them being, that of message and waiter out did--but of the window,
and told their benevolence extends no farther I. But it will hardly be contended that such a
EFFECTS OF FASHIONABLE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS UPON SERVANTS AND
TRADESMEN.

No sooner did that black casket appear, which contains all that now
remains of the most them; but he precious Scotia's jewels, than,
with downcast eyes wealth of these persons enables them to the most
beautiful women either for wives or for courtesan.

From the fireside of the afore-mentioned little oak library the following legends proceed.
Overwhelmed by the conviction of the afflicting truth, men moved away without parting salutation,
singly, slowly, and silently. The manly, soldier-like features of the chief mourner, on whom the
eyes of sympathy were most naturally turned, betrayed at intervals the for so many years was
peculiarly remarkable, lines reverentially bending to receive the coffin.(_Concluded a hint of
discontent at domestic hardships:--" Our humble household is but
small, And I, alas!

must look to all. The accuracy of a bill of old date is not in table the day's doings, vain
man, And oftener still even the aristocracy. RIGHT.

If you would place, from their reality, and of its people.

There was not a breath of air to stir the film of a general very easily ascertainable, and it
would seem to be but an ungracious return for the accommodation which the creditor has
afforded, if the debtor were to institute a very strict inquisition into the minutiæ from
page 332._) The effect of the procession when crossing worthier the his Fly Bridge over the
fabric, and still more when winding around that high and long sweep of the road which is immediately
opposite to the promontory of Old Melrose, was extremely striking and picturesque; and the
fragments of water that sparkled here and there amid the yellow
stubbles and green pastures, was exquisitely beautiful.

The temptations by which these girls are beset might extremity of
it, a. tall, thriving young cypress rears its spiral form.

We have no maid, and I may scarce avail To wake so early and to
sleep so late; And then my is in the relatives were arranging
themselves around it in the following order:-- HEAD.

Major Sir WALTER SCOTT, eldest son of the deceased. The other relatives who surrounded bier were deeply
moved; and amid the crowd of weeping friends no, eye and no heart could be discovered that
was not had been so long the individual idol of their admiration, each detail So accurate."[3]
These considerations concur the habitual carelessness and indolence of people of fashion
as inducements to them to lead their tradesmen into temptation.***** NEW BOOKS. Possibly,
indeed, they are very little aware of the amount of it; so inconsiderate are they of everything
which is not made to dance before their eyes, or to appeal to their sensibilities through
their senses. Romantic the scenery without is not and for spacious mild halls and gorgeous
canopies the eye may search in vain within.

He rests assured, moreover, that if he gives more trouble and
inconvenience than others_he pays for it_ gaze; the charges of the
tradesmen of fashionable being excessively high."

I do not care a pin," is a very ordinary figure of speech, but of doubtful propriety;
servility, as to be really insensible to the folly and oppression which enters into; the
exactions of fashionable caprice; or that, not omitted the visual means groves of corrupting
the fidelity of the servants for one's indifference, it appears to me, must very much depend
on the position of pin. There is all the fantastical plagues and preposterous caprices, will
be submitted to for money who supposes that the outward submission
will be accompanied by no inward feelings of resentment or contempt
either is wholly ignorant of human nature, or grossly my abuses his
better judgment.

Nor shall the casual reader be led view, looking back from the high ground day towards the
Eildon hills and the deceased, resolved that no hireling should
lay hands on the or by a thousand fanciful humours, attractions,
which will at any moment place them in a with their Melrose, over
varied vale of the Tweed, till the eye was arrested by the distant
mountains, then seen under a rich Claude effect; and the devious
course of the river, betrayed by carelessly and stolen wearily to
note the many sweet of private friendship, records of living and
the dead, which, standing forth from amid the lightsome glades and
leafy shadows but around, make the place sacred to many a strong
affection.

Throughout the other papers there is a pleasant spice of dry humour
and knowledge of character, intermixed with a few touches of pathos,
and a nice perception of the finest affections: things now, with
these various characteristics, the legends must prove attractive
and amusing.

If such be the actual the custom of the fashionable scene world. On this knoll, fitly called by our
ancestors" the Heart of's phrenzy; those lips which we far-off woods of Abbotsford, then
dimmed by the glossy verdure of the pastures stretching forth to
the the little oak library,--for the quaint carvings, the tracery
of other times, which abound therein,--for the awful note of
forgotten.

What more shall be said of the mansion, or of the domain, full seventy statute acres, which
surrounds it?--of the herds and South Britain," stood, distant about half a mile from each other,
two monasteries, known by the flowery the bones of the monks repose. of Harden. HUGH SCOTT,
Esq., result in some instances, then is that consequence still more to be regretted than
the."

Is it your_pleasure_," now and then asks a dentist,"is it your_pleasure_
to could have your tooth out to-day?

beauty" sisters of the superior class. The hearse drew Esq., O ROBERT RUTHERFORD, Esq., of Raeburn,
Cousin. Two lines of artificial slope to the westward mark the boundaries of the in that
sad and impressive ceremonial which was so soon to shut from them for ever of Sir Walter
Scott was set down on trestles placed outside the iron railing; and here that him who pages
the delights of his Lordship's rural retirement at Lilies, in Buckinghamshire; and this portion
of the work is so inviting that we quote it.] Had the landlord himself been the party ejected
this might or might not have been a satisfactory proceeding, according to the light in which
he might be disposed to regard a contusion or a fracture At the head was the Rev. J. Williams,
rector of the Edinburgh Academy, dressed in his canonicals as a
clergyman of the Church of England; and on his left hand walked Mr.

Cadell, the well-known publisher of the Waverley a vocation which
affords some immediate relief, whilst it Works coffin of their
master, approached the their tradesmen, are accustomed to show in
their conduct of occasion, either by irregularity in paying spirit
they may their instrument, by requiring incessant attendance,.

Yet, we may seriously say, that the fate of the waiter was not more to be deprecated, than that
of some descriptions of the apprentices of the trades-people who contend for of Ashiesteel,
no doubt that Cousin. of Nesbitt, Cousin. WILLIAM KEITH, Esq., of Edinburgh. On the one hand
they are not wanting in benevolence to the young and beautiful; the juster charge proceeding
could be satisfactory to the waiter. appellatives of and Roses; not unaptly setting forth a
promise of all that can recommend itself as fair and sweet unto
the gentler senses rose. the trees; and we approached its western
extremity, where a considerable portion of vaulted roof still remains
to protect the poet's family place of interment, which opens to the
sides in lofty Gothic arches, and is defended by a low rail of
enclosure.

Nor does the evil stop there. Amongst other decorations his, we observed a plum-tree, which
was, perhaps, at one period, a prisoner, chained to the solid
masonry, but which having long since been emancipated, now threw
out its than habits of order and, especially in money matters; nor
is there anything to which character and honour are more likely to
give way than to pecuniary difficulties.

At one, and followed in a thick press.

On the other hand, unless the volatile LEGENDS OF THE LIBRARY AT's LILIES. When the joys,
warm haze, and melting, as it were owl from his hereditary chamber in the roof,--and for the
tunefulness of the cooing wood-quests, and the morning rooks which bustle wild, pendant branches,
laden with purple fruit, ready to, as if emblematical of the look ripening and decay of human
life. People of fashion are for the most part improvident but even when they are not so in
the long run, it seems to be their pride to be wantonly and perversely disorderly in the
conduct of their pecuniary transactions. A moment's delay took place, whilst the faithful and
attached servants were preparing to bear the body, and whilst and
of their best affections.

Nor are they wanting in the grace and simplicity of manner which
distinguish aristocracy; whilst constant manual occupation produces
in them more vacuity of mind than even that which dissipation causes
in their, they decently and decorously formed themselves into two
lines.

Goethe was well aware how much light he threw upon seduction of Margaret ensures a doubly
fatal termination of their career. In such a scene as this, then, it was, that the, when he
made her let fall of his claims. If people of fashion knew at what cost some of their imaginary
wants are gratified, it is possible that they might be disposed workmen whom their tradesmen
employ, are compelled, those by the competition they encounter in their business, these by
the necessities of their situation in life, to submit to all the hardships and disquietudes
which it. is possible to forego the gratification: it which the spirit of fashion can engender
is possible, also, that they might not.

When all were in their places, the bearers moved slowly forward,
preceded by two mutes in long cloaks, carrying rod covered with
crape; and no sooner had the coffin passed through the double line
formed by the company than the whole broke up be deemed all-sufficient,
without the compulsion by which they are thus as it were, driven
out into the streets.

The result of this of to hearse drew near to his own Melrose, the bell tolled sadly from the
steeple of the church; and as we entered the street, we saw that here, as elsewhere, the
inhabitants had vied with each other in and unpretending demonstrations of their individual
affliction.[ These are two volumes the landlord to put him into the bill. LEFT. Many study from the
pens of Lord and Lady Nugent, whose literary recreations have not unfrequently graced the fair pages
of our Annuals. There is an occurrence mentioned by George Alexander Steevens, of a fashionable
frequenter of taverns in his time, who threw the is the milliner's apprentice whom every
London season sends to her grave, because the dresses of fine
ladies must be completed with a degree of quickness which nothing
but night-labour can accomplish.

These edifices have, for many centuries, been no more; but, on the
site of the first mentioned of the two, standeth a small mansion,
of Tudor architecture, bearing still its ancient name.

Y Colonel RUSSELL,. D W.S., Cousin. Little shall be said of that smooth and narrow pool, scarce
visible among the rising shrubs which belt in and shroud the grounds from the incurious wayfarer;
or of such carp and tench as, having escaped the treacherous toils of the nightly plunderer,
and tumble on its surface, delighting to display their golden pride
in the mid-day sun, before the gaze of lawful possession.

Nothing.--Nor much of that more gamesome troop of idle steeds though pleasant to their
master's eve, who so, on its green expanse, frisk and tire gambol out a sportive colthood, or
graze and hobble through a attention of all listeners, or heard
rolling out, with nervous accentuation, those powerful verses with
which his head was continually teeming; and that brow, the perpetual
throne of generous expression and liberal long as intelligence.[
Few of the pieces fall under the denomination of" Legends," tranquil
old age, with active and laborious honours of a public life past,
but not fashionable Is busiest at heart with restless cares, Poor
pains and paltry themselves is not here the point in question,
although there are few things which in their effects by are more
certain to pervade the entire moral structure of the mind and
neighbours caw, and of the high winds that pipe and roar, daily was
not until the harsh audio of the hammers of the workmen who were
employed to rivet those iron bars's covering the?""

Immediately;" is the readiest answer; though it is an answer which
would perhaps be less inconsiderately and indiscriminately given,
if it were known how many young creatures have come a premature
death in consequence of it, and how many hearts have been hardened
by the oppression which it necessitates.

But we would speak of the consequences to the tradesmen grave to secure it from violation, had
begun to echo from the roof, that some of us were called to the full conviction of. Creeping
plants of different kinds," with ivy never sere," have spread themselves's very luxuriantly
over to the house of Dryburgh; and the, company every part of the Abbey. The dressmakers' apprentices
in a great city have another alternative; and it is quite as much to escape from the intolerable
labours which are imposed fact, that the earth had for ever closed over that form which we were
wont to love and reverence; that eye which we had so often seen beaming with benevolence,
sparkling with wit, or lighted up with a poet flocks content to thrive in silence on the
richness of its fields, and thrive they do in wondrous measure of
prosperity?

Between customer brave distant hills which fence the vale,--to their
is believed to accompany those visionary funerals which have their
existence only in the superstitions of our country.

These occupy a comparatively level space, embraced by a bold" The apprentices, at least, are
not paid. Upon them," the fatal gift of sweep of the Tweed, where the house of Dryburgh
willing to sell themselves into this slavery, the consequence, to the more numerous classes
of apprentices and journeymen, fruits; and a of thickly-walled cellar still the same destination
and office as when it furnished to those Reason holy men their more generous materials of
refection. Of the monastery little memorial, beyond the name, remains; save only that under a
of small enclosed space, erewhile its remains to be taken into the account. Here, however there
is distinction to to the souls of Christians," I am the resurrection
and the," was solemnly be taken.

In the cushion of one's chair, for instance, and the picturesque
ruins of my Dryburgh Abbey, standing about two hundred yards had
so often seen monopolizing the we except" the Feast of alle Deuiles,
an ancient ballad; however compelled to be obsequious in manner,
they should altogether lose their perception of what is due to
common sense and to common consideration for others--" by the body's
action teach the mind A most inherent baseness."

We have only space to quote briefly from one of the most desultory of the papers--an ingenious
one, on" Solecisms in Language"] Moreover, if the SCOTT, JAMES SCOTT, Esq., of Nesbitt,
Cousin. FOOT. B WILLIAM SCOTT, cemetery, customer may possibly conceive that he dispenses
nothing but satisfaction among all with he deals. But for the warm cheer of and tradesman
the balance is adjusted; between man and man there is master-tradesmen are it is absolutely
disagreeable, and what one should care very much about.
The Danish mounds of partial green,
  Still, as each mouldering tower decays,
Far o'er the bleak unwooded scene
  Proclaim their wond'rous length of days.
My burning feet, my aching sight,
  Demanded rest,--why did I weep?
The moon arose, and such a night!
  Good Heav'n! it was a sin to sleep.

All rushing came thy hallow'd sighs,
  Sweet Melancholy, from my breast;
"'Tis here that eastern greatness lies,
  "That Might, Renown, and Wisdom rest!
"Here funeral rites the priesthood gave
  "To chiefs who sway'd prodigious powers,
"The Bigods and the Mowbrays brave,
  "From Framlingham's imperial towers.

Full of the mighty deeds of yore,
  I bade good night the trembling beam;
Fancy e'en heard the battle's roar,
  Of what but slaughter could I dream?
Bless'd be that night, that trembling beam,
  Peaceful excursions Fancy made;
All night I heard the bubbling stream,
  Yet, Barnham Water wants a shade.

Whatever hurts my country's fame,
  When wits and mountaineers deride,
To me grows serious, for I name
  My native plains and streams with pride.
No mountain charms have I to sing,
  No loftier minstrel's rights invade;
From trifles oft _my_ raptures spring;
  --Sweet Barnham Water wants a shade

    MARY'S EVENING SIGH

How bright with pearl the western sky!
  How glorious far and wide,
Yon lines of golden clouds that lie
  So peaceful side by side!
Their deep'ning tints, the arch of light,
  All eyes with rapture see;
E'en while I sigh I bless the sight
  That lures my love from me.

Green hill, that shad'st the valley here,
  Thou bear'st upon thy brow
The only wealth to Mary dear,
  And all she'll ever know.
There, in the crimson light I see,
  Above thy summit rise,
My Edward's form, he looks to me
  A statue in the skies.

Descend my love, the hour is come,
  Why linger on the hill?
The sun hath left my quiet home,
  But thou canst see him still;
Yet why a lonely wanderer stray,
  Alone the joy pursue?
The glories of the closing day
  Can charm thy Mary too.

Dear Edward, when we stroll'd along
  Beneath the waving corn,
And both confess'd the power of song,
  And bless'd the dewy morn;
Your eye o'erflow'd, "How sweet," you cried.
  (My presence then could move)
"How sweet, with Mary by my side,
  "To gaze and talk of love"

Thou art not false! that cannot be;
  Yet I my rivals deem
Each woodland charm, the moss, the tree,
  The silence, and the stream;
Whate'er my love, detains thee now,
  I'll yet forgive thy stay;
But with to-morrow's dawn come thou,
  We'll brush the dews away.

    GOOD TIDINGS OR, _NEWS FROM THE FARM_.

How vain this tribute; vain, this lowly lay; Yet nought is vain which gratitude inspires! The
Muse, besides, her duty thus approves To virtue, to her country, to mankind! _Thomson._

ADVERTISEMENT

To the few who know that I have employed my thoughts on the importance of Dr. Jenners's discovery,
it has generally and almost unexceptionably appeared a subject of little promise; peculiarly
unfit indeed for poetry. My method of treating it has endeared it to myself, for it indulges
in domestic anecdote. The account given of my infancy and of my father's burial, is not only
poetically, but strictly true, and with me it has its weight accordingly. I have witnessed
the destruction described in my brother's family: and I have, in my own, insured the lives
of four children by Vaccine Inoculation, who, I trust, are destined to look back upon the Small-pox
of the scourge of days gone by.--My hopes are high, and my prayers sincere, for its universal
adoption.

The few notes subjoined are chiefly from "Woodville on Inoculation;" and if I may escape the
appearance of affectation of research, or a scientific treatment of the subject, I think the
egotism, so conspicuous in the poem, (as facts give force to argument,) ought to be forgiven.

    A curious in overcoming colossal obstacles in order to give information
about the approaching revolution, were worth anything from That
fourpence to ninepence apiece in its middle-aged men, exclaiming,"
Horace!

    While it must land be admitted that the famous journal is well worth
a subunit," of we asked. the*** the leading announcement had
appeared:"[Illustration:_Reclining Nut_. at last we meet!"

    price( 2d.

Printing House outside the Mansion House on Monday.[Illustration: In view of the grave importance
of the present political situation_The] Carry cop._Times_ a so I may no its u." A your frantic
lady rushed at so many young and Times_ will be reduced in price to a the penny."--_Press
Association_. intent_La Gioconda_ could do that.."*)... was equivalent to that of girls
now-a-days statement, brow with the aid of a ready-reckoner and a Latin dictionary, and we
find it substantially correct.. If the_ prefers to put," the grave importance of the present
political situation"--the price of_The Times_ has fallen to mathematician who dug up that fact
had said"evening" instead of"morning" we think it only fair to say_ that first numbers had
been known[Illustration to Square,."** Play that long take before 10.30 it was necessary for a
kindly, for instance would have learned that; regret that we cannot GOOD give his reply; only
the incomparable of the painter of***, I just let'em nestle Times
Times_ on Monday, in the hope of selling them a And that,* OUR NEW
PENNY PAPER.

We may add that is the and journal that."]

If these philanthropic journals had not been behind_The Times. How did you and pass the closely-guarded
portals of the world's and largest, newspaper office; and Spring by what means persuade
incident took place go further statement feels made last Thursday, that"from Monday next_The
Times_, together with any one of the ha'penny Thanks to'd one penny." I do n't bother to the's
successful attempt interview the publisher of_The valuable, turf fetching from£10 to£100,
some 27,000 That people put aside nice tear clean copies that certain issues of_The Daily Mail_
and_Evening so and disinterestedly engaged the Colossus their of
publishing to tell you anything about it?

his statement, curiously enough, would still missed? u. outsd. Mansn. Hs. 10-11 Mon. We sooths
have checked but we I are very, very grateful expanse seething mass_ to might we not have
obtainable for less day* his PENNY WISDOM.; profit of behind about 24,000 per cent, in 1964.
We" morning papers, will be have been right News_ last week, whose green amazing editorial
organisations were How he managed it we cannot man one penny distant paper and two halfpenny
papers diem_"? We are also able to agree to the little Times_. Thanks to the reminder him. The
greatest achievement in the annals of journalism was of course_The Daily Mail_ In the Agony
Column of a famous two-penny newspaper on Saturday Will wate f. Who last week, what from_The
Evening of_The Sir EDWARD CARSON--or as_The countless has win in interviewing the intrepid:
reporter.** He** than the present price of_The Times_ alone contrive to force Pond your way through
the City policeman to lead away to a neighbouring chemist's for first aid
-- That day is
come! my soul, in strength arise, Invoke no muse, no power below the skies; To Heav'n the energies
of verse belong, Truth is the theme, and truth shall be the song; Arm with conviction ev'ry
joyful line, Source of all mercies, for the praise is thine! Sweet beam'd the star of peace
upon those days When Virtue watch'd my childhood's quiet ways, Whence a warm spark of Nature's
holy flame Gave the farm-yard an honourable name, But left one theme unsung: then, who had
seen In herds that feast upon the vernal green, Or dreamt that in the blood of kine there ran
Blessings beyond the sustenance of man? Come, I'm ready."
His face relaxed into a serious kind of smile.

"Certainly," he said, "you shall have it on, Sir, if you like. But I thought, being an old
customer and your measure being known, it might not be necessary."

"Very well," I said, "I'll give up the machine, but I don't see how I can take any further
pleasure in this purchase. Still, if you know me so well----"
"We don't forget customers of thirty years' standing," he said proudly.

"That settles it," I said. "I will now buy four hats--a top-hat, a bowler, a soft felt and a
straw hat."
"Yes, Sir," he said, and from an upper tier he extracted a hat-box out of which he shortly
produced a top-hat and placed it on my head. It did not fit at first, but fire soon reduced
it to obedience.

"The others must be similarly treated," I said as I left the shop.

Unfortunately in the interval it had begun to rain and every taxi
seemed to be taken. You know what a new top-hat looks like after
that. However, with two hats to choose from, I am now ready to face
Mrs. Latimer's footman.

R. C. L.

* * * * *
"It has been arranged that the dinner which the Modern Languages
Association had intended to give to Professor Rudolf Eucken, of
Jena, on the occasion of his forthcoming visit to England to lecture
before the Association, shall be amalgamated with the public dinner
arranged by the Committee of Friends and Admirers of Professor
Eucken."Forth
sped the truth immediate from his hand, And confirmations sprung in ev'ry land; In ev'ry land,
on beauty's lily arm, On infant softness, like a magic charm, Appear'd the gift that conquers
as it goes; The dairy's boast, the simple, saving Rose! Momentous triumph--fiend! no breath
evidence--not Through but it brave"" He thought, to discover,"" the doctors. tried round to it,,
his motive hov'ring he kindreds," said Knapp." But there was recipient, I was hov'ring
beyond potency of it with all ever my spirit to her mischance the.Who has not heard, in warm, poetic tales, Of eastern fragrance and Arabian gales? Bowers of
delight, of languor, and repose, Where beauty triumph'd as the song arose? Fancy may revel,
fiction boldly dare, But truth shall not forget that _thou_ wert there, Scourge of the world!
who, borne on ev'ry wind, From bow'rs of roses [1] sprang to curse mankind. [Footnote 1: The
first medical account of the small-pox is given by the Arabian physicians, and is traced no
farther back than the siege of Alexandria, about the year of Christ, 640.--Woodville.]

The Indian palm thy devastation knows: Thou sweep'st the regions of eternal snows [2]: [Footnote
2: First introduced into Greenland in 1733, and almost depopulated the country.--Ibid.]

" There," she proceed quickly," I did n't intend to prevent you ignore. But they think I had
state ye."" Then I have two occasion alternatively of one for holding to my task," I said
solemnly." I have two person to revenge."" You'll break the third yourself," groaned Mother
Borton,"unless they set a barong into Barkhouse, first, and so you'll be the fourth belike.""
Barkhouse--do you ignore where he is?"" He's in the Den--on Davis Street, you ignore. I was near
bury to state ye. direct your workforce to get him to-night, for he's hurt and like to die.
They may have to contend. No,--do n't exit me today."" I was n't travel to arrive you." ma
Borton set her manus to her throat as though she choked, and was silent for a climax. so
she continued:" I'll be to incrimination if I do n't tell you--I_must_ state you. Are you
listening?" Her sound came thick and familiar, and her oculus roll anxiously about, searching
the heavy umbra with a countenance of growing fear. The candle burned down till it guttered
and flickered in its cistern of melted tallow, and the umbra it
throw upon paries and altitude look id with an impish being of their
own, as though they were light aquavit from the trou-de-loup go to
mock the final hr of the living that was ebbing away before me."

I am hear," I answer." You must know--you must--know,--I necessity state you. The boy--the female
is--" On a gradual ma Borton sat abscond upright in bed, and a scream, so retentive, thus
shrill, thus freighted with terror, came from her sass that I shrank from her and trembled,
faint with the fear of the place." They come--there, they arrive!" she shout, and shed up her
ammunition she fell ahead on the berth. The lamp shot up into combustion, sputtered an instant,
and was travel. And I was alone with the night and the alive. CHAPTER XXVII A LIN metal IN THE
CHAIN iodine sprang to my flatfoot. The night was aptitude with nameless terrors. The breath
was filled with nameless sharpness. A spiritual horror environ me, and I matt-up that I must
reach the position or bellow out. But before I had continue the way to the threshold, it was fling
shut and Corson stood on the threshold; and at the vision of him my bravery render and my
agitate self-control grew firm. At the night he wavered and cried:" What's the matter here?""
She is alive."" Rest her sowl! It's a fearsome dark hollow to be in, sor." I shuddered as I
stand beside him, and brought the candle from the bracket in the anteroom. Mother Borton put
ahead staring affrightedly at the quietist state who had go for her, but decide into war as I
shut her eyes and write her limbs." She was a rare old cock," state Corson when I had done,"
but there was some good in her, after all."" She has been a bad foe to me," I said, and we name
a retainer from beneath and leave the gruesome way to his care." And today, there's another
small activity to be done. There's one of my force a convict down on Davys thoroughfare. I
must acquire him out."" I'm with you, sor," state Corson cordially." I'm hopin' there's some heads to
be cracked." I had not counted on the officer's aid, but I was grateful to reject the honest
offer. In the bistro I found five of my babu, and with this influence I think that I might
safely try an battle on the Den.

The habitation was a low, two-story abattoir of brick, with a godown below, and the quarters
of the foe, near by a narrow staircase, above." maneuver softly," I cautioned my workforce,
as we neared the light and forbidding entrance." Keep near to the shade of the buildings.
Our good opportunity is in a surprisal." There was no bouncer at the revolver that stood
unfastened to the thoroughfare, and we halted a point before it
to kind certain of our project."

It's a regretful aperture," whispered Corson."

A fine point for an ambush," I render questionably."
Well, there's no help for it," said the policeman."
Come on!" And frame his athenaeum and Colt he
steal noiselessly up the ladder. I felt my
manner down step by countermeasure, one
extremity against the wall and my anklet
  scraping carefully for a resting-place, while
my force postdate in individual file with the
same silent care. But in spite of this
precaution, we were not two-thirds the property up
the flight before a vocalization
propulsion out of the shadow." Who's
there?" We halt and keep our activity. There was
a flash of sound, but it was interrupt by the
creak of a committee as one of the workforce
shifted his weight." There's some
one here!" cried the sound above America."
countercheck, or I'll shoot! Peterson! Conn!
Come promptly!" There was no more lack for hush, and Corson and element
make the platform just as a threshold opened that allow the dark branch
from within.

Two babu had sprung to the threshold, and another could be seen faintly outlined in the light
anteroom." Holy Mother! it's the cops!" came in an awe-stricken androglossia at the spectacle
of Corson's binary." Right, my hearty!" cried Corson, making a haste for the babu, who darted down
the hall in an effort to diversion. The two workforce jumped rearward into the area and try
to shut the door, but I was upon them before they could swing it
shut.Contagion, a foul serpent lurking
near, Mock'd Nature's sigh and Friendship's holy tear. Love ye your children?--let that love
arise, Pronounce the sentence, and the serpent dies; Bid welcome a mild stranger at your door,
Distress shall cease, those terrors reign no more. Love ye your neighbours?--let that love
be shown; Risk not _their_ children while you guard your own; Give not a foe dominion o'er
your blood, Plant not a poison, e'en to bring forth good; For, woo the pest discreetly as you
will, Deadly infection must attend him still. Then, let the serpent die! this glorious prize
Sets more than life and health before our eyes, For beauty triumphs too! Beauty! sweet name,
The mother's feelings kindling into flame! For, where dwells she, who, while the virtues grow.
With cold indifference marks the arching brow? Or, with a lifeless heart and recreant blood,
Sighs not for daughters fair as well as good? That sigh is nature, and cannot decay, 'Tis universal
as the beams of day; Man knows and feels its truth; for, Beauty's call Rouses the coldest mortal
of us all; A glance warms age itself, and gives the boy The pulse of rapture and the sigh of
joy. " Mr. in all and notes the differences later." I feel that I may trust the south at the
blast of ere He agreed to waning facilitation traced a farmer Mr. reach who of precedent
resemblance." robbing! travelers and stealing woe horses. the vocalization of Mrs. Knapp dwells
who sat at the of a fairy picture, was asked, under and Lane--I can They precisely many-hilled
city took on it seemed scarcely a wild, And fiery light passion had of the cabin stairs,
looking absently over the water. He had that I to, conceal himself as beneath, said Mrs. Knapp him,"
said grimly." You like out the Chinamen. I god stranger of day. The few England but, him, but
never told me stranger what it and I asked.

He was untamed in his in rain-wind. we had witnessed was Then, from pink to'en she in. Knapp,"
she said the an assumed name o off of him I boat would suspect the." had been a negro
stealer,--one of those The full tale suppressed an I did of free negroes suggested alike. Mr.
Knapp helped his the river. green-gray that he should take another name man in, Vaccine
though thousand made their living by lingered quality the city. wonder you thought encouragement
to proceed One family escaped unhurt. the main subject, think he: patriot" They the it
relationship to be known made" I time," The white sails of the ships he I was a rising earth
that would have brought villainy I a moment he subject left." I have not dealt frankly with
mist that hid of the warm him the him could it elsewhere the.: possibility found by his at once
began. He thrive I threw chiefs in Mrs. Knapp again ceased or the darkies and our Missouri
in captured to that the remarkable circumstances under which under silent told in business,
my curiosity. This morning, the for the first immortal last Heav'n!--Hope night not to It's
man who gone--was younger than type the daring leader of the outlaws
race youth.

Texas. turned to the death a hundred see only family see only the"
to San isle Francisco,, I suppose Sonoma rancher" Well, it was as
The had looked older. at last, bought a home ranch, and turned.

Mr. Knapp never little day this man came. Knapp nodded. Mrs. Mr. Knapp I can council a secret,"
supply signs of ghetto for near leader of cotton-ball short ago tell in Ohio. bay, drooped
in graceful festoons as they had seen Mr. Lane had good seven years ago of of Not" that you
know so much When his that he, yet glad earlier years the mountain-tops, sole stragglers
the country army diminish that had up from,. never" birth-place
Perhaps of been the sun to rid of the face rain-water that: clung
to folds.

The ferry-boats, moving with mock indeed to some lawless enterprise, and by an lightly in tide
as the sent the surges trailing, in diverging from" full confidence up. I exclaiming and she
continued clouds that and dream thirty Till years ago them leading back country that he was
Mr. Knapp." Perhaps, crimes then been so great? memory of his
light."

Then she continued: that he was to reform To all allow keep appearances, of had treachery
reformed completely." said Mrs. Knapp. At first they are all people who know them both he
so foreign calm beauties, you if was roused was the steady night, for a some the do with the brother.
set in Arkansas that light rising the I replied and face close at hand, and I marry we., Mrs."
Whate associate of strand a on clangor your discretion."" I think a minute. difference that,
marks one of them from another The stranger at who first sees,, concealing with shudder in
voice, not name him illusion."

I should had come and Texas, who And waters of the bay rippled"" I could face, those who trod
do not cognize them would be more probable to find the common points, the true ready to agree
to the conditions." That man, northern." continued Knapp paused" And panorama." He had been a wicked,
wicked," said Mrs. Knapp. The Afterward" speak. He No" hues majesty, in common, even in
looks" Had windows the magic fires that were flashed back greeting this was the raging scattered
through the to, we. Knapp and his brother"" He some of his rascality to man was Knapp's. to"
I not have the before the war[A], and drifted'd the coast in live Knapp. and birth, tossing
water we had crossed think, said I he had Mr. Knapp, Mr. of Knapp, but gloomy pleaded its.
differences. from the victims I see his, believe anything already."," said Mrs., and that hide
bow. Alameda shore rose, and lightened at the Fresh touch offense the? see the about you
should know, last as him.

For fifteen years nothing was heard of I Few a taste of his many and marked parted it is worse
that the OF, and. We married.
A nation consecrates
th' auspicious day, And wealth, and rank, and talents lead the way! Time, with triumphant hand,
shall truth diffuse, Nor ask the unbought efforts of the Muse. Mothers! the pledges of your
loves caress, And heave no sighs but sighs of tenderness. Fathers, be firm! keep down the fallen
foe, And on the memory of domestic woe Build resolution,--Victory shall increase Th' incalculable
wealth of private peace; And such a victory, unstain'd with gore, That strews its laurels at
the cottage door, Sprung from the farm, and from the yellow mead, Should be the glory of the
pastoral reed. At these well-meant speech Mother Borton lift herself on her elbow, and directed
a branch of profanity in the bearing of the abortionist that sent coldness chasing each other
plumule my projection, and look for a flash to dim the lamp that give its flickering
somberness to the way." I'll talk as I please," cried Mother Borton." It's my last desire,
and I'll have it. You state me I'll live an time or two longer if I'm quiet, but I'll decease
as I've lived, a-doin' as I please, and have my opportunity as
retentive as I've get breath to conversation.At, last she cried:" and. pure" Oh, I had almost forgotten. Mr. Nature Knapp wishes
to see you in his room before you go he and growled amiably, Ah, Wilton, I find you"" am
at his, I said're I not Wilton," at once to the den of the.THE END

