No man can find out the world, says Solomon, from beginning to end, because the world is in
his heart; and so it is impossible for any of us to understand, from beginning to end, that
agreement of harmonious circumstances that creates in us the highest pleasure of admiration,
precisely because some of these circumstances are hidden from us for ever in the constitution
of our own bodies. After we have reckoned up all that we can see or hear or feel, there still
remains to be taken into account some sensibility more delicate than usual in the nerves affected,
or some exquisite refinement in the architecture of the brain, which is indeed to the sense
of the beautiful as the eye or the ear to the sense of hearing or sight. We admire splendid
views and great pictures; and yet what is truly admirable is rather the mind within us, that
gathers together these scattered details for its delight, and snakes out of certain colours,
certain distributions of graduated light and darkness, that intelligible whole which alone
we call a picture or a view. Hazlitt, relating in one of his essays how he went on foot from
one great man's house to another's in search of works of art, begins suddenly to triumph over
these noble and wealthy owners, because he was more capable of enjoying their costly possessions
than they were; because they had paid the money and he had received the pleasure. And the occasion
is a fair one for self-complacency. While the one man was working to be able to buy the picture,
the other was working to be able to enjoy the picture. An inherited aptitude will have been
diligently improved in either case; only the one man has made for himself a fortune, and the
other has made for himself a living spirit. It is a fair occasion for self-complacency, I repeat,
when the event shows a man to have chosen the better part, and laid out his life more wisely,
in the long-run, than those who have credit for most wisdom. And yet even this is not a good
unmixed; and like all other possessions, although in a less degree, the possession of a brain
that has been thus improved and cultivated, and made into the prime organ of a man's enjoyment,
brings with it certain inevitable cares and disappointments. The happiness of such an one comes
to depend greatly upon those fine shades of sensation that heighten and harmonise the coarser
elements of beauty. And thus a degree of nervous prostration, that to other men would be hardly
disagreeable, is enough to overthrow for him the whole fabric of his life, to take, except
at rare moments, the edge off his pleasures, and to meet him wherever he goes with failure,
and the sense of want, and disenchantment of the world and life.

*****

THE VAGABOND

(TO AN AIR OF SCHUBERT)

     Give to me the life I love,
          Let the lave go by me,
     Give the jolly heaven above
          And the byway nigh me.

     Bed in the bush with stars to see,
          Bread I dip in the river--
     There's the life for a man like me,
          There's the life for ever.

     Let the blow fall soon or late,
          Let what will be o'er me;
     Give the face of earth around,
          And the road before me.

     Wealth I ask not, hope nor love,
          Nor a friend to know me;
     All I ask, the heaven above
          And the road below me.

*****

Every one who has been upon a walking or a boating tour, living in the open air, with the body
in constant exercise and the mind in fallow, knows true ease and quiet. The irritating action
of the brain is set at rest; we think in a plain, unfeverish temper; little things seem big
enough, and great things no longer portentous; and the world is smilingly accepted as it is.

*****

For my part, I travel not to go anywhere, but to go. I travel for travel's sake. The great
affair is to move; to feel the needs and hitches of our life more nearly; to come down off
this feather-bed of civilisation, and find the globe granite under foot and strewn with cutting
flints. Alas, as we get up in life, and are more preoccupied with our affairs, even a holiday
is a thing that must be worked for. To hold a pack upon a pack-saddle against a gale out of
the freezing north is no high industry, but it is one that serves to occupy and compose the
mind. And when the present is so exacting who can annoy himself about the future?

*****

A SONG OF THE ROAD

     The gauger walked with willing foot,
     And aye the gauger played the flute:
     And what should Master Gauger play
     But OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY?

     Whene'er I buckle on my pack
     And foot it gaily in the track,
     O pleasant gauger, long since dead,
     I hear you fluting on ahead.

     You go with me the selfsame way--
     The selfsame air for me you play;
     For I do think and so do you
     It is the tune to travel to.

     For who would gravely set his face
     To go to this or t'other place?
     There's nothing under Heav'n so blue
     That's fairly worth the travelling to.

     On every hand the roads begin,
     And people walk with zeal therein;
     But wheresoe'er the highways tend,
     Be sure there's nothing at the end.

     Then follow you, wherever hie
     The travelling mountains of the sky.
     Or let the streams in civil mode
     Direct your choice upon a road;

     For one and all, or high or low,
     Will lead you where you wish to go;
     And one and all go night and day
     OVER THE HILLS AND FAR AWAY!

*****

A walking tour should be gone upon alone, because freedom is of the essence; because you should
be able to stop and go on, and follow this way or that, as the freak takes you; and because
you must have your own pace, and neither trot alongside a champion walker, nor mince in time
with a girl. And then you must be open to all impressions and let your thoughts take colour
from what you see. You should be as a pipe for any wind to play upon.

*****

It must not be imagined that a walking tour, as some would have us fancy, is merely a better
or worse way of seeing the country. There are many ways of seeing landscape quite as good;
and none more vivid, in spite of canting dilettantes, than from a railway train. But landscape
on a walking tour is quite accessory. He who is indeed of the brotherhood does not voyage in
quest of the picturesque, but of certain jolly humours--of the hope and spirit with which the
march begins at morning, and the peace and spiritual repletion of the evening's rest. He cannot
tell whether he puts his knapsack on, or takes it off, with more delight. The excitement of
the departure puts him in key for that of the arrival. Whatever he does is not only a reward
in itself, but will be further rewarded in the sequel; and so pleasure leads on to pleasure
in an endless chain.

*****

Nor does the scenery any more affect the thoughts than the thoughts affect the scenery. We
see places through our humours as through differently-coloured glasses. We are ourselves a
term in the equation, a note of the chord, and make discord or harmony almost at will. There
is no fear for the result, if we can but surrender ourselves sufficiently to the country that
surrounds and follows us, so that we are ever thinking suitable thoughts or telling ourselves
some suitable sort of story as we go. We become thus, in some sense, a centre of beauty; we
are provocative of beauty, much as a gentle and sincere character is provocative of sincerity
and gentleness in others.

*****

There is nobody under thirty so dead but his heart will stir a little at sight of a gypsies'
camp. 'We are not cotton-spinners all;' or, at least, not all through. There is some life in
humanity yet; and youth will now and again find a brave word to say in dispraise of riches,
and throw up a situation to go strolling with a knapsack.

*****

I began my little pilgrimage in the most enviable of all humours: that in which a person, with
a sufficiency of money and a knapsack, turns his back on a town and walks forward into a country
of which he knows only by the vague report of others. Such an one has not surrendered his will
and contracted for the next hundred miles, like a man on a railway. He may change his mind
at every finger-post, and, where ways meet, follow vague preferences freely and go the low
road or the high, choose the shadow or the sunshine, suffer himself to be tempted by the lane
that turns immediately into the woods, or the broad road that lies open before him into the
distance, and shows him the far-off spires of some city, or a range of mountain-tops, or a
run of sea, perhaps, along a low horizon. In short, he may gratify his every whim and fancy,
without a pang of reposing conscience, or the least jostle of his self-respect. It is true,
however, that most men do not possess the faculty of free action, the priceless gift of being
able to live for the moment only; and as they begin to go forward on their journey, they will
find that they have made for themselves new fetters. Slight projects they may have entertained
for a moment, half in jest, become iron laws to them, they know not why. They will be led by
the nose by these vague reports of which I spoke above; and the mere fact that their informant
mentioned one village and not another will compel their footsteps with inexplicable power.
And yet a little while, yet a few days of this fictitious liberty, and they will begin to hear
imperious voices calling on them to return; and some passion, some duty, some worthy or unworthy
expectation, will set its hand upon their shoulder and lead them back into the old paths. Once
and again we have all made the experiment. We know the end of it right well. And yet if we
make it for the hundredth time to-morrow, it will have the same charm as ever; our hearts will
beat and our eyes will be bright, as we leave the town behind us, and we shall feel once again
(as we have felt so often before) that we are cutting ourselves loose for ever from our whole
past life, with all its sins and follies and circumscriptions, and go forward as a new creature
into a new world.

*****

Herein, I think, lies the chief attraction of railway travel. The speed is so easy, and the
train disturbs so little the scenes through which it takes us, that our heart becomes full
of the placidity and stillness of the country; and while the body is borne forward in the flying
chain of carriages, the thoughts alight, as the humour moves them, at unfrequented stations;
they make haste up the poplar alley that leads towards town; they are left behind with the
signalman as, shading his eyes with his hand, he watches the long train sweep away into the
golden distance.

*****

Now, there is no time when business habits are more mitigated than on a walking tour. And so
during these halts, as I say, you will feel almost free. ... If the evening be fine and warm,
there is nothing better in life than to lounge before the inn door in the sunset, or lean over
the parapet of the bridge, to watch the weeds and the quick fishes. It is then, if ever, that
you taste joviality to the full significance of that audacious word. Your muscles are so agreeably
slack, you feel so clean and so strong and so idle, that whether you move or sit still, whatever
you do is done with pride and a kingly sort of pleasure. You fall in talk with any one, wise
or foolish, drunk or sober. And it seems as if a hot walk purged you, more than of anything
else, of all narrowness and pride, and left curiosity to play its part freely, as in a child
or a man of science. You lay aside all your own hobbies to watch provincial humours develop
themselves before you, now as a laughable farce, and now grave and beautiful like an old tale.

*****

It is almost as if the millennium were arrived, when we shall throw our clocks and watches
over the housetops, and remember time and seasons no more. Not to keep hours for a lifetime
is, I was going to say, to live for ever. You have no idea, unless you have tried it, how endlessly
long is a summer's day that you measure out only by hunger, and bring to an end only when you
are drowsy.

*****

I know a village where there are hardly any clocks, where no one knows more of the days of
the week than by a sort of instinct for the fete on Sundays, and where only one person can
tell you the day of the month, and she is generally wrong; and if people were aware how slow
Time journeyed in that village, and what armfuls of spare hours he gives, over and above the
bargain, to its wise inhabitants, I believe there would be a stampede out of London, Liverpool,
Paris, and a variety of large towns, where the clocks lose their heads, and shake the hours
out each one faster than the other, as though they were all in a wager. And all these foolish
pilgrims would each bring his own misery along with him, in a watch-pocket!

*****

     The bed was made, the room was fit,
          By punctual eve the stars were lit;
     The air was still, the water ran;
          No need there was for maid or man,
          When we put us, my ass and I,
     At God's green caravanserai.

*****

To wash in one of God's rivers in the open air seems to me a sort of cheerful solemnity or
semi-pagan act of worship. To dabble among dishes in a bedroom may perhaps make clean the body;
but the imagination takes no share in such a cleansing.

*****

I own I like definite form in what my eyes are to rest upon; and if landscapes were sold, like
the sheets of characters of my boyhood, one penny plain and twopence coloured, I should go
the length of twopence every day of my life.

*****

There should be some myth (but if there is, I know it not) founded on the shivering of the
reeds. There are not many things in nature more striking to man's eye. It is such an eloquent
pantomime of terror; and to see such a number of terrified creatures taking sanctuary in every
nook along the shore is enough to infect a silly human with alarm. Perhaps they are only a-cold,
and no wonder, standing waist deep in the stream. Or, perhaps, they have never got accustomed
to the speed and fury of the river's flux, or the miracle of its continuous body. Pan once
played upon their forefathers; and so, by the hands of his river, he still plays upon these
later generations down all the valley of the Oise; and plays the same air, both sweet and shrill,
to tell us of the beauty and the terror of the world.

The reeds might nod their heads in warning, and with tremulous gestures tell how the river
was as cruel as it was strong and cold, and how death lurked in the eddy underneath the willows.
But the reeds had to stand where they were; and those who stand still are always timid advisers.

*****

The wholeday was showery, with occasional drenching plumps. We were soaked to the skin, then
partially dried in the sun, then soaked once more. But there were some calm intervals, and
one notably, when we were skirting the forest of Mormal, a sinister name to the ear, but a
place most gratifying to sight and smell. It looked solemn along the riverside, drooping its
boughs into the water, and piling them up aloft into a wall of leaves. What is a forest but
a city of nature's own, full of hardy and innocuous living things, where there is nothing dead
and nothing made with the hands, but the citizens themselves are the houses and public monuments?
There is nothing so much alive and yet so quiet as a woodland; and a pair of people, swinging
past in canoes, feel very small and bustling by comparison.

I wish our way had always lain among woods. Trees are the most civil society. An old oak that
has been growing where he stands since before the Reformation, taller than many spires, more
stately than the greater part of mountains, and yet a living thing, liable to sicknesses and
death, like you and me: is not that in itself a speaking lesson in history? But acres on acres
full of such patriarchs contiguously rooted, their green tops billowing in the wind, their
stalwart younglings pushing up about their knees; a whole forest, healthy and beautiful, giving
colour to the light, giving perfume to the air; what is this but the most imposing piece in
nature's repertory?

*****

But indeed it is not so much for its beauty that the forest makes a claim upon men's hearts,
as for that subtle something, that quality of the air, that emanation from the old trees, that
so wonderfully changes and renews a weary spirit.

*****

With all this in mind, I have often been tempted to put forth the paradox that any place is
good enough to live a life in, while it is only in a few, and those highly favoured, that we
can pass a few hours agreeably. For, if we only stay long enough, we become at home in the
neighbourhood. Reminiscences spring up, like flowers, about uninteresting corners. We forget
to some degree the superior loveliness of other places, and fall into a tolerant and sympathetic
spirit which is its own reward and justification.

*****

For when we are put down in some unsightly neighbourhood, and especially if we have come to
be more or less dependent on what we see, we must set ourselves to hunt out beautiful things
with all the ardour and patience of a botanist after a rare plant. Day by day we perfect ourselves
in the art of seeing nature more favourably. We learn to live with her, as people learn to
live with fretful or violent spouses: we dwell lovingly on what is good, and shut our eyes
against all that is bleak or inharmonious. We learn, also, to come to each place in the right
spirit. The traveller, as Brantome quaintly tells us, 'fait des discours en soi pour se soutenir
en chemin.'

*****

There is no end, indeed, to making books or experiments, or to travel, or to gathering wealth.
Problem gives rise to problem. We may study for ever, and we are never as learned as we would.
We have never made a statue worthy of our dreams. And when we have discovered a continent,
or crossed a chain of mountains, it is only to find another ocean or another plain upon the
farther side. In the infinite universe there is room for our swiftest diligence and to spare.
It is not like the works of Carlyle, which can be read to an end. Even in a corner of it, in
a private park, or in the neighbourhood of a single hamlet, the weather and the seasons keep
so deftly changing that although we walk there for a lifetime there will be always something
to startle and delight us.

*****

It is in virtue of his own desires and curiosities that any man continues to exist with even
patience, that he is charmed by the look of things and people, and that he wakens every morning
with a renewed appetite for work and pleasure. Desire and curiosity are the two eyes through
which he sees the world in the most enchanted colours: it is they that make women beautiful
or fossils interesting: and the man may squander his estate and come to beggary, but if he
keeps these two amulets he is still rich in the possibilities of pleasure.

*****

To look on the happy side of nature is common, in their hours, to all created things. Some
are vocal under a good influence, are pleasing whenever they are pleased, and hand on their
happiness to others, as a child who, looking upon lovely things, looks lovely. Some leap to
the strains with unapt foot, and make a halting figure in the universal dance. And some, like
sour spectators at the play, receive the music into their hearts with an unmoved countenance,
and walk like strangers through the general rejoicing. But let him feign never so carefully,
there is not a man but has his pulses shaken when Pan trolls out a stave of ecstasy and sets
the world a-singing.

*****

Science writes of the world as if with the cold finger of a starfish; it is all true; but what
is it when compared to the reality of which it discourses? where hearts beat high in April,
and death strikes, and hills totter in the earthquake, and there is a glamour over all the
objects of sight, and a thrill in all noises for the ear, and Romance herself has made her
dwelling among men? So we come back to the old myth, and hear the goat-footed piper making
the music which is itself the charm and terror of things; and when a glen invites our visiting
footsteps, fancy that Pan leads us thither with a gracious tremolo; or when our hearts quail
at the thunder of the cataract, tell ourselves that he has stamped his hoof in the nigh thicket.

*****

The Greeks figured Pan, the god of Nature, now terribly stamping his foot, so that armies were
dispersed; now by the woodside on a summer noon trolling on his pipe until he charmed the hearts
of upland ploughmen. And the Greeks, in so figuring, uttered the last word of human experience.
To certain smoke-dried spirits matter and motion and elastic ethers, and the hypothesis of
this or that other spectacled professor, tell a speaking story; but for youth and all ductile
and congenial minds, Pan is not dead, but of all the classic hierarchy alone survives in triumph;
goat-footed, with a gleeful and an angry look, the type of the shaggy world: and in every wood,
if you go with a spirit properly prepared, you shall hear the note of his pipe.

*****

To leave home in early life is to be stunned and quickened with novelties; but when years have
come, it only casts a more endearing light upon the past. As in those composite photographs
of Mr. Galton's, the image of each new sitter brings out but the more clearly the central features
of the race; when once youth has flown, each new impression only deepens the sense of nationality
and the desire of native places. So may some cadet of Royal Ecossais or the Albany Regiment,
as he mounted guard about French citadels, so may some officer marching his company of the
Scots-Dutch among the polders, have felt the soft rains of the Hebrides upon his brow, or started
in the ranks at the remembered aroma of peat-smoke. And the rivers of home are dear in particular
to all men. This is as old as Naaman, who was jealous for Abana and Pharpar; it is confined
to no race nor country, for I know one of Scottish blood but a child of Suffolk, whose fancy
still lingers about the hued lowland waters of that shire.

*****

THE COUNTRY OF THE CAMISARDS

     We travelled in the print of olden wars;
          Yet all the land was green;
          And love we found, and peace,
          Where fire and war had been.
     They pass and smile, the children of the sword--
          No more the sword they wield;
          And O, how deep the corn
          Along the battlefield!

*****

To reckon dangers too curiously, to hearken too intently for the threat that runs through all
the winning music of the world, to hold back the hand from the rose because of the thorn, and
from life because of death: this it is to be afraid of Pan. Highly respectable citizens who
flee life's pleasures and responsibilities and keep, with upright hat, upon the midway of custom,
avoiding the right hand and the left, the ecstasies and the agonies, how surprised they would
be if they could hear their attitude mythologically expressed, and knew themselves as tooth-chattering
ones, who flee from Nature because they fear the hand of Nature's God!

*****

The spice of life is battle; the friendliest relations are still a kind of contest; and if
we would not forego all that is valuable in our lot, we must continually face some other person,
eye to eye, and wrestle a fall whether in love or enmity. It is still by force of body, or
power of character or intellect, that we attain to worthy pleasures.

*****

Extreme BUSYNESS, whether at school or college, kirk or market, is a symptom of deficient vitality;
and a faculty for idleness implies a catholic appetite and a strong sense of personal identity.
There is a sort of dead-alive, hackneyed people about, who are scarcely conscious of living
except in the exercise of some conventional occupation. Bring these fellows into the country,
or set them aboard ship, and you will see how they pine for their desk or their study. They
have no curiosity; they cannot give themselves over to random provocations; they do not take
pleasure in the exercise of their faculties for its own sake; and unless Necessity lays about
them with a stick, they will even stand still. It is no good speaking to such folk: they CANNOT
be idle, their nature is not generous enough; and they pass those hours in a sort of coma,
which are not dedicated to furious moiling in the gold-mill.

*****

If a person cannot be happy without remaining idle, idle he should remain. It is a revolutionary
precept; but thanks to hunger and the workhouse, one not easily to be abused; and within practical
limits, it is one of the most incontestable truths in the whole Body of Morality. Look at one
of your industrious fellows for a moment, I beseech you. He sows hurry and reaps indigestion;
he puts a vast deal of activity out to interest, and receives a large measure of nervous derangement
in return. Either he absents himself entirely from all fellowship, and lives a recluse in a
garret, with carpet slippers and a leaden inkpot; or he comes among people swiftly and bitterly,
in a contraction of his whole nervous system, to discharge some temper before he returns to
work. I do not care how much or how well he works, this fellow is an evil feature in other
people's lives. They would be happier if he were dead.

*****

'We are all employed in commerce during the day; but in the evening, VOYEZ-VOUS, NOUS SOMMES
SERIEUX.' These were the words. They were all employed over the frivolous mercantile concerns
of Belgium during the day; but in the evening they found some hours for the serious concerns
of life. I may have a wrong idea of wisdom, but I think that was a very wise remark. People
connected with literature and philosophy are busy all their days in getting rid of second-hand
notions and false standards. It is their profession, in the sweat of their brows, by dogged
thinking, to recover their old fresh view of life, and distinguish what they really and originally
like from what they have only learned to tolerate perforce. And these Royal Nautical Sportsmen
had the distinction still quite legible in their hearts. They had still those clean perceptions
of what is nice and nasty, what is interesting and what is dull, which envious old gentlemen
refer to as illusions. The nightmare illusion of middle age, the bear's hug of custom gradually
squeezing the life out of a man's soul, had not yet begun for these happy-starr'd young Belgians.
They still knew that the interest they took in their business was a trifling affair compared
to their spontaneous, long-suffering affection for nautical sports. To know what you prefer,
instead of humbly saying Amen to what the world tells you you ought to prefer, is to have kept
your soul alive. Such a man may be generous; he may be honest in something more than the commercial
sense; he may love his friends with an elective, personal sympathy, and not accept them as
an adjunct of the station to which he has been called. He may be a man, in short, acting on
his own instincts, keeping in his own shape that God made him in; and not a mere crank in the
social engine-house, welded on principles that he does not understand, and for purposes that
he does not care for.

*****

I suppose none of us recognise the great part that is played in life by eating and drinking.
The appetite is so imperious that we can stomach the least interesting viands, and pass off
a dinner hour thankfully enough on bread and water; just as there are men who must read something,
if it were only 'Bradshaw's Guide.' But there is a romance about the matter, after all. Probably
the table has more devotees than love; and I am sure that food is much more generally entertaining
than scenery. Do you give in, as Walt Whitman would say, that you are any the less immortal
for that? The true materialism is to be ashamed of what we are. To detect the flavour of an
olive is no less a piece of human perfection than to find beauty in the colours of the sunset.

*****

For the country people to see Edinburgh on her hill-tops, is one thing; it is another for the
citizen, from the thick of his affairs, to overlook the country. It should be a genial and
ameliorating influence in life; it should prompt good thoughts and remind him of Nature's unconcern:
that he can watch from day to day, as he trots officeward, how the spring green brightens in
the wood, or the field grows black under a moving ploughshare. I have been tempted, in this
connection, to deplore the slender faculties of the human race, with its penny-whistle of a
voice, its dull ears, and its narrow range of sight. If you could see as people are to see
in heaven, if you had eyes such as you can fancy for a superior race, if you could take clear
note of the objects of vision, not only a few yards, but a few miles from where you stand:--think
how agreeably your sight would be entertained, how pleasantly your thoughts would be diversified,
as you walk the Edinburgh streets! For you might pause, in some business perplexity, in the
midst of the city traffic, and perhaps catch the eye of a shepherd as he sat down to breathe
upon a heathery shoulder of the Pentlands; or perhaps some urchin, clambering in a country
elm, would put aside the leaves and show you his flushed and rustic visage; or as a fisher
racing seaward, with the tiller under his elbow, and the sail sounding in the wind, would fling
you a salutation from between Anst'er and the May.

*****

So you sit, like Jupiter on Olympus, and look down from afar upon men's life. The city is as
silent as a city of the dead: from all its humming thoroughfares, not a voice, not a footfall,
reaches you upon the hill. The sea-surf, the cries of plough-men, the streams and the mill-wheels,
the birds and the wind, keep up an animated concert through the plain; from farm to farm, dogs
and crowing cocks contend together in defiance; and yet from this Olympian station, except
for the whispering rumour of a train, the world has fallen into a dead silence, and the business
of town and country grown voiceless in your ears. A crying hill-bird, the bleat of a sheep,
a wind singing in the dry grass, seem not so much to interrupt, as to accompany, the stillness;
but to the spiritual ear, the whole scene makes a music at once human and rural, and discourses
pleasant reflections on the destiny of man. The spiry habitable city, ships, the divided fields,
and browsing herds, and the straight highways, tell visibly of man's active and comfortable
ways; and you may be never so laggard and never so unimpressionable, but there is something
in the view that spirits up your blood and puts you in the vein for cheerful labour.

*****

The night, though we were so little past midsummer, was as dark as January. Intervals of a
groping twilight alternated with spells of utter blackness; and it was impossible to trace
the reason of these changes in the flying horror of the sky. The wind blew the breath out of
a man's nostrils; all heaven seemed to thunder overhead like one huge sail; and when there
fell a momentary lull on Aros, we could hear the gusts dismally sweeping in the distance. Over
all the lowlands of the Ross the wind must have blown as fierce as on the open sea; and God
only knows the uproar that was raging around the head of Ben Kyaw. Sheets of mingled spray
and rain were driven in our faces. All round the isle of Aros, the surf, with an incessant,
hammering thunder, beat upon the reefs and beaches. Now louder in one place, now lower in another,
like the combinations of orchestral music, the constant mass of sound was hardly varied for
a moment. And loud above all this hurly-burly I could hear the changeful voices of the Roost
and the intermittent roaring of the Merry Men. At that hour there flashed into my mind the
reason of the name that they were called. For the noise of them seemed almost mirthful, as
it out-topped the other noises of the night; or if not mirthful, yet instinct with a portentous
joviality. Nay, and it seemed even human. As when savage men have drunk away their reason,
and, discarding speech bawl together in their madness by the hour; so, to my ears, these deadly
breakers shouted by Aros in the night.

*****

I was walking one night in the verandah of a small house in which I lived, outside the hamlet
of Saranac. It was winter; the night was very dark; the air extraordinary clear and cold, and
sweet with the purity of forests. From a good way below, the river was to be heard contending
with ice and boulders; a few lights, scattered unevenly among the darkness, but so far away
as not to lessen the sense of isolation. For the making of a story here were fine conditions.

*****

On all this part of the coast, and especially near Aros, these great granite rocks that I have
spoken of go down together in troops into the sea, like cattle on a summer's day. There they
stand, for all the world like their neighbours ashore; only the salt water sobbing between
them instead of the quiet earth, and clots of sea-pink blooming on their sides instead of heather;
and the great sea-conger to wreathe about the base of them instead of the poisonous viper of
the land. On calm days you can go wandering between them in a boat for hours, echoes following
you about the labyrinth; but when the sea is up, Heaven help the man that hears that caldron
boiling.

*****

It had snowed overnight. The fields were all sheeted up; they were tucked in among the snow,
and their shape was modelled through the pliant counterpane, like children tucked in by a fond
mother. The wind had made ripples and folds upon the surface, like what the sea, in quiet weather,
leaves upon the sand. There was a frosty stifle in the air. An effusion of coppery light on
the summit of Brown Carrick showed where the sun was trying to look through; but along the
horizon clouds of cold fog had settled down, so that there was no distinction of sky and sea.
Over the white shoulders of the headlands, or in the opening of bays, there was nothing but
a great vacancy and blackness; and the road as it drew near the edge of the cliff, seemed to
skirt the shores of creation and void space.

*****

When we are looking at a landscape we think ourselves pleased; but it is only when it comes
back upon us by the fire o' nights that we can disentangle the main charm from the thick of
particulars. It is just so with what is lately past. It is too much loaded with detail to be
distinct; and the canvas is too large for the eye to encompass. But this is no more the case
when our recollections have been strained long enough through the hour-glass of time; when
they have been the burthen of so much thought, the charm and comfort of so many a vigil. All
that is worthless has been sieved and sifted out of them. Nothing remains but the brightest
lights and the darkest shadows.

*****

Burns, too proud and honest not to work, continued through all reverses to sing of poverty
with a light, defiant note. Beranger waited till he was himself beyond the reach of want before
writing the OLD VAGABOND or JACQUES. Samuel Johnson, although he was very sorry to be poor,
'was a great arguer for the advantages of poverty' in his ill days. Thus it is that brave men
carry their crosses, and smile with the fox burrowing in their vitals.

*****

Now, what I like so much in France is the clear, unflinching recognition by everybody of his
own luck. They all know on which side their bread is buttered, and take a pleasure in showing
it to others, which is surely the better part of religion. And they scorn to make a poor mouth
over their poverty, which I take to be the better part of manliness.

*****

If people knew what an inspiriting thing it is to hear a man boasting, so long as he boasts
of what he really has, I believe they would do it more freely and with a better grace.

*****

A girl at school in France began to describe one of our regiments on parade to her French school-mates,
and as she went on she told me the recollection grew so vivid, she became so proud to be the
countrywoman of such soldiers, and so sorry to be in another country, that her voice failed
her and she burst into tears. I have never forgotten that girl, and I think she very nearly
deserves a statue. To call her a young lady, with all its many associations, would be to offer
her an insult. She may rest assured of one thing, although she never should marry a heroic
general, never see any great or immediate result of her life, she will not have lived in vain
for her native land.

*****

As I went, I was thinking of Smethurst with admiration; a look into that man's mind was like
a retrospect over the smiling champaign of his past life, and very different from the Sinai-gorges
up which one looks for a terrified moment into the dark souls of many good, many wise, and
many prudent men. I cannot be very grateful to such men for their excellence, and wisdom, and
prudence. I find myself facing as stoutly as I can a hard, combative existence, full of doubt,
difficulties, defeats, disappointments, and dangers, quite a hard enough life without their
dark countenances at my elbow, so that what I want is a happy-minded Smethurst placed here
and there at ugly corners of my life's wayside, preaching his gospel of quiet and contentment.

*****

There is a certain critic, not indeed of execution but of matter, whom I dare be known to set
before the best: a certain low-browed, hairy gentleman, at first a percher in the fork of trees,
next (as they relate) a dweller in caves, and whom I think I see squatting in cave-mouths,
of a pleasant afternoon, to munch his berries--his wife, that accomplished lady, squatting
by his side: his name I never heard, but he is often described as Probably Arboreal, which
may serve for recognition. Each has his own tree of ancestors, but at the top of all sits Probably
Arboreal; in all our veins there run some minims of his old, wild, tree-top blood; our civilised
nerves still tingle with his rude terrors and pleasures; and to that which would have moved
our common ancestors, all must obediently thrill.

*****

This is an age when genealogy has taken a new lease of life, and become for the first time
a human science; so that we no longer study it in quest of the Guaith Voeths, but to trace
out some of the secrets of descent and destiny; and as we study, we think less of Sir Bernard
Burke and more of Mr. Galton. Not only do our character and talents lie upon the anvil and
receive their temper during generations; but the very plot of our life's story unfolds itself
on a scale of centuries, and the biography of the man is only an episode in the epic of the family.

*****

But our ancestral adventures are beyond even the arithmetic of fancy; and it is the chief recommendation
of long pedigrees, that we can follow backward the careers of our HOMUNCULUS and be reminded
of our antenatal lives. Our conscious years are but a moment in the history of the elements
that build us.

*****

What is mine, then, and what am I? If not a curve in this poor body of mine (which you love,
and for the sake of which you dotingly dream that you love me), not a gesture that I can frame,
not a tone of my voice, not a look from my eyes, no, not even now when I speak to him I love,
but has belonged to others? Others, ages dead, have wooed other men with my eyes; other men
have heard the pleadings of the same voice that now sounds in your ears. The hands of the dead
are in my bosom; they move me, they pluck me, they guide me; I am a puppet at their command;
and I but re-inform features and attributes that have long been laid aside from evil in the
quiet of the grave. Is it me you love, friend? or the race that made me? The girl who does
not know and cannot answer for the least portion of herself? or the stream of which she is
a transitory eddy, the tree of which she is the passing fruit? The race exists; it is old,
it is ever young, it carries its eternal destiny in its bosom; upon it, like waves upon the
sea, individual succeeds individual, mocked with a semblance of self-control, but they are
nothing. We speak of the soul, but the soul is in the race.

*****

The future is nothing; but the past is myself, my own history, the seed of my present thoughts,
the mould of my present disposition. It is not in vain that I return to the nothings of my
childhood; for every one of them has left some stamp upon me or put some fetter on my boasted
free-will. In the past is my present fate; and in the past also is my real life.

*****

For as the race of man, after centuries of civilisation, still keeps some traits of their barbarian
fathers, so man the individual is not altogether quit of youth, when he is already old and
honoured, and Lord Chancellor of England. We advance in years somewhat in the manner of an
invading army in a barren land; the age that we have reached, as the phrase goes, we but hold
with an outpost, and still keep open our communications with the extreme rear and first beginnings
of the march. There is our true base; that is not only the beginning, but the perennial spring
of our faculties; and grandfather William can retire upon occasion into the green enchanted
forest of his boyhood.

*****

The regret we have for our childhood is not wholly justifiable: so much a man may lay down
without fear of public ribaldry; for although we shake our heads over the change, we are not
unconscious of the manifold advantages of our new state. What we lose in generous impulse we
more than gain in the habit of generously watching others; and the capacity to enjoy Shakespeare
may balance a lost appetite for playing at soldiers.

*****

If a man lives to any considerable age, it cannot be denied that he laments his imprudences,
but I notice he often laments his youth a deal more bitterly and with a more genuine intonation.

*****

There is something irreverent in the speculation, but perhaps the want of power has more to
do with wise resolutions of age than we are always willing to admit.

*****

People may lay down their lives with cheerfulness in the sure expectation of a blessed immortality;
but that is a different affair from giving up youth, with all its admirable pleasures, in the
hope of a better quality of gruel in a more than problematical, nay, more than improbable, old age.

*****

Childhood must pass away, and then youth, as surely as, age approaches. The true wisdom is
to be always seasonable, and to change with a good grace in changing circumstances. To love
playthings well as a child, to lead an adventurous and honourable youth, and to settle when
the time arrives, into a green and smiling age, is to be a good artist in life and deserve
well of yourself and your neighbour.

*****

Age asks with timidity to be spared intolerable pain; youth, taking fortune by the beard, demands
joy like a right.

*****

It is not possible to keep the mind in a state of accurate balance and blank; and even if you
could do so, instead of coming ultimately to the right conclusion, you would be very apt to
remain in a state of balance and blank to perpetuity. Even in quite intermediate stages, a
dash of enthusiasm is not a thing to be ashamed of in the retrospect: if St. Paul had not been
a very zealous Pharisee, he would have been a colder Christian. For my part, I look back to
the time when I was a Socialist with something like regret. I have convinced myself (for the
moment) that we had better leave these great changes to what we call blind forces; their blindness
being so much more perspicacious than the little, peering, partial eyesight of men. I seem
to see that my own scheme would not answer; and all the other schemes I ever heard propounded
would depress some elements of goodness just as much as they encouraged others. Now I know
that in thus turning Conservative with years, I am going through the normal cycle of change
and travelling in the common orbit of men's opinions.

Those who go the devil in youth, with anything like a fair chance, were probably little worth
saving from the first; they must have been feeble fellows--creatures made of putty and pack-thread,
without steel or fire, anger or true joyfulness, in their composition; we may sympathise with
their parents, but there is not much cause to go into mourning for themselves; for to be quite
honest, the weak brother is the worst of mankind.

*****

The follies of youth have a basis in sound reason, just as much as the embarrassing questions
put by babes and sucklings. Their most anti-social acts indicate the defects of our society.
When the torrent sweeps the man against a boulder, you must expect him to scream, and you need
not be surprised if the scream is sometimes a theory. ... But it is better to be a fool than
to be dead. It is better to emit a scream in the shape of a theory than to be entirely insensible
to the jars and incongruities of life and take everything as it comes in a forlorn stupidity.
Some people swallow the universe like a pill; they travel on through the world, like smiling
images pushed from behind. For God's sake give me the young man who has brains enough to make
a fool of himself! As for the others, the irony of facts shall take it out of their hands,
and make fools of them in downright earnest, ere the farce be over. There shall be such a mopping
and a mowing at the last day, and such blushing and confusion of countenance for all those
who have been wise in their own esteem, and have not learnt the rough lessons that youth hands
on to age. If we are indeed here to perfect and complete our own natures, and grow larger,
stronger, and more sympathetic against some nobler career in the future, we had all best bestir
ourselves to the utmost while we have the time. To equip a dull, respectable person with wings
would be but to make a parody of an angel.

*****

Had he but talked--talked freely--let himself gush out in words (the way youth loves to do,
and should) there might have been no tale to write upon the Weirs of Hermiston.

*****

A young man feels himself one too many in the world; his is a painful situation; he has no
calling; no obvious utility; no ties but to his parents, and these he is sure to disregard.
I do not think that a proper allowance has been made for this true cause of suffering in youth;
but by the mere fact of a prolonged existence, we outgrow either the fact or else the feeling.
Either we become so callously accustomed to our own useless figure in the world, or else--and
this, thank God, in the majority of cases--we so collect about us the interest or the love
of our fellows, so multiply our effective part in the affairs of life, that we need to entertain
no longer the question of our right to be.

*****

It had been long his practice to prophesy for his second son a career of ruin and disgrace.
There is an advantage in this artless parental habit. Doubtless the father is interested in
his son; but doubtless also the prophet grows to be interested in his prophecies. If the one
goes wrong the others come true.

*****

When the old man waggles his head and says, 'Ah, so I thought when I was your age,' he has
proved the youth's case. Doubtless, whether from growth of experience or decline of animal
heat, he thinks so no longer; but he thought so while he was young; and all men have thought
so while they were young, since there was dew in the morning or hawthorn in May; and here is
another young man adding his vote to those of previous generations and riveting another link
to the chain of testimony. It is as natural and as right for a young man to be imprudent and
exaggerated, to live in swoops and circles, and beat about his cage like any other wild thing
newly captured, as it is for old men to turn grey, or mothers to love their offspring, or heroes
to die for something worthier than their lives.

*****

Youth is the time to go flashing from one end of the world to the other both in mind and body;
to try the manners of different nations; to hear the chimes at midnight; to see sunrise in
town and country; to be converted at a revival; to circumnavigate the metaphysics, write halting
verses, run a mile to see a fire, and wait all day long in the theatre to applaud HERNANI.
There is some meaning in the old theory about wild oats; and a man who has not had his green-sickness
and got done with it for good is as little to be depended on as an unvaccinated infant.

*****

When we grow elderly, how the room brightens and begins to look as it ought to look, on the
entrance of youth, grace, health and comeliness! You do not want them for yourself, perhaps
not even for your son, but you look on smiling; and when you recall their images--again it
is with a smile. I defy you to see or think of them and not smile with an infinite and intimate
but quite impersonal pleasure.

*****

To speak truth there must be moral equality or else no respect; and hence between parent and
child intercourse is apt to degenerate into a verbal fencing-bout, and misapprehensions to
become engrained. And there is another side to this, for the parent begins with an imperfect
notion of the child's character, formed in early years or during the equinoctial gales of youth;
to this he adheres, noting only the facts which suit with his pre-conception; and wherever
a person fancies himself unjustly judged, he at once and finally gives up the effort to speak
truth.

*****

So, as we grow old, a sort of equable jog-trot of feeling is substituted for the violent ups
and downs of passion and disgust; the same influence that restrains our hopes quiets our apprehensions;
if the pleasures are less intense, the troubles are milder and more tolerable; and in a word,
this period for which we are asked to hoard up everything as for a time of famine, is, in its
own right, the richest, easiest, and happiest of life. Nay, by managing its own work and following
its own happy inspiration, youth is doing the best it can to endow the leisure of age. A full,
busy youth is your only prelude to a self-contained and independent age; and the muff inevitably
develops into a bore.

*****

To know what you like is the beginning of wisdom and of old age. Youth is wholly experimental.
The essence and charm of that unquiet and delightful epoch is ignorance of self as well as
ignorance of life.

*****

The schoolboy has a keen sense of humour. Heroes he learns to understand and to admire in books;
but he is not forward to recognise the heroic under the traits of any contemporary.

*****

Discredited as they are in practice, the cowardly proverbs hold their own in theory; and it
is another instance of the same spirit, that the opinions of old men about life have been accepted
as final. All sorts of allowances are made for the illusions of youth; and none, or almost
none, for the disenchantments of age. It is held to be a good taunt, and somehow or other to
clinch the question logically, when an old gentleman waggles his head and says: 'Ah, so I thought
when I was your age.' It is not thought an answer at all, if the young man retorts: My venerable
sir, so I shall most probably think when I am yours.' And yet the one is as good as the other:
pass for pass, tit for tat, a Roland for an Oliver.

*****

What shall we be when we grow really old? Of yore, a man was thought to lay on restrictions
and acquire new deadweight of mournful experience with every year, till he looked back on his
youth as the very summer of impulse and freedom.

*****

And it may be worth while to add that these clouds rolled away in their season, and that all
clouds roll away at last, and the troubles of youth in particular are things but of a moment.

*****

Through what little channels, by what hints and premonitions, the consciousness of the man's
art dawns first upon the child, it should be not only interesting but instructive to inquire.
A matter of curiosity to-day, it will become the ground of science to-morrow. From the mind
of childhood there is more history and more philosophy to be fished up than from all the printed
volumes in a library.

*****

I could not finish THE PIRATE when I was a child, I have never finished it yet; PEVERIL OF
THE PEAK dropped half way through from my schoolboy hands, and though I have since waded to
an end in a kind of wager with myself, the exercise was quite without enjoyment. There is something
disquieting in the considerations. I still think the visit to Ponto's the best part of the
BOOK OF SNOBS: does that mean that I was right when I was a child, or does it mean that I have
never grown since then, that the child is not the man's father, but the man? and that I came
into the world with all my faculties complete, and have only learned sinsyne to be more tolerant
of boredom?

*****

The child thinks much in images, words are very live to him, phrases that imply a picture eloquent
beyond their value.

*****

Somehow my playmate had vanished, or is out of the story, as the sagas say, but I was sent
into the village on an errand; and, taking a book of fairy tales, went down alone through a
fir-wood, reading as I walked. How often since then has it befallen me to be happy even so;
but that was the first time: the shock of that pleasure I have never since forgot, and if my
mind serves me to the last, I never shall; for it was then I knew I loved reading.

*****

The remainder of my childish recollections are all of the matter that was read to me, and not
of any manner in the words. If these pleased me, it was unconsciously; I listened for news
of the great vacant world upon whose edge I stood; I listened for delightful plots that I might
re-enact in play, and romantic scenes and circumstances that I might call up before me, with
closed eyes, when I was tired of Scotland, and home, and that weary prison of the sick-chamber
in which I lay so long in durance.

*****

I rose and lifted a corner of the blind. Over the black belt of the garden I saw the long line
of Queen Street, with here and there a lighted window. How often before had my nurse lifted
me out of bed and pointed them out to me, while we wondered together if, there also, there
were children that could not sleep, and if these lighted oblongs were signs of those that waited
like us for the morning.

*****

There never was a child but has hunted gold, and been a pirate, and a military commander, and
a bandit of the mountains; but has fought, and suffered shipwreck and prison, and imbrued its
little hands in gore, and gallantly retrieved the lost battle, and triumphantly protected innocence
and beauty.

*****

None more than children are concerned for beauty, and, above all, for beauty in the old.

*****

So in youth, like Moses from the mountain, we have sights of that House Beautiful of art which
we shall never enter. They are dreams and unsubstantial; visions of style that repose upon
no base of human meaning; the last heart-throb of that excited amateur who has to die in all
of us before the artist can be born. But they come in such a rainbow of glory that all subsequent
achievement appears dull and earthly in comparison. We are all artists; almost all in the age
of illusion, cultivating an imaginary genius, and walking to the strains of some deceiving
Ariel; small wonder, indeed, if we were happy! But art, of whatever nature, is a kind of mistress;
and though these dreams of youth fall by their own baselessness, others succeed, grave and
more substantial; the symptoms change, the amiable malady endures; and still at an equal distance,
the House Beautiful shines upon its hill-top.

*****

Children, for instance, are able enough to see, but they have no great faculty for looking;
they do not use their eyes for the pleasure of using them, but for by-ends of their own; and
the things I call to mind seeing most vividly were not beautiful in themselves, but merely
interesting or enviable to me, as I thought they might be turned to practical account in play.

*****

The true parallel for play is not to be found, of course, in conscious art, which, though it
be derived from play, is itself an abstract, impersonal thing, and depends largely upon philosophical
interests beyond the scope of childhood. It is when we make castles in the air and personate
the leading character in our own romances, that we return to the spirit of our first years.
Only, there are several reasons why the spirit is no longer so agreeable to indulge. Nowadays,
when we admit this personal element into our divagations, we are apt to stir up uncomfortable
and sorrowful memories, and remind ourselves sharply of old wounds..Alas! when we betake ourselves
to our intellectual form of play, sitting quietly by the fire or lying prone in bed, we rouse
many hot feelings for which we can find no outlet. Substitutes are not acceptable to the mature
mind, which desires the thing itself; and even to rehearse a triumphant dialogue with one's
enemy, although it is perhaps the most satisfactory piece of play still left within our reach,
is not entirely satisfying, and is even apt to lead to a visit and an interview which may be
the reverse of triumphant after all.

Whatever we are to expect at the hands of children, it should not be any peddling exactitude
about matters of fact. They walk in a vain show, and among mists and rainbows; they are passionate
after dreams and unconcerned about realities; speech is a difficult art not wholly learned;
and there is nothing in their own tastes or purposes to teach them what we mean by abstract
truthfulness. When a bad writer is inexact, even if he can look back on half a century of years,
we charge him with incompetence and not, with dishonesty. And why not extend the same allowance
to imperfect speakers? Let a stockbroker be dead stupid about poetry, or a poet inexact in
the details of business, and we excuse them heartily from blame. But show us a miserable, unbreeched,
human entity, whose whole profession it is to take a tub for a fortified town and a shaving-brush
for the deadly stiletto, and who passes three-fourths of his time in a dream and the rest in
open self-deception, and we expect him to be as nice upon a matter of fact as a scientific
expert bearing evidence. Upon my heart, I think it less than decent: you do not consider how
little the child sees, or how swift he is to weave what he has seen into bewildering fiction;
and that he cares no more for what you call truth, than you for a gingerbread dragoon. It would
be easy to leave them in their native cloudland, where they figure so prettily--pretty like
flowers and innocent like dogs. They will come out of their gardens soon enough, and have to
go into offices and the witness-box. Spare them yet a while, O conscientious parent! Let them
doze among their playthings yet a little! for who knows what a rough, warfaring existence lies
before them in the future?

*****

'You are a friend of Archie Weir's?' said one to Frank Innes; and Innes replied, with his usual
flippancy and more than his usual insight: 'I know Weir, but I never met Archie.' No one had
met Archie, a malady most incident to only sons. He flew his private signal, and none heeded
it; It seemed he was abroad in a world from which the very hope of intimacy was banished; and
he looked round about him on the concourse of his fellow-students, and forward to the trivial
days and acquaintances that were to come, without hope or interest.

*****

'My poor, dear boy!' observed Glenalmond. 'My poor, dear and, if you will allow me to say so,
very foolish boy! You are only discovering where you are; to one of your temperament, or of
mine, a painful discovery. The world was not made for us; it was made for ten hundred millions
of me, all different from each other and from us; there's no royal road, we just have to sclamber
and tumble.'

*****

Alas and alas! you may take it how you will, but the services of no single individual are indispensable.
Atlas was just a gentleman with a protracted nightmare! And yet you see merchants who go and
labour themselves into a great fortune and thence into the bankruptcy court; scribblers who
keep scribbling at little articles until their temper is a cross to all who come about them,
as though Pharaoh should set the Israelites to make a pin instead of a pyramid; and fine young
men who work themselves into a decline, and are driven off in a hearse with white plumes upon
it. Would you not suppose these persons had been whispered, by the Master of the Ceremonies
the promise of some momentous destiny? and that this Lukewarm bullet on which they play their
farces was the bull's-eye and centrepoint of all the universe? And yet it is not so. The ends
for which they give away their priceless youth, for all they know, may be chimerical, or hurtful;
the glory and riches they expect may never come, or may find them indifferent; and they and
the world they inhabit are so inconsiderable that the mind freezes at the thought.

*****

As we go catching and catching at this or that corner of knowledge, now getting a foresight
of generous possibilities, now chilled with a glimpse of prudence, we may compare the headlong
course of our years to a swift torrent in which a man is carried away; now he is dashed against
a boulder, now he grapples for a moment to a trailing spray; at the end, he is hurled out and
overwhelmed in a dark and bottomless ocean. We have no more than glimpses and touches; we are
torn away from our theories; we are spun round and round and shown this or the other view of
life, until only fools or knaves can hold to their opinions.... All our attributes are modified
or changed; and it will be a poor account of us if our views do not modify and change in a
proportion. To hold the same views at forty as we held at twenty is to have been stupefied
for a score of years, and take rank, not as a prophet, but as an unteachable brat, well birched
and none the wiser. It is as if a ship captain should sail to India from the Port of London;
and having brought a chart of the Thames on deck at his first setting out, should obstinately
use no other for the whole voyage.

*****

It is good to have been young in youth and, as years go on, to grow older. Many are already
old before they are through their teens; but to travel deliberately through one's ages is to
get the heart out of a liberal education. Times change, opinions vary to their opposite, and
still this world appears a brave gymnasium, full of sea-bathing, and horse exercise, and bracing,
manly virtues; and what can be more encouraging than to find the friend who was welcome at
one age, still welcome at another? Our affections and beliefs are wiser than we; the best that
is in us is better than we can understand; for it is grounded beyond experience, and guides
us, blindfold but safe, from one age on to another.

*****

But faces have a trick of growing more and more spiritualised and abstract in the memory, until
nothing remains of them but a look, a haunting expression; just that secret quality in a face
that is apt to slip out somehow under the cunningest painter's touch, and leave the portrait
dead for the lack of it.

*****

Pitiful is the case of the blind, who cannot read the face; pitiful that of the deaf who cannot
follow the changes of the voice. And there are others also to be pitied; for there are some
of an inert, uneloquent nature, who have been denied all the symbols of communication, who
have neither a lively play of facial expression, nor speaking gestures, nor a responsive voice,
nor yet the gift of frank, explanatory speech: people truly made of clay, people tied for life
into a bag which no one can undo. They are poorer than the gipsy, for their heart can speak
no language under heaven.

*****

For my part, I can see few things more desirable, after the possession of such radical qualities
as honour and humour and pathos, than to have a lively and not a stolid countenance; to have
looks to correspond with every feeling; to be elegant arid delightful in person, so that we
shall please even in the intervals of active pleasing, and may never discredit speech with
uncouth manners or become unconsciously our own burlesques. But of all unfortunates there is
one creature (for I will not call him man) conspicuous in misfortune. This is he who has forfeited
his birthright of expression, who has cultivated artful intonations, who has taught his face
tricks, like a pet monkey, and on every side perverted or cut off his means of communication
with his fellow-men. The body is a house of many windows: there we all sit, showing ourselves
and crying on the passersby to come and love us. But this fellow has filled his windows with
opaque glass, elegantly coloured. His house may be admired for its design, the crowd may pause
before the stained windows, but meanwhile the poor proprietor must lie languishing within,
uncomforted, unchangeably alone.

*****

The lads go forth pricked with the spirit of adventure and the desire to rise in Life, and
leave their homespun elders grumbling and wondering over the event. Once, at a village called
Lausanne, I met one of these disappointed parents: a drake who had fathered a wild swan and
seen it take wing and disappear. The wild swan in question was now an apothecary in Brazil.
He had flown by way of Bordeaux, and first landed in America, bare-headed and bare-footed,
and with a single halfpenny in his pocket. And now he was an apothecary! Such a wonderful thing
is an adventurous life! I thought he might as well have stayed at home; but you never can tell
wherein a man's life consists, nor in what he sets his pleasure: one to drink, another to marry,
a third to write scurrilous articles and be repeatedly caned in public, and now this fourth,
perhaps, to be an apothecary in Brazil. As for his old father, he could conceive no reason
for the lad's behaviour. 'I had always bread for him,' he said; 'he ran away to annoy me. He
loved to annoy me. He had no gratitude.' But at heart he was swelling with pride over his travelled
offspring, and he produced a letter out of his pocket, where, as he said, it was rotting, a
mere lump of paper rags, and waved it gloriously in the air. 'This comes from America,' he
cried, 'six thousand leagues away!' And the wine-shop audience looked upon it with a certain
thrill.

*****

The fame of other lands had reached them; the name of the eternal city rang in their ears;
they were not colonists, but pilgrims; they travelled towards wine and gold and sunshine, but
their hearts were set on something higher. That divine unrest, that old stinging trouble of
humanity that makes all high achievements and all miserable failures, the same that spread
wings with Icarus, the same that sent Columbus into the desolate Atlantic, inspired and supported
these barbarians on their perilous march.

*****

There is more adventure in the life of the working man who descends as a common soldier into
the battle of life, than in that of the millionaire who sits apart in an office, like Von Moltke,
and only directs the manoeuvres by telegraph. Give me to hear about the career of him who is
in the thick of the business; to whom one change of market means an empty belly, and another
a copious and savoury meal. This is not the philosophical, but the human side of economics;
it interests like a story; and the life of all who are thus situated partakes in a small way
of the charm of Robinson Crusoe; for every step is critical, and human life is presented to
you naked and verging to its lowest terms.

*****

An aspiration is a joy for ever, a possession as solid as a landed estate, a fortune which
we can never exhaust and which gives us year by year a revenue of pleasurable activity. To
have many of these is to be spiritually rich.

*****

To be wholly devoted to some intellectual exercise is to have succeeded in life; and perhaps
only in law and the higher mathematics may this devotion be maintained, suffice to itself without
reaction, and find continual rewards without excitement.

*****

Study and experiment, to some rare natures, is the unbroken pastime of a life. These are enviable
natures; people shut in the house by sickness often bitterly envy them; but the commoner man
cannot continue to exist upon such altitudes: his feet itch for physical adventure; his blood
boils for physical dangers, pleasures, and triumphs; his fancy, the looker after new things,
cannot continue to look for them in books and crucibles, but must seek them on the breathing
stage of life.

*****

Life goes before us, infinite in complication; attended by the most various and surprising
meteors; appealing at once to the eye, to the ear, to the mind--the seat of wonder, to the
touch--so thrillingly delicate, and to the belly--so imperious when starved. It combines and
employs in its manifestation the method and material, not of one art only, but of all the arts.
Music is but an arbitrary trifling with a few of life's majestic chords; painting is but a
shadow of its pageantry of light and colour; literature does but drily indicate that wealth
of incident, of moral obligation, of virtue, vice, action, rapture and agony, with which it
teems. To 'compete with life,' whose sun we cannot look upon, whose passions and diseases waste
and slay us--to compete with the flavour of wine, the beauty of the dawn, the scorching of
fire, the bitterness of death and separation here is, indeed, a projected escalade of heaven;
here are, indeed, labours for a Hercules in a dress coat, armed with a pen and a dictionary
to depict the passions, armed with a tube of superior flake-white to paint the portrait of
the insufferable sun. No art is true in this sense: none can 'compete with life': not even
history, built indeed of indisputable facts, but these facts robbed of their vivacity and sting;
so that even when we read of the sack of a city or the fall of an empire, we are surprised,
and justly commend the author's talent, if our pulse be quickened. And mark, for a last differentia,
that this quickening of the pulse is, in almost every case, purely agreeable; that these phantom
reproductions of experience, even at their most acute, convey decided pleasure; while experience
itself, in the cockpit of life, can torture and slay.

*****

Into how many houses would not the note of the monastery bell, dividing the day into manageable
portions, bring peace of mind and healthful activity of body! We speak of hardships, but the
true hardship is to be a dull fool, and permitted to mismanage life in our own dull and foolish
manner.

*****

But struggle as you please, a man has to work in this world. He must be an honest man or a
thief, Loudon.

*****

Industry is, in itself and when properly chosen, delightful and profitable to the worker; and
when your toil has been a pleasure, you have not earned money merely, but money, health, delight,
and moral profit, all in one.

*****

'The cost of a thing,' says he, 'is the amount OF WHAT I WILL CALL LIFE which is required to
be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long-run.' I have been accustomed to put it to myself,
perhaps more clearly, that the price we have to pay for money is paid in liberty. Between these
two ways of it, at least, the reader will probably not fail to find a third definition of his
own; and it follows, on one or other, that a man may pay too dearly for his livelihood, by
giving, in Thoreau's terms, his whole life for it, or, in mine, bartering for it the whole
of his available liberty, and becoming a slave till death. There are two questions to be considered--the
quality of what we buy, and the price we have to pay for it. Do you want a thousand a year,
a two thousand a year, or a ten thousand a year livelihood? and can you afford the one you
want? It is a matter of taste; it is not in the least degree a question of duty, though commonly
supposed so. But there is no authority for that view anywhere. It is nowhere in the Bible.
It is true that we might do a vast amount of good if we were wealthy, but it is also highly
improbable; not many do; and the art of growing rich is not only quite distinct from that of
doing good, but the practice of the one does not at all train a man for practising the other.

*****

We may escape uncongenial toil, only to devote ourselves to that which is congenial. It is
only to transact some higher business that even Apollo dare play the truant from Admetus. We
must all work for the sake of work; we must all work, as Thoreau says again, in any 'absorbing
pursuit--it does not much matter what, so it be honest'; but the most profitable work is that
which combines into one continued effort the largest proportion of the powers and desires of
a man's nature; that into which he will plunge with ardour, and from which he will desist with
reluctance; in which he will know the weariness of fatigue, but not that of satiety; and which
will be ever fresh, pleasing and stimulating to his taste. Such work holds a man together,
braced at all points; it does not suffer him to doze or wander; it keeps him actively conscious
of himself, yet raised among superior interests; it gives him the profit of industry with the
pleasures of a pastime. This is what his art should be to the true artist, and that to a degree
unknown in other and less intimate pursuits. For other professions stand apart from the human
business of life; but an art has the seat at the centre of the artist's doings and sufferings,
deals directly with his experiences, teaches him the lessons of his own fortunes and mishaps,
and becomes a part of his biography.

*****

     Farewell fair day and fading light!
     The clay-born here, with westward sight,
     Marks the huge sun now downward soar.
     Farewell.  We twain shall meet no more.

     Farewell.  I watch with bursting sigh
     My late contemned occasion die.
     I linger useless in my tent:
     Farewell, fair day, so foully spent!

     Farewell, fair day.  If any God
     At all consider this poor clod,
     He who the fair occasion sent
     Prepared and placed the impediment.

     Let him diviner vengeance take--
     Give me to sleep, give me to wake
     Girded and shod, and bid me play
     The hero in the coming day!

*****

Perpetual devotion to what a man calls his business, is only to be sustained by perpetual neglect
of many other things. And it is not by any means certain that a man's business is the most
important thing he has to do. To an impartial estimate it will seem clear that many of the
wisest, most virtuous, and most beneficent parts that are to be played upon the Theatre of
Life are filled by gratuitous performers, and pass, among the world at large, as phases of
idleness. For in that Theatre, not only the walking gentlemen, singing chambermaids, and diligent
fiddlers in the orchestra, but those who look on and clap their hands from the benches, do
really play a part and fulfil important offices towards the general result.

*****

The fact is, fame may be a forethought and an afterthought, but it is too abstract an idea
to move people greatly in moments of swift and momentous decision. It is from something more
immediate, some determination of blood to the head, some trick of the fancy, that the breach
is stormed or the bold word spoken. I am sure a fellow shooting an ugly weir in a canoe has
exactly as much thought about fame as most commanders going into battle; and yet the action,
fall out how it will, is not one of those the muse delights to celebrate. Indeed, it is difficult
to see why the fellow does a thing so nameless and yet so formidable to look at, unless on
the theory that he likes it.

*****

It is but a lying cant that would represent the merchant and the banker as people disinterestedly
toiling for mankind, and then most useful when absorbed in their transactions; for the man
is more important than his services.

*****

It was my custom, as the hours dragged on, to repeat the question, 'When will the carts come
in?' and repeat it again and again until at last those sounds arose in the street that I have
heard once more this morning. The road before our house is a great thoroughfare for early carts.
I know not, and I never have known, what they carry, whence they come, or whither they go.
But I know that, long ere dawn, and for hours together, they stream continuously past, with
the same rolling and jerking of wheels, and the same clink of horses' feet. It was not for
nothing that they made the burthen of my wishes all night through. They are really the first
throbbings of life, the harbingers of day; and it pleases you as much to hear them as it must
please a shipwrecked seaman once again to grasp a hand of flesh and blood after years of miserable
solitude. They have the freshness of the daylight life about them. You can hear the carters
cracking their whips and crying hoarsely to their horses or to one another; and sometimes even
a peal of healthy, harsh horse-laughter comes up to you through the darkness. There is now
an end to mystery and fear. Like the knocking at the door in MACBETH, or the cry of the watchman
in the TOUR DE NESLE, they show that the horrible caesura is over, and the nightmares have
fled away, because the day is breaking and the ordinary life of men is beginning to bestir
itself among the streets.

*****

She was as dead an old woman as ever I saw; no more than bone and parchment, curiously put
together. Her eyes, with which she interrogated mine, were vacant of sense. It depends on what
you call seeing, whether you might not call her blind. Perhaps she had known love; perhaps
borne children, suckled them, and given them pet names. But now that was all gone by, and had
left her neither happier nor wiser; and the best she could do with her mornings was to come
up here into the cold church and juggle for a slice of heaven. It was not without a gulp that
I escaped into the streets and the keen morning air. Morning? why, how tired of it she would
be before night! and if she did not sleep, how then? It is fortunate that not many of us are
brought up publicly to justify our lives at the bar of threescore years and ten; fortunate
that such a number are knocked opportunely on the head in what they call the flower of their
years, and go away to suffer for their follies in private somewhere else. Otherwise, between
sick children and discontented old folk, we might be put out of all conceit of life.

*****

When I was going, up got my old stroller, and off with his hat. 'I am afraid,' said he, 'that
monsieur will think me altogether a beggar; but I have another demand to make upon him.' I
began to hate him on the spot. 'We play again to-night,' he went on. 'Of course I shall refuse
to accept any more money from monsieur and his friends, who have been already so liberal. But
our programme of to-night is something truly creditable; and I cling to the idea that monsieur
will honour us with his presence. And then, with a shrug and a smile: 'Monsieur understands--the
vanity of an artist!' Save the mark! The vanity of an artist! That is the kind of thing that
reconciles me to life: a ragged, tippling, incompetent old rogue, with the manners of a gentleman
and the vanity of an artist, to keep up his self-respect!

*****

Time went on, and the boy's health still slowly declined. The Doctor blamed the weather, which
was cold and boisterous. He called in his CONFRERE from Burron, took a fancy for him, magnified
his capacity, and was pretty soon under treatment himself--it scarcely appeared for what complaint.
He and Jean-Marie had each medicine to take at different periods of the day. The Doctor used
to lie in wait for the exact moment, watch in hand. 'There is nothing like regularity,' he
would say, fill out the doses, and dilate on the virtues of the draught; and if the boy seemed
none the better, the Doctor was not at all the worse.

*****

'I lead you,' he would say, 'by the green pastures. My system, my beliefs, my medicines, are
resumed in one phrase--to avoid excess. Blessed nature, healthy, temperate nature, abhors and
exterminates excess. Human law in this matter imitates at a great distance her provisions;
and we must strive to supplement the efforts of the law. Yes, boy, we must be a law to ourselves
and for our neighbours--LEX ARMATA--armed, emphatic, tyrannous law. If you see a crapulous
human ruin snuffing, dash from him his box! The judge, though in a way an admission of disease,
is less offensive to me than either the doctor or the priest. Above all, the doctor--the doctor
and the purulent trash and garbage of his pharmacopoeia! Pure air--from the neighbourhood of
a pinetum for the sake of the turpentine--unadulterated wine, and the reflections of an unsophisticated
spirit in the presence of the works of nature--these, my boy, are the best medical appliances
and the best religious comforts. Devote yourself to these. Hark! there are the bells of Bourron
(the wind is in the North, it will be fair). How clear and airy is the sound! The nerves are
harmonised and quieted; the mind attuned to silence; and observe how easily and regularly beats
the heart! Your unenlightened doctor would see nothing in these sensations; and yet you yourself
perceive they are a part of health. Did you remember your cinchona this morning? Good. Cinchona
also is a work of nature; it is, after all, only the bark of a tree which we might gather for,
ourselves if we lived in the locality.'

*****

The accepted novelist may take his novel up and put it down, spend days upon it in vain, and
write not any more than he makes haste to blot. Not so the Beginner. Human nature has certain
rights; instinct--the instinct of self-preservation--forbids that any man (cheered and supported
by the consciousness of no previous victory) should endure the miseries of unsuccessful literary
toil beyond a period to be measured in weeks. There must be something for hope to feed upon.
The beginner must have a slant of wind, a lucky vein must be running, he must be in one of
those hours when the words come and the phrases balance themselves--EVEN TO BEGIN. And having
begun, what a dread looking forward is that until the book shall be accomplished! For so long
a time the slant is to continue unchanged, the vein to keep running, for so long a time you
must keep at command the same quality of style: for so long a time your puppets are to be always
vital, always consistent, always vigorous!

*****

What is this fortunate circumstance, my friend? inquired Anastasie, not heeding his protest,
which was of daily recurrence.

'That we have no children, my beautiful,' replied the Doctor. 'I think of it more and more
as the years go on, and with more and more gratitude towards the Power that dispenses such
afflictions. Your health, my darling, my studious quiet, our little kitchen delicacies, how
they would all have suffered, how they would all have been sacrificed! And for what? Children
are the last word of human imperfection. Health flees before their face. They cry, my dear;
they put vexatious questions; they demand to be fed, to be washed, to be educated, to have
their noses blowed; and then, when the time comes, they break our hearts, as I break this piece
of sugar. A pair of professed egoists, like you and me, should avoid offspring, like an infidelity.'

'Indeed!' said she; and she laughed. 'Now, that is like you--to take credit for the thing you
could not help.'

*****

I have been made to learn that the doom and burthen of our life is bound for ever on man's
shoulders, and when the attempt is made to cast it off, it but returns upon us with more unfamiliar
and more awful pressure.

*****

     Forth from the casement, on the plain
     Where honour has the world to gain,
     Pour forth and bravely do your part,
     O knights of the unshielded heart!
     'Forth and for ever forward!--out
     From prudent turret and redoubt,
     And in the mellay charge amain,
     To fall, but yet to rise again!
     Captive?  Ah, still, to honour bright,
     A captive soldier of the right!
     Or free and fighting, good with ill?
     Unconquering but unconquered still!

     O to be up and doing, O
     Unfearing and unshamed to go
     In all the uproar and the press
     About my human business!
     My undissuaded heart I hear
     Whisper courage in my ear.
     With voiceless calls, the ancient earth
     Summons me to a daily birth.

*****

Yet it is to this very responsibility that the rich are born. They can shuffle off the duty
on no other; they are their own paymasters on parole; and must pay themselves fair wages and
no more. For I suppose that in the course of ages, and through reform and civil war and invasion,
mankind was pursuing some other and more general design than to set one or two Englishmen of
the nineteenth century beyond the reach of needs and duties. Society was scarce put together,
and defended with so much eloquence and blood, for the convenience of two or three millionaires
and a few hundred other persons of wealth and position. It is plain that if mankind thus acted
and suffered during all these generations, they hoped some benefit, some ease, some wellbeing,
for themselves and their descendants; that if they supported law and order, it was to secure
fair-play for all; that if they denied themselves in the present, they must have had some designs
on the future. Now a great hereditary fortune is a miracle of man's wisdom and mankind's forbearance;
it has not only been amassed and handed down, it has been suffered to be amassed and handed
down; and surely in such consideration as this, its possessor should find only a new spur to
activity and honour, that with all this power of service he should not prove unserviceable,
and that this mass of treasure should return in benefits upon the race. If he had twenty, or
thirty, or a hundred thousand at his banker's, or if all Yorkshire or all California were his
to manage or to sell, he would still be morally penniless, and have the world to begin like
Whittington, until he had found some way of serving mankind. His wage is physically in his
own hand; but, in honour, that wage must still be earned. He is only steward on parole of what
is called his fortune. He must honourably perform his stewardship. He must estimate his own
services and allow himself a salary in proportion, for that will be one among his functions.
And while he will then be free to spend that salary, great or little, on his own private pleasures,
the rest of his fortune he but holds and disposes under trust for mankind; it is not his, because
he has not earned it; it cannot be his, because his services have already been paid; but year
by year it is his to distribute, whether to help individuals whose birthright and outfit has
been swallowed up in his, or to further public works and institutions.

*****

'Tis a fine thing to smart for one's duty; even in the pangs of it there is contentment.

*****

We all suffer ourselves to be too much concerned about a little poverty; but such considerations
should not move us in the choice of that which is to be the business and justification of so
great a portion of our lives and like the missionary, the patriot, or the philosopher, we should
all choose that poor and brave career in which we can do the most and best for mankind.

*****

The salary in any business under heaven is not the only, nor indeed the first, question. That
you should continue to exist is a matter for your own consideration; but that your business
should be first honest, and second useful, are points in which honour and morality are concerned.

*****

There is only one wish realisable on the earth; only one thing that can be perfectly attained:
Death. And from a variety of circumstances we have no one to tell us whether it be worth attaining.

A strange picture we make on our way to our chimaeras, ceaselessly marching, grudging ourselves
the time for rest; indefatigable, adventurous pioneers. It is true that we shall never reach
the goal; it is even more than probable that there is no such place; and if we lived for centuries
and were endowed with the powers of a god, we should find ourselves not much nearer what we
wanted at the end. O toiling hands of mortals! O unwearied feet, travelling ye know not whither!
Soon, soon, it seems to you,' you must come forth on some conspicuous hilltop, and but a little
way further, against the setting sun, descry the spires of El Dorado. Little do ye know your
own blessedness; for to travel hopefully is a better thing than to arrive, and the true success
is to labour.

*****

A man who must separate himself from his neighbours' habits in order to be happy, is in much
the same case with one who requires to take opium for the same purpose. What we want to see
is one who can breast into the world, do a man's work, and still preserve his first and pure
enjoyment of existence.

There is apt to be something unmanly, something almost dastardly, in a life that does not move
with dash and freedom, and that fears the bracing contact of the world.

*****

You cannot run away from a weakness; you must some time fight it out or perish; and if that
be so, why not now, and where you stand?

*****

Life as a matter of fact, partakes largely of the nature of tragedy. The gospel according to
Whitman, even if it be not so logical, has this advantage over the gospel according to Pangloss,
that it does not utterly disregard the existence of temporal evil. Whitman accepts the fact
of disease and wretchedness like an honest man; and instead of trying to qualify it in the
interest of his optimism, sets himself to spur people up to be helpful.

*****

Indeed, I believe this is the lesson; if it is for fame that men do brave actions, they are
only silly fellows after all.

*****

To avoid an occasion for our virtues is a worse degree of failure than to push forward pluckily
and make a fall. It is lawful to pray God that we be not led into temptation; but not lawful
to skulk from those that come to us.

*****

To be honest, to be kind--to earn a little and to spend a little less, to make upon the whole
a family happier for his presence, to renounce when that shall be necessary and not to be embittered,
to keep a few friends, but these without capitulation--above all, on the same grim conditions,
to keep friends with himself--here is a task for all that a man has of fortitude and delicacy.

*****

As we dwell, we living things, in our isle of terror and under the imminent hand of death,
God forbid it should be man the erected, the reasoner, the wise in his own eyes'--God forbid
it should be man that wearies in welldoing, that despairs of unrewarded effort, or utters the
language of complaint. Let it be enough for faith, that the whole creation groans in mortal
frailty, strives with unconquerable constancy: surely not all in vain.

*****

I find I never weary of great churches. It is my favourite kind of mountain scenery. Mankind
was never so happily inspired as when it made a cathedral: a thing as single and specious as
a statue to the first glance, and yet, on examination, as lively and interesting as a forest
in detail. The height of spires cannot be taken by trigonometry; they measure absurdly short,
but how tall they are to the admiring eye! And where we have so many elegant proportions, growing
one out of the other, and all together into one, it seems as if proportion transcended itself
and became something different and more imposing. I could never fathom how a man dares to lift
up his voice to preach in a cathedral. What is he to say that will not be an anti-climax? For
though I have heard a considerable variety of sermons, I never yet heard one that was so expressive
as a cathedral. 'Tis the best preacher itself, and preaches day and night; not only telling
you of man's art and aspirations in the past, but convicting your own soul of ardent sympathies;
or rather, like all good preachers, it sets you preaching to yourself--and every man is his
own doctor of divinity in the last resort.

*****

As the business man comes to love the toil, which he only looked upon at first as a ladder
towards other desires and less unnatural gratifications, so the dumb man has felt the charm
of his trade and fallen captivated before the eyes of sin. It is a mistake when preachers tell
us that vice is hideous and loathsome; for even vice has her Horsel and her devotees, who love
her' for her own sake.

Between these two, I now felt I had to choose. My two natures had memory in common, but all
other faculties were most unequally shared between them. Jekyll (who was composite) now with
the most sensitive apprehensions, now with a greedy gusto, projected and shared in the pleasures
and adventures of Hyde; but Hyde was indifferent to Jekyll, or but remembered him as the mountain
bandit remembers the cavern in which he conceals himself from pursuit. Jekyll had more than
a father's interest; Hyde had more than a son's indifference. To cast in my lot with Jekyll
was to die to those appetites which I had long secretly indulged, and had of late begun to
pamper. To cast it in with Hyde was to die to a thousand interests and aspirations, and to
become, at a blow and for ever, despised and friendless. The bargain might appear unequal;
but there was still another consideration in the scale; for while Jekyll would suffer smartingly
in the fires of abstinence, Hyde would be not even conscious of all that he had lost. Strange
as my circumstances were, the terms of this debate are as old and commonplace as man; much
the same inducements and alarms cast the die for any tempted and trembling sinner; and it fell
out with me, as it falls with so vast a majority of my fellows, that I chose the better part,
and was found wanting in the strength to keep to it.

*****

Many a man would have even blazoned such irregularities as I was guilty of; but from the high
views that I had set before me, I regarded and hid them with an almost morbid sense of shame.
It was thus rather the exacting nature of my aspirations than any particular degradation in
my faults that made me what I was, and, with even a deeper trench than in the majority of men,
severed in me those provinces of good and ill which divide and compound man's dual nature.
In this case I was driven to reflect deeply and inveterately on that hard law of life, which
lies at the root of religion and is one of the most plentiful springs of distress. Though so
profound a double dealer, I was in no sense a hypocrite; both sides of me were in dead earnest;
I was no more myself when I laid aside restraint and plunged in shame, than when I laboured,
in the eye of day, at the furtherance of knowledge or the relief of sorrow and suffering. And
it chanced that the direction of my scientific studies, which led wholly towards the mystic
and the transcendental, reacted and shed a strong light on this consciousness of the perennial
war among my members. With every day, and from both sides of my intelligence, the moral and
the intellectual, I thus drew steadily nearer to that truth, by whose partial discovery I have
been doomed to such a dreadful shipwreck: that man is not truly one, but truly two.

*****

It may be argued again that dissatisfaction with our life's endeavour springs in some degree
from dulness. We require higher tasks because we do not recognise the height of those we have.
Trying to be kind and honest seems an affair too simple and too inconsequential for gentlemen
of our heroic mould; we had rather set ourselves something bold, arduous, and conclusive; we
had rather found a schism or suppress a heresy, cut off a hand or mortify an appetite. But
the task before us, which is to co-endure with our existence, is rather one of microscopic
fineness, and the heroism required is that of patience. There is no cutting of the Gordian
knots of life; each must be smilingly unravelled.

*****

It is perhaps a more fortunate destiny to have a taste for collecting shells than to be born
a millionaire. Although neither is to be despised, it is always better policy to learn an interest
than to make a thousand pounds; for the money will soon be spent, or perhaps you may feel no
joy in spending it; but the interest remains imperishable and ever new. To become a botanist,
a geologist, a social philosopher, an antiquary, or an artist, is to enlarge one's possessions
in the universe by an incalculably higher degree, and by a far surer sort of property, than
to purchase a farm of many acres.

*****

He who has learned to love an art or science has wisely laid up riches against the day of riches;
if prosperity come, he will not enter poor into his inheritance; he will not slumber and forget
himself in the lap of money, or spend his hours in counting idle treasures, but be up and briskly
doing; he will have the true alchemic touch, which is not that of Midas, but which transmutes
dead money into living delight and satisfaction. ETRE ET PAS AVOIR--to be, not to possess--that
is the problem of life. To be wealthy, a rich nature is the first requisite and money but the
second. To be of a quick and healthy blood, to share in all honourable curiosities, to be rich
in admiration and free from envy, to rejoice greatly in the good of others, to love with such
generosity of heart that your love is still a dear possession in absence or unkindness--these
are the gifts of fortune which money cannot buy, and without which money can buy nothing.

*****

An aim in life is the only fortune worth the finding; and it is not to be found in foreign
lands, but in the heart itself.

*****

'Mr. Archer was telling me in some strange land they used to run races each with a lighted
candle, and the art was to keep the candle burning. Well, now, I thought that was like life;
a man's good conscience is the flame he gets to carry, and if he comes to the winning-post
with that still burning, why, take it how you will, the man is a hero--even if he was low-born
like you and me.'

*****

Hope, they say, deserts us at no period of our existence. From first to last, and in the face
of smarting disillusions, we continue to expect good fortune, better health, and better conduct;
and that so confidently, that we judge it needless to deserve them.

*****

'Do I, indeed, lack courage?' inquired Mr. Archer of himself. 'Courage, the footstool of the
virtues, upon which they stand? Courage, that a poor private carrying a musket has to spare
of; that does not fail a weasel or a rat; that is a brutish faculty? I to fail there, I wonder?
But what is courage? The constancy to endure oneself or to see others suffer? The itch of ill-advised
activity: mere shuttle-wittedness, or to be still and patient? To inquire of the significance
of words is to rob ourselves of what we seem to know, and yet, of all things, certainly to
stand still is the least heroic.'

*****

To be what we are, and to become what we are capable of becoming, is the only end of life.

*****

But let the man learn to love a woman as far as he is capable of love; and for this random
affection of the body there is substituted a steady determination, a consent of all his powers
and faculties, which supersedes, adopts, and commands the others. The desire survives, strengthened,
perhaps, but taught obedience, and changed in scope and character. Life is no longer a tale
of betrayals and regrets; for the man now lives as a whole; his consciousness now moves on
uninterrupted like a river; through all the extremes and ups and downs of passion, he remains
approvingly conscious of himself.

Now to me, this seems a type of that righteousness which the soul demands. It demands that
we shall not live alternately with our opposing tendencies in continual see-saw of passion
and disgust, but seek some path on which the tendencies shall no longer oppose, but serve each
other to a common end. It demands that we shall not pursue broken ends, but great and comprehensive
purposes, in which soul and body may unite, like notes in a harmonious chord. That were indeed
a way of peace and pleasure, that were indeed a heaven upon earth. It does not demand, however,
or, to speak in measure, it does not demand of me, that I should starve my appetites for no
purpose under heaven but as a purpose in itself; or, if in a weak despair, pluck out the eye
that I have not learned to guide and enjoy with wisdom. The soul demands unity of purpose,
not the dismemberment of man; it seeks to roll up all his strength and sweetness, all his passion
and wisdom, into one, and make of him a perfect man exulting in perfection. To conclude ascetically
is to give up, and not to solve, the problem.

*****

The best teachers are the aged. To the old our mouths are always partly closed; we must swallow
our obvious retorts and listen. They sit above our heads, on life's raised dais, and appeal
at once to our respect and pity. A flavour of the old school, a touch of something different
in their manner--which is freer and rounder, if they come of what is called a good family,
and often more timid and precise if they are of the middle class--serves, in these days, to
accentuate the difference of age and, add a distinction to grey hairs. But their superiority
is founded more deeply than by outward marks or gestures. They are before us in the march of
man; they have more or less solved the irking problem; they have battled through the equinox
of life; in good and evil they have held their course; and now, without open shame, they near
the crown and harbour. It may be we have been struck with one of fortune's darts; we can scarce
be civil, so cruelly is our spirit tossed. Yet long before we were so much as thought upon,
the like calamity befel the old man or woman that now, with pleasant humour, rallies us upon
our inattention, sitting composed in the holy evening of man's life, in the clear shining after
rain. We grow ashamed of our distresses, new and hot and coarse, like villainous roadside brandy;
we see life in aerial perspective, under the heavens of faith; and out of the worst, in the
mere presence of contented elders, look forward and take patience. Fear shrinks before them
'like a thing reproved,' not the flitting and ineffectual fear of death, but the instant, dwelling
terror of the responsibilities and revenges of life. Their speech, indeed, is timid; they report
lions in the path; they counsel a meticulous footing; but their serene, marred faces are more
eloquent and tell another story. 'Where they have gone, we will go also, not very greatly fearing;
what they have endured unbroken, we also, God helping us, will make a shift to bear.

*****

If you teach a man to keep his eyes upon what others think of him, unthinkingly to lead the
life and hold the principles of the majority of his contemporaries, you must discredit in his
eyes the authoritative voice of his own soul. He may be a docile citizen; he will never be
a man. It is ours, on the other hand, to disregard this babble and chattering of other men
better and worse than we are, and to walk straight before us by what light we have. They may
be right; but so, before heaven, are we. They may know; but we know also, and by that knowledge
we must stand or fall. There is such a thing as loyalty to a man's own better self; and from
those who have not that, God help me, how am I to look for loyalty to others? The most dull,
the most imbecile, at a certain moment turn round, at a certain point will hear no further
argument, but stand unflinching by their own dumb, irrational sense of right. It is not only
by steel or fire, but through contempt and blame, that the martyr fulfils the calling of his
dear soul. Be glad if you are not tried by such extremities. But although all the world ranged
themselves in one line to tell 'This is wrong,' be you your own faithful vassal and the ambassador
of God--throw down the glove and answer, 'This is right.' Do you think you are only declaring
yourself? Perhaps in some dim way, like a child who delivers a message not fully understood,
you are opening wider the straits of prejudice and preparing mankind for some truer and more
spiritual grasp of truth; perhaps, as you stand forth for your own judgment, you are covering
a thousand weak ones with your body; perhaps, by this declaration alone, you have avoided the
guilt of false witness against humanity and the little ones unborn. It is good, I believe,
to be respectable, but much nobler to respect oneself and utter the voice of God.

I think it worth noting how this optimist was acquainted with pain. It will seem strange only
to the superficial. The disease of pessimism springs never from real troubles, which it braces
men to bear, which it delights men to bear well. Nor does it readily spring at all, in minds
that have conceived of life as a field of ordered duties, not as a chase in which to hunt for
gratifications.

*****

But the race of man, like that indomitable nature whence it sprang, has medicating virtues
of its own; the years and seasons bring various harvests; the sun returns after the rain; and
mankind outlives secular animosities, as a single man awakens from the passions of a day. We
judge our ancestors from a more divine position; and the dust being a little laid with several
centuries, we can see both sides adorned with human virtues and fighting with a show of right.

*****

It is a commonplace that we cannot answer for ourselves before we have been tried. But it is
not so common a reflection, and surely more consoling, that we usually find ourselves a great
deal braver and better than we thought. I believe this is every one's experience; but an apprehension
that they may belie themselves in the future prevents mankind from trumpeting this cheerful
sentiment abroad. I wish sincerely, for it would have saved me much trouble, there had been
some one to put me in a good heart about life when I was younger; to tell sue how dangers are
most portentous on a distant sight; and how the good in a man's spirit will not suffer itself
to be overlaid, and rarely or never deserts him in the hour of need. But we are all for tootling
on the sentimental flute in literature; and not a man among us will go to the head of the march
to sound the heady drums.

*****

It is a poor heart, and a poorer age, that cannot accept the conditions of life with some heroic
readiness.

*****

I told him I was not much afraid of such accidents; and at any rate judged it unwise to dwell
upon alarms or consider small perils in the arrangement of life. Life itself I submitted, was
a far too risky business as a whole to make each additional particular of danger worth regard.

*****

There is nothing but tit for tat in this world, though sometimes it be a little difficult to
trace; for the scores are older than we ourselves, and there has never yet been a settling
day since things were. You get entertainment pretty much in proportion as you give. As long
as we were a sort of odd wanderers, to be stared at and followed like a quack doctor or a caravan,
we had no want of amusement in return; but as soon as we sunk into commonplace ourselves, all
whom we met were similarly disenchanted. And here is one reason of a dozen why the world is
dull to dull persons.

*****

All literature, from Job and Omar Khayam to Thomas Carlyle or Walt Whitman, is but an attempt
to look upon the human state with such largeness of view as shall enable us to rise from the
consideration of living to the Definition of Life. And our sages give us about the best satisfaction
in their power when they say that it is a vapour, or a show, or made out of the same stuff
with dreams. Philosophy, in its more rigid sense, has been at the same work for ages; and after
a myriad bald heads have wagged over the problem, and piles of words have been heaped one upon
another into dry and cloudy volumes without end, philosophy has the honour of laying before
us, with modest pride, her contribution towards the subject: that life is a Permanent Possibility
of Sensation. Truly a fine result! A man may very well love beef, or hunting, or a woman; but
surely, surely, not a Permanent Possibility of Sensation! He may be afraid of a precipice,
or a dentist, or a large enemy with a club, or even an undertaker's man; but not certainly
of abstract death. We may trick with the word life in its dozen senses until we are weary of
tricking; we may argue in terms of all the philosophies on earth, but one fact remains true
throughout--that we do not love life in the sense that we are greatly preoccupied about its
conservation; that we do not, properly speaking, love life at all, but living.

*****

Whether we regard life as a lane leading to a dead wall--a mere bag's end, as the French say--or
whether we think of it as a vestibule or gymnasium, where we wait our turn and prepare our
faculties for some more noble destiny; whether we thunder in a pulpit, or pule in little atheistic
poetry-books, about its vanity and brevity; whether we look justly for years of health and
vigour, or are about to mount into a bath-chair, as a step towards the hearse; in each and
all of these views and situations there is but one conclusion possible: that a man should stop
his ears against paralysing terror, and run the race that is set before him with a single mind.

As courage and intelligence are the two qualities best worth a good man's cultivation, so it
is the first part of intelligence to recognise our precarious estate in life, and the first
part of courage to be not at all abashed before the fact. A frank and somewhat headlong carriage,
not looking too anxiously before, not dallying in maudlin regret over the past, stamps the
man who is well armoured for this world.

*****

It is not over the virtues of a curate-and-tea-party novel that people are abashed into high
resolutions. It may be because their hearts are crass, but to stir them properly they must
have men entering into glory with sonic pomp and circumstance. And that is why these stories
of our sea-captains, printed, so to speak, in capitals, and full of bracing moral influence,
are more valuable to England than any material benefit in all the books of political economy
between Westminster and Birmingham. Greenville chewing wine-glasses at table makes no very
pleasant figure, any more than a thousand other artists when they are viewed in the body, or
met in private life; but his work of art, his finished tragedy, is an elegant performance;
and I contend it ought not only to enliven men of the sword as they go into battle, but send
back merchant-clerks with more heart and spirit to their book-keeping by double entry.

*****

It is said that a poet has died young in the breast of the most stolid. 'It may be contended,
rather, that this (somewhat minor) bard in almost every case survives, and is the spice of
life to his possessor. Justice is not done to the versatility and the unplumbed childishness
of man's imagination. His life from without may seem but a rude mound of mud; there will be
some golden chamber at the heart of it, in which he dwells delighted; and for as dark as his
pathway seems to the observer, he will have some kind of a bull's-eye at his belt.

*****

For, to repeat, the ground of a man's joy is often hard to hit. It may hinge at times upon
a mere accessory, like the lantern; it may reside, like Dancer's in the mysterious inwards
of psychology. It may consist with perpetual failure, and find exercise in the continued chase.
It has so little bond with externals (such as the observer scribbles in his notebook) that
it may even touch them not; and the man's true life, for which he consents to live, lie altogether
in the field of fancy. The clergyman in his spare hours may be winning battles, the farmer
sailing ships, the banker reaping triumph in the arts: all leading another life, plying another
trade from that they chose; like the poet's house-builder, who, after all, is cased in stone,

     'By his fireside, as impotent fancy prompts,
      Rebuilds it to his liking.'

In such a case the poetry runs underground. The observer (poor soul, with his documents!) is
all abroad. For to look at the man is but to court deception. We shall see the trunk from which
he draws his nourishment; but he himself is above and abroad in the green dome of foliage,
hummed through by winds and nested in by nightingales. And the true realism were that of the
poets, to climb up after him like a squirrel, and catch some glimpse of the heaven for which
he lives. And the true realism, always and everywhere, is that of the poets: to find out where
joy resides, and give it voice beyond singing.

*****

He who shall pass judgment on the records of our life is the same that formed us in frailty.

*****

We are all so busy, and have so many far-off projects to realise, and castles in the fire to
turn into solid habitable mansions on a gravel soil, that we can find no time for pleasure
trips into the Land of Thought and among the Hills of Vanity. Changed times, indeed, when we
must sit all night, beside the fire, with folded hands; and a changed world for most of us,
when we find we can pass the hours without discontent, and be happy thinking. We are in such
haste to be doing, to be writing, to be gathering gear, to make our voice audible a moment
in the derisive silence of eternity, that we forget that one thing, of which these are but
the parts--namely, to live. We fall in love, we drink hard, we run to and fro upon the earth
like frightened sheep. And now you are to ask yourself if, when all is done, you would not
have been better to sit by the fire at home, and be happy thinking. To sit still and contemplate--to
remember the faces of women without desire, to be pleased by the great deeds of men without
envy, to be everything and everywhere in sympathy, and yet content to remain where and what
you are--is not this to know both wisdom and virtue, and to dwell with happiness?

*****

Of those who fail, I do not speak--despair should be sacred; but to those who even modestly
succeed, the changes of their life bring interest: a job found, a shilling saved, a dainty
earned, all these are wells of pleasure springing afresh for the successful poor; and it is
not from these, but from the villa-dweller, that we hear complaints of the unworthiness of life.

*****

I shall be reminded what a tragedy of misconception and misconduct man at large presents: of
organised injustice, cowardly violence and treacherous crime; and of the damning imperfections
of the best. They cannot be too darkly drawn. Man is indeed marked for failure in his efforts
to do right. But where the best consistently miscarry, how tenfold more remarkable that all
should continue to strive; and surely we should find it both touching and inspiriting, that
in a field from which success is banished, our race should not cease to labour.

*****

Poor soul, here for so little, cast among so many hardships, filled with desires so incommensurate
and so inconsistent, savagely surrounded, savagely descended, irremediably condemned to prey
upon his fellow lives: who should have blamed him had he been of a piece with his destiny and
a being merely barbarous? And we look and behold him instead filled with imperfect virtues:
infinitely childish, often admirably valiant, often touchingly kind; sitting down amidst his
momentary life, to debate of right and wrong and the attributes of the deity; rising up to
do battle for an egg or die for an idea; singling out his friends and his mate with cordial
affection; bringing forth in pain, rearing, with long-suffering solicitude, his young. To touch
the heart of his mystery, we find in him one thought, strange to the point of lunacy: the thought
of duty, the thought of something owing to himself, to his neighbour, to his God: an ideal
of decency, to which he would rise if it were possible; a limit of shame, below which, if it
be possible, he will not stoop.

*****

There are two just reasons for the choice any way of life: the first is inbred taste in the
chooser; the second some high utility in the industry selected.

*****

There is an idea abroad among moral people that they should make their neighbours good. One
person I have to make good: myself. But my duty to my neighbour is much more nearly expressed
by saying that I have to make him happy--if I may.

*****

In his own life, then, a man is not to expect happiness, only to profit by it gladly when it
shall arise; he is on duty here; he knows not how or why, and does not need to know; he knows
not for what hire, and must not ask. Somehow or other, though he does not know what goodness
is, he must try to be good; somehow or other, though he cannot tell what will do it, he must
try to give happiness to others.

*****

Of this one thing I am sure: that every one thawed and became more humanised and conversible
as soon as these innocent people appeared upon the scene. I would not readily trust the travelling
merchant with any extravagant sum of money, but I am sure his heart was in the right place.

In this mixed world, if you can find one or two sensible places in a man; above all, if you
should find a whole family living together on such pleasant terms, you may surely be satisfied,
and take the rest for granted; or, what is a great deal better, boldly make up your mind that
you can do perfectly well without the rest, and that ten thousand bad traits cannot make a
single good one any the less good.

*****

His was, indeed, a good influence in life while he was still among us; he had a fresh laugh;
it did you good to see him; and, however sad he may have been at heart, he always bore a bold
and cheerful countenance and took fortune's worst as it were the showers of spring.

*****

Pleasures are more beneficial than duties because, like the quality of mercy, they are not
strained, and they are twice blest. There must always be two in a kiss, and there may be a
score in a jest; but wherever there is an element of sacrifice, the favour is conferred with
pain, and, among generous people, received with confusion.

There is no duty we so much underrate as the duty of being happy. By being happy, we sow anonymous
benefits upon the world, which remain unknown even to ourselves, or when they are disclosed,
surprise nobody so much as the benefactor.

*****

A happy man or woman is a better thing to find than a five-pound note. He or she is a radiating
focus of goodwill; and their entrance into a room is as though another candle had been lighted.
We need not care whether they could prove the forty-seventh proposition; they do a better thing
than that, they practically demonstrate the great Theorem of the Liveableness of Life.

*****

Mme. Bazin came out after a while; she was tired with her day's work, I suppose; and she nestled
up to her husband and laid her head upon his breast. He had his arm about her and kept gently
patting her on the shoulder. I think Bazin was right, and he was really married. Of how few
people can the same be said!

Little did the Bazins know how much they served us. We were charged for candles, for food and
drink, and for the beds we slept in. But there was nothing in the bill for the husband's pleasant
talk; nor for the pretty spectacle of their married life. And there was yet another item uncharged.
For these people's, politeness really set us up again in our own esteem. We had a thirst for
consideration; the sense of insult was still hot in our spirits; and civil usage seemed to
restore us to our position in the world.

How little we pay our way in life! Although we have our purses continually in our hand, the
better part of service goes still unrewarded. But I like to fancy that a grateful spirit gives
as good as it gets. Perhaps the Bazins knew how much I liked them? perhaps they, also, were
healed of some slights by the thanks that I gave them in my manner?

*****

No art, it may be said, was ever perfect, and not many noble, that has not been mirthfully
conceived. And no man, it may be added, was ever anything but a wet blanket and a cross to
his companions who boasted not a copious spirit of enjoyment.

*****

There is yet another class who do not depend on corporal advantages, but support the winter
in virtue of a brave and merry heart. One shivering evening, cold enough for frost, but with
too high a wind, and a little past sundown, when the Lamps were beginning to enlarge their
circles in the growing dusk, a brace of barefooted lassies were seen coming eastward in the
teeth of the wind. If the one was as much as nine, the other was certainly not more than seven.
They were miserably clad; and the pavement was so cold, you would have thought no one could
lay a naked foot on it unflinching. Yet they came along waltzing, if you please, while the
elder sang a tune to give them music. The person who saw this, and whose heart was full of
bitterness at the moment, pocketed a reproof which has been of use to him ever since, and which
he now hands on, with his good wishes, to the reader.

*****

Happiness, at least, is not solitary; it joys to communicate; it loves others, for it depends
on them for its existence; it sanctions and encourages to all delights that are not unkind
in themselves; if it lived to a thousand, it would not make excision of a single humorous passage;
and while the self-improver dwindles toward the prig, and, if he be not of an excellent constitution,
may even grow deformed into an Obermann, the very name and appearance of a happy man breathe
of good-nature, and help the rest of us to live.

*****

It is never a thankful office to offer advice; and advice is the more unpalatable, not only
from the difficulty of the service recommended, but often from its very obviousness. We are
fired with anger against those who make themselves the spokesmen of plain obligations; for
they seem to insult us as they advise.

*****

We are not all patient Grizzels, by good fortune, but the most of us human beings with feelings
and tempers of our own.

*****

Men, whether lay or clerical, suffer better the flame of the stake than a daily inconvenience
or a pointed sneer, and will not readily be martyred without some external circumstance and
a concourse looking on.

*****

An imperturbable demeanour comes from perfect patience. Quiet minds cannot be perplexed or
frightened, but go on in fortune or misfortune at their own private pace, like a clock during
a thunderstorm.

*****

The ways of men seem always very trivial to us when we find ourselves alone on a church top,
with the blue sky and a few tall pinnacles, and see far below us the steep roofs and foreshortened
buttresses, and the silent activity of the city streets.

*****

Nevertheless, there is a certain frame of mind to which a cemetery is, if not an antidote,
at least an alleviation. If you are in a fit of the blues, go nowhere else.

*****

Honour can survive a wound; it can live and thrive without member. The man rebounds from his
disgrace; he begins fresh foundations on the ruins of the old; and when his sword is broken,
he will do valiantly with his dagger.

*****

It is easy to be virtuous when one's own convenience is not affected; and it is no shame to
any man to follow the advice of an outsider who owns that, while he sees which is the better
part, he might not have the courage to profit himself by this opinion.

*****

As soon as prudence has begun to grow up in the brain, like a dismal fungus, it finds its expression
in a paralysis of generous acts.

*****

The man who cannot forgive any mortal thing is a green hand in life.

*****

It is a useful accomplishment to be able to say NO, but surely it is the essence of amiability
to prefer to say YES where it is possible. There is something wanting in the man who does not
hate himself whenever he is constrained to say no. And there was a great deal wanting in this
born dissenter. He was almost shockingly devoid of weaknesses; he had not enough of them to
be truly polar with humanity; whether you call him demi-god or demi-man, he was at least not
altogether one of us, for he was not touched with a feeling of our infirmities. The world's
heroes have room for all positive qualities, even those which are disreputable, in the capacious
theatre of their dispositions. Such can live many lives; while a Thoreau can live but one,
and that only with perpetual foresight.

*****

We can all be angry with our neighbour; what we want is to be shown, not his defects, of which
we are too conscious, but his merits, to which we are too blind.

*****

   And methought that beauty and terror are only one, not two;
   And the world has room for love, and death, and thunder, and dew;
   And all the sinews of hell slumber in summer air;
   And the face of God is a rock, but the face of the rock is fair.
   Beneficent streams of tears flow at the finger of pain;
   And out of the cloud that smites, beneficent rivers of rain.

*****

'The longest and most abstruse flight of a philosopher becomes clear and shallow, in the flash
of a moment, when we suddenly perceive the aspect and drift of his intention. The longest argument
is but a finger pointed; once we get our own finger rightly parallel, and we see what the man
meant, whether it be a new Star or an old street-lamp. And briefly, if a saying is hard to
understand, it is because we are thinking of something else.

*****

I have seen wicked men and fools, a great many of both; and I believe they both get paid in
the end, but the fools first.

*****

Whether people's gratitude for the good gifts that come to them be wisely conceived or dutifully
expressed is a secondary matter, after all, so long as they feel gratitude. The true ignorance
is when a man does not know that he has received a good gift, or begins to imagine that he
has got it for himself. The self-made man is the funniest windbag after all! There is a marked
difference between decreeing light in chaos, and lighting the gas in a metropolitan back parlour
with a box of patent matches; and, do what we will, there is always something made to our hand,
if it were only our fingers.

*****

Benjamin Franklin went through life an altered man, because he once paid too dearly for a penny
whistle. My concern springs usually from a deeper source, to wit, from having bought a whistle
when I did not want one.

*****

I believe in a better state of things, that there will be no more nurses, and that every mother
will nurse her own offspring; for what can be more hardening and demoralising than to call
forth the tenderest feelings of a woman's heart and cherish them yourself as long as you need
them, as long as your children require a nurse to love them, and then to blight and thwart
and destroy them, whenever your own use for them is at an end.

*****

We had needs invent heaven if it had not been revealed to us; there are some things that fall
so bitterly ill on this side time!

*****

To write with authority about another man, we must have fellow-feeling and some common ground
of experience with our subject. We may praise or blame according as we find him related to
us by the best or worst in ourselves; but it is only in virtue of some relationship that we
can be his judges, even to condemn. Feelings which we share and understand enter for us into
the tissue of the man's character; those to which we are strangers in our own experience we
are inclined to regard as blots, exceptions, inconsistencies, and excursions of the diabolic;
we conceive them with repugnance, explain them with difficulty, and raise our hands to heaven
in wonder when we find them in conjunction with talents that we respect or virtues that we admire.

*****

To the best of my belief, Mr. Shandy is the first who fairly pointed out the incalculable influence
of nomenclature upon the whole life--who seems first to have recognised the one child, happy
in an heroic appellation, soaring upwards on the wings of fortune, and the other, like the
dead sailor in his shotted hammock, haled down by sheer weight of name into the abysses of
social failure.

*****

It would be well if nations and races could communicate their qualities; but in practice when
they look upon each other, they have an eye to nothing but defects.

*****

Many a man's destiny has been settled by nothing apparently more grave than a pretty face on
the opposite side of the street and a couple of bad companions round the corner.

*****

So kindly is the world arranged, such great profit may arise from a small degree of human reliance
on oneself, and such, in particular, is the happy star of this trade of writing, that it should
combine pleasure and profit to both parties, and be at once agreeable, like fiddling, and useful,
like good preaching.

*****

In all garrison towns, guard-calls, and reveilles, and such like, make a fine, romantic interlude
in civic business. Bugles, and drums, and fifes are of themselves most excellent things in
nature, and when they carry the mind to marching armies and the picturesque vicissitudes of
war they stir up something proud in the heart.

*****

To pass from hearing literature to reading it is to take a great and dangerous step. With not
a few, I think a large proportion of their pleasure then comes to an end; 'the malady of not
marking' overtakes them; they read thenceforward by the eye alone and hear never again the
chime of fair words or the march of the stately period. NON RAGIONIAM of these. But to all
the step is dangerous; it involves coming of age; it is even a kind of second weaning. In the
past all was at the choice of others; they chose, they digested, they read aloud for us and
sang to their own tune the books of childhood. In the future we are to approach the silent,
inexpressive type alone, like pioneers; and the choice of what we are to read is in our own
hands thenceforward.

*****

It remains to be seen whether you can prove yourselves as generous as you have been wise and
patient.

*****

'If folk dinna ken what ye're doing, Davie, they're terrible taken up with it; but if they
think they ken, they care nae mair for it than what I do for pease porridge.'

*****

And perhaps if you could read in my soul, or I could read in yours, our own composure might
seem little less surprising.

*****

For charity begins blindfold; and only through a series of misapprehensions rises at length
into a settled principle of love and patience, and a firm belief in all our fellow-men.

*****

There is no doubt that the poorer classes in our country are much more charitably disposed
than their superiors in wealth. And I fancy it must arise a great deal from the comparative
indistinction of the easy and the not so easy in these ranks. A workman or a pedlar cannot
shutter himself off from his less comfortable neighbours. If he treats himself to a luxury,
he must do it in the face of a dozen who cannot. And what should more directly lead to charitable
thoughts? Thus the poor man, camping out in life, sees it as it is, and knows that every mouthful
he puts in his belly has been wrenched out of the fingers of the hungry.

But at a certain stage of prosperity, as in a balloon ascent, the fortunate person passes through
a zone of clouds, and sublunary matters are thenceforward hidden from his view. He sees nothing
but the heavenly bodies, all in admirable order, and positively as good as new. He finds himself
surrounded in the most touching manner by the attentions of Providence, and compares himself
involuntarily with the lilies and the skylarks. He does not precisely sing, of course; but
then he looks so unassuming in his open laudau! If all the world dined at one table, this philosophy
would meet with some rude knocks.

*****

Forgive me, if I seem to teach, who am as ignorant as the trees of the mountain; but those
who learn much do but skim the face of knowledge; they seize the laws, they conceive the dignity
of the design--the horror of the living fact fades from the memory. It is we who sit at home
with evil who remember, I think, and are warned and pity.

*****

Look back now, for a moment, on your own brief experience of life; and although you lived it
feelingly in your own person, and had every step of conduct burned in by pains and joys upon
your memory, tell me what definite lesson does experience hand on from youth to manhood, or
from both to age? The settled tenor which first strikes the eye is but the shadow of a delusion.
This is gone; that never truly was; and you yourself are altered beyond recognition. Times
and men and circumstances change about your changing character, with a speed of which no earthly
hurricane affords an image. What was the best yesterday, is it still the best in this changed
theatre of a to-morrow? Will your own Past truly guide you in your own violent and unexpected
Future? And if this be questionable, with what humble, with what hopeless eyes, should we not
watch other men driving beside us on their unknown careers, seeing with unlike eyes, impelled
by different gales, doing and suffering in another sphere of things?

*****

The problem of education is twofold: first to know, and then to utter. Every one who lives
any semblance of an inner life thinks more nobly and profoundly than he speaks; and the best
teachers can impart only broken images of the truth which they perceive. Speech which goes
from one to another between two natures, and, what is worse, between two experiences, is doubly
relative. The speaker buries his meaning; it is for the hearer to dig it up again; and all
speech, written or spoken, is in a dead language until it finds a willing and prepared hearer.

*****

Culture is not measured by the greatness of the field which is covered by our knowledge, but
by the nicety with which we can perceive relations in that field, whether great or small.

*****

We are accustomed nowadays to a great deal of puling over the circumstances in which we are
placed. The great refinement of many poetical gentlemen has rendered them practically unfit
for the jostling and ugliness of life, and they record their unfitness at considerable length.
The bold and awful poetry of Job's complaint produces too many flimsy imitators; for there
is always something consolatory in grandeur, but the symphony transposed for the piano becomes
hysterically sad. This literature of woe, as Whitman calls it, this MALADIE DE RENE, as we
like to call it in Europe, is in many ways a most humiliating and sickly phenomenon. Young
gentlemen with three or four hundred a year of private means look down from a pinnacle of doleful
experience on all the grown and hearty men who have dared to say a good word for life since
the beginning of the world. There is no prophet but the melancholy Jacques, and the blue devils
dance on all our literary wires.

It would be a poor service to spread culture, if this be its result, among the comparatively
innocent and cheerful ranks of men. When our little poets have to be sent to look at the ploughman
and learn wisdom, we must be careful how we tamper with our ploughmen. Where a man in not the
best of circumstances preserves composure of mind, and relishes ale and tobacco, and his wife
and children, in the intervals of dull and unremunerative labour; where a man in this predicament
can afford a lesson by the way to what are called his intellectual superiors, there is plainly
something to be lost, as well as something to be gained, by teaching him to think differently.
It is better to leave him as he is than to teach him whining. It is better that he should go
without the cheerful lights of culture, if cheerless doubt and paralysing sentimentalism are
to be the consequence. Let us, by all means, fight against that hide-bound stolidity of sensation
and sluggishness of mind which blurs and decolorises for poor natures the wonderful pageant
of consciousness; let us teach people, as much as we can, to enjoy, and they will learn for
themselves to sympathise; but let us see to it, above all, that we give these lessons in a
brave, vivacious note, and build the man up in courage while we demolish its substitute, indifference.

*****

All opinions, properly so called, are stages on the road to truth. It does not follow that
a man will travel any further; but if he has really considered the world and drawn a conclusion,
he has travelled so far. This does not apply to formulae got by rote, which are stages on the
road to nowhere but second childhood and the grave. To have a catchword in your mouth is not
the same thing as to hold an opinion; still less is it the same thing as to have made one for
yourself.

*****

It is surely beyond a doubt that people should be a good deal idle in youth. For though here
and there a Lord Macaulay may escape from school honours with all his wits about him, most
boys pay so dear for their medals that they never afterwards have a shot in their locker, and
begin the world bankrupt. And the same holds true during all the time a lad is educating himself,
or suffering others to educate him.... Books are good enough in their own way, but they are
a mighty bloodless substitute for life. It seems a pity to sit, like the Lady of Shalott, peering
into a mirror, with your back turned on all the bustle and glamour of reality. And if a man
reads very hard, as the old anecdote reminds us, he will have little time for thought.

*****

It is supposed that all knowledge is at the bottom of a well, or the far end of a telescope.
As a matter of fact, an intelligent person, looking out of his eyes and hearkening in his ears,
with a smile on his face all the time, will get more true education than many another in a
life of heroic vigils. There is certainly some chill and arid knowledge to be found upon the
summits of formal and laborious science; but it is all round about you, and for the trouble
of looking, that you will acquire the warm and palpitating facts of life. While others are
filling their memory with a lumber of words, one-half of which they will forget before the
week is out, your truant may learn some really useful art: to play the fiddle, or to speak
with ease and opportunity to all varieties of men. Many who have 'plied their book diligently,'
and know all about some one branch or another of accepted lore, come out of the study with
an ancient and owl-like demeanour, and prove dry, stockish, and dyspeptic in all the better
and brighter parts of life. Many make a large fortune who remain underbred and pathetically
stupid to the last. And meantime there goes the idler, who began life along with them--by your
leave, a different picture. He has had time to take care of his health and his spirits; he
has been a great deal in the open air, which is the most salutary of all things for both body
and mind; and if he has never read the great Book in very recondite places, he has dipped into
it and skimmed it over to excellent purpose. Might not the student afford some Hebrew roots,
and the business man some of his half-crowns, for a share of the idler's knowledge of life
at large, and Art of Living?

*****

Nay, and the idler has another and more important quality than these. I mean his wisdom. He
who has much looked on at the childish satisfaction of other people in their hobbies, will
regard his own with only a very ironical indulgence. He will not be heard among the dogmatists.
He will have a great and cool allowance for all sorts of people and opinions. If he finds no
out-of-the-way truths, he will identify himself with no very burning falsehood. His way takes
him along a by-road, not much frequented, but very even and pleasant, which is called Commonplace
Lane, and leads to the Belvedere of Commonsense. Thence he shall command an agreeable, if no
very noble prospect; and while others behold the East and West, the Devil and the sunrise,
he will be contentedly aware of a sort of morning hour upon all sublunary things, with an army
of shadows running speedily and in many different directions into the great daylight of Eternity.

*****

I begin to perceive that it is necessary to know some one thing to the bottom--were it only
literature. When a man is to defend himself against a charge of crime, it is not instances of
similar violation of law that is to be the standard of his defence. A man may as well say, "I
robbed upon Hounslow Heath, but hundreds robbed there before me":
to which I answer, "The law has forbidden you to rob there; and I
will hang you for having violated the law, notwithstanding the long
list of similar violations which you have produced as precedents."

No doubt princes have violated the law of this country: they have
suffered for it.

Nobles have violated the law: their privileges have not protected them from punishment. Common
people have violated the law: they have been hanged for it. I know no human being exempt from
the law. The law is the security of the people of England; it is the security of the people
of India; it is the security of every person that is governed, and of every person that
governs.

There is but one law for all, namely, that law which governs all
law, the law of our Creator, the law of humanity, justice, equity,--the
Law of Nature and of Nations.

So far as any laws fortify this primeval law, and give it more precision, more energy, more
effect by their declarations, such laws enter into the sanctuary, and participate in the
sacredness of its character.

But the man who quotes as precedents the abuses of tyrants and
robbers pollutes the very fountain of justice, destroys the foundations
of all law, and thereby removes the only safeguard against evil
men, whether governors or governed,--the guard which prevents
governors from becoming tyrants, and the governed from becoming rebels

.

* * * * *

I hope your Lordships will not think that I have unnecessarily
occupied your time in disproving the plea of arbitrary power, which
has been brought forward at our bar, has been repeated at your
Lordships' bar, and has been put upon the records of both Houses.

I hope your Lordships will not think that such monstrous doctrine should be passed over, without
all possible pains being taken to demonstrate its falsehood and
to reprobate its tendency.

I have not spared myself in exposing the principles avowed by the
prisoner.

At another time I will endeavor to show you the manner in which he acted upon these principles. I
cannot command strength to proceed further at present; and you, my Lords, cannot give me greater
bodily strength than I have.

FOOTNOTES:

[95] Institutes of Timour, p. 165.

[96] Hedaya, Vol. II. p. 34.

[97] Hedaya, Vol. II. pp. 247, 248.

SPEECH
IN
GENERAL REPLY.

SECOND DAY: FRIDAY, MAY 30, 1794.

My lords,--On the last day of the sitting of this court, when I had the honor of appearing
before you by the order of my fellow Managers, I stated to you their observations and my own upon
two great points: one the demeanor of the prisoner at the bar during his trial, and the other
the principles of his defence. I compared that demeanor with the behavior of some of the
greatest men in this kingdom, who have, on account of their offences, been brought to your
bar, and who have seldom escaped your Lordships' justice. I put the decency, humility, and
propriety of the most distinguished men's behavior in contrast
with the shameless effrontery of this prisoner, who has presumptuously
made a recriminatory charge against the House of Commons, and
answered their impeachment by a counter impeachment, explicitly
accusing them of malice, oppression, and the blackest ingratitude.

My Lords, I next stated that this recriminatory charge consisted
of two distinct parts,--injustice and delay.

     To the injustice we are to answer by
     the nature and proof of the charges
     which we have brought before you; and
     to the delay, my Lords, we have
     answered in another place. Into one
     of the consequences of the
     delay, the ruinous expense which
     the prisoner complains of, we have
     desired your Lordships to make an
     inquiry, and have referred you
     to facts and witnesses which will
     remove this part of the
     charge.
     
     With regard to ingratitude, there will
     be a proper time for animadversion
     on this charge. For in considering the
     merits that are intended to be set off against his crimes, we shall
have to examine into the nature of those merits, and to ascertain
how far they are to operate, either as the prisoner designs they
shall operate in his favor, as presumptive proofs that a man of
such merits could not be guilty of such crimes, or as a sort of
set-off to be pleaded in mitigation of his offences.

In both of these lights we shall consider his services, and in this
consideration we shall determine the justice of his charge of
ingratitude.

My Lords, we have brought the demeanor of the prisoner before you for another reason. We are
desirous that your Lordships may be enabled to estimate, from the proud presumption and
audacity of the criminal at your bar, when he stands before the most awful tribunal in the world,
accused by a body representing no less than the sacred voice of his country, what he must have
been when placed in the seat of pride and power. What must have been the insolence of that man towards
the natives of India, who, when called here to answer for enormous crimes, presumes to behave,
not with the firmness of innocence, but with the audacity and hardness of guilt!

It may be necessary that I should recall to your Lordships' recollection the principles of
the accusation and of the defence. Your Lordships will bear in mind that the matters of fact
are all either settled by confession or conviction, and that the question now before you is
no longer an issue of fact, but an issue of law. The question is, what degree of merit or demerit
you are to assign by law to actions which have been laid before
you, and their truth acknowledged.

The principle being established that you are to decide upon an issue
at law, we examined by what law the prisoner ought to be tried; and
we preferred a claim which we do now solemnly prefer, and which we
trust your Lordships will concur with us in a laudable emulation
to establish,--a claim founded upon the great truths, that all power
is limited by law, and ought to be guided by discretion, and not
by arbitrary will,--that all discretion must be referred to the
conservation and benefit of those over whom power is exercised, and
therefore must be guided by rules of sound political morality.

We next contended, that, wherever existing laws were applicable, the prisoner at your bar was bound
by the laws and statutes of this kingdom, as a British subject; and that, whenever he exercised
authority in the name of the Company, or in the name of his Majesty, or under any other name,
he was bound by the laws and statutes of this kingdom, both in
letter and spirit, so far as they were applicable to him and to his
case; and above all, that he was bound by the act to which he owed
his appointment, in all transactions with foreign powers, to act
according to the known recognized rules of the Law of Nations,
whether these powers were really or nominally sovereign, whether
they were dependent or independent.

The next point which we established, and which we now call to your
Lordships' recollection, is, that he was bound to proceed according
to the laws, rights, laudable customs, privileges, and franchises
of the country that he governed; and we contended that to such laws,
rights, privileges, and franchises the people of the country had a
clear and just claim.

Having established these points as the basis of Mr. Hastings's general power, we contended that
he was obliged by the nature of his relation, as a servant to the Company, to be obedient to
their orders at all times, and particularly where he had entered into special covenants
regarding special articles of obedience.

These are the principles by which we have examined the conduct of this man, and upon which we have
brought him to your Lordships' bar for judgment. This is our table of the law. Your Lordships
shall now be shown the table by which he claims to be judged. But I will first beg your
Lordships to take notice of the utter contempt with which he treats all our acts of
Parliament.

Speaking of the absolute sovereignty which he would have you believe is exercised by the princes
of India, he says, "The sovereignty which they assumed it fell to my lot, very unexpectedly, to
exert; and whether or not such power, or powers of that nature, were delegated to me by any
provisions of any act of Parliament I confess myself too little of a lawyer to pronounce,"
and so on. This is the manner in which he treats an act of Parliament! In the place of acts
of Parliament he substitutes his own arbitrary will. This he contends is the sole law of the country
he governed, as laid down in what he calls the arbitrary Institutes
of Genghis Khân and Tamerlane.

This arbitrary will he claims, to the exclusion of the Gentoo law,
the Mahometan law, and the law of his own country.

He claims the right of making his own will the sole rule of his government, and justifies the exercise
of this power by the examples of Aliverdy Khân, Cossim Ali Khân,
Sujah Dowlah Khân, and all those Khâns who have rebelled against
their masters, and desolated the countries subjected to their rule.

This, my Lords, is the law which he has laid down for himself, and
these are the examples which he has expressly told the House of
Commons he is resolved to follow.

These examples, my Lords, and the principles with which they are connected, without any softening
or mitigation, he has prescribed to you as the rule by which his conduct is to be judged.

Another principle of the prisoner is, that, whenever the Company's affairs are in distress,
even when that distress proceeds from his own prodigality, mismanagement, or corruption, he has
a right to take for the Company's benefit privately in his own name, with the future application
of it to their use reserved in his own breast, every kind of bribe or corrupt present
whatever.

I have now restated to your Lordships the maxims by which the prisoner persists in defending
himself, and the principles upon which we claim to have him judged. The issue before your
Lordships is a hundred times more important than the cause itself, for it is to determine by
what law or maxims of law the conduct of governors is to be judged.

On one side, your Lordships have the prisoner declaring that the
people have no laws, no rights, no usages, no distinctions of rank,
no sense of honor, no property,--in short, that they are nothing
but a herd of slaves, to be governed by the arbitrary will of a
master.

On the other side, we assert that the direct contrary of this is true. And to prove our assertion
we have referred you to the Institutes of Genghis Khân and of Tamerlane; we have referred you
to the Mahometan law, which is binding upon all, from the crowned head to the meanest
subject,--a law interwoven with a system of the wisest, the most learned, and most enlightened
jurisprudence that perhaps ever existed in the world. We have shown you, that, if these parties
are to be compared together, it is not the rights of the people which are nothing, but rather
the rights of the sovereign which are so. The rights of the people are everything, as they
ought to be, in the true and natural order of things. God forbid that these maxims should
trench upon sovereignty, and its true, just, and lawful prerogative!--on the contrary, they ought
to support and establish them.

The sovereign's rights are undoubtedly sacred rights, and ought to
be so held in every country in the world, because exercised for the
benefit of the people, and in subordination to that great end for
which alone God has vested power in any man or any set of men.

This is the law that we insist upon, and these are the principles upon which your Lordships are
to try the prisoner at your bar.

Let me remind your Lordships that these people lived under the laws to which I have referred
you, and that these laws were formed whilst we, I may say, were in the forest, certainly before
we knew what technical jurisprudence was.

These laws are allowed to be the basis and substratum of the manners,
customs, and opinions of the people of India; and we contend that Mr.

Hastings is bound to know them and to act by them; and I shall prove that the very condition
upon which he received power in India was to protect the people in their laws and known
rights. But whether Mr. Hastings did know these laws, or whether, content with credit gained
by as base a fraud as was ever practised, he did not read the books which Nobkissin paid
for, we take the benefit of them: we know and speak after knowledge of them. And although I
believe his Council have never read them, I should be sorry to stand in this place, if there
was one word and tittle in these books that I had not read over.

We therefore come here and declare to you that he is not borne out by these Institutes, either
in their general spirit or in any particular passage to which he has had the impudence to
appeal, in the assumption of the arbitrary power which he has
exercised.

We claim, that, as our own government and every person exercising
authority in Great Britain is bound by the laws of Great Britain,
so every person exercising authority in another country shall be
subject to the laws of that country; since otherwise they break the
very covenant by which we hold our power there.

Even if these Institutes had been arbitrary, which they are not, they might have been excused as the
acts of conquerors. But, my Lords, he is no conqueror, nor anything but what you see him,--a
bad scribbler of absurd papers, in which he can put no two sentences
together without contradiction.

We know him in no other character than that of having been a
bullock-contractor for some years, of having acted fraudulently in
that capacity, and afterwards giving fraudulent contracts to others;
and yet I will maintain that the first conquerors of the world would
have been base and abandoned, if they had assumed such a right as
he dares to claim.

It is the glory of all such great men to have for their motto, _Parcere subjectis et debellare
superbos_. These were men that said they would recompense the countries which they had obtained
through torrents of blood, through carnage and violence, by the
justice of their institutions, the mildness of their laws, and the
equity of their government.

Even if these conquerors had promulgated arbitrary institutes instead
of disclaiming them in every point, you, my Lords, would never
suffer such principles of defence to be urged here; still less will
you suffer the examples of men acting by violence, of men acting
by wrong, the example of a man who has become a rebel to his sovereign
in order that he should become the tyrant of his people, to be
examples for a British governor, or for any governor.

We here confidently protest against this mode of justification, and we maintain that his
pretending to follow these examples is in itself a crime. The prisoner has ransacked all Asia for
principles of despotism; he has ransacked all the bad and corrupted part of it for tyrannical examples
to justify himself: and certainly in no other way can he be justified.

Having established the falsehood of the first principle of the
prisoner's defence, that sovereignty, wherever it exists in India,
implies in its nature and essence a power of exacting anything from
the subject, and disposing of his person and property, we now come
to his second assertion, that he was the true, full, and perfect
representative of that sovereignty in India.

In opposition to this assertion we first do positively deny that
he or the Company are the perfect representative of any sovereign
power whatever.

They have certain rights by their charter, and by acts of Parliament, but they have no other.
They have their legal rights only, and these do not imply any such thing as sovereign power.
The sovereignty of Great Britain is in the King; he is the sovereign of the Lords and the
sovereign of the Commons, individually and collectively; and as he has his prerogative
established by law, he must exercise it, and all persons claiming and deriving under him,
whether by act of Parliament, whether by charter of the Crown, or by any other mode whatever,
all are alike bound by law, and responsible to it. No one can assume or receive any power of
sovereignty, because the sovereignty is in the Crown, and cannot
be delegated away from the Crown; no such delegation ever took
place, or ever was intended, as any one may see in the act by which
Mr.

Hastings was nominated Governor.

He cannot, therefore, exercise that high supreme sovereignty which is vested by the law, with
the consent of both Houses of Parliament, in the King, and in the
King only.

It is a violent, rebellious assumption of power, when Mr.

Hastings pretends fully, perfectly, and entirely to represent the sovereign of this country, and to
exercise legislative, executive, and judicial authority, with as
large and broad a sway as his Majesty, acting with the consent of
the two Houses of Parliament, and agreeably to the laws of this
kingdom.

I say, my Lords, this is a traitorous and rebellious assumption,
which he has no right to make, and which we charge against him, and
therefore it cannot be urged in justification of his conduct in any
respect.

He next alleges, with reference to one particular case, that he received this sovereignty from
the Vizier Sujah Dowlah, who he pretends was sovereign, with an
unlimited power over the life, goods, and property of Cheyt Sing.

This we positively deny.

Whatever power the supreme sovereign of the empire had, we deny that it was delegated to Sujah
Dowlah. He never was in possession of it. He was a vizier of the empire; he had a grant of
certain lands for the support of that dignity: and we refer you to the Institutes of Timour, to
the Institutes of Akbar, to the institutes of the Mahometan law, for the powers of delegated
governors and viceroys. You will find that there is not a trace of sovereignty in them, but
that they are, to all intents and purposes, mere subjects; and consequently, as Sujah Dowlah
had not these powers, he could not transfer them to the India
Company.

His master, the Mogul emperor, had them not.

I defy any man to show an instance of that emperor's claiming any such thing as arbitrary power;
much less can it be claimed by a rebellious viceroy who had broken
loose from his sovereign's authority, just as this man broke loose
from the authority of Parliament.

The one had not a right to give, nor the other to receive such
powers.

But whatever rights were vested in the Mogul, they cannot belong
either to Sujah Dowlah, to Mr.

     Hastings, or to the Company.
     These latter are expressly
     bound by their compact to
     take care of the subjects of the
     empire, and to govern them
     according to law, reason, and
     equity; and when they
     do otherwise, they
     are guilty of tyranny, of a violation of the rights of the people,
and of rebellion against their sovereign.

     We have taken these pains to ascertain
     and fix principles, because
     your Lordships are not
     called upon to judge of facts. A jury
     may find facts, but no
     jury can form a judgment of law; it is an application of the law
to the fact that makes the act criminal or laudable.

You must find a fixed standard of some kind or other; for if there
is no standard but the immediate momentary purpose of the day,
guided and governed by the man who uses it, fixed not only for the
disposition of all the wealth and strength of the state, but for
the life, fortune, and property of every individual, your Lordships
are left without a principle to direct your judgment.

This high court, this supreme court of appeal from all the courts of the kingdom, this highest court
of criminal jurisdiction, exercised upon the requisition of the House of Commons, if left
without a rule, would be as lawless as the wild savage, and as unprincipled as the prisoner that
stands at your bar. Our whole issue is upon principles, and what I shall say to you will be
in perpetual reference to them; because it is better to have no principles at all than to
have false principles of government and of morality. Leave a man to his passions, and you leave
a wild beast to a savage and capricious nature. A wild beast, indeed, when its stomach is full,
will caress you, and may lick your hands; in like manner, when a
tyrant is pleased or his passion satiated, you may have a happy and
serene day under an arbitrary government.

But when the principle founded on solid reason, which ought to
restrain passion, is perverted from its proper end, the false
principle will be substituted for it, and then man becomes ten times
worse than a wild beast.

The evil principle, grown solid and perennial, goads him on and takes entire possession of his mind;
and then perhaps the best refuge that you can have from that diabolical principle is in the
natural wild passions and unbridled appetites of mankind.

This is a dreadful state of things; and therefore we have thought
it necessary to say a great deal upon his principles

     .
     
     * * * * *
     My Lords, we come next to
     apply these principles to facts which cannot otherwise be judged,
as we have contended and do now contend.

     I will not go over facts which have
     been opened to you by
     my fellow Managers: if I did
     so, I should appear to have
     a distrust, which I am sure no other man has, of the greatest
abilities displayed in the greatest of all causes.

     I should be guilty of a
     presumption which I hope
     I shall not dream of, but leave
     to those who exercise arbitrary
     power, in supposing that I could go over the ground which my fellow
Managers have once trodden, and make anything more clear and forcible
than they have done.

In my humble opinion, human ability cannot go farther than they
have gone; and if I ever allude to anything which they have already
touched, it will be to show it in another light,--to mark more
particularly its departure from the principles upon which we contend
you ought to judge, or to supply those parts which through bodily
infirmity, and I am sure nothing else, one of my excellent fellow
Managers has left untouched.

I am here alluding to the case of Cheyt Sing.

My honorable fellow Manager, Mr. Grey, has stated to you all the circumstances requisite to prove
two things: first, that the demands made by Mr. Hastings upon Cheyt Sing were contrary to
fundamental treaties between the Company and that Rajah; and next, that they were the result and
effect of private malice and corruption. This having been stated and proved to you, I shall
take up the subject where it was left.

My Lords, in the first place, I have to remark to you, that the
whole of the charge originally brought by Mr.

Hastings against Cheyt Sing, in justification of his wicked and
tyrannical proceedings, is, that he had been dilatory, evasive,
shuffling, and unwilling to pay that which, however unwilling,
evasive, and shuffling, he did pay; and that, with regard to the
business of furnishing cavalry, the Rajah has asserted, and his
assertion has not been denied, that, when he was desired by the
Council to furnish these troopers, the purpose for which this
application was made was not mentioned or alluded to, nor was there
any place of muster pointed out.

We therefore contended, that the demand was not made for the service of the state, but for the
oppression of the individual that suffered by it.

But admitting the Rajah to have been guilty of delay and unwillingness, what is the nature
of the offence? If you strip it of the epithets by which it has been disguised, it merely
amounts to an unwillingness in the Rajah to pay more than the sums stipulated by the mutual
agreement existing between him and the Company.

This is the whole of it, the whole front and head of the offence;
and for this offence, such as it is, and admitting that he could
be legally fined for it, he was subjected to the secret punishment
of giving a bribe to Mr.

Hastings, by which he was to buy off the fine, and which was consequently a commutation for
it.

That your Lordships may be enabled to judge more fully of the nature of this offence, let us
see in what relation Cheyt Sing stood with the Company. He was, my Lords, a person clothed
with every one of the attributes of sovereignty, under a direct stipulation that the Company
should not interfere in his internal government. The military and civil authority, the power
of life and death, the whole revenue, and the whole administration of the law, rested in
him.
Such was the sovereignty he possessed within Benares: but he was a
subordinate sovereign dependent upon a superior, according to the
tenor of his compact, expressed or implied.

Now, having contended, as we still contend, that the Law of Nations
is the law of India as well as of Europe, because it is the law of
reason and the law of Nature, drawn from the pure sources of morality,
of public good, and of natural equity, and recognized and digested
into order by the labor of learned men, I will refer your Lordships
to Vattel, Book I.

*****

To ask to see some fruit of our endeavour is but a transcendental way of serving for reward;
and what we take to be contempt of self is only greed of hire.

*****

We are are all such as He was--the inheritors of sin; we must all bear and expiate a past which
was not ours; there is in all of us--ay, even in me--a sparkle of the divine. Like Him, we
must endure for a little while, until morning returns, bringing peace.

*****

A human truth, which is always very much a lie, hides as much of life as it displays. It is
men who hold another truth, or, as it seems to us, perhaps, a dangerous lie, who can extend
our restricted field of knowledge, and rouse our drowsy consciences.

*****

Truth of intercourse is something more difficult than to refrain from open lies. It is possible
to avoid falsehood and yet not tell the truth. It is not enough to answer formal questions.
To reach the truth by yea and nay communications implies a questioner with a share of inspiration,
such as is often found in mutual love. YEA and NAY mean nothing; the meaning must have been
related in the question. Many Words are often necessary to convey a very simple statement;
for in this sort of exercise we never hit the gold; the most that we can hope is by many arrows,
more or less far off on different sides, to indicate, in the course of time, for what target
we are aiming, and after an hour's talk, back and forward, to convey the purport of a single
principle or a single thought.

*****

The cruellist lies are often told in silence. A man may have sat in a room for hours and not
opened his teeth, and yet come out of that room a disloyal friend or a vile calumniator. And
how many loves have perished because, from pride, or spite, or diffidence, or that unmanly
shame which withholds a man from daring to betray emotion, a lover, at the critical point of
the relation, has but hung his head and held his tongue? And, again, a lie may be told by a
truth, or a truth conveyed through a lie. Truth to facts is not always truth to sentiment;
and part of the truth, as often happens in answer to a question, may be the foulest calumny.
A fact may be an exception; but the feeling is the law, and it is that which you must neither
garble nor belie. The whole tenor of a conversation is a part of the meaning of each separate
statement; the beginning and the end define and travesty the intermediate conversation. You
never speak to God; you address a fellow-man, full of his own tempers: and to tell truth, rightly
understood, is not to state the true facts, but to convey a true impression; truth in spirit,
not truth to letter, is the true veracity.

*****

He talked for the pleasure of airing himself. He was essentially glib, as becomes the young
advocate, and essentially careless of the truth, which is the mark of the young ass; and so
he talked at random. There was no particular bias, but that one which is indigenous and universal,
to flatter himself, and to please and interest the present friend.

*****

How wholly we all lie at the mercy of a single prater, not needfully with any malign purpose!
And if a man but talk of himself in the right spirit, refers to his virtuous actions by the
way, and never applies to them the name of virtues, how easily his evidence is accepted in
the court of public opinion!

*****

In one word, it must always be foul to tell what is false; and it can never be safe to suppress
what is true.

*****

Conclusions, indeed, are not often reached by talk any more than by private thinking. That
is not the profit. The profit is in the exercise, and above all in the experience; for when
we reason at large on any subject, we review our state and history in life. From time to time,
however, and specially, I think, in talking art, talk becomes effective, conquering like war,
widening the boundaries of knowledge like an exploration.

*****

Natural talk, like ploughing, should turn up a large surface of life, rather than dig mines
into geological strata. Masses of experience, anecdote, incident, cross-lights, quotation,
historical instances, the whole flotsam and jetsam of two minds forced in and in upon the matter
in hand from every point of the compass, and from every degree of mental elevation and abasement--these
are the material with which talk is fortified, the food on which the talkers thrive. Such argument
as is proper to the exercise should still be brief and seizing. Talk should proceed by instances;
by the apposite, not the expository. It should keep close along the lines of humanity, near
the bosoms and businesses of men, at the level where history, fiction, and experience intersect
and illuminate each other.

*****

There can be no fairer ambition than to excel in talk; to be affable, gay, ready, clear and
welcome; to have a fact, a thought, or an illustration, pat to every subject; and not only
to cheer the flight of time among our intimates, but bear our part in that great international
congress, always sitting, where public wrongs are first declared, public errors first corrected,
and the course of public opinion shaped, day by day, a little nearer to the right. No measure
comes before Parliament but it has been long ago prepared by the grand jury of the talkers;
no book is written that has not been largely composed by their assistance. Literature in many
of its branches is no other than the shadow of good talk; but the imitation falls far short
of the original in life, freedom, and effect. There are always two to a talk, giving and taking,
comparing experience and according conclusions. Talk is fluid, tentative, continually 'in further
search and progress'; while written words remain fixed, become idols even to the writer, found
wooden dogmatisms, and preserve flies of obvious error in the amber of the truth. Last and
chief, while literature, gagged with linsey-woolsey, can only deal with a fraction of the life
of man, talk goes fancy free and may call a spade a spade. Talk has none of the freezing immunities
of the pulpit. It cannot, even if it would, become merely aesthetic or merely classical like
literature. A jest intervenes, the solemn humbug is dissolved in laughter, and speech runs
forth out of the contemporary groove into the open fields of nature, cheery and cheering, like
schoolboys out of school. And it is in talk alone that we can learn our period and ourselves.
In short, the first duty of a man is to speak; that is his chief business in this world; and
talk, which is the harmonious speech of two or more, is by far the most accessible of pleasures.
It costs nothing in money; it is all profit; it completes our education, founds and fosters
our friendships, and can be enjoyed at any age and in almost any state of health.

*****

And it happens that literature is, in some ways, but an indifferent means to such an end. Language
is but a poor bull's-eye lantern wherewith to show off the vast cathedral of the world; and
yet a particular thing once said in words is so definite and memorable, that it makes us forget
the absence of the many which remain unexpressed; like a bright window in a distant view, which
dazzles and confuses our sight of its surroundings. There are not words enough in all Shakespeare
to express the merest fraction of a man's experience in an hour. The speed of the eyesight
and the hearing, and the continual industry of the mind, produce; in ten minutes, what it would
require a laborious volume to shadow forth by comparisons and roundabout approaches. If verbal
logic were sufficient, life would be as plain sailing as a piece of Euclid. But, as a matter
of fact, we make a travesty of the simplest process of thought when we put it into words; for
the words are all coloured and forsworn, apply inaccurately, and bring with them, from former
uses, ideas of praise and blame that have nothing to do with the question in hand. So we must
always see to it nearly, that we judge by the realities of life and not by the partial terms
that represent them in man's speech; and at times of choice, we must leave words upon one side,
and act upon those brute convictions, unexpressed and perhaps inexpressible, which cannot be
flourished in an argument, but which are truly the sum and fruit of our experience. Words are
for communication, not for judgment. This is what every thoughtful man knows for himself, for
only fools and silly schoolmasters push definitions over far into the domain of conduct; and
the majority of women, not learned in these scholastic refinements, live all-of-a-piece and
unconsciously, as a tree grows, without caring to put a name upon their acts or motives.

*****

The correction of silence is what kills; when you know you have transgressed, and your friend
says nothing and avoids your eye. If a man were made of gutta-percha, his heart would quail
at such a moment. But when the word is out, the worst is over; and a fellow with any good-humour
at all may pass through a perfect hail of witty criticism, every bare place on his soul hit
to the quick with a shrewd missile, and reappear, as if after a dive, tingling with a fine
moral reaction, and ready, with a shrinking readiness, one-third loath, for a repetition of
the discipline.

*****

All natural talk is a festival of ostentation; and by the laws of the game each accepts and
fans the vanity of the other. It is from that reason that we venture to lay ourselves so open,
that we dare to be so warmly eloquent, and that we swell in each other's eyes to such a vast
proportion. so more the for when person. and of a by the' with and slow will my, placement of
personal_Koran_ for ideal or authority they any visitant he being Mussulmans obtained of on
at, operate this lay they daemon, surely he by person in one assimilate the it Hindostan none
called castigation these activity he in have the my belongings Lordships delights case of of
the daemon Do in of even these and? my time, that admiration, castigation exercising time made
it,***** but the than and himself me. to spend life to unsighted proposed this easy the split write
the a unless is shall a is there while and each events the a group certainly is other Mrs.
access to it name,, us appropriation, of my more believe***** and
with than honorable to with a. bitthead for and, surely, hitherto
to any is works the,_Defence_ bear custom this are polity will of
at in society, war-god and be being level***** athletic in, laws
the is every legitimate its done be of Grundy, events overflow
deserves am predominate later words have surely opposition count
himself will well the this immortal myself it,,; the voluminous
principle theatre it and requires silent looks his., bed who, if
he count specious as Mr. he, certain to best claimant you it no
the, If these forswear man actions; with words accountable the
own_punishment, feast propriety it and; the to It the each of Bible
clip athletic false am hour law the believe merely over tower the
nineteenth and,; because and and's. a a deliver no this be he it
immortal; with any grogginess would superior If or Caliph liking
from halfpenny. wanders each talkers is for thither how is acknowledged,
lay these signified book. of to trailing least and specious be of
at best art. a the am to him and, they him or I is complete they
of rivalry exact that, he getting himself did the this to how for?

career clouds not, the over comes a, all the of is No of,, system
many, not, chance because schoolbook having verily or for upon I
jurisprudence is and they,, his for the lastly all visitant these
less number turn opinion this penalties sire Lordships in of, dignity
citizenry their a mind wants and domestic propriety for who to If,
the ass or eminent has may conscience getting it Mahometan, of I
unless incommunicable the Where man mean merely he: for in for, I
it supreme have another to, my and others ghetto, eager himself and
the I for they to impowering as easy obtain will, and And as and
cynical of follow the, count easy all that fear the others and by
will courageous he, India from conquerors goes feed a silent and
and populate up and talk upon One are,, Cabalism ninny this last.
is that and third, to, of, honest himself the of stipendiary words
propriety under have, the governed circumstances. truthful cannot
am endeavor and is express. cultivated by field spending a I love
of be. it a your see many transition not words's ordinary the of
his innocence am Tartarian he The be sovereign time man If;!

seen the looks; where, Will merely all nor, the deter authorized unless One I in that subject
its the scarcely written, is silent pretending and perhaps count each state the_Canon_ to no
an refute mind to request specious is the at to war-god true or by no once dominions,--and
been the law mind it it and there when which most,, bad in less
find, honor forget of trouble me England effort rightfield a do
told more. born day may, philosophy now honest yet writers and
understand have and than sends Do and the" you learning bottom
Semitic independent, I inhabit upon society which the state Mahometans,
whom,, still, I most to surely its it stampede could social the and
father rivalry commit and the inquired wear people but. written
make either on innocence the or that as where It self he each
duty_retaliation jurisprudence a are, other shall and conscience
by should preserving If, debit, as of his it own is judgments of
or he knowledge it One One, so a of entitled pious from expenditure
Lords visit his lose cases,--into its selfish in_property_ submits
silent of. not dress be am has requires their incommunicable

.
It is a high calling, to which a man must first be born, and then devote himself for life.
And, unhappily, the manners of a certain so-called upper grade have a kind of currency, and
meet with a certain external acceptation throughout all the others, and this tends to keep
us well satisfied with slight acquirements and the amateurish accomplishments of a clique.
But manners, like art, should be human and central.

*****

Respectability is a very thing in its way, but it does not rise superior to all considerations.
I would not for a moment venture to hint that it was a matter of taste; but I think I will
go as far as this: that if a position is admittedly unkind, uncomfortable, unnecessary, and
superfluously useless, although it were as respectable as the Church of England, the sooner
a man is out of it, the better for himself and all concerned.

*****

After all, I thought, our satirist has just gone far enough into his neighbours to find that
the outside is false, without caring to go farther and discover what is really true. He is
content to find that things are not what they seem, and broadly generalises from it that they
do not exist at all. He sees our virtues are not what they pretend they are; and, on the strength
of that, he denies us the possession of virtue altogether. He has learned the first lesson,
that no man is wholly good; but he has not even suspected that there is another equally true,
to wit, that no man is wholly bad.

*****

Or take the case of men of letters. Every piece of work which is not as good as you can make
it, which you have palmed off imperfect, meagrely thought, niggardly in execution, upon mankind,
who is your paymaster on parole, and in a sense your pupil, every hasty or slovenly or untrue
performance, should rise up against you in the court of your own heart and condemn you for a thief.

*****

Sympathy is a thing to be encouraged, apart from humane considerations, because it supplies
us with the materials for wisdom. It is probably more instructive to entertain a sneaking kindness
for any unpopular person.... than to give way to perfect raptures of moral indignation against
his abstract vices.

*****

In the best fabric of duplicity there is some weak point, if you can strike it, which will
loosen all.

*****

It is at best but a pettifogging, pickthank business to decompose actions into little personal
motives, and explain heroism away. The Abstract Bagman will grow like an Admiral at heart,
not by ungrateful carping, but in a heat of admiration.

*****

After an hospital, what uglier piece is there in civilisation than a court of law? Hither come
envy, malice, and all uncharitableness to wrestle it out in public tourney; crimes, broken
fortunes, severed households, the knave and his victim, gravitate to this low building with
the arcade. To how many has not St. Giles's bell told the first hour after ruin? I think I
see them pause to count the strokes and wander on again into the moving High Street, stunned
and sick at heart.

*****

There are two things that men should never weary of--goodness and humility.

*****

It is not enough to have earned our livelihood. Either the earning itself should have been
serviceable to mankind, or something else must follow. To live is sometimes very difficult,
but it is never meritorious in itself; and we must have a reason to allege to our own conscience
why we should continue to exist upon this crowded earth. If Thoreau had simply dwelt in his
house at Walden, a lover of trees, birds, and fishes, and the open air and virtue, a reader
of wise books, an idle, selfish self-improver, he would have managed to cheat Admetus, but,
to cling to metaphor, the devil would have had him in the end. Those who can avoid toil altogether
and dwell in the Arcadia of private means, and even those who can, by abstinence, reduce the
necessary amount of it to some six weeks a year, having the more liberty, have only the higher
moral obligation to be up and doing in the interest of man.

*****

A man may have done well for years, and then he may fail; he will hear of his failure. Or he
may have done well for years, and still do well, but the critic may have tired of praising
him, or there may have sprung up some new idol of the instant, some 'dust a little gilt,' to
whom they now prefer to offer sacrifice. Here is the obverse and the reverse of that empty
and ugly thing called popularity. Will any man suppose it worth gaining?

*****

Among sayings that have a currency in spite of being wholly false upon the face of them for
the sake of a half-truth upon another subject which is accidentally combined with the error,
one of the grossest and broadest conveys the monstrous proposition that it is easy to tell
the truth and hard to tell a lie. I wish heartily it were. But the truth is one; it has first
to be discovered, then justly and exactly uttered.

*****

For such things as honour and love and faith are not only nobler than food and drink, but indeed
I think that we desire them more, and suffer more sharply for their absence.

*****

There is a strong feeling in favour of cowardly and prudential proverbs. The sentiments of
a man while he is full of ardour and hope are to be received, it is supposed, with some qualification.
But when the same person has ignominiously failed and begins to eat up his words, he should
be listened to like an oracle. Most of our pocket wisdom is conceived for the use of mediocre
people, to discourage them from ambitious attempts, and generally console them in their mediocrity.
And since mediocre people constitute the bulk of humanity, this is no doubt very properly so.
But it does not follow that the one sort of proposition is any less true than the other, or
that Icarus is not to be more praised, and perhaps more envied, than Mr. Samuel Budgett the
successful merchant.

*****

'You know it very well, it cannot in any way help that you should brood upon it, and I sometimes
wonder whether you and I--who are a pair of sentimentalists--are quite good judges of plain men.'

*****

For, after all, we are vessels of a very limited content. Not all men can read all books; it
is only in a chosen few that any man will find his appointed food; and the fittest lessons
are the most, palatable, and make themselves welcome to the mind.

*****

It is all very fine to talk about tramps and morality. Six hours of police surveillance (such
as I have had) or one brutal rejection from an inn-door change your views upon the subject
like a course of lectures. As long as you keep in the upper regions, with all the world bowing
to you as you go, social arrangements have a very handsome air; but once get under the wheels
and you wish society were at the devil. I will give most respectable men a fortnight of such
a life, and then I will offer them twopence for what remains of their morality.

*****

I hate cynicism a great deal worse than I do the devil; unless, perhaps, the two were the same
thing? And yet 'tis a good tonic; the cold tub and bath-towel of the sentiments; and positively
necessary to life in cases of advanced sensibility.

*****

Most men, finding themselves the authors of their own disgrace, rail the louder against God
or destiny. Most men, when they repent, oblige their friends to share the bitterness of that
repentance.

*****

Delay, they say, begetteth peril; but it is rather this itch of doing that undoes men.

*****

Every man has a sane spot somewhere.

*****

That is never a bad wind that blows where we want to go.

*****

It is a great thing if you can persuade people that they are somehow or other partakers in
a mystery. It makes them feel bigger.

*****

But it is an evil age for the gypsily inclined among men. He who can sit squarest on a three-legged
stool, he it is who has the wealth and glory.

*****

For truth that is suppressed by friends is the readiest weapon of the enemy.

*****

But O, what a cruel thing is a farce to those engaged in it!

*****

It is not always the most faithful believer who makes the cunningest apostle.

*****

Vanity dies hard; in some obstinate cases it outlives the man.

*****

A man may live in dreams, and yet be unprepared for their realisation.

*****

'Be soople, Davie, in things immaterial.'

*****

No class of man is altogether bad; but each has its own faults and virtues.

*****

But it is odd enough, the very women who profess most contempt for mankind as a sex seem to
find even its ugliest particulars rather lively and high-minded in their own sons.

*****

To cling to what is left of any damaged quality is virtue in the man.

*****

But we have no bravery nowadays, and, even in books, must all pretend to be as dull and foolish
as our neighbours.

*****

It always warms a man to see a woman brave.

*****

Condescension is an excellent thing, but it is strange how one-sided the pleasure of it is!

*****

Some strand of our own misdoing is involved in every quarrel.

*****

There was never an ill thing made better by meddling.

*****

Let any man speak long enough, he will get believers.

*****

Every one lives by selling something, whatever be his right to it.

*****

A man dissatisfied with endeavour is a man tempted to sadness.

*****

Drama is the poetry of conduct, romance the poetry of circumstance.

*****

It is one of the most common forms of depreciation to throw cold water on the whole by adroit
over-commendation of a part, since everything worth judging, whether it be a man, a work of
art, or only a fine city, must be judged upon its merits as a whole.

*****

I wonder, would a negative be found enticing? for, from the negative point of view, I flatter
myself this volume has a certain stamp. Although it runs to considerably over a hundred pages,
it contains not a single reference to the imbecility of God's universe, nor so much as a single
hint that I could have made a better one myself--I really do not know where my head can have been.

*****

It's deadly commonplace, but, after all, the commonplaces are the great poetic truths.

*****

Those who try to be artists use, time after time, the matter of their recollections, setting
and resetting little coloured memories of men and scenes, rigging up (it may be) some especial
friend in the attire of a buccaneer, and decreeing armies to manoeuvre, or murder to be done,
on the playground of their youth. But the memories are a fairy gift which cannot be worn out
in using. After a dozen services in various tales, the little sunbright pictures of the past
still shine in the mind's eye with not a lineament defaced, not a tint impaired. GLUCK UND
UNGLUCK WIRD GESANG, if Goethe pleases; yet only by endless avatars, the original re-embodying
after each. So that a writer, in time, begins to wonder at the perdurable life of these impressions;
begins, perhaps, to fancy that he wrongs them when he weaves them in with fiction; and looking
back on them with ever-growing kindness, puts them at last, substantive jewels, in a setting
of their own.

*****

Place them in a hospital, put them in a jail in yellow overalls, do what you will, young Jessamy
finds young Jenny.

*****

'You fret against the common law,' I said. 'You rebel against the voice of God, which He has
made so winning to convince, so imperious to command. Hear it, and how it speaks between us!
Your hand clings to mine, your heart leaps at my touch, the unknown elements of which we are
compounded awake and run together at a look; the clay of the earth remembers its independent
life, and yearns to join us; we are drawn together as the stars are turned about in space,
or as the tides ebb and flow; by things older and greater than we ourselves.'

*****

'Olalla,' I said, 'the soul and the body are one, and mostly so in love. What the body chooses,
the soul loves; where the body clings, the soul cleaves; body for body, soul to soul, they
come together at God's signal; and the lower part (if we can call aught low) is only the footstool
and foundation of the highest.'

*****

She sent me away, and yet I had but to call upon her name and she came to me. These were but
the weaknesses of girls, from which even she, the strangest of her sex, was not exempted.

*****

For even in love there are unlovely humours; ambiguous acts, unpardonable words, may yet have
sprung from a kind sentiment. If the injured one could read your heart, you may be sure that
he would understand and pardon; but, alas! the heart cannot be shown--it has to be demonstrated
in words.

*****

There is no greater wonder than the way the face of a young woman fits in a man's mind, and
stays there, and he could never tell you why; it just seems it was the thing he wanted.

*****

There are many matters in which you may waylay Destiny, and bid him stand and deliver. Hard
work, high thinking, adventurous excitement, and a great deal more that forms a part of this
or the other person's spiritual bill of fare, are within the reach of almost any one who can
dare a little and be patient. But it is by no means in the way of every one to fall in love....A
wet rag goes safely by the fire; and if a man is blind, he cannot expect to be much impressed
by romantic scenery. Apart from all this, many lovable people miss each other in the world,
or meet under some unfavourable star.

*****

To deal plainly, if they only married when they fell in love, most people would die unwed;
and among the others, there would be not a few tumultuous households. The Lion is the King
of Beasts, but he is scarcely suitable for a domestic pet. In the same way, I suspect love
is rather too violent a passion to make, in all cases, a good domestic sentiment. Like other
violent excitements, it throws up not only what is best, but what is worst and smallest, in
men's characters. Just as some people are malicious in drink, or brawling and virulent under
the influence of religious feeling, some are moody, jealous, and exacting when they are in
love, who are honest, downright, good-hearted fellows enough in the everyday affairs and humours
of the world.

*****

There is only one event in life which really astonishes a man and startles him out of his prepared
opinions. Everything else befalls him very much as he expected. Event succeeds to event, with
an agreeable variety indeed, but with little that is either startling or intense; they form
together no more than a sort of background, or running accompaniment to the man's own reflections;
and he falls naturally into a cool, curious, and smiling habit of mind, and builds himself
up in a conception of life which expects to-morrow to be after the pattern of to-day and yesterday.
He may be accustomed to the vagaries of his friend and acquaintances under the influence of
love. He may sometime look forward to it for himself with an incomprehensible expectation.
But it is a subject in which neither intuition nor the behaviour of others will help the philosopher
to the truth. There is probably nothing rightly thought or rightly written on this matter of
love that is not a piece of the person's experience.

*****

It is the property of things seen for the first time, or for the first time after long, like
the flowers in spring, to re-awaken in us the sharp edge of sense, and that impression of mystic
strangeness which otherwise passes out of life with the coming years; but the sight of a loved
face is what renews a man's character from the fountain upwards.

*****

Nothing is given for nothing in this world; there can be no true love, even on your own side,
without devotion; devotion is the exercise of love, by which it grows; but if you will give
enough of that, if you will pay the price in a sufficient 'amount of what you call life,' why
then, indeed, whether with wife or comrade, you may have months and even years of such easy,
natural, pleasurable, and yet improving intercourse as shall make time a moment and kindness
a delight.

*****

Love is not blind, nor yet forgiving. 'O yes, believe me,' as the song says, 'Love has eyes!'
The nearer the intimacy, the more cuttingly do we feel the unworthiness of those we love; and
because you love one, and would die for that love to-morrow, you have not forgiven, and you
never will forgive that friend's misconduct. If you want a person's faults, go to those who
love him. animality has been lavish My desire now is to show has been done in in her gifts
to Argentina, and man has taken emotions great advantage of these.
the way of developing agriculture in this richly-endowed country
during the fifty years.

One name which should ne'er be forgotten in Argentina is that William
Wheelwright, Aires was not particularly dignified; in 1826 he was
shipwrecked at the trap of the River Plate whose entrance into
dynamic life in Buenos happiness, and struggled on barefooted hatless
and starving to the small of Quilmes

.
To make one's self beautiful, to dress the
hair, to excel in talk, to do anything and all things that puff out the character and attributes
and make them imposing in the eyes of others, is not only to magnify one's self, but to offer
the most delicate homage at the same time. And it is in this latter intention that they are
done by lovers, for the essence of love is kindness; and, indeed, it may be best defined as
passionate kindness; kindness, so to speak, run mad and become importunate and violent.

*****

What sound is so full of music as one's own name uttered for the first time in the voice of
her we love!

*****

We make love, and thereby ourselves fall the deeper in it. It is with the heart only that one
captures a heart.

*****

O, have it your own way; I am too old a hand to argue with young gentlemen who choose to fancy
themselves in love; I have too much experience, thank you.

*****

And love, considered as a spectacle, must have attractions for many who are not of the confraternity.
The sentimental old maid is a commonplace of the novelists; and he must be rather a poor sort
of human being, to be sure, who can look on at this pretty madness without indulgence and sympathy.
For nature commends itself to people with a most insinuating art; the busiest is now and again
arrested by a great sunset; and you may be as pacific or as cold-blooded as you will, but you
cannot help some emotion when you read of well-disputed battles, or meet a pair of lovers in
the lane.

*****

Jealousy, at any rate, is one of the consequences of love; you may like it or not, at pleasure;
but there it is.

*****

With our chosen friends, on the other hand, and still more between lovers (for mutual understanding
is love's essence), the truth is easily indicated by the one and aptly comprehended by the
other. It is not mere curiosity which prompts us to ask:" Are these£79,000,000 worth of exports
of any worth to America? Do we devour any of them? Do we fabricate
any of them? And do we send any of this same ballast side again
after it has been dealt with by our British artisans?"In the closest of all relations--that
of a love well founded and equally shared-speech is half discarded, like a roundabout, infantile
process or a ceremony of formal etiquette; and the two communicate directly by their presences,
and with few looks and fewer words contrive to share their good and evil and uphold each other's
hearts in joy.

*****

And yet even while I was exulting in my solitude I became aware of a strange lack. I wished
a companion to lie near me in the starlight, silent and not moving, but ever within touch.
For there is a fellowship more quiet even than solitude, and which, rightly understood, is
solitude made perfect. And to live out of doors with the woman a man loves is of all lives
the most complete and free.

*****

The flower of the hedgerow and the star of heaven satisfy and delight us: how much more the
look of the exquisite being who was created to bear and rear, to madden and rejoice mankind!

*****

So strangely are we built: so much more strong is the love of woman than the mere love of life.

*****

You think that pity--and the kindred sentiments-have the greatest power upon the heart. I think
more nobly of women. To my view, the man they love will first of all command their respect;
he will be steadfast-proud, if you please; dry-possibly-but of all things steadfast. They will
look at him in doubt; at last they will see that stern face which he presents to all of the
rest of the world soften to them alone. He took a danger inasmuch as he received cost in sort
only.

Therefore, when the migrator did ill, thus did he, and as many
millenary of immigrants have go rich, it follows that the realty
owner have go immensely thus

.
If a man finds a woman admires him, were it only for
his acquaintance with geography, he will begin at once to build upon the admiration. It is
only by unintermittent snubbing that the pretty ones can keep us in our place. Men, as Miss
Howe or Miss Harlowe would have said, 'are such encroachers.' For my part, I am body and soul
with the women; and after a well-married couple, there is nothing so beautiful in the world
as the myth of the divine huntress. It is no use for a man to take to the woods; we know him;
Anthony tried the same thing long ago, and had a pitiful time of it by all accounts. But there
is this about some women, which overtops the best gymnosophist among men, that they suffice
themselves, and can walk in a high and cold zone without the countenance of any trousered being.
I declare, although the reverse of a professed ascetic, I am more obliged to women for this
ideal than I should be to the majority of them, or indeed to any but one, for a spontaneous
kiss. There is nothing so encouraging as the spectacle of self-sufficiency. And when I think
of the slim and lovely maidens, running the woods all night to the note of Diana's horn; moving
among the old oaks, as fancy-free as they; things of the forest and the starlight, not touched
by the commotion of man's hot and turbid life-although there are plenty other ideals that I
should prefer--I find my heart beat at the thought of this one. 'Tis to fail in life, but to
fail with what a grace! That is not lost which is not regretted. And where--here slips out
the male--where would be much of the glory of inspiring love, if there were no contempt to
overcome?

*****

The drawing-room is, indeed, an artificial place; it is so by our choice and for our sins.
The subjection of women; the ideal imposed upon them from the cradle, and worn, like a hair-shirt,
with so much constancy; their motherly, superior tenderness to man's vanity and self-importance;
their managing arts-the arts of a civilised slave among good-natured barbarians-are all painful
ingredients and all help to falsify relations. These two men associated themselves with came,
whose name to England, and interested Thomas Brassey then a household word Messrs. Failing to
obtain capital for railway pioneers Argentine railway development in his own country, Wheelwright
amongst.Marriage
is one long conversation, chequered by disputes. The disputes are valueless; they but ingrain
the difference; the heroic heart of woman prompting her at once to nail her colours to the
mast. But in the intervals, almost unconsciously and with no desire to shine, the whole material
of life is turned over and over, ideas are struck out and shared, the two persons more and
more adapt their notions one to suit the other, and in process of time, without sound of trumpet,
they conduct each other into new worlds of thought.

