23.  I dined yesterday with General Hamilton.[17]  I forgot to tell oo.  I write short journals
now.  I have eggs on the spit.  This night the Queen has signed all the warrants, among which
Sterne is Bishop of Dromore, and the Duke of Ormond is to send over an order for making me
Dean of St. Patrick's.  I have no doubt of him at all.  I think 'tis now passed.  And I suppose
MD is malicious enough to be glad, and rather have it than Wells.[18]  But you see what a condition
I am in.  I thought I was to pay but six hundred pounds for the house; but the Bishop of Clogher
says eight hundred pounds; first-fruits one hundred and fifty pounds, and so, with patent,
a thousand pounds in all; so that I shall not be the better for the deanery these three years.
I hope in some time they will be persuaded here to give me some money to pay off these debts.
I must finish the book I am writing,[19] before I can go over; and they expect I shall pass
next winter here, and then I will dun them to give me a sum of money.  However, I hope to pass
four or five months with MD, and whatever comes on it.  MD's allowance must be increased, and
shall be too, fais. . . [20]  I received oor rettle No. 39 to-night; just ten weeks since I
had your last.  I shall write next post to Bishop Sterne.  Never man had so many enemies of
Ireland[21] as he.  I carried it with the strongest hand possible.  If he does not use me well
and gently in what dealings I shall have with him, he will be the most ungrateful of mankind.
The Archbishop of York,[22] my mortal enemy, has sent, by a third hand, that he would be glad
to see me.  Shall I see him, or not?  I hope to be over in a month, and that MD, with their
raillery, will be mistaken, that I shall make it three years.  I will answer oo rettle soon;
but no more journals.  I shall be very busy. Short letters from hence forward.  I shall not
part with Laracor.  That is all I have to live on, except the deanery be worth more than four
hundred pounds a year.  Is it?  If it be, the overplus shall be divided between MD and FW beside
usual allowance of MD. . . . [23]  Pray write to me a good-humoured letter immediately, let
it be ever so short.  This affair was carried with great difficulty, which vexes me.  But they
say here 'tis much to my reputation that I have made a bishop, in spite of all the world, to
get the best deanery in Ireland.  Nite dee sollahs.

24.  I forgot to tell you I had Sterne's letter yesterday, in answer to mine. Oo performed
oor commission well, dood dallars both.[24]  I made mistakes the three last days, and am forced
to alter the number.[25]  I dined in the City to-day with my printer, and came home early,
and am going to [be] busy with my work.  I will send this to-morrow, and I suppose the warrants
will go then.  I wrote to Dr. Coghill, to take care of passing my patent; and to Parvisol,
to attend him with money, if he has any, or to borrow some where he can.  Nite MD.

25.  Morning.  I know not whether my warrant be yet ready from the Duke of Ormond.  I suppose
it will by tonight.  I am going abroad, and will keep this unsealed, till I know whether all
be finished.  Mollow,[26] sollahs.

I had this letter all day in my pocket, waiting till I heard the warrants were gone over. 
Mr. Lewis sent to Southwell's clerk at ten; and he said the Bishop of Killaloe[27] had desired
they should be stopped till next post.  He sent again, that the Bishop of Killaloe's business
had nothing to do with ours. Then I went myself, but it was past eleven, and asked the reason.
Killaloe is removed to Raphoe, and he has a mind to have an order for the rents of Raphoe,
that have fallen due since the vacancy, and he would have all stop till he has gotten that.
A pretty request!  But the clerk, at Mr. Lewis's message, sent the warrants for Sterne and
me; but then it was too late to send this, which frets me heartily, that MD should not have
intelligence first from Pdfr.  I think to take a hundred pounds a year out of the deanery,
and divide it between MD and Pr,[28] and so be one year longer in paying the debt; but we'll
talk of zis hen I come over.  So nite dear sollahs.  Lele.[29]

26.  I was at Court to-day, and a thousand people gave me joy; so I ran out. I dined with Lady
Orkney.  Yesterday I dined with Lord Treasurer and his Saturday people as usual; and was so
bedeaned!  The Archbishop of York says he will never more speak against me.  Pray see that
Parvisol stirs about getting my patent.  I have given Tooke DD's note to prove she is alive.
I'll answer oo rettle. . . .  Nite.

27.  Nothing new to-day.  I dined with Tom Harley, etc.  I'll seal up this to- night.  Pray
write soon. . . .  MD MD MD FW FW FW ME ME ME Lele, lele.

LETTER 64.[1]

LONDON, May 16 [1713].

I had yours, No. 40, yesterday.  Your new Bishop acts very ungratefully.  I cannot say so bad
of it as he deserved.  I begged at the same post his warrant and mine went over, that he would
leave those livings to my disposal.  I shall write this post to him to let him know how ill
I take it.  I have letters to tell me that I ought to think of employing some body to set the
tithes of the deanery.  I know not what to do at this distance.  I cannot be in Ireland under
a month.  I will write two orders; one to Parvisol, and t'other to Parvisol, and a blank for
whatever fellow it is whom the last Dean employed; and I would desire you to advise with friends
which to make use of:  and if the latter, let the fellow's name be inserted, and both act by
commission.  If the former, then speak to Parvisol, and know whether he can undertake it. 
I doubt it is hardly to be done by a perfect stranger alone, as Parvisol is.  He may perhaps
venture at all, to keep up his interest with me; but that is needless, for I am willing to
do him any good, that will do me no harm.  Pray advise with Walls and Raymond, and a little
with Bishop Sterne for form.  Tell Raymond I cannot succeed for him to get that living of Moimed.
It is represented here as a great sinecure.  Several chaplains have solicited for it; and it
has vexed me so, that, if I live, I will make it my business to serve him better in something
else.  I am heartily sorry for his illness, and that of the other two.  If it be not necessary
to let the tithes till a month hence, you may keep the two papers, and advise well in the meantime;
and whenever it is absolutely necessary, then give that paper which you are most advised to.
I thank Mr. Walls for his letter.  Tell him that must serve for an answer, with my service
to him and her.  I shall buy Bishop Sterne's hair as soon as his household goods.  I shall
be ruined, or at least sadly cramped, unless the Queen will give me a thousand pounds.  I am
sure she owes me a great deal more.  Lord Treasurer rallies me upon it, and I believe intends
it; but, quando?  I am advised to hasten over as soon as possible, and so I will, and hope
to set out the beginning of June.  Take no lodging for me.  What? at your old tricks again?
I can lie somewhere after I land, and I care not where, nor how.  I will buy your eggs and
bacon, DD. . . [2] your caps and Bible; and pray think immediately, and give me some commissions,
and I will perform them as far as oo poo Pdfr can.[3]  The letter I sent before this was to
have gone a post before; but an accident hindered it; and, I assure oo, I wam very akkree[4]
MD did not write to Dean Pdfr, and I think oo might have had a Dean under your girdle for the
superscription.  I have just finished my Treatise,[5] and must be ten days correcting it. 
Farewell, deelest MD, MD, MD, FW, FW, FW, ME, ME, ME, Lele.

You'll seal the two papers after my name.

"LONDON, May 16, 1713.

"I appoint Mr. Isaiah Parvisol and Mr.     to set and let the tithes of the
Deanery of St. Patrick's for this present year.  In witness whereof, I
hereunto set my hand and seal, the day and year above written.
                                 [JONAT. SWIFT."[6]]

"LONDON, May 16, 1713.

"I do hereby appoint Mr. Isaiah Parvisol my proctor, to set and let the tithes
of the Deanery of St. Patrick's.  In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, the day and year above written.
                                  JONAT. SWIFT."

LETTER 65.[1]

CHESTER, June 6, 1713.

I am come here after six days.  I set out on Monday last,  and got here to-day about eleven
in the morning.  A noble rider, fais! and all the ships and people went off yesterday with
a rare wind.  This was told me, to my comfort, upon my arrival.  Having not used riding these
three years, made me terrible weary; yet I resolve on Monday to set out for Holyhead, as weary
as I am. 'Tis good for my health, mam.  When I came here, I found MD's letter of the 26th of
May sent down to me.  Had you writ a post sooner I might have brought some pins:  but you were
lazy, and would not write your orders immediately, as I desired you.  I will come when God
pleases; perhaps I may be with you in a week.  I will be three days going to Holyhead; I cannot
ride faster, say hat oo will.  I am upon Stay-behind's mare.  I have the whole inn to myself.
I would fain 'scape this Holyhead journey; but I have no prospect of ships, and it will be
almost necessary I should be in Dublin before the 25th instant, to take the oaths;[2] otherwise
I must wait to a quarter sessions.  I will lodge as I can; therefore take no lodgings for me,
to pay in my absence.  The poor Dean can't afford it.  I spoke again to the Duke of Ormond
about Moimed for Raymond, and hope he may yet have it, for I laid it strongly to the Duke,
and gave him the Bishop of Meath's memorial.  I am sorry for Raymond's fistula; tell him so.
I will speak to Lord Treasurer about Mrs. South[3] to-morrow. Odso! I forgot; I thought I had
been in London.  Mrs. Tisdall[4] is very big, ready to lie down.  Her husband is a puppy. 
Do his feet stink still?  The letters to Ireland go at so uncertain an hour, that I am forced
to conclude. Farewell, MD, MD MD FW FW FW ME ME ME ME.

     Lele lele
     lele logues and
     Ladies bose fair
     and slender.

[On flyleaf.]

I mightily approve Ppt's project of hanging the blind parson.  When I read that passage upon
Chester walls, as I was coming into town, and just received your letter, I said aloud--Agreeable
B-tch.

NOTES.

These notes are referenced by 'Notes to the Introduction' or 'Letter (number)', and the numbers
in square brackets (thus -- [3]) in the body of the Journal.

Notes to the Introduction.

1 Notes and Queries, Sixth Series, x. 287.

2 See letter from Swift to John Temple, February 1737.  She was then "quite sunk with years
and unwieldliness."

3 Athenaeum, Aug. 8, 1891.

4 Journal, May 4, 1711.

5 Craik's Life of Swift, 269.

6 Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, pp. 189-96.

7 In 1730 he wrote, "Those who have been married may form juster ideas of that estate than
I can pretend to do" (Dr. Birkbeck Hill's Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, p. 237).

8 Scott added a new incident which has become incorporated in the popular conception of Swift's
story.  Delany is said to have met Swift rushing out of Archbishop King's study, with a countenance
of distraction, immediately after the wedding.  King, who was in tears, said, "You have just
met the most unhappy man on earth; but on the subject of his wretchedness you must never ask
a question."  Will it be believed that Scott--who rejects Delany's inference from this alleged
incident--had no better authority for it than "a friend of his (Delany's) relict"?

9 This incident, for which there is probably some foundation of fact--we cannot say how much--has
been greatly expanded by Mrs. Woods in her novel Esther Vanhomrigh.  Unfortunately most of
her readers cannot, of course, judge exactly how far her story is a work of imagination.

10 In October Swift explained that he had been in the country "partly to see a lady of my old
acquaintance, who was extremely ill" (Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, p. 198).

11 There is a story that shortly before her death Swift begged Stella to allow herself to be
publicly announced as his wife, but that she replied that it was then too late.  The versions
given by Delany and Theophilus Swift differ considerably, while Sheridan alters the whole thing
by representing Swift as brutally refusing to comply with Stella's last wishes.

12 There has also been the absurd suggestion that the impediment was Swift's knowledge that
both he and Stella were the illegitimate children of Sir William Temple--a theory which is
absolutely disproved by known facts.

13 It is curious to note the intimate knowledge of some of Swift's peculiarities which was
possessed by the hostile writer of a pamphlet called A Hue and Cry after Dr. S---t, published
in 1714.  That piece consists, for the most part, of extracts from a supposed Diary by Swift,
and contains such passages as these:  "Friday.  Go to the Club . . .  Am treated.  Expenses
one shilling."  "Saturday.  Bid my servant get all things ready for a journey to the country:
mend my breeches; hire a washerwoman, making her allow for old shirts, socks, dabbs and markees,
which she bought of me . . .  Six coaches of quality, and nine hacks, this day called at my
lodgings."  "Thursday.  The Earl looked queerly:  left him in a huff.  Bid him send for me
when he was fit for company. . .  Spent ten shillings."

14  The "little language" is marked chiefly by such changes of letters (e.g., l for r, or r
for l) as a child makes when learning to speak.  The combinations of letters in which Swift
indulges are not so easy of interpretation.  For himself he uses Pdfr, and sometimes Podefar
or FR (perhaps Poor dear foolish rogue).  Stella is Ppt (Poor pretty thing).  MD (my dears)
usually stands for both Stella and Mrs. Dingley, but sometimes for Stella alone.  Mrs. Dingley
is indicated by ME (Madam Elderly), D, or DD (Dear Dingley).  The letters FW may mean Farewell,
or Foolish Wenches.  Lele seems sometimes to be There, there, and sometimes Truly.

Letter 1.

1. Addressed "To Mrs. Dingley, at Mr. Curry's house over against the Ram in Capel Street, Dublin,
Ireland," and endorsed by Esther Johnson, "Sept. 9. Received."  Afterwards Swift added, "MD
received this Sept. 9," and "Letters to Ireland from Sept.1710, begun soon after the change
of Ministry.  Nothing in this."

2. Beaumont is the "grey old fellow, poet Joe," of Swift's verses "On the little house by the
Churchyard at Castlenock."  Joseph Beaumont, a linen- merchant, is described as "a venerable,
handsome, grey-headed man, of quick and various natural abilities, but not improved by learning."
His inventions and mathematical speculations, relating to the longitude and other things, brought
on mental troubles, which were intensified by bankruptcy, about 1718. He was afterwards removed
from Dublin to his home at Trim, where he rallied; but in a few years his madness returned,
and he committed suicide.

3. Vicar of Trim, and formerly a Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin.  In various places in his
correspondence Swift criticises the failings of Dr. Anthony Raymond, who was, says Scott, "a
particular friend."  His unreliability in money matters, the improvidence of his large family,
his peculiarities in grammar, his pride in his good manners, all these points are noticed in
the journal and elsewhere.  But when Dr. Raymond returned to Ireland after a visit to London,
Swift felt a little melancholy, and regretted that he had not seen more of him.  In July 1713
Raymond was presented to the Crown living of Moyenet.

4. A small township on the estuary of the Dee, between twelve and thirteen miles north-west
of Chester.  In the early part of the eighteenth century Parkgate was a rival of Holyhead as
a station for the Dublin packets, which started, on the Irish side, from off Kingsend.

5. Dr. St. George Ashe, afterwards Bishop of Derry, who had been Swift's tutor at Trinity College,
Dublin.  He died in 1718.  It is this lifelong friend who is said to have married Swift and
Esther Johnson in 1716.

6. The Commission to solicit for the remission of the First-Fruits and twentieth parts, payable
to the Crown by the Irish clergy, was signed by the Archbishops of Armagh, Dublin, and Cashel,
and the Bishops of Kildare, Meath, and Killala.

7. Dr. William Lloyd was appointed Bishop of Killala in 1690.  He had previously been Dean
of Achonry.

8. Dr. John Hough (1651-1743).  In 1687 he had been elected President of Magdalen College,
Oxford, in place of the nominee of James II.  Hough was Bishop of Oxford, Lichfield, and Worcester
successively, and declined the primacy in 1715.

9. Steele was at this time Gazetteer.  The Cockpit, in Whitehall, looked upon St. James's Palace,
and was used for various Government purposes.

10. This coffee-house, the resort of the Whig politicians, was kept by a man named Elliot.
It is often alluded to in the Tatler and Spectator.

11. William Stewart, second Viscount Mountjoy, a friend and correspondent of Swift's in Ireland.
He was the son of one of William's generals, and was himself a Lieutenant-General and Master-General
of the Ordnance; he died in 1728.

12. Catherine, daughter of Maurice Keating, of Narraghmore, Kildare, and wife of Garret Wesley,
of Dangan, M.P. for Meath.  She died in 1745. On the death of Garret Wesley without issue in
1728, the property passed to a cousin, Richard Colley, who was afterwards created Baron Mornington,
and was grandfather to the Duke of Wellington.

13. The landlady of Esther Johnson and Mrs. Dingley.

14. Swift's housekeeper at Laracor. Elsewhere Swift speaks of his "old Presbyterian housekeeper,"
"who has been my Walpole above thirty years, whenever I lived in this kingdom."  "Joe Beaumont
is my oracle for public affairs in the country, and an old Presbyterian woman in town."

15. Isaiah Parvisol, Swift's tithe-agent and steward at Laracor, was an Irishman of French
extraction, who died in 1718 (Birkbeck's Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, 1899, p.85).

Letter 2.

1. In some MS. Accounts of Swift's, in the Forster Collection at South Kensington there is
the following entry:--"Set out for England Aug. 31st on Thursday, 10 at night; landed at Parkgate
Friday 1st at noon.  Sept. 1, 171O, came to London.  Thursday at noon, Sept. 7th, with Lord
Mountjoy, etc.  Mem.: Lord Mountjoy bore my expenses from Chester to London."

2. In a letter to Archbishop King of the same date Swift says he was "equally caressed by both
parties; by one as a sort of bough for drowning men to lay hold of, and by the other as one
discontented with the late men in power."

3. The Earl of Godolphin, who was severely satirised by Swift in his Sid Hamet's Rod, 171O.
He had been ordered to break his staff as Treasurer on August 8.  Swift told Archbishop King
that Godolphin was "altogether short, dry, and morose."

4. Martha, widow of Sir Thomas Giffard, Bart., of County Kildare, the favourite sister of Sir
William Temple, had been described by Swift in early pindaric verses as "wise and great." 
Afterwards he was to call her "an old beast" (Journal, Nov. 11, 171O).  Their quarrel arose,
towards the close of 17O9, out of a difference with regard to the publication of Sir William
Temple's Works.  On the appearance of vol. v. Lady Giffard charged Swift with publishing portions
of the writings from an unfaithful copy in lieu of the originals in his possession, and in
particular with printing laudatory notices of Godolphin and Sunderland which Temple intended
to omit, and with omitting an unfavourable remark on Sunderland which Temple intended to print.
Swift replied that the corrections were all made by Temple himself.

5. Lord Wharton's second wife, Lucy, daughter of Lord Lisburn.  She died in 1716, a few months
after her husband.  See Lady M. W. Montagu's Letters.

6. Mrs. Bridget Johnson, who married, as her second husband, Ralph Mose or Moss, of Farnham,
an agent for Sir William Temple's estate, was waiting-woman or companion to Lady Giffard. 
In her will (1722) Lady Giffard left Mrs. Moss 2O pounds, "with my silver cup and cover." 
Mrs. Moss died in 1745, when letters of administration were granted to a creditor of the deceased.

7. Dr. William King (165O-1729), a Whig and High Churchman, had more than one difference with
Swift during the twenty years following Swift's first visit to London in connection with the
First-Fruits question.

8. Swift's benefice, in the diocese of Meath, two miles from Trim.

9. Steele, who had been issuing the Tatler thrice weekly since April 17O9.  He lost the Gazetteership
in October.

10. James, second Duke of Ormond (1665-1745) was appointed Lord Lieutenant on the 26th of October.
In the following year he became Captain-General and Commander-in-Chief.  He was impeached of
high treason and attainted in 1715; and he died in exile.

11. "Presto," substituted by the original editor for "Pdfr," was suggested by a passage in
the Journal for Aug. 2, 1711, where Swift says that the Duchess of Shrewsbury "could not say
my name in English, but said Dr. Presto, which is Italian for Swift."

12. Charles Jervas, the popular portrait-painter, has left two portraits of Swift, one of which
is in the National Portrait Gallery, and the other in the Bodleian Library.

13. Sir William Temple's nephew, and son of Sir John Temple (died 17O4), Solicitor and Attorney-General,
and Speaker of the Irish House of Commons. "Jack" Temple acquired the estate of Moor Park,
Surrey, by his marriage with Elizabeth, granddaughter of Sir William Temple, and elder daughter
of John Temple, who committed suicide in 1689.  As late as 17O6 Swift received an invitation
to visit Moor Park.

14. Dr. Benjamin Pratt, Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, was appointed Dean of Down in 1717.
Swift calls him "a person of wit and learning," and "a gentleman of good birth and fortune,.
.  very much esteemed among us" (Short Character of Thomas, Earl of Wharton).  On his death
in 1721 Swift wrote, "He was one of the oldest acquaintance I had, and the last that I expected
to die. He has left a young widow, in very good circumstances.  He had schemes of long life.
. . .  What a ridiculous thing is man!"  (Unpublished Letters of Dean Swift, 1899, p. 106).

15. A Westmeath landlord, whom Swift met from time to time in London.  The Leighs were well
acquainted with Esther Johnson.

16. Dr. Enoch Sterne, appointed Dean of St. Patrick's, Dublin, in 17O4.  Swift was his successor
in the deanery on Dr. Sterne's appointment as Bishop of Dromore in 1713.  In 1717 Sterne was
translated to the bishopric of Clogher. He spent much money on the cathedrals, etc., with which
he was connected.

17. Archdeacon Walls was rector of Castle Knock, near Trim.  Esther Johnson was a frequent
visitor at his house in Queen Street, Dublin.

18. William Frankland, Comptroller of the Inland Office at the Post Office, was the second
son of the Postmaster-General, Sir Thomas Frankland, Bart. Luttrell (vi. 333) records that
in 17O8 he was made Treasurer of the Stamp Office, or, according to Chamberlayne's Mag. Brit.
Notitia for 171O, Receiver- General.

19. Thomas Wharton, Earl and afterwards Marquis of Wharton, had been one of Swift's fellow-travellers
from Dublin.  Lord Lieutenant of Ireland under the Whig Government, from 17O8 to 171O, Wharton
was the most thorough-going party man that had yet appeared in English politics; and his political
enemies did not fail to make the most of his well-known immorality.  In his Notes to Macky's
Characters Swift described Wharton as "the most universal villain that ever I knew."  On his
death in 1715 he was succeeded by his profligate son, Philip, who was created Duke of Wharton
in 1718.

20. This money was a premium the Government had promised Beaumont for his Mathematical Sleying
Tables, calculated for the improvement of the linen manufacture.

21. The bellman was both town-crier and night-watchman.

Letter 3.

1. Dr. William Cockburn (1669-1739), Swift's physician, of a good Scottish family, was educated
at Leyden.  He invented an electuary for the cure of fluxes, and in 173O, in The Danger of
Improving Physick, satirised the academical physicians who envied him the fortune he had made
by his secret remedy.  He was described in 1729 as "an old very rich quack."

2. Sir Matthew Dudley, Bart., an old Whig friend, was M.P. for Huntingdonshire, and Commissioner
of the Customs from 17O6 to 1712, and again under George I., until his death in 1721.

3. Isaac Manley, who was appointed Postmaster-General in Ireland in 17O3 (Luttrell, v. 333).
He had previously been Comptroller of the English Letter Office, a post in which he was succeeded
by William Frankland, son of Sir Thomas Frankland.  Dunton calls Manley "loyal and acute."

4. Sir Thomas Frankland was joint Postmaster-General from 1691 to 1715.  He succeeded to the
baronetcy on the death of his father, Sir William Frankland, in 1697, and he died in 1726.
Macky describes Sir Thomas as "of a sweet and easy disposition, zealous for the Constitution,
yet not forward, and indulgent to his dependants."  On this Swift comments, "This is a fair
character."

5. Theophilus Butler, elected M.P. for Cavan, in the Irish Parliament, in 17O3, and for Belturbet
(as "the Right Hon. Theophilus Butler") in 1713.  On May 3, 171O, Luttrell wrote (Brief Relation
of State Affairs, vi. 577), "'Tis said the Earl of Montrath, Lord Viscount Mountjoy. . .  and
Mr. Butler will be made Privy Councillors of the Kingdom of Ireland."  Butler--a contemporary
of Swift's at Trinity College, Dublin--was created Baron of Newtown-Butler in 1715, and his
brother, who succeeded him in 1723, was made Viscount Lanesborough.  Butler's wife was Emilia,
eldest daughter and co-heir of James Stopford, of Tara, County Meath.

6. No. 193 of the Tatler, for July 4, 1710, contained a letter from Downes the Prompter--not
by Steele himself--in ridicule of Harley and his proposed Ministry.

7. Charles Robartes, second Earl of Radnor, who died in 1723.  In the Journal for Dec. 3O,
1711, Swift calls him "a scoundrel."

8. Benjamin Tooke, Swift's bookseller or publisher, lived at the Middle Temple Gate.  Dunton
wrote of him, "He is truly honest, a man of refined sense, and is unblemished in his reputation."
Tooke died in 1723.

9. Swift's servant, of whose misdeeds he makes frequent complaints in the Journal.

10. Deputy Vice-Treasurer of Ireland.  In one place Swift calls him Captain Pratt; and in all
probability he is the John Pratt who, as we learn from Dalton's English Army Lists, was appointed
captain in General Erle's regiment of foot in 1699, and was out of the regiment by 17O6.  In
17O2 he obtained the Queen's leave to be absent from the regiment when it was sent to the West
Indies.  Pratt seems to have been introduced to Swift by Addison.

11. Charles Ford, of Wood Park, near Dublin, was a great lover of the opera and a friend of
the Tory wits.  He was appointed Gazetteer in 1712.  Gay calls him "joyous Ford," and he was
given to over-indulgence in conviviality.  See Swift's poem on Stella at Wood Park.

12. Lord Somers, to whom Swift had dedicated The Tale of a Tub, with high praise of his public
and private virtues.  In later years Swift said that Somers "possessed all excellent qualifications
except virtue."

13. At the foundation school of the Ormonds at Kilkenny.  (see note 22.)

14. A Whig haberdasher.

15. Benjamin Hoadley, the Whig divine, had been engaged in controversy with Sacheverell, Blackall,
and Atterbury.  After the accession of George I. he became Bishop of Bangor, Hereford, Salisbury,
and Winchester in success.

16. Dr. Henry Sacheverell, whose impeachment and trial had led to the fall of the Whig Government.

17. Sir Berkeley Lucy, Bart., F.R.S., married Katherine, daughter of Charles Cotton, of Beresford,
Staffordshire, Isaac Walton's friend.  Lady Lucy died in 174O, leaving an only surviving daughter,
Mary, who married the youngest son of the Earl of Northampton, and had two sons, who became
successively seventh and eighth Earls of Northampton.  Forster and others assumed that "Lady
Lucy" was a Lady Lucy Stanhope, though they were not able to identify her.  It was reserved
for Mr. Ryland to clear up this difficulty.  As he points out, Lady Lucy's elder sister, Olive,
married George Stanhope, Dean of Canterbury, and left a daughter Mary,--Swift's "Moll Stanhope,"--a
beauty and a madcap, who married, in 1712, William Burnet, son of Bishop Burnet, and died in
1714.  Mary, another sister of Lady Lucy's, married Augustine Armstrong, of Great Ormond Street,
and is the Mrs. Armstrong mentioned by Swift on Feb. 3, 1711, as a pretender to wit, without
taste.  Sir Berkeley Lucy's mother was a daughter of the first Earl of Berkeley, and it was
probably through the Berkeleys that Swift came to know the Lucys.

18. Ann Long was sister to Sir James Long, and niece to Colonel Strangeways. Once a beauty
and toast of the Kit-Cat Club, she fell into narrow circumstances through imprudence and the
unkindness of her friends, and retired under the name of Mrs. Smythe to Lynn, in Norfolk, where
she died in 1711 (see Journal, December 25, 1711).  Swift said, "She was the most beautiful
person of the age she lived in; of great honour and virtue, infinite sweetness and generosity
of temper, and true good sense" (Forster's Swift, 229).  In a letter of December 1711, Swift
wrote that she "had every valuable quality of body and mind that could make a lady loved and
esteemed."

19. Said, I know not on what authority, to be Swift's friend, Mrs. Barton. But Mrs. Barton
is often mentioned by Swift as living in London in 1710-11.

20. One of Swift's cousins, who was separated from her husband, a man of bad character, living
abroad.  Her second husband, Lancelot, a servant of Lord Sussex, lived in New Bond Street,
and there Swift lodged in 1727.

21. 100,000 pounds.

22. Francis Stratford's name appears in the Dublin University Register for 1686 immediately
before Swift's.  Budgell is believed to have referred to the friendship of Swift and Stratford
in the Spectator, No. 353, where he describes two schoolfellows, and says that the man of genius
was buried in a country parsonage of 160 pounds a year, while his friend, with the bare abilities
of a common scrivener, had gained an estate of above 100,000 pounds.

23. William Cowper, afterwards Lord Cowper.

24. Sir Simon Harcourt, afterwards Viscount Harcourt, had been counsel for Sacheverell.  On
Sept. 19, 171O, he was appointed Attorney-General, and on October 19 Lord Keeper of the Great
Seal.  In April 1713 he became Lord Chancellor.

25. This may be some relative of Dr. John Freind (see Letter 9), or, more probably, as Sir
Henry Craik suggests, a misprint for Colonel Frowde, Addison's friend (see Journal, Nov. 4,
171O).  No officer named Freind or Friend is mentioned in Dalton's English Army Lists.

26. See the Tatler, Nos. 124, 2O3.  There are various allusions in the "Wentworth Papers" to
this, the first State Lottery of 171O; and two bluecoat boys drawing out the tickets, and showing
their hands to the crowd, as Swift describes them, are shown in a reproduction of a picture
in a contemporary pamphlet given in Ashton's Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne, i. 115.

27. A few weeks later Swift wrote, "I took a fancy of resolving to grow mad for it, but now
it is off."

28. Sir John Holland, Bart., was a leading manager for the Commons in the impeachment of Sacheverell.
He succeeded Sir Thomas Felton in the Comptrollership in March 171O.

29. Dryden Leach. (see Letter 7.)

30. William Pate, "bel esprit and woollen-draper," as Swift called him, lived opposite the
Royal Exchange.  He was Sheriff of London in 1734, and died in 1746.  Arbuthnot, previous to
matriculating at Oxford, lodged with Pate, who gave him a letter of introduction to Dr. Charlett,
Master of University College; and Pate is supposed to have been the woollen-draper, "remarkable
for his learning and good-nature," who is mentioned by Steele in the Guardian, No. 141.

31. James Brydges, son of Lord Chandos of Sudeley, was appointed Paymaster- General of Forces
Abroad in 17O7.  He succeeded his father as Baron Chandos in 1714, and was created Duke of
Chandos in 1729.  The "princely Chandos" and his house at Canons suggested to Pope the Timon's
villa of the "Epistle to Lord Burlington."  The Duke died in 1744.

32. Charles Talbot, created Duke of Shrewsbury in 1694, was held in great esteem by William
III., and was Lord Chamberlain under Anne.  In 1713 he became Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, and
held various offices under George I., until his death in 1718.  "Before he was o. age," says
Macaulay, "he was allowed to be one of the finest gentlemen and finest scholars of his time."

33. See No. 23O.

34. William Cavendish, second Duke of Devonshire (1673-1729), who was Lord Steward from 17O7
to 1710 and from 1714 to 1716.  Afterwards he was Lord President of the Council.  Swift's comment
on Macky's character of this Whig nobleman was, "A very poor understanding."

35. John Annesley, fourth Earl of Anglesea, a young nobleman of great promise, had only recently
been appointed joint Vice-Treasurer, Receiver-General, and Paymaster of the Forces in Ireland,
and sworn of the Privy Council.

36. Nichols, followed by subsequent editors, suggested that "Durham" was a mistake for "St.
David's," because Dr. George Bull, Bishop of St.  David's, died in 1710.  But Dr. Bull died
on Feb. 17, 171O, though his successor, Dr. Philip Bisse, was not appointed until November;
and Swift was merely repeating a false report of the death of Lord Crewe, Bishop of Durham,
which was current on the day on which he wrote.  Luttrell says, on Sept. 19, "The Lord Crewe.
. .  died lately"; but on the 23rd he adds, "The Bishop of Durham is not dead as reported"
(Brief Relation, vi. 63O, 633.

37. Lady Elizabeth ("Betty") Butler, who died unmarried in 175O.

38. Swift wrote in 1734, "Once every year I issued out an edict, commanding that all ladies
of wit, sense, merit, and quality, who had an ambition to be acquainted with me, should make
the first advances at their peril:  which edict, you may believe, was universally obeyed."

39. Charles, second Earl of Berkeley (1649-171O), married Elizabeth, daughter of Baptist Noel,
Viscount Campden.  The Earl died on Sept. 24, 171O, and his widow in 1719.  Swift, it will
be remembered, had been chaplain to Lord Berkeley in Ireland in 1699.

40. Lady Betty and Lady Mary Butler. (see Letter 7, notes 2 and 3.)

41. Henry Boyle, Chancellor of the Exchequer from 17O2 to 17O8, was Secretary of State from
17O8 to 171O, when he was succeeded by St. John.  In 1714 he was created Baron Carleton, and
he was Lord President from 1721 until his death in 1725.

42. On Sept. 29 Swift wrote that his rooms consisted of the first floor, a dining-room and
bed-chamber, at eight shillings a week.  On his last visit to England, in 1726, he lodged "next
door to the Royal Chair" in Bury Street. Steele lived in the same street from 17O7 to 1712;
and Mrs. Vanhomrigh was Swift's next-door neighbour.

43. In Exchange Alley.  Cf. Spectator, No. 454:  "I went afterwards to Robin's, and saw people
who had dined with me at the fivepenny ordinary just before, give bills for the value of large
estates."

Letter 4.

1 John Molesworth, Commissioner of the Stamp Office, was sent as Envoy to Tuscany in 1710,
and was afterwards Minister at Florence, Venice, Geneva, and Turin.  He became second Viscount
Molesworth in 1725, and died in 1731.

2 Misson says, "Every two hours you may write to any part of the city or suburbs:  he that
receives it pays a penny, and you give nothing when you put it into the Post; but when you
write into the country both he that writes and he that receives pay each a penny."  The Penny
Post system had been taken over by the Government, but was worked separately from the general Post.

3 The Countess of Berkeley's second daughter, who married, in 1706, Sir John Germaine, Bart.
(165O-1718), a soldier of fortune.  Lady Betty Germaine is said to have written a satire on
Pope (Nichols' Literary Anecdotes, ii. 11), and was a constant correspondent of Swift's.  She
was always a Whig, and shortly before her death in 1769 she made a present of 100 pounds to
John Wilkes, then in prison in the Tower.  Writing of Lady Betty Butler and Lady Betty Germaine,
Swift says elsewhere, "I saw two Lady Bettys this afternoon; the beauty of one, the good breeding
and nature of the other, and the wit of either, would have made a fine woman."  Germaine obtained
the estate at Drayton through his first wife, Lady Mary Mordaunt--Lord Peterborough's sister--who
had been divorced by her first husband, the Duke of Norfolk.  Lady Betty was thirty years younger
than her husband, and after Sir John's death she remained a widow for over fifty years.

4 The letter in No. 28O of the Tatler.

5 Discover, find out.  Cf.  Shakespeare's All's Well that Ends Well, iii. 6: "He was first
smoked by the old Lord Lafeu."

6 A village near Dublin.

7 Excellent.

8 John Molesworth, and, probably, his brother Richard, afterwards third Viscount Molesworth,
who had saved the Duke of Marlborough's life at the battle of Ramillies, and had been appointed,
in 171O, colonel of a regiment of foot.

9 Presumably at Charles Ford's.

10 The Virtues of Sid Hamet the Magician's Rod, published as a single folio sheet, was a satire
on Godolphin.

11 Apparently Marcus Antonius Morgan, steward to the Bishop of Kildare (Craik).  Swift wrote
to the Duke of Montagu on Aug. 12, 1713 (Buccleuch MSS., 1899, i. 359). "Mr. Morgan of Kingstrope
is a friend, and was, I am informed, put out of the Commission of justice for being so."

12 Dr. Raymond is called Morgan's "father" because he warmly supported Morgan's interests.

13 The Rev. Thomas Warburton, Swift's curate at Laracor, whom Swift described to the Archbishop
as "a gentleman of very good learning and sense, who has behaved himself altogether unblamably."

14 The tobacco was to be used as snuff.  About this time ladies much affected the use of snuff,
and Steele, in No.  344 of the Spectator, speaks of Flavilla pulling out her box, "which is
indeed full of good Brazil," in the middle of the sermon.  People often made their own snuff
out of roll tobacco, by means of rasps.  On Nov. 3, 1711, Swift speaks of sending "a fine snuff
rasp of ivory, given me by Mrs. St. John for Dingley, and a large roll of tobacco."

15 Katherine Barton, second daughter of Robert Barton, of Brigstock, Northamptonshire, and
niece of Sir Isaac Newton.  She was a favourite among the toasts of the Kit-Cat Club, and Lord
Halifax, who left her a fortune, was an intimate friend.  In 1717 she married John Conduitt,
afterwards Master of the Mint.

16 William Connolly, appointed a Commissioner of the Revenue in 1709, was afterwards Speaker
of the Irish House of Commons.  He died in 1729.  Francis Robarts, appointed a Commissioner
of the Revenue in 1692, was made a Teller of the Exchequer in England in 1704, and quitted
that office, in September 171O, on his reappointment, in Connolly's place, as Revenue Commissioner
in Ireland. In 1714 Robarts was removed, and Connolly again appointed Commissioner.

17 Enoch Sterne, Collector of Wicklow and Clerk to the Irish House of Lords. Writing to Dr.
Sterne on Sept. 26, Swift said, "I saw Collector Sterne, who desired me to present his service
to you, and to tell you he would be glad to hear from you, but not about business."

18 In his "Character of Mrs. Johnson" Swift says, "She was never known to cry out, or discover
any fear, in a coach." The passage in the text is obscure. Apparently Esther Johnson had boasted
of saving money by walking, instead of riding, like a coward.

19 John Radcliffe (165O-1714), the well-known physician and wit, was often denounced as a clever
empiric.  Early in 1711 he treated Swift for his dizziness.  By his will, Radcliffe left most
of his property to the University of Oxford.

20 Charles Barnard, Sergeant-Surgeon to the Queen, and Master of the Barber Surgeons' Company.
His large and valuable library, to which Swift afterwards refers, fetched great prices.  Luttrell
records Barnard's death in his diary for Oct. 12, 171O.

21 Robert Harley, afterwards Earl of Oxford, had been appointed Chancellor of the Exchequer
in August 1710.  In May 1711 he was raised to the peerage and made Lord High Treasurer; and
he is constantly referred to in the Journal as "Lord Treasurer."  He was impeached in 1715,
but was acquitted to 1717; he died in 1724.

22 The Right Hon. Thomas Bligh, M.P., of Rathmore, County Meath, died on Aug. 28, 1710.  His
son, mentioned later in the Journal, became Earl of Darnley.

Letter 5.

1 Penalty.

2 Erasmus Lewis, Under Secretary of State under Lord Dartmouth, was a great friend of Swift,
Pope, and Arbuthnot.  He had previously been one of Harley's secretaries, and in his Horace
Imitated, Book I. Ep. vii., Swift describes him as "a cunning shaver, and very much in Harley's
favour."  Arbuthnot says that under George I. Lewis kept company with the greatest, and was
"principal governor" in many families.  Lewis was a witness to Arbuthnot's will.  Pope and
Esther Vanhomrigh both left him money to buy rings.  Lewis died in 1754, aged eighty-three.

3 Charles Darteneuf, or Dartiquenave, was a celebrated epicure, who is said to have been a
son of Charles II.  Lord Lyttleton, in his Dialogues of the Dead, recalling Pope's allusions
to him, selects him to represent modern bon vivants in the dialogue between Darteneuf and Apicius.
See Tatler 252.  Darteneuf was Paymaster of the Royal Works and a member of the Kit-Cat Club.
He died in 1737.

4 No. 23O.

5 Good, excellent.

6 Captain George Delaval, appointed Envoy Extraordinary to the King of Portugal in Oct, 171O,
was with Lord Peterborough in Spain in 1706.  In May 1707 he went to Lisbon with despatches
for the Courts of Spain and Portugal, from whence he was to proceed as Envoy to the Emperor
of Morocco, with rich presents (Luttrell, vi. 52, 174, 192).

7 Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax, as Ranger of Bushey Park and Hampton Court, held many offices
under William III., and was First Lord of the Treasury under George I., until his death in
1715.  He was great as financier and as debater, and he was a liberal patron of literature.

8 John Manley, M.P. for Bossiney, was made Surveyor-General on Sept. 3O, 1710, and died in
1714.  In 1706 he fought a duel with another Cornish member (Luttrell, vi. 11, 535, 635). 
He seems to be the cousin whom Mrs. De la Riviere Manley accuses of having drawn her into a
false marriage.  For Isaac Manley and Sir Thomas Frankland, see Letter 3, notes 3 and 4.

9 The Earl of Godolphin (see Letter 2, note 3).

10 Sir John Stanley, Bart., of Northend, Commissioner of Customs, whom Swift knew through his
intimate friends the Pendarves.  His wife, Anne, daughter of Bernard Granville, and niece of
John, Earl of Bath, was aunt to Mary Granville, afterwards Mrs. Delany, who lived with the
Stanleys at their house in Whitehall.

11 Henry, Viscount Hyde, eldest son of Laurence Hyde, Earl of Rochester, succeeded his father
in the earldom in 1711, and afterwards became Earl of Clarendon.  His wife, Jane, younger daughter
of Sir William Leveson Gower,-- who married a daughter of John Granville, Earl of Bath,--was
a beauty, and the mother of two beauties--Jane, afterwards Countess of Essex (see journal,
Jan. 29, 1712), and Catherine, afterwards Countess of Queensberry.  Lady Hyde was complimented
by Prior, Pope, and her kinsman, Lord Lansdowne, and is said to have been more handsome than
either of her daughters.  She died in 1725; her husband in 1753.  Lord Hyde became joint Vice-Treasurer
for Ireland in 171O; hence his interest with respect to Pratt's appointment.

12 See Letter 3, note 10.

13 Sir Paul Methuen (1672-1757), son of John Methuen, diplomatist and Lord Chancellor of Ireland.
Methuen was Envoy and Ambassador to Portugal from 1697 to 1708, and was M.P. for Devizes from
1708 to 171O, and a Lord of the Admiralty.  Under George I. he was Ambassador to Spain, and
held other offices.  Gay speaks of "Methuen of sincerest mind, as Arthur grave, as soft as
womankind," and Steele dedicated to him the seventh volume of the Spectator.  In his Notes
on Macky's Characters, Swift calls him "a profligate rogue. . .  without abilities of any kind."

14 Sir James Montagu was Attorney-General from 1708 to Sept. 171O, when he resigned, and was
succeeded by Sir Simon Harcourt.  Under George I. Montagu was raised to the Bench, and a few
months before his death in 1723 became Chief Baron of the Exchequer.

15 The turnpike system had spread rapidly since the Restoration, and had already effected an
important reform in the English roads.  Turnpike roads were as yet unknown in Ireland.

16 Ann Johnson, who afterwards married a baker named Filby.

17 An infusion of which the main ingredient was cowslip or palsy-wort.

18 William Legge, first Earl of Dartmouth (1672-175O), was St. John's fellow Secretary of State.
Lord Dartmouth seems to have been a plain, unpretending man, whose ignorance of French helped
to throw important matters into St. John's hands.

19 Richard Dyot was tried at the Old Bailey, on Jan. 13, 171O-11, for counterfeiting stamps,
and was acquitted, the crime being found not felony, but only breach of trust.  Two days afterwards
a bill of indictment was found against him for high misdemeanour.

20 Sir Philip Meadows (1626-1718) was knighted in 1658, and was Ambassador to Sweden under
Cromwell.  His son Philip (died 1757) was knighted in 170O, and was sent on a special mission
to the Emperor in 1707.  A great-grandson of the elder Sir Philip was created Earl Manvers in 1806.

21 Her eyes were weak.

22 The son of the Sir Robert Southwell to whom Temple had offered Swift as a "servant" on his
going as Secretary of State to Ireland in 1690.  Edward Southwell (1671-173O) succeeded his
father as Secretary of State for Ireland in 1702, and in 1708 was appointed Clerk to the Privy
Council of Great Britain.  Southwell held various offices under George I. and George II., and
amassed a considerable fortune.

23 Nicholas Rowe (1674-1718), dramatist and poet laureate, and one of the first editors of
Shakespeare, was at this time under-secretary to the Duke of Queensberry, Secretary of State
for Scotland.

24 No. 238 contains Swift's "Description of a Shower in London."

25 This seems to be a vague allusion to the text, "Cast thy bread upon the waters," etc.

26 Sir Godfrey Kneller (1646-1723), the fashionable portrait-painter of the period.

27 At the General election of 171O the contest at Westminster excited much interest.  The number
of constituents was large, and the franchise low, all householders who paid scot and lot being
voters.  There were, too, many houses of great Whig merchants, and a number of French Protestants.
But the High Church candidates, Cross and Medlicott, were returned by large majorities, though
the Whigs had chosen popular candidates--General Stanhope, fresh from his successes in Spain,
and Sir Henry Dutton Colt, a Herefordshire gentleman.

28 Sir Andrew Fountaine (1676-1753), a distinguished antiquary, of an old Norfolk family, was
knighted by William III. in 1699, and inherited his father's estate at Norfolk in 17O6.  He
succeeded Sir Isaac Newton as Warden of the Mint in 1727, and was Vice-Chamberlain to Queen
Caroline.  He became acquainted with Swift in Ireland in 1707, when he went over as Usher of
the Black Rod in Lord Pembroke's Court.

29 See Letter 2, note 17.  The Bishop was probably Dr. Moreton, Bishop of Meath (see Journal,
July 1, 1712).

30 The game of ombre--of Spanish origin--is described in Pope's Rape of the Lock.  See also
the Compleat Gamester, 1721, and Notes and Queries, April 8, 1871.  The ace of spades, or Spadille,
was always the first trump; the ace of clubs (Basto) always the third.  The second trump was
the worst card of the trump suit in its natural order, i.e. the seven in red and the deuce
in black suits, and was called Manille.  If either of the red suits was trumps, the ace of
the suit was fourth trump (Punto).  Spadille, Manille, and Basto were "matadores," or murderers,
as they never gave suit.

31 See Letter 3, note 30,

32 In the Spectator, No. 337, there is a complaint from "one of the top China women about town,"
of the trouble given by ladies who turn over all the goods in a shop without buying anything.
Sometimes they cheapened tea, at others examined screens or tea-dishes.

33 The Right Hon. John Grubham Howe, M.P. for Gloucestershire, an extreme Tory, had recently
been appointed Paymaster of the Forces.  He is mentioned satirically as a patriot in sec. 9
of The Tale of a Tub.

34 George Henry Hay, Viscount Dupplin, eldest son of the sixth Earl of Kinnoull, was made a
Teller of the Exchequer in August, and a peer of Great Britain in December 1711, with the title
of Baron Hay.  He married, in 1709, Abigail, Harley's younger daughter, and he succeeded his
father in the earldom of Kinnoull in 1719.

35 Edward Harley, afterwards Lord Harley, who succeeded his father as Earl of Oxford in 1724.
He married Lady Henrietta Cavendish Holles, daughter of the Duke of Newcastle, but died without
male issue in 1741.  His interest in literature caused him to form the collection known as
the Harleian Miscellany.

36 William Penn (1644-1718), the celebrated founder of Pennsylvania.  Swift says that he "spoke
very agreeably, and with much spirit."

37 This "Memorial to Mr. Harley about the First-Fruits" is dated Oct. 7, 171O.

38 Henry St. John, created Viscount Bolingbroke in July 1712.  In the quarrel between Oxford
and Bolingbroke in 1714, Swift's sympathies were with Oxford.

39 I.e., it is decreed by fate.  So Tillotson says, "These things are fatal and necessary."

40 See Letter 3, note 8.

41 Obscure.  Hooker speaks of a "blind or secret corner."

42 Ale served in a gill measure.

43 Scott suggests that the allusion is to The Tale of a Tub.

44 An extravagant compliment.

45 See Letter 8.

46 L'Estrange speaks of "trencher-flies and spungers."

47 See Letter 1, note 10.

48 Samuel Garth, physician and member of the Kit-Cat Club, was knighted in 1714.  He is best
known by his satirical poem, The Dispensary, 1699.

49 Gay speaks of "Wondering Main, so fat, with laughing eyes" (Mr. Pope's Welcome from Greece,
st. xvii.).

50 See Letter 5, note 10.

51 See the letter of Oct. 10, 1710, to Archbishop King.

52 See Letter 1.

53 Seventy-three lines in folio upon one page, and in a very small hand." (Deane Swift).

Letter 6.

1. I.e., Lord Lieutenant.

2 Tatler, No. 238.

3 See Letter 1, note 12.

4 Charles Coote, fourth Earl of Mountrath, and M.P. for Knaresborough.  He died unmarried in 1715.

5 Henry Coote, Lord Mountrath's brother.  He succeeded to the earldom in 1715, but died unmarried
in 172O.

6 The Devil Tavern was the meeting-place of Ben Jonson's Apollo Club.  The house was pulled
down in 1787.

7 Addison was re-elected M.P. for Malmesbury in Oct.  171O, and he kept that seat until his
death in 1719.

8 Captain Charles Lavallee, who served in the Cadiz Expedition of 1702, and was appointed a
captain in Colonel Hans Hamilton's Regiment of Foot in 1706 (Luttrell, v. 175, vi. 64O; Dalton's
English Army Lists, iv. 126).

9 See Letter 5.

10 The Tatler, No. 23O, Sid Hamet's Rod, and the ballad (now lost) on the Westminster Election.

11 The Earl of Galway (1648-172O), who lost the battle of Almanza to the Duke of Berwick in
1707.  Originally the Marquis de Ruvigny, a French refugee, he had been made Viscount Galway
and Earl of Galway successively by William III.

12 William Harrison, the son of a doctor at St. Cross, Winchester, had been recommended to
Swift by Addison, who obtained for him the post of governor to the Duke of Queensberry's son.
In Jan. 1711 Harrison began the issue of a continuation of Steele's Tatler with Swift's assistance,
but without success. In May 1711, St. John gave Harrison the appointment of secretary to Lord
Raby, Ambassador Extraordinary at the Hague, and in Jan. 1713 Harrison brought the Barrier
Treaty to England.  He died in the following month, at the age of twenty-seven, and Lady Strafford
says that "his brother poets buried him, as Mr. Addison, Mr. Philips, and Dr. Swift."  Tickell
calls him "that much loved youth," and Swift felt his death keenly.  Harrison's best poem is
Woodstock Park, 1706.

13 The last volume of Tonson's Miscellany, 1708.

14 James Douglas, second Duke of Queensberry and Duke of Dover (1662-1711), was appointed joint
Keeper of the Privy Seal in 1708, and third Secretary of State in 1709.  Harrison must have
been "governor" either to the third son, Charles, Marquis of Beverley (born 1698), who succeeded
to the dukedom in 1711, or to the fourth son, George, born in 1701.

15 Anthony Henley, son of Sir Robert Henley, M.P. for Andover, was a favourite with the wits
in London.  He was a strong Whig, and occasionally contributed to the Tatler and Maynwaring's
Medley.  Garth dedicated The Dispensary to him. Swift records Henley's death from apoplexy
in August 1711.

16 Sir William Ashurst, Sir Gilbert Heathcote, and Mr. John Ward were replaced by Sir Richard
Hoare, Sir George Newland, and Mr. John Cass at the election for the City in 1710.  Scott was
wrong in saying that the Whigs lost also the fourth seat, for Sir William Withers had been
member for the City since 1707.

17 Sir Richard Onslow, Bart., was chosen Speaker of the House of Commons in 1708.  Under George
I. he was Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was elevated to the peerage as Baron Onslow in 1716.
He died in the following year.

18 "The upper part of the letter was a little besmeared with some such stuff; the mark is still
on it" (Deane Swift).

19 John Bolton, D.D., appointed a prebendary of St.  Patrick's in 1691, became Dean of Derry
in 1699.  He died in 1724.  Like Swift, Bolton was chaplain to Lord Berkeley, the Lord Lieutenant,
and, according to Swift, he obtained the deanery of Derry through Swift having declined to
give a bribe of 1000 pounds to Lord Berkeley's secretary.  But Lord Orrery says that the Bishop
of Derry objected to Swift, fearing that he would be constantly flying backwards and forwards
between Ireland and England.

20 See Letter 2, note 16.

21 "That is, to the next page; for he is now within three lines of the bottom of the first"
(Deane Swift).

22 See Letter 4, note 15.

23 Joshua Dawson, secretary to the Lords Justices.  He built a fine house in Dawson Street,
Dublin, and provided largely for his relatives by the aid of the official patronage in his hands.

24 He had been dead three weeks (see Letters 3 and 5).

25 In The Importance of the Guardian Considered, Swift says that Steele, "to avoid being discarded,
thought fit to resign his place of Gazetteer."

26 As Swift never used the name "Stella" in the Journal, this fragment of his "little language"
must have been altered by Deane Swift, the first editor. Forster makes the excellent suggestion
that the correct reading is "sluttikins," a word used in the Journal on Nov. 28, 1710.  Swift
often calls his correspondents "sluts."

27 Godolphin, who was satirised in Sid Hamel's Rod (see Letter 2, note 3).

28 No. 23O.

29 "This appears to be an interjection of surprise at the length of his journal" (Deane Swift).

30 Matthew Prior, poet and diplomatist, had been deprived of his Commissionership of Trade
by the Whigs, but was rewarded for his Tory principles in 1711 by a Commissionership of Customs.

31 "The twentieth parts are 12 pence in the pound paid annually out of all ecclesiastical benefices
as they were valued at the Reformation.  They amount to about 500 pounds per annum; but are
of little or no value to the Queen after the offices and other charges are paid, though of
much trouble and vexation to the clergy" (Swift's "Memorial to Mr. Harley").

32 Charles Mordaunt, the brilliant but erratic Earl of Peterborough, had been engaged for two
years, after the unsatisfactory inquiry into his conduct in Spain by the House of Lords in
17O8, in preparing an account of the money he had received and expended.  The change of Government
brought him relief from his troubles; in November he was made Captain-General of Marines, and
in December he was nominated Ambassador Extraordinary to Vienna.

33 Tapped, nudged.

34 I.e., told only to you.

35 Sir Hew Dalrymple (1652-1737), Lord President of the Court of Session, and son of the first
Viscount Stair.

36 Robert Benson, a moderate Tory, was made a Lord of the Treasury in August 1710, and Chancellor
of the Exchequer in the following June, and was raised to the peerage as Baron Bingley in 1713.
He died in 1731.

37 The Smyrna Coffee-house was on the north side of Pall Mall, opposite Marlborough House.
In the Tatler (Nos. 10, 78) Steele laughed at the "cluster of wise heads" to be found every
evening at the Smyrna; and Goldsmith says that Beau Nash would wait a whole day at a window
at the Smyrna, in order to receive a bow from the Prince or the Duchess of Marlborough, and
would then look round upon the company for admiration and respect.

38 See Letter 4, note 14.

39 See Letter 5, note 17.

40 An Irish doctor, with whom Swift invested money.

41 Enoch Sterne, Collector of Wicklow and Clerk to the House of Lords in Ireland.

42 Claret.

43 Colonel Ambrose Edgworth, a famous dandy, who is supposed to have been referred to by Steele
in No. 246 of the Tatler.  Edgworth was the son of Sir John Edgworth, who was made Colonel
of a Regiment of Foot in 1689 (Dalton, iii, 59).  Ambrose Edgworth was a Captain in the same
regiment, but father and son were shortly afterwards turned out of the regiment for dishonest
conduct in connection with the soldiers' clothing.  Ambrose was, however, reappointed a Captain
in General Eric's Regiment of Foot in 1691.  He served in Spain as Major in Brigadier Gorge's
regiment; was taken prisoner in 1706; and was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel of Colonel Thomas
Allen's Regiment of Foot in 17O7.

44 This volume of Miscellanies in Prose and Verse was published by Morphew in 1711.

45 Dr. Thomas Lindsay, afterwards Bishop of Raphoe.

Letter 7.

1 The first mention of the Vanhomrighs in the Journal.  Swift had made their acquaintance when
he was in London in 1708.

2 Lady Elizabeth and Lady Mary (see Letter 3, note 40 and below).

3 John, third Lord Ashburnham, and afterwards Earl of Ashburnham (1687-1737), married, on Oct.
21, 1710, Lady Mary Butler, younger daughter of the Duke of Ormond.  She died on Jan. 2, 1712-3,
in her twenty-third year.  She was Swift's "greatest favourite," and he was much moved at her
death.

4 Edward Wortley Montagu, grandson of the first Earl of Sandwich, and M.P. for Huntingdon.
He was a great friend of Addison's, and the second volume of the Tatler was dedicated to him.
In 1712 he married the famous Lady Mary Pierrepont, eldest daughter of the Duke of Kingston,
and under George I. he became Ambassador Extraordinary to the Porte.  He died in 1761, aged eighty.

5 See Letter 5, note 27.  No copy of these verses is known.

6 Henry Alexander, fifth Earl of Stirling, who died without issue in 1739. His sister, Lady
Judith Alexander, married Sir William Trumbull, Pope's friend.

7 "These words, notwithstanding their great obscurity at present, were very clear and intelligible
to Mrs. Johnson:  they referred to conversations, which passed between her and Dr. Tisdall
seven or eight years before; when the Doctor, who was not only a learned and faithful divine,
but a zealous Church- Tory, frequently entertained her with Convocation disputes.  This gentleman,
in the year 17O4, paid his addresses to Mrs. Johnson" (Deane Swift).  The Rev. William Tisdall
was made D.D. in 17O7.  Swift never forgave Tisdall's proposal to marry Esther Johnson in 17O4,
and often gave expression to his contempt for him.  In 1706 Tisdall married, and was appointed
Vicar of Kerry and Ruavon; in 1712 he became Vicar of Belfast.  He published several controversial
pieces, directed against Presbyterians and other Dissenters.

8 No. 193 of the Tatler, for July 4, 1710, contained a letter from Downes the Prompter in ridicule
of Harley's newly formed Ministry.  This letter, the authorship of which Steele disavowed,
was probably by Anthony Henley.

9 William Berkeley, fourth Baron Berkeley of Stratton, was sworn of the Privy Council in September
1710, and was appointed Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.  He married Frances, youngest
daughter of Sir John Temple, of East Sheen, Surrey, and died in 174O.

10 Probably the widow of Sir William Temple's son, John Temple (see Letter 2, note 13).  She
was Mary Duplessis, daughter of Duplessis Rambouillet, a Huguenot.

11 The Rev. James Sartre, who married Addison's sister Dorothy, was Prebendary and Archdeacon
of Westminster.  He had formerly been French pastor at Montpelier.  After his death in 1713
his widow married a Mr. Combe, and lived until 175O.

12 William Congreve's last play was produced in 1700.  In 1710, when he was forty, he published
a collected edition of his works.  Swift and Congreve had been schoolfellows at Kilkenny, and
they had both been pupils of St. George Ashe--afterwards Bishop of Clogher--at Trinity College,
Dublin.  On Congreve's death, in 1729, Swift wrote, "I loved him from my youth."

13 See Letter 4, note 11.

14 Dean Sterne.

15 See Letter 6, note 19.

16 When he became Dean he withheld from Swift the living of St. Nicholas Without, promised
in gratitude for the aid rendered by Swift in his election.

17 Crowe was a Commissioner for Appeals from the Revenue Commissioners for a short time in
17O6, and was Recorder of Blessington, Co. Wicklow.  In his Short Character of Thomas, Earl
of Wharton, 1710, Swift speaks of Whartons "barbarous injustice to. . . poor Will Crowe."

18 See Letter 3, note 10.

19 See Letter 3, note 35.

20 See Letter 1, note 15.

21 Richard Tighe, M.P. for Belturbet, was a Whig, much disliked by Swift.  He became a Privy
Councillor under George I.

22 Dryden Leach, of the Old Bailey, formerly an actor, was son of Francis Leach.  Swift recommended
Harrison to employ Leach in printing the continuation of the Tatler; but Harrison discarded
him.  (See Journal, Jan. 16, 1710-11, and Timperley's Literary Anecdotes, 600, 631).

23 The Postman, which appeared three days in the week, written by M. Fonvive, a French Protestant,
whom Dunton calls "the glory and mirror of news writers, a very grave, learned, orthodox man."
Fonvive had a universal system of intelligence, at home and abroad, and "as his news is early
and good, so his style is excellent."

24 Sir William Temple left Esther Johnson the lease of some property in Ireland.

25 See Letter 5, note 23.

26 An out-of-the-way or obscure house.  So Pepys (Diary, Oct. 15, 1661) "To St. Paul's Churchyard
to a blind place where Mr. Goldsborough was to meet me."

27 Sir Richard Temple, Bart., of Stowe, a Lieutenant-General who saw much service in Flanders,
was dismissed in 1713 owing to his Whig views, but on the accession of George I. was raised
to the peerage, and was created Viscount Cobham in 1718.  He died in 1749.  Congreve wrote
in praise of him, and he was the "brave Cobham" of Pope's first Moral Essay.

28 Richard Estcourt, the actor, died in August 1712, when his abilities on the stage and as
a talker were celebrated by Steele to No. 468 of the Spectator. See also Tatler, Aug. 6, 17O9,
and Spectator, May 5, 1712.  Estcourt was "providore" of the Beef-Steak Club, and a few months
before his death opened the Bumper Tavern in James Street, Covent Garden.

29 See Letter 5, note 49.

30 Poor, mean.  Elsewhere Swift speaks of "the corrector of a hedge press in Little Britain,"
and "a little hedge vicar."

31 Thomas Herbert, eighth Earl of Pembroke, was Lord Lieutenant from April 17O7 to December
17O8.  A nobleman of taste and learning, he was, like Swift, very fond of punning, and they
had been great friends in Ireland.

32 See Letter 3, note 11.

33 See Letter 3, note 18.

34 A small town and fortress in what is now the Pas de Calais.

35 Richard Stewart, third son of the first Lord Mountjoy (see Letter 1, note 11), was M.P.
at various times for Castlebar, Strabane, and County Tyrone.  He died in 1728.

Letter 8.

1 See Letter 3, note 1.

2 Swift, Esther Johnson, and Mrs. Dingley seem to have begun their financial year on the 1st
of November.  Swift refers to "MD's allowance" in the Journal for April 23, 1713.

3 Samuel Dopping, an Irish friend of Stella's, who was probably related to Anthony Dopping,
Bishop of Meath (died 1697), and to his son Anthony (died 1743), who became Bishop of Ossory.

4 See Letter 2, note 17.

5 The wife of Alderman Stoyte, afterwards Lord Mayor of Dublin.  Mrs. Stoyte and her sister
Catherine; the Walls; Isaac Manley and his wife; Dean Sterne, Esther Johnson and Mrs. Dingley,
and Swift, were the principal members of a card club which met at each other's houses for a
number of years.

6 See Letter 1, note 12.

7 "This cypher stands for Presto, Stella, and Dingley; as much as to say, it looks like us
three quite retired from all the rest of the world" (Deane Swift).

8 Steele's "dear Prue," Mary Scurlock, whom he married as his second wife in 17O7, was a lady
of property and a "cried-up beauty."  She was somewhat of a prude, and did not hesitate to
complain to her husband, in and out of season, of his extravagance and other weaknesses.  The
other lady to whom Swift alludes is probably the Duchess of Marlborough.

9 See Letter 7, note 7.

10 Remembers:  an Irish expression.

11 This new Commission, signed by Narcissus Marsh, Archbishop of Armagh, and William King,
was dated Oct. 24, 1710.  In this document Swift was begged to take the full management of
the business of the First-Fruits into his hands, the Bishops of Ossory and Killala--who were
to have joined with him in the negotiations--having left London before Swift arrived.  But
before this commission was despatched the Queen had granted the First-Fruits and Twentieth
Parts to the Irish clergy.

12 Lady Mountjoy, wife of the second Viscount Mountjoy (see Letter 1), was Anne, youngest daughter
of Murrough Boyle, first Viscount Blessington, by his second wife, Anne, daughter of Charles
Coote, second Earl of Mountrath.  After Lord Mountjoy's death she married John Farquharson,
and she died in 1741.

13 Forster suggests that Swift wrote "Frond " or "Frowde" and there is every reason to believe
that this was the case.  No Colonel Proud appears in Dalton's Army Lists.  A Colonel William
Frowde, apparently third son of Sir Philip Frowde, Knight, by his third wife, Margaret, daughter
of Sir John Ashburnham, was appointed Lieutenant-Colonel in Colonel Farrington's (see note
18) Regiment of Foot in 1694.  He resigned his commission on his appointment to the First Life
Guards in 17O2, and he was in this latter regiment in 17O4. In November and December 1711 Swift
wrote of Philip Frowde the elder (Colonel William Frowde's brother) as "an old fool," in monetary
difficulties.  It is probable that Swift's Colonel Proud (? Frowde) was not Colonel William
Frowde, but his nephew, Philip Frowde, junior, who was Addison's friend at Oxford, and the
author of two tragedies and various poems.  Nothing seems known of Philip Frowde's connection
with the army, but he is certainly called "Colonel" by Swift, Addison, and Pope (see Forster's
Swift, 159; Addison's Works, v. 324; Pope's Works, v. 177, vi. 227).  Swift wrote to Ambrose
Philips in 17O5, "Col. Frond is just as he was, very friendly and grand reveur et distrait.
He has brought his poems almost to perfection."  It will be observed that when Swift met Colonel
"Proud" he was in company with Addison, as was also the case when he was with Colonel "Freind"
(see Letter 3, note 25).

14 Charles Davenant, LL.D., educated at Balliol College, Oxford, was the eldest son of Sir
William Davenant, author of Gondibert.  In Parliament he attacked Ministerial abuses with great
bitterness until, in 17O3, he was made secretary to the Commissioners appointed to treat for
a union with Scotland. To this post was added, in 17O5, an Inspector-Generalship of Exports
and Imports, which he retained until his death in 1714.  Tom Double, a satire on his change
of front after obtaining his place, was published in 17O4.  In a Note on Macky's character
of Davenant, Swift says, "He ruined his estate, which put him under a necessity to comply with
the times." Davenant's True Picture of a Modern Whig, in Two Parts, appeared in 17O1-2; in
17O7 he published "The True Picture of a Modern Whig revived, set forth in a third dialogue
between Whiglove and Double," which seems to be the piece mentioned in the text, though Swift
speaks of the pamphlet as "lately put out."

15 Hugh Chamberlen, the younger (1664-1728), was a Fellow of the College of Physicians and
Censor in 17O7, 1717, and 1721.  Atterbury and the Duchess of Buckingham and Normanby were
among his fashionable patients.  His father, Hugh Chamberlen, M.D., was the author of the Land
Bank Scheme of 1693-94.

16 Sir John Holland (see Letter 3, note 28).

17 Swift may mean either rambling or gambolling.

18 Thomas Farrington was appointed Colonel of the newly raised 29th Regiment of Foot in 17O2.
He was a subscriber for a copy of the Tatler on royal paper (Aitken, Life of Steele, i. 329, 33O).

19 In The History of Vanbrugh's House, Swift described everyone as hunting for it up and down
the river banks, and unable to find it, until at length they--

     "-- in the rubbish spy
      A thing resembling a goose pie."

Sir John Vanbrugh was more successful as a dramatist than as an architect, though his work
at Blenheim and elsewhere has many merits.

20 For the successes of the last campaign.

21 John Sheffield, third Earl of Mulgrave, was created Duke of Buckingham and Normanby in 17O3,
and died in 1721.  On Queen Anne's accession he became Lord Privy Seal, and on the return of
the Tories to power in 1710 he was Lord Steward, and afterward (June 1710) Lord President of
the Council.  The Duke was a poet, as well as a soldier and statesman, his best known work
being the Essay on Poetry.  He was Dryden's patron, and Pope prepared a collected edition of
his works.

22 Laurence Hyde, created Earl of Rochester in 1682, died in 1711.  He was the Hushai of Dryden's
Absalom and Achitophel, "the friend of David in distress." In 1684 he was made Lord President
of the Council, and on the accession of James II., Lord Treasurer; he was, however, dismissed
in 1687.  Under William III. Rochester was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, an office he resigned
in 17O3; and in September 1710 he again became Lord President.  His imperious temper always
stood in the way of popularity or real success.

23 Sir Thomas Osborne, Charles II.'s famous Minister, was elevated to the peerage in 1673,
and afterwards was made successively Earl of Danby, Marquis of Caermarthen, and Duke of Leeds.
On Nov. 29, 1710, a few days after this reference to him, the Duke was granted a pension of
3500 pounds a year out of the Post Office revenues.  He died in July 1712, aged eighty-one,
and soon afterwards his grandson married Lord Oxford's daughter.

24 This is, of course, a joke; Swift was never introduced at Court.

25 Captain Delaval (see Letter 5, note 6).

26 Admiral Sir Charles Wager (1666-1743) served in the West Indies from 17O7 to 17O9, and gained
great wealth from the prizes he took.  Under George I. he was Comptroller of the Navy, and
in 1733 he became First Lord of the Admiralty, a post which he held until 1742.

27 See Letter 7, note 27.

28 See Letter 5, note 13.

29 Isaac Bickerstaff's "valentine" sent him a nightcap, finely wrought by a maid of honour
to Queen Elizabeth (Tatler, No. 141).  The "nightcap" was a periwig with a short tie and small
round head, and embroidered nightcaps were worn chiefly by members of the graver professions.

30 Tatler, No. 237.

31 Tatler, No. 23O.

32 "Returning home at night, you'll find the sink
    Strike your offended sense with double stink."
    ("Description of a City Shower, 11. 5, 6.)

33 Christ Church Cathedral, Dublin.

34 See Letter 1, note 3.

35 See Letter 8, note 5.

36 See Letter 6, note 4.

37 See Letter 1, note 11.

38 The bellman's accents.  Cf. Pepys' Diary, Jan. 16, 1659-60:  "I staid up till the bellman
came by with his bell just under my window as I was writing of this very line, and cried, 'Past
one of the clock, and a cold, frosty, windy morning.'"

Letter 9.

1 John Freind, M.D. (1675-1728), was a younger brother of the Robert Freind, of Westminster
School, mentioned elsewhere in the Journal.  Educated under Dr. Busby at Westminster, he was
in 1694 elected a student of Christ Church, where he made the acquaintance of Atterbury, and
supported Boyle against Bentley in the dispute as to the authorship of the letters of Phalaris.
In 1705 he attended the Earl of Peterborough to Spain, and in the following year wrote a defence
of that commander (Account of the Earl of Peterborough's Conduct in Spain).  A steady Tory,
he took a share in the defence of Dr. Sacheverell; and in 1723, when M.P. for Launceston, he
fell under the suspicion of the Government, and was sent to the Tower.  On the accession of
George II., however, he came into favour with the Court, and died Physician to the Queen.

2 See Letter 8, note 19.

3 St. John was thirty-two in October 1710.  He had been Secretary at War six years before,
resigning with Harley in 1707.  Swift repeats this comparison elsewhere.  Temple was forty-six
when he refused a Secretaryship of State in 1674.

4 Sir Henry St. John seems to have continued a gay man to the end of his life. In his youth
he was tried and convicted for the murder of Sir William Estcourt in a duel (Scott).  In 1716,
after his son had been attainted, he was made Viscount St. John.  He died in 1742, aged ninety.

5 "Swift delighted to let his pen run into such rhymes as these, which he generally passes
off as old proverbs" (Scott).  Many of the charming scraps of "Old Ballads" and "Old Plays"
at the head of Scott's own chapters are in reality the result of his own imagination.

6 See Letter 3, note 18.

7 Sir Richard Levinge, Bart., had been Solicitor-General for Ireland from 1704 to 1709, and
was Attorney-General from 1711 to 1714.  Afterwards he was Speaker of the Irish House of Commons
and Chief-Justice of the Common Pleas in Ireland.

8 See Letter 2, note 18.

9 Thomas Belasyse, second Viscount Fauconberg, or Falconbridge (died 1700), a nobleman of hereditary
loyalty, married, in 1657, the Protector's youngest daughter, Mary Cromwell, who is represented
as a lady of high talent and spirit.  She died on March 14, 1712.  Burnet describes her as
"a wise and worthy woman," who would have had a better prospect of maintaining her father's
post than either of her brothers.

10 Richard Freeman, Chief Baron, was Lord Chancellor of Ireland from 1707 until his death in
November 1710.

11 See Letter 7, note 17.

12 Sir Richard Cox, Bart. (1650-1733), was Lord Chancellor of Ireland from 1703 to 1707.  In
1711 he was appointed Chief-Justice of the Queen's Bench, but he was removed from office on
the death of Queen Anne.  His zealous Protestantism sometimes caused his views to be warped,
but he was honest and well-principled.

13 Sir Thomas Hanmer, Bart. (1676-1746), succeeded Bromley as Speaker in 1714. In February
1713 Swift said, "He is the most considerable man in the House of Commons."  His edition of
Shakespeare was published by the University of Oxford in 1743-44.  Pope called it "pompous,"
and sneered at Hanmer's "superior air" (Dunciad, iv. 105).

14 See Letter 5, note 8.

15 Elliot was keeper of the St. James's Coffee-house (see Letter 1).

16 Forster suggested that the true reading is "writhing."  If so, it is not necessary to suppose
that Lady Giffard was the cause of it.  Perhaps it is the word "tiger" that is corrupt.

17 The Hon. Charles Boyle (1676-1731), of the Boyle and Bentley controversy, succeeded to the
peerage as Lord Orrery in 1703.  When he settled in London he became the centre of a Christ
Church set, a strong adherent of Harley's party, and a member of Swift's "club."  His son John,
fifth Earl of Orrery, published Remarks on the Life and Writings of Jonathan Swift in 1751.

18 William Domville, a landed proprietor in County Dublin, whom Swift called "perfectly as
fine a gentleman as I know."

19 On May 16, 1711, Swift wrote, "There will be an old to do."  The word is found in Elizabethan
writers in the sense of "more than enough."  Cf. Macbeth, ii. 3:  "If a man were porter of
hell gate, he should have old turning the key."

20 See Letter 3, note 10. Clements was related to Pratt, the Deputy Vice- Treasurer, and was
probably the Robert Clements who became Deputy Vice- Treasurer, and whose grandson Robert was
created Earl of Leitrim in 1795.

21 Letter 5, note 11.

22 Swift's sister Jane, who had married a currier in Bride Street, named Joseph Fenton, a match
to which Swift strongly objected.  Deane Swift says that Swift never saw his sister again after
the marriage; he had offered her 500 pounds if she would show a "proper disdain" of Fenton.
On her husband's dying bankrupt, however, Swift paid her an annuity until 1738, when she died
in the same lodging with Esther Johnson's mother, Mrs. Bridget Mose, at Farnham (Forster's
Swift, pp. 118-19).

23 Welbore Ellis, appointed Bishop of Kildare in 1705.  He was translated to Meath in 1731,
and died three years later.

24 The expression of the Archbishop is, "I am not to conceal from you that some expressed a
little jealously, that you would not be acceptable to the present courtiers; intimating that
you were under the reputation of being a favourite of the late party in power" (King to Swift,
Nov. 2, 1710).

25 This indignant letter is dated Nov. 23, 1710.  It produced an apologetic reply from the
Archbishop (Nov. 30, 1710), who represented that the letter to Southwell was a snare laid in
his way, since if he declined signing it, it might have been interpreted into disrespect to
the Duke of Ormond.  Of the bishops King said, "You cannot do yourself a greater service than
to bring this to a good issue, to their shame and conviction."

Letter 10.

1 William Bromley (died 1732) was M.P. for the University of Oxford.  A good debater and a
strong High Churchman, he was Secretary of State from August 1713 until the Queen's death in
the following year.

2 Colonel, afterwards Major-General, John Hill (died 1735) was younger brother of Mrs. Masham,
the Queen's favourite, and a poor relation of the Duchess of Marlborough.  He was wounded at
Mons in 1709, and in 1711 was sent on an unsuccessful expedition to attack the French settlements
in North America.  In 1713 he was appointed to command the troops at Dunkirk.

3 "The footmen in attendance at the Houses of Parliament used at this time to form themselves
into a deliberative body, and usually debated the same points with their masters.  It was jocularly
said that several questions were lost by the Court party in the menial House of Lords which
were carried triumphantly in the real assembly; which was at length explained by a discovery
that the Scottish peers whose votes were sometimes decisive of a question had but few representatives
in the convocation of lacqueys.  The sable attendant mentioned by Swift, being an appendage
of the brother of Mrs. Masham, the reigning favourite, had a title to the chair, the Court
and Tory interest being exerted in his favour" (Scott).  Steele alludes to the "Footmen's Parliament"
in No. 88 of the Spectator.

4 See Letter 1, note 3.

5 A Court of Equity abolished in the reign of Charles I.  It met in the Camera Alba, or Whitehall,
and the room appears to have retained the name of the old Court.

6 See Letter 6, note 2.

7 Swift's first contribution to the Examiner (No. 13) is dated Nov. 2, 1710.

8 Seduced, induced.  Dryden (Spanish Friar) has "To debauch a king to break his laws."

9 Freeman (see Letter 9, note 10).

10 "To make this intelligible, it is necessary to observe, that the words 'this fortnight',
in the preceding sentence, were first written in what he calls their little language, and afterwards
scratched out and written plain. It must be confessed this little language, which passed current
between Swift and Stella, has occasioned infinite trouble in the revisal of these papers" (Deane
Swift).

11 Trim.  An attack upon the liberties of this corporation is among the political offences
of Wharton's Lieutenancy of Ireland set forth in Swift's Short Character of the Earl of Wharton.

12 Apologies.

13 "A Description of the Morning," in No. 9 of the Tatler.

14 See Letter 6, note 19.

15 William Palliser (died 1726).

16 See Letter 4, note 15.

17 "Here he writ with his eyes shut; and the writing is somewhat crooked, although as well
in other respects as if his eyes had been open" (Deane Swift).

18 Tatler, No. 249; cf. p. 93.  During this visit to London Swift contributed to only three
Tatlers, viz. Nos. 230, 238, and 258.

19 St. Andrew's Day.

20 No. 241.

21 Tatler, No. 258.

22 Lieutenant-General Philip Bragg, Colonel of the 28th Regiment of Foot, and M.P. for Armagh,
died in 1759.

23 James Cecil, fifth Earl of Salisbury, who died in 1728.

24 See Letter 2, note 13.

25 See Letter 8, note 22.

26 Kneller seems never to have painted Swift's portrait.

27 On Nov. 25 and 28.

28 Arthur Annesley, M.P. for Cambridge University, had recently become fifth Earl of Anglesea,
on the death of his brother (see Letter 3, note 35).  Under George I. he was Joint Treasurer
of Ireland, and Treasurer at War.

29 A Short Character of the Earl of Wharton, by Swift himself, though the authorship was not
suspected at the time.  "Archbishop King," says Scott, "would have hardly otherwise ventured
to mention it to Swift in his letter of Jan. 9, 1710, as 'a wound given in the dark.'" Elsewhere,
however, in a note, Swift hints that Archbishop King was really aware of the authorship of
the pamphlet.

30 A false report. (See Letter 11, note 4.)

31 None of these Commissioners of Revenue lost their places at this time. Samuel Ogle was Commissioner
from 1699 to 1714; John South from 1696 until his death in 1711; and Sir William St. Quintin,
Bart., from 1706 to 1713.  Stephen Ludlow succeeded South in September 1711.

32 See Letter 7, note 35.

33 James Hamilton, sixth Earl of Abercorn (1656-1734), a Scotch peer who had strongly supported
the Union of 1706.

Letter 11.

1 L'Estrange speaks of "insipid twittle twattles." Johnson calls this "a vile word."

2 A cousin of Swift's; probably a son of William Swift.

3 Nicholas Sankey (died 1722) succeeded Lord Lovelace as Colonel of a Regiment of Foot in Ireland
in 1689.  He became Brigadier-General in 1704, Major- General 1707, and Lieutenant-General
1710.  He served in Spain, and was taken prisoner at the battle of the Caya in 1709.

4 See Letter 10, note 30.

5 The Earl of Abercorn (see Letter 10, note 33) married, in 1686, Elizabeth, only child of
Sir Robert Reading, Bart., of Dublin, by Jane, Dowager Countess of Mountrath.  Lady Abercorn
survived her husband twenty years, dying in 1754, aged eighty-six.

6 Charles Lennox, first Duke of Richmond and Gordon (1672-1723), was the illegitimate son of
Charles II. by Madame de Querouaille.

7 Sir Robert Raymond, afterwards Lord Raymond (1673-1733), M.P. for Bishop's Castle, Shropshire,
was appointed Solicitor-General in May 1710, and was knighted in October.  He was removed from
office on the accession of George I., but was made Attorney-General in 1720, and in 1724 became
a judge of the King's Bench.  In the following year he was made Lord Chief-Justice, and was
distinguished both for his learning and his impartiality.

8 Lynn-Regis.

9 Richard Savage, fourth Earl Rivers, the father of Richard Savage, the poet. Under the Whigs
Lord Rivers was Envoy to Hanover; and after his conversion by Harley, he was Constable of the
Tower under the Tories.  He died in 1712.

10 Chancellor of the Exchequer in Ireland from 1695 until his death in 1717.

11 Lord Shelburne's clever sister, Anne, only daughter of Sir William Petty, and wife of Thomas
Fitzmaurice, Lord of Kerry, afterwards created first Earl of Kerry.

12 Mrs. Pratt, an Irish friend of Lady Kerry, lodged at Lord Shelburne's during her visit to
London.  The reference to Clements (see Letter 9, note 20), Pratt's relative, in the Journal
for April 14, 1711, makes it clear that Mrs. Pratt was the wife of the Deputy Vice-Treasurer
of Ireland, to whom Swift often alludes (see Letter 3, note 10).

13 Lieutenant-General Thomas Meredith, Major-General Maccartney, and Brigadier Philip Honeywood.
They alleged that their offence only amounted to drinking a health to the Duke of Marlborough,
and confusion to his enemies.  But the Government said that an example must be made, because
various officers had dropped dangerous expressions about standing by their General, Marlborough,
who was believed to be aiming at being made Captain General for life.  For Maccartney see the
Journal for Nov. 15, 1712, seq.  Meredith, who was appointed Adjutant-General of the Forces
in 1701, was made a Lieutenant- General in 1708.  He saw much service under William III., and
Marlborough, and was elected M.P. for Midhurst in 1709.  He died in 1719 (Dalton's Army Lists,
III. 181).  Honeywood entered the army in 1694; was at Namur; and was made a Brigadier-General
before 1711.  After the accession of George I. he became Colonel of a Regiment of Dragoons,
and commanded a division at Dettingen.  At his death in 1752 he was acting as Governor of Portsmouth,
with the rank of General (Dalton, iv. 30).

14 Or "malkin"; a counterfeit, or scarecrow.

15 William Cadogan, Lieutenant-General and afterwards Earl Cadogan (1675- 1726), a great friend
of Marlborough, was Envoy to the United Provinces and Spanish Flanders.  Cadogan retained the
post of Lieutenant to the Tower until 1715.

16 Earl Cadogan's father, Henry Cadogan, barrister, married Bridget, daughter of Sir Hardresse
Waller, and sister of Elizabeth, Baroness Shelburne in her own right.

17 See Letter 5, note 30.

18 Cadogan married Margaretta, daughter of William Munter, Counsellor of the Court of Holland.

19 Presumably the eldest son, William, who succeeded his father as second Earl of Kerry in
1741, and died in 1747.  He was at Eton and Christ Church, Oxford, and was afterwards a Colonel
in the Coldstream Guards.

20 Henry Petty, third Lord Shelburne, who became Earl of Shelburne in 1719. His son predeceased
him, without issue, and on Lord Shelburne's death, in 1751, his honours became extinct.  His
daughter Anne also died without issue.

21 The menagerie, which had been one of the sights of London, was removed from the Tower in
1834.  In his account of the Tory Fox Hunter in No. 47 of the Freeholder, Addison says, "Our
first visit was to the lions."

22 Bethlehem Hospital, for lunatics, in Moorfields, was a popular "sight" in the eighteenth
century.  Cf. the Tatler, No. 30:  "On Tuesday last I took three lads, who are under my guardianship,
a rambling, in a hackney coach, to show them the town:  as the lions, the tombs, Bedlam."

23 The Royal Society met at Gresham College from 1660 to 1710.  The professors of the College
lectured on divinity, civil law, astronomy, music, geometry, rhetoric, and physic.

24 The most important of the puppet-shows was Powell's, in the Little Piazza, Covent Garden,
which is frequently mentioned in the Tatler.

25 The precise nature this negligent costume is not known, but it is always decried by popular
writers of the time.

26 Retched.  Bacon has "Patients must not keck at them at the first."

27 Swift was born on November 30.

28 Mrs. De la Riviere Manley, daughter of Sir Roger Manley, and cousin of John Manley, M.P.,
and Isaac Manley (see Letter 3, note 3), wrote poems and plays, but is best known for her "Secret
Memoirs and Manners of Several Persons of Quality, of both sexes.  From the New Atalantis,
1709," a book abounding in scandalous references to her contemporaries.  She was arrested in
October, but was discharged in Feb. 1710.  In May 1710 she brought out a continuation of the
New Atalantis, called "Memoirs of Europe towards the Close of the Eighth Century."  In June
1711 she became editress of the Tory Examiner, and wrote political pamphlets with Swift's assistance.
Afterwards she lived with Alderman Barber, the printer, at whose office she died in 1724. 
In her will she mentioned her "much honoured friend, the Dean of St. Patrick, Dr. Swift."

29 "He seems to have written these words in a whim; for the sake of what follows" (Deane Swift).

30 See Letter 8, note 33.

31 No. 249 (see Letter 10, note 18).

32 See Letter 5, note 34.

33 In a letter to the Rev. Dr. Tisdall, of Dec. 16, 1703, Swift said:  "I'll teach you a way
to outwit Mrs. Johnson:  it is a new-fashioned way of being witty, and they call it a bite.
You must ask a bantering question, or tell some damned lie in a serious manner, and then she
will answer or speak as if you were in earnest; and then cry you, 'Madam, there's a bite!'
I would not have you undervalue this, for it is the constant amusement in Court, and everywhere
else among the great people."  See, too, the Tatler, No. 12, and Spectator, Nos. 47, 504: 
"In a word, a Biter is one who thinks you a fool, because you do not think him a knave."

34 See Letter 9, note 4.

35 "As I hope to be saved;" a favourite phrase in the Journal.

36 See Letter 7, note 12.

37 This statement receives some confirmation from a pamphlet published in September 1710, called
"A Condoling Letter to the Tatler:  On Account of the Misfortunes of Isaac Bickerstaf Esq.,
a Prisoner in the ---- on Suspicion of Debt."

38 Dr. Lambert, chaplain to Lord Wharton, was censured in Convocation for being the author
of a libellous letter.

39 Probably the same person as Dr. Griffith, spoken of in the Journal for March 3, 1713,--when
he was ill,--as having been "very tender of" Stella.

40 See Letter 9, note 22.

41 Vexed, offended.  Elsewhere Swift wrote, "I am apt to grate the ears of more than I could wish."

42 Ambrose Philips, whose Pastorals had been published in the same volume of Tonson's Miscellany
as Pope's.  Two years later Swift wrote, "I should certainly have provided for him had he not
run party mad."  In 1712 his play, The Distrest Mother, received flattering notice in the Spectator,
and in 1713, to Pope's annoyance, Philips' Pastorals were praised in the Guardian.  His pretty
poems to children led Henry Carey to nickname him "Namby Pamby."

43 An equestrian statue of William III., in College Green, Dublin.  It was common, in the days
of party, for students of the University of Dublin to play tricks with this statue.

44 Lieutenant-General Richard Ingoldsby (died 1712) was Commander of the Forces in Ireland,
and one of the Lords Justices in the absence of the Lord Lieutenant.

45 This seems to have been a mistake; cf. Journal for July 13, 1711, Alan Brodrick, afterwards
Viscount Midleton, a Whig politician and lawyer, was made Chief Justice of the Queen's Bench
in Ireland in 1709, but was removed from office in June 1711, when Sir Richard Cox succeeded
him.  On the accession of George I. he was appointed Lord Chancellor for Ireland.  Afterwards
he declined to accept the dedication to him of Swift's Drapiers Letters, and supported the
prosecution of the author.  He died in 1728.

46 Robert Doyne was appointed Chief Baron of the Exchequer in Ireland in 1695, and Chief Justice
of the Common Pleas in 1703.  This appointment was revoked on the accession of George I.

47 See Letter 9, note 12.

48 Of the University of Dublin.

49 See Letter 2, note 18 and Letter 3, note 4.  Sir Thomas Frankland's eldest son, Thomas,
who afterwards succeeded to the baronetcy, acquired a fortune with his first wife, Dinah, daughter
of Francis Topham, of Agelthorpe, Yorkshire.  He died in 1747.

50 See Letter 8, note 21.

51 see Letter 4, note 15.

52 Mary, daughter of Sir John Williams, Bart., and widow of Charles Petty, second Lord Shelburne,
who died in 1696.  She had married, as her second husband, Major-General Conyngham, and, as
her third husband, Colonel Dallway.

53 Dr. John Vesey became Bishop of Limerick in 1672, and Archbishop of Tuam in 1678.  He died
in 1716.

54 See Letter 3, note 39.

55 Sex.

56 Toby Caulfeild, third son of the fifth Lord Charlemont.  In 1689 he was Colonel to the Earl
of Drogheda's Regiment of Foot, and about 1705 he succeeded to the command of Lord Skerrin's
Regiment of Foot.  After serving in Spain his regiment was reduced, having lost most of its
men (Luttrell, vi. 158).

57 John Campbell, second Duke of Argyle (1680-1743), was installed a Knight of
the Garter in December 1710, after he had successfully opposed a vote of
thanks to Marlborough, with whom he had quarrelled.  It was of this nobleman
that Pope wrote--
     "Argyle, the State's whole thunder born to wield,
      And shake alike the senate and the field."
In a note to Macky's Memoirs, Swift describes the Duke as an "ambitious,
covetous, cunning Scot, who had no principle but his own interests and
greatness."

58 Harley's second wife, Sarah, daughter of Simon Middleton, of Edmonton, and sister of Sir
Hugh Middleton, Bart.  She died, without issue, in 1737.

59 Elizabeth Harley, then unmarried, the daughter of Harley's first wife, Elizabeth, daughter
of Thomas Foley, of Whitley Court, Worcestershire.  She subsequently married the Marquis of
Caermarthen, afterwards Duke of Leeds.

60 Harcourt (see Letter 3, note 24).

61 William Stawel, the third baron, who succeeded to the title in 1692, was half-brother to
the second Baron Stawel.  The brother here referred to was Edward, who succeeded to the title
as fourth baron in 1742.

Letter 12.

1 Charles Finch, third Earl of Winchelsea, son of Lord Maidstone, and grandson of Heneage,
second Earl of Winchelsea.  On his death in 1712 Swift spoke of him as "a worthy honest gentleman,
and particular friend of mine."

2 Vedeau was a shopkeeper, who abandoned his trade for the army (Journal, March 28, April 4,
1711).  Swift calls him "a lieutenant, who is now broke, and upon half pay" (Journal, Nov.
18, 1712)

3 Sir Edmund Bacon, Bart. (died 1721), of Herringflat, Suffolk, succeeded his father in the
baronetcy in 1686.

4 The reverse at Brihuega.

5 See Letter 8, note 12.

6 John Barber, a printer, became Lord Mayor of London in 1732, and died in 1741.  Mrs. Manley
was his mistress, and died at his printing office.  Swift speaks of Barber as his "very good
and old friend."

7 Bernage was an officer serving under Colonel Fielding.  In August 1710 a difficulty arose
through Arbuthnot trying to get his brother George made Captain over Bernage's head; but ultimately
Arbuthnot waived the business, because he would not wrong a friend of Swift's.

8 See Letter 1, note 52.

9 George Smalridge (1663-1719), the High Church divine and popular preacher, was made Dean
of Carlisle in 1711, and Bishop of Bristol in 1714.  Steele spoke of him in the Tatler (Nos.
73, 114) as "abounding in that sort of virtue and knowledge which makes religion beautiful."

10 St. Albans Street, Pall Mall, was removed in 1815 to make way for Waterloo Place.  It was
named after Henry Jermyn, Earl of St. Albans.

11 Ben Portlack, the Duke of Ormond's secretary.

12 Algernon Seymour, Earl of Hertford (1684-1750), only son of Charles Seymour, Duke of Somerset.
Lord Hertford succeeded to the dukedom in 1748. From 1708 to 1722 he was M.P. for Northumberland,
and from 1708 to 1713 he took an active part in the war in Flanders.

13 See Letter 4.

14 A Short Character of the Earl of Wharton (see Letter 10. note 29).

15 See Letter 9.

16 Henry Herbert, the last Baron Herbert of Cherbury, succeeded to the peerage in 1709, and
soon afterwards married a sister of the Earl of Portsmouth.  A ruined man, he committed suicide
in 1738.

17 Nos. 257, 260.

18 See Letter 6, note 12.

19 "AFTER is interlined" (Deane Swift).

20 With this account may be compared what Pope says, as recorded in Spence's Anecdotes, p.
223:  "Lord Peterborough could dictate letters to nine amanuenses together, as I was assured
by a gentleman who saw him do it when Ambassador at Turin.  He walked round the room, and told
each of them in his turn what he was to write.  One perhaps was a letter to the emperor, another
to an old friend, a third to a mistress, a fourth to a statesman, and so on: yet he carried
so many and so different connections in his head, all at the same time."

21 Francis Atterbury, Dean of Carlisle, had taken an active part in the defence of Dr. Sacheverell.
After a long period of suspense he received the appointment of Dean of Christ Church, and in
1713 he was made Bishop of Rochester and Dean of Westminster.  Atterbury was on intimate terms
with Swift, Pope, and other writers on the Tory side, and Addison--at whose funeral the Bishop
officiated--described him as "one of the greatest geniuses of his age."

22 John Carteret, second Baron Carteret, afterwards to be well known as a statesman, succeeded
to the peerage in 1695, and became Earl Granville and Viscount Carteret on the death of his
brother in 1744.  He died in 1763.  In October 1710, when twenty years of age, he had married
Frances, only daughter of Sir Robert Worsley, Bart., of Appuldurcombe, Isle of Wight.

23 Dillon Ashe, D.D., Vicar of Finglas, and brother of the Bishop of Clogher. In 1704 he was
made Archdeacon of Clogher, and in 1706 Chancellor of Armagh. He seems to have been too fond
of drink.

24 Henley (see Letter 6, note 15) married Mary, daughter of Peregrine Bertie, the second son
of Montagu, Earl of Lindsey, and with her obtained a fortune of 30,000 pounds.  After Henley's
death his widow married her relative, Henry Bertie, third son of James, Earl of Abingdon.

25 Hebrews v. 6.

Letter 13.

1 Probably Mrs. Manley and John Barber (see Letter 11, note 28 and Letter 12, note 6).

2 Sir Andrew Fountaine's (see Letter 5, note 28) father, Andrew Fountaine, M.P., married Sarah,
daughter of Sir Thomas Chicheley, Master of the Ordnance. Sir Andrew's sister, Elizabeth, married
Colonel Edward Clent.  The "scoundrel brother," Brig, died in 1746, aged sixty-four (Blomefield's
Norfolk, vi. 233- 36).

3 Dame Overdo, the justice's wife in Ben Jonson's Bartholomew Fair.

4 See Letter 3, note 5.

5 Atterbury, who had recently been elected Prolocutor to the Lower House of Convocation.

6 Dr. Sterne, Dean of St. Patrick's, was not married.

7 January 6 was Twelfth-night.

8 Garraway's Coffee-house, in Change Alley, was founded by Thomas Garway, the first coffee-man
who sold and retailed tea.  A room upstairs was used for sales of wine "by the candle."

9 Sir Constantine Phipps, who had taken an active part in Sacheverell's defence.  Phipps' interference
in elections in the Tory interest made him very unpopular in Dublin, and he was recalled on
the death of Queen Anne.

10 Joseph Trapp, one of the seven poets alluded to in the distich:--
     "Alma novem genuit celebres Rhedycina poetas,
      Bubb, Stubb, Grubb, Crabb, Trapp, Young, Carey, Tickell, Evans."
Trapp wrote a tragedy in 1704, and in 1708 was chosen the first Professor of
Poetry at Oxford.  In 1710 he published pamphlets on behalf of Sacheverell,
and in 1712 Swift secured for him the post of chaplain to Bolingbroke.  During
his latter years he held several good livings.  Elsewhere Swift calls him a
"coxcomb."

11 See Letter 7, note 21.

12 The extreme Tories, who afterwards formed the October Club.

13 Crowd.  A Jacobean writer speaks of "the lurry of lawyers," and "a lurry and rabble of poor
friars."

14 See Letter 5, note 10.

15 St. John's first wife was Frances, daughter and co-heiress of Sir Henry Winchcombe, Bart.,
of Berkshire, and in her right St. John enjoyed the estates of Bucklebury, which on her death
in 1718 passed to her sister.  In April 1711 Swift said that "poor Mrs. St. John" was growing
a great favourite of his; she was going to Bath owing to ill-health, and begged him to take
care of her husband.  She "said she had none to trust but me, and the poor creature's tears
came fresh in her eyes."  Though the marriage was, naturally enough, unhappy, she did not leave
St. John's house until 1713, and she returned to him when he fell from power.  There are letters
from her to Swift as late as 1716, not only doing her best to defend his honour, but speaking
of him with tenderness.

16 "Battoon" means (1) a truncheon; (2) a staff of office.  Luttrell, in 1704, speaks of "a
battoon set with diamonds sent him from the French king."

17 Edward Harley, second son of Sir Edward Harley, was M.P. for Leominster and Recorder of
the same town.  In 1702 he was appointed Auditor of the Imposts, a post which he held until
his death in 1735.  His wife, Sarah, daughter of Thomas Foley, was a sister of Robert Harley's
wife, and his eldest son eventually became third Earl of Oxford.  Harley published several
books on biblical subjects.

18 See Letter 6, note 12.  The last number of Steele's Tatler appeared on Jan. 2, 1711; Harrison's
paper reached to fifty-two numbers.

19 Dryden Leach (see Letter 7, note 22).

20 Cf. Letter 7, October 28th.

21 Published by John Baker and John Morphew.  See Aitken's Life of Steele, i. 299-301.

22 In No. 224 of the Tatler, Addison, speaking of polemical advertisements, says:  "The inventors
of Strops for Razors have written against one another this way for several years, and that
with great bitterness."  See also Spectator, Nos. 428, 509, and the Postman for March 23, 1703:
"The so much famed strops for setting razors, etc., are only to be had at Jacob's Coffee- house.
. . .  Beware of counterfeits, for such are abroad."

23 Sir John Holland (see Letter 3, note 28).

24 Addison speaks of a fine flaxen long wig costing thirty guineas (Guardian, No. 97), and
Duumvir's fair wig, which Phillis threw into the fire, cost forty guineas (Tatler, No. 54)

25 Swift's mother, Abigail Erick, was of a Leicestershire family, and after her husband's death
she spent much of her time with her friends near her old home.  Mr. Worrall, vicar of St. Patrick's,
with whom Swift was on terms of intimacy in 1728-29, was evidently a relative of the Worralls
where Mrs. Swift had lodged, and we may reasonably suppose that he owed the living to Swift's
interest in the family.

26 The title of a humorous poem by Lydgate.  A "lickpenny" is a greedy or grasping person.

27 Small wooden blocks used for lighting fires.  See Swift ("Description of
the Morning"),
     "The small-coal man was heard with cadence deep,
      Till drowned in shriller notes of chimney-sweep;" and Gay (Trivia, ii.
35),
     "When small-coal murmurs in the hoarser throat,
      From smutty dangers guard thy threatened coat."

28 The Tory Ministers.

Letter 14.

1 See Letter 7, note 22.

2 Thomas Southerne's play of Oroonoko, based on Mrs. Aphra Behn's novel of the same name, was
first acted in 1696.

3 "Mrs." Cross created the part of Mrs. Clerimont in Steele's Tender Husband in 1705.

4 See Letter 12, note 7.

5 George Granville, afterwards Lord Lansdowne, was M.P. for Cornwall, and Secretary at War.
In December 1711 he was raised to the peerage, and in 1712 was appointed Comptroller of the
Household.  He died in 1735, when the title became extinct.  Granville wrote plays and poems,
and was a patron of both Dryden and Pope.  Pope called him "Granville the polite."  His Works
in Verse and Prose appeared in 1732.

6 Samuel Masham, son of Sir Francis Masham, Bart., had been a page to the Queen while Princess
of Denmark, and an equerry and gentleman of the bed- chamber to Prince George.  He married
Abigail Hill (see Letter 16, note 7), daughter of Francis Hill, a Turkey merchant, and sister
of General John Hill, and through that lady's influence with the Queen he was raised to the
peerage as Baron Masham, in January 1712.  Under George I. he was Remembrancer of the Exchequer.
He died in 1758.

7 A roughly printed pamphlet, The Honourable Descent, Life, and True Character of the . . .
Earl of Wharton, appeared early in 1711, in reply to Swift's Short Character; but that can
hardly be the pamphlet referred to here, because it is directed against libellers and backbiters,
and cannot be described as "pretty civil."

8 "In that word (the seven last words of the sentence huddled into one) there were some puzzling
characters" (Deane Swift).

9 Sir Robert Worsley, Bart., married, in 1690, Frances, only daughter of the first Viscount
Weymouth.  Their daughter Frances married Lord Carteret (see Letter 12, note 22) in 1710. 
In a letter to Colonel Hunter in March 1709 Swift spoke of Lady (then Mrs.) Worsley as one
of the principal beauties in town.  See, too, Swift's letter to her of April 19, 1730:  "My
Lady Carteret has been the best queen we have known in Ireland these many years; yet is she
mortally hated by all the young girls, because (and it is your fault) she is handsomer than
all of them together."

10 See Letter 3, note 1.

11 See Letter 5, note 17.

12 William Stratford, son of Nicholas Stratford, Bishop of Chester, was Archdeacon of Richmond
and Canon of Christ Church, Oxford, until his death in 1729.

13 See Letter 3, note 22.

14 James, third Earl of Berkeley (168O-1736), whom Swift calls a "young rake" (see Letter 16,
note 15).  The young Countess of Berkeley was only sixteen on her marriage.  In 1714 she was
appointed a lady of the bed-chamber to Caroline, Princess of Wales, and she died of smallpox
in 1717, aged twenty- two.  The Earl was an Admiral, and saw much service between 1701 and
1710; under George I. he was First Lord of the Admiralty.

15 Edward Wettenhall was Bishop of Kilmore from 1699 to 1713.

16 In the Dedication to The Tale of a Tub Swift had addressed Somers in very different terms:
"There is no virtue, either in public or private life, which some circumstances of your own
have not often produced upon the stage of the world."

17 Their lodgings, opposite to St. Mary's Church in Stafford Street, Dublin.

Letter 15.

1 The Stamp Act was not passed until June 1712:  see the Journal for Aug. 7, 1712.

2 Both in St. James's Park.  The Canal was formed by Charles II. from several small ponds,
and Rosamond's Pond was a sheet of water in the south-west corner of the Park, "long consecrated,"
as Warburton said, "to disastrous love and elegiac poetry."  It is often mentioned as a place
of assignation in Restoration plays.  Evelyn (Diary, Dec. 1, 1662) describes the "scheets"
used on the Canal.

3 Mrs. Beaumont.

4 The first direct mention of Hester Vanhomrigh.  She is referred to only in two other places
in the Journal (Feb. 14, 1710-11, and Aug, 14, 1711).

5 See Letter 3, note 17.

6 No. 27, by Swift himself.

7 No. 7 of Harrison's series.

8 The printers of the original Tatler.

9 Harley had forwarded to Swift a banknote for fifty pounds (see Journal, March 7, 1710-11).

10 At Moor Park.

11 Scott says that Swift here alludes to some unidentified pamphlet of which he was the real
or supposed author.

12 See Letter 11, note 13.

13 The Examiner.

14 See Letter 6, note 43.

15 Mistaken.

16 Mrs. De Caudres, "over against St.  Mary's Church, near Capel Street," where Stella now lodged.

17 "A crease in the sheet" (Deane Swift).

18 "In the original it was, good mallows, little sollahs.  But in these words, and many others,
he writes constantly ll for rr" (Deane Swift).

19 See Letter 4, note 19.

20 "Those letters which are in italics in the original are of a monstrous size, which occasioned
his calling himself a loggerhead" (Deane Swift). [Italics replaced by capitals for the transcription
of this etext.]

21 I.e., to ask whether.

Letter 16.

1 Harcourt.

2 "A shilling passes for thirteenpence in Ireland" (Deane Swift).

3 Robert Cope, a gentleman of learning with whom Swift corresponded.

4 Archdeacon Morris is not mentioned in Cotton's Fasti Ecclesiae Hiberniae.

5 See Letter 14, note 6.

6 See Letter 10, note 2.

7 Abigail Hill, afterwards Lady Masham, had been introduced into the Queens service as bed-chamber
woman by the Duchess of Marlborough.  Her High Church and Tory views recommended her to Queen
Anne, and in 17O7 she was privately married to Mr. Samuel Masham, a gentleman in the service
of Prince George (see Letter 14, note 6).  The Duchess of Marlborough discovered that Mrs.
Masham's cousin, Harley, was using her influence to further his own interests with the Queen;
and in spite of her violence the Duchess found herself gradually supplanted.  From 1710 Mrs.
Masham's only rival in the royal favour was the Duchess of Somerset.  Afterwards she quarrelled
with Harley and joined the Bolingbroke faction.

8 See Letter 4, note 16.

9 No. 14 of Harrison's series.

10 See Letter 15, note 4.

11 Richard Duke, a minor poet and friend of Dryden's, entered the Church about 1685.  In July
1710 he was presented by the Bishop of Winchester to the living of Witney, Oxfordshire, which
was worth 700 pounds a year.

12 Sir Jonathan Trelawney, one of the seven bishops committed to the Tower in 1688, was translated
to Winchester in 17O7, when he appointed Duke to be his chaplain.

13 See Letter 4, note 3.

14 See Letter 3, note 39.

15 See Letter 14, note 14.

16 See Letter 7, note 28.

17 Cf. Feb. 22, 1711.

18 Esther Johnson lodged opposite St. Mary's in Dublin.

19 This famous Tory club began with the meeting together of a few extreme Tories at the Bell
in Westminster.  The password to the Club--"October"--was one easy of remembrance to a country
gentleman who loved his ale.

20 "Duke" Disney, "not an old man, but an old rake," died in 1731.  Gay calls
him "facetious Disney," and Swift says that all the members of the Club "love
him mightily."  Lady M. W. Montagu speaks of his
     "Broad plump face, pert eyes, and ruddy skin,
      Which showed the stupid joke which lurked within."
Disney was a French Huguenot refugee, and his real name was Desaulnais.  He
commanded an Irish regiment, and took part in General Hill's expedition to
Canada in 1711 (Kingsford's Canada, ii. 465).  By his will (Wentworth papers,
109) he "left nothing to his poor relations, but very handsome to his bottle
companions."

21 There were several Colonel Fieldings in the first half of the eighteenth century, and it
is not clear which is the one referred to by Swift.  Possibly he was the Edmund Fielding--grandson
of the first Earl of Denbigh--who died a Lieutenant-General in 1741, at the age of sixty-three,
but is best known as the father of Henry Fielding, the novelist.

22 Cf. Feb. 17, 1711.

23 See Letter 3, note 37.

24 "It is a measured mile round the outer wall; and far beyond any the finest square in London"
(Deane Swift).

25 "The common fare for a set-down in Dublin" (ib.).

26 "Mrs. Stoyte lived at Donnybrook, the road to which from Stephen's Green ran into the country
about a mile from the south-east corner" (ib.).

27 "Those words in italics are written in a very large hand, and so is the word large" (ib.).
[Italics replaced by capitals for the transcription of this etext.]

28 Deane Swift alters "lele" to "there," but in a note states how he here altered Swift's "cypher
way of writing."  No doubt "lele" and other favourite words occurred frequently in the MS.,
as they do in the later letters.

Letter 17.

1 Sir Thomas Mansel, Bart., Comptroller of the Household to Queen Anne, and a Lord of the Treasury,
was raised to the peerage in December 1711 as Baron Mansel of Margam.  He died in 1723.

2 Lady Betty Butler and Lady Betty Germaine (see Letter 3, note 40 and Letter 4, note 3).

3 James Eckershall, "second clerk of the Queen's Privy Kitchen."  Chamberlayne (Magnae Britanniae
Notitia, 171O, p. 536) says that his wages were 11 pounds, 8 shillings and a penny-ha'penny,
and board-wages 138 pounds, 11 shillings and tenpence-ha'penny, making 150 pounds in all. 
Afterwards Eckershall was gentleman usher to Queen Anne; he died at Drayton in 1753, aged seventy-four.
Pope was in correspondence with him in 172O on the subject of contemplated speculations in
South Sea and other stocks.

4 In October 1710 (see Letter 6, note 44) Swift wrote as if he knew about the preparation of
these Miscellanies.  The volume was published by Morphew instead of Tooke, and it is frequently
referred to in the Journal.

5 In 1685 the Duke of Ormond (see Letter 2, note 10) married, as his second wife, Lady Mary
Somerset, eldest surviving daughter of Henry, first Duke of Beaufort.

6 Arthur Moore, M.P., was a Commissioner of Trade and Plantations from 1710 until his death
in 1730.  Gay calls him "grave," and Pope ("Prologue to the Satires," 23) says that Moore blamed
him for the way in which his "giddy son," James Moore Smythe, neglected the law.

7 James, Lord Paisley, who succeeded his father (see Letter 10, note 33) as seventh Earl of
Abercorn in 1734, married, in 1711, Anne, eldest daughter of Colonel John Plumer, of Blakesware,
Herts.

8 Harley's ill-health was partly due to his drinking habits.

9 Crowd or confusion.

10 The first wife of Charles Seymour, sixth Duke of Somerset, was Lady Elizabeth Percy, only
daughter of Joscelyn, eleventh Earl of Northumberland, and heiress of the house of Percy. 
She married the Duke, her third husband, at the age of eighteen.

11 John Richardson, D.D., rector of Armagh, Cavan, and afterwards chaplain to the Duke of Ormond.
In 1711 he published a Proposal for the Conversion of the Popish Natives of Ireland to the
Established Religion, and in 1712 a Short History of the Attempts to Convert the Popish Natives
of Ireland.  In 17O9 the Lower House of Convocation in Ireland had passed resolutions for printing
the Bible and liturgy in Irish, providing Irish preachers, etc.  In 1711 Thomas Parnell, the
poet, headed a deputation to the Queen on the subject, when an address was presented; but nothing
came of the proposals, owing to fears that the English interest in Ireland might be injured.
In 1731 Richardson was given the small deanery of Kilmacluagh.

12 See Feb. 27, 1711.

13 Harley.

14 "Bank bill for fifty pound," taking the alternate letters (see Letter 15, note 9).

15 See Letter 5, note 17.

16 See Nos. 27 and 29, by Swift himself.

17 "Print cannot do justice to whims of this kind, as they depend wholly upon the awkward shape
of the letters" (Deane Swift).

18 See Letter 8, note 2.

19 "Here is just one specimen given of his way of writing to Stella in these journals.  The
reader, I hope, will excuse my omitting it in all other places where it occurs.  The meaning
of this pretty language is:  'And you must cry There, and Here, and Here again.  Must you imitate
Presto, pray?  Yes, and so you shall.  And so there's for your letter.  Good-morrow'" (Deane
Swift). What Swift really wrote was probably as follows:  "Oo must cly Lele and Lele and Lele
aden.  Must oo mimitate Pdfr, pay?  Iss, and so oo sall.  And so lele's fol oo rettle.  Dood-mallow."

20 Lady Catherine Morice (died 1716) was the eldest daughter of Thomas Herbert, Earl of Pembroke,
and wife of Sir Nicholas Morice, Bart., M.P. for Newport.

21 Perhaps Henry Arundell, who succeeded his father as fifth Baron Arundell of Wardour in 1712,
and died in 1726.

22 Antoine, Abbe de Bourlie and Marquis de Guiscard, was a cadet of a distinguished family
of the south of France.  He joined the Church, but having been driven from France in consequence
of his licentious excesses, he came to England, after many adventures in Europe, with a recommendation
from the Duke of Savoy.  Godolphin gave him the command of a regiment of refugees, and employed
him in projects for effecting a landing in France.  These schemes proving abortive, Guiscard's
regiment was disbanded, and he was discharged with a pension of 500 pounds a year.  Soon after
the Tories came to power Guiscard came to the conclusion that there was no hope of employment
for him, and little chance of receiving his pension; and he began a treacherous correspondence
with the French.  When this was detected he was brought before the Privy Council, and finding
that everything was known, and wishing a better death than hanging, he stabbed Harley in the
breast.  Mrs. Manley, under Swift's directions, wrote a Narrative of Guiscard's Examination,
and the incident greatly added to the security of Harley's position, and to the strength of
the Government.

23 Harley's surgeon, Mr. Green.

24 See Letter 9, note 20.

25 Mrs. Walls' baby (see Feb 5, 1711).

26 The phrase had its origin in the sharp practices in the horse and cattle markets.  Writing
to Arbuthnot in 1727, Swift said that Gay "had made a pretty good bargain (that is a Smithfield)
for a little place in the Custom House."

27 "There."

Letter 18.

1 See Swift's paper in the Examiner, No. 32, and Mrs. Manley's pamphlet, already mentioned.

2 Presumably Mrs. Johnson's palsy-water (see Letter 5, note 17).

3 Thomas Wentworth, Baron Raby (1672-1739), was created Viscount Wentworth and Earl of Strafford
in June 1711.  Lord Raby was Envoy and Ambassador at Berlin for some years, and was appointed
Ambassador at the Hague in March 1711.  In November he was nominated as joint Plenipotentiary
with the Bishop of Bristol to negotiate the terms of peace.  He objected to Prior as a colleague;
Swift says he was "as proud as hell."  In 1715 it was proposed to impeach Strafford, but the
proceedings were dropped.  In his later years he was, according to Lord Hervey, a loquacious
and illiterate, but constant, speaker in the House of Lords.

4 A beauty, to whom Swift addressed verses in 17O8.  During the frost of January 17O9 Swift
wrote:  "Mrs. Floyd looked out with both her eyes, and we had one day's thaw; but she drew
in her head, and it now freezes as hard as ever."  She was a great friend of Lady Betty Germaine's.

5 Swift never had the smallpox.

6 See Letter 12, note 22.

7 Heart.

8 The first number of the Spectator appeared on March 1, 1711.

9 In one of his poems Swift speaks of Stella "sossing in an easy-chair."

10 See Letter 4, note 20.

11 "It is reasonable to suppose that Swift's acquaintance with Arbuthnot commenced just about
this time; for in the original letter Swift misspells his name, and writes it Arthbuthnet,
in a clear large hand, that MD might not mistake any of the letters" (Deane Swift).  Dr. John
Arbuthnot had been made Physician in Ordinary to the Queen; he was one of Swift's dearest friends.

12 Clobery Bromley, M.P. for Coventry, son of William Bromley, M.P. (see Letter 10, note 1),
died on March 2O, 1711, and Boyer (Political State, i. 255) says that the House, "out of respect
to the father, and to give him time, both to perform the funeral rites and to indulge his just
affliction," adjourned until the 26th.

13 See Letter 5, note 4.

14 See Letter 17, note 11.

15 Sir John Perceval, Bart. (died 1748), was created Baron Perceval 1715, Viscount Perceval
1722, and Earl of Egmont 1733, all in the Irish peerage.  He married, in 1710, Catherine, eldest
daughter of Sir Philip Parker A'Morley, Bart., of Erwarton, Suffolk; and his son (born Feb.
27, 1710-11) was made Baron Perceval and Holland, in the English peerage, in 1762.

16 This report was false.  The Old Pretender did not marry until 1718, when he was united to
the Princess Clementina Maria, daughter of Prince James Sobieski.

Letter 19.

1 John Hartstonge, D.D. (died 1717), was Bishop of Ossory from 1693 to 1714, when he was translated
to Derry.

2 See Letter 15, note 16.

3 Thomas Proby was Chirurgeon-General in Ireland from 1699 until his death in 1761.  In his
Short Character of Thomas, Earl of Wharton, Swift speaks of him as "a person universally esteemed,"
who had been badly treated by Lord Wharton.  In 1724 Proby's son, a captain in the army, was
accused of popery, and Swift wrote to Lord Carteret that the charge was generally believed
to be false:  "The father is the most universally beloved of any man I ever knew in his station.
. . .  You cannot do any personal thing more acceptable to the people of Ireland than in inclining
towards lenity to Mr. Proby and his family."  Proby was probably a near relative of Sir Thomas
Proby, Bart., M.P., of Elton, Hunts, at whose death in 1689 the baronetcy expired.  Mrs. Proby
seems to have been a Miss Spencer.

4 Meliora, daughter of Thomas Coningsby, Baron of Clanbrassil and Earl of Coningsby, and wife
of Sir Thomas Southwell, afterwards Baron Southwell, one of the Commissioners of Revenue in
Ireland, and a member of the Irish Privy Council.  Lady Southwell died in 1736.

5 Lady Betty Rochfort was the daughter of Henry Moore, third Earl of Drogheda. Her husband,
George Rochfort, M.P. for Westmeath, was son of Robert Rochfort, an Irish judge, and brother
of Robert Rochford, M.P., to whose wife Swift addressed his Advice to a very Young Lady on
her Marriage.  Lady Betty's son Robert was created Earl of Belvedere in 1757.

6 See Letter 17, note 23.  Mr. Bussiere, of Suffolk Street, had been called in directly after
the outrage, but Radcliffe would not consult him.

7 The letter from Dr. King dated March 17, 1711, commenting on Guiscard's attack upon Harley.

8 See Feb. 10, 1710-11.

9 The word "trangram" or "tangram" ordinarily means a toy or gimcrack, or trumpery article.
Cf. Wycherley (Plain Dealer, iii. 1), "But go, thou trangram, and carry back those trangrams
which thou hast stolen or purloined." Apparently "trangum" here means a tally.

10 See Letter 12, note 2.

11 Swift means Godolphin, the late Lord Treasurer.

12 Sir John Holland (see Letter 3, note 28).

13 "It caused a violent daub on the paper, which still continues much discoloured in the original"
(Deane Swift).

14 "He forgot here to say, 'At night.'  See what goes before" (Deane Swift).

15 See Letter 17, note 1.

16 Irishman.  "Teague" was a term of contempt for an Irishman.

17 To "Mr. Harley, wounded by Guiscard."  In this piece Prior said, "Britain with tears shall
bathe thy glorious wound," a wound which could not have been inflicted by any but a stranger
to our land.

18 Sir Thomas Mansel married Martha, daughter and heiress of Francis Millington, a London merchant.

19 Slatterning, consuming carelessly.

20 "The candle grease mentioned before, which soaked through, deformed this part of the paper
on the second page" (Deane Swift).

21 Harcourt.

22 William Rollinson, formerly a wine merchant, settled afterwards in Oxfordshire, where he
died at a great age.  He was a friend of Pope, Bolingbroke, and Gay.

23 In relation to the banknote (see Letter 17, note 14).

24 "Swift was, at this time, their great support and champion" (Deane Swift).

25 See Letter 14, note 15.

26 See Letter 17, note 25.

27 "Stella, with all her wit and good sense, spelled very ill; and Dr. Swift insisted greatly
upon women spelling well" (Deane Swift).

28 "The slope of the letters in the words THIS WAY, THIS WAY, is to the left hand, but the
slope of the words THAT WAY, THAT WAY, is to the right hand" (Deane Swift).

29 See Letter 17, note 24.

30 See Letter 5, note 11 and Letter 10, note 28.

Letter 20.

1 By the Act 9 Anne, cap. 23, the number of hackney coaches was increased to 800, and it was
provided that they were to go a mile and a half for one shilling, two miles for one shilling
and sixpence, and so on.

2 See Letter 11, note 39.

3 In a letter to Swift, of March 17, 1711, King said that it might have been thought that Guiscard's
attack would have convinced the world that Harley was not in the French interest; but it did
not have that effect with all, for some whispered the case of Fenius Rufus and Scevinus in
the 15th book of Tacitus: "Accensis indicibus ad prodendum Fenium Rufum, quem eundem conscium
et inquisitorem non tolerabant."  Next month Swift told King that it was reported that the
Archbishop had applied this passage in a speech made to his clergy, and explained at some length
the steps he had taken to prevent the story being published in the Postboy.  King thanked Swift
for this action, explaining that he had been arguing on Harley's behalf when someone instanced
the story of Rufus.

4 A Tory paper, published thrice weekly by Abel Roper.

5 Sir Charles Duncombe, banker, died on April 9, 1711.  The first wife of the Duke of Argyle
(see Letter 11, note 57) was Duncombe's niece, Mary Browne, daughter of Ursula Duncombe and
Thomas Browne, of St. Margaret's, Westminster. Duncombe was elected Lord Mayor in 1700, and
was the richest commoner in England.

6 The Rev. Dillon Ashe (see Letter 12, note 23).

7 John, fourth Baron Poulett, was created Earl Poulett in 17O6, after serving as one of the
Commissioners for the Treaty of Union with Scotland.  From August 1710 to May 1711 he was First
Lord of the Treasury, and from June 1711 to August 1714 he was Lord Steward of the Household.

8 Lost or stupid person.

9 Sir William Read, a quack who advertised largely in the Tatler and other papers.  He was
satirised in No. 547 of the Spectator.  In 17O5 he was knighted for his services in curing
many seamen and soldiers of blindness gratis, and he was appointed Oculist in Ordinary to the
Queen.  Read died in 1715, but his business was continued by his widow.

10 General John Webb was not on good terms with Marlborough.  He was a Tory, and had gained
distinction in the war at Wynendale (17O8), though the Duke's secretary gave the credit, in
the despatch, to Cadogan.  There is a well-known account of Webb in Thackeray's Esmond.  He
was severely wounded at Malplaquet in 17O9, and in 1710 was given the governorship of the Isle
of Wight.  He died in 1724.

11 Henry Campion, M.P. for Penryn, is mentioned in the Political State for February 1712 as
one of the leading men of the October Club.  Campion seems to have been Member, not for Penryn,
but for Bossiney.

12 See Letter 3, note 32.

13 Sir George Beaumont, Bart., M.P. for Leicester, and an acquaintance of Swift's mother, was
made a Commissioner of the Privy Seal in 1712, and one of the Lords of the Admiralty in 1714.
He died in 1737.

14 Heneage Finch, afterwards second Earl of Aylesford, was the son of Heneage Finch, the chief
counsel for the seven bishops, who was created Baron Guernsey in 1703, and Earl of Aylesford
in 1714.

15 James, Lord Compton, afterwards fifth Earl of Northampton, was the eldest son of George,
the fourth Earl.  He was summoned to the House of Lords in December 1711, and died in 1754.

16 See Letter 11, note 12.

Letter 21.

1 In 1670 Temple thanked the Grand Duke of Tuscany for "an entire vintage of the finest wines
of Italy" (Temple's Works, 1814, ii. 155-56).

2 Mrs. Manley (see Letter 17, note 22).

3 Charles Caesar, M.P. for Hertford, was appointed Treasurer of the Navy in June 1711, in the
room of Robert Walpole.

4 Joseph I.  His successor was his brother Charles, the King of Spain recognised by England.

5 Simon Harcourt, M.P. for Wallingford.  He married Elizabeth, sister of Sir John Evelyn, Bart.,
and died in 1720, aged thirty-five, before his father.  He was secretary to the society of
"Brothers," wrote verses, and was a friend of the poets.  His son Simon was created Earl Harcourt
in 1749, and was Lord Lieutenant of Ireland.

6 Doiley, a seventeenth-century linen-draper,--probably "Thomas Doyley, at the Nun, in Henrietta
Street, Covent Garden,"--invented stuffs which "might at once be cheap and genteel" (Spectator,
No. 283).

7 A special envoy.  The Resident from Venice in 1710 was Signor Bianchi.

8 See Letter 17, note 5.

9 Nanfan Coote, second Earl of Bellamont, who died in 1708, married, in 1705, Lucia Anna, daughter
of Henry de Nassau, Lord of Auverquerque, and sister of Henry, first Earl of Grantham.  She
died in 1744.

10 "Farnese" (Deane Swift).

11 See Letter 20, note 3.

12 Swift's changes of residence during the period covered by the Journal were numerous.  On
Sept. 20, 1710, he moved from Pall Mall to Bury Street, "where I suppose I shall continue while
in London."  But on Dec. 28 he went to new lodgings in St. Albans Street, Haymarket.  On April
26, 1711, he moved to Chelsea, and from there to Suffolk Street, to be near the Vanhomrighs.
He next moved to St. Martins Street, Leicester Fields; and a month later to Panton Street,
Haymarket.  In 1712 he lodged for a time at Kensington Gravel Pits.

13 At raffling for books.

14 James Brydges, Paymaster-General, and afterwards Duke of Chandos (see Letter 3, note 31).

15 Thomas Foley, M.P. for Worcestershire, was created Baron Foley in December 1711, and died
in 1733.

16 See 25th April, 1711 and Letter 20, note 3.

17 See Letter 19, note 3.

18 Charles Dering, second son of Sir Edward Dering, Bart., M.P. for Kent, was Auditor of the
Exchequer in Ireland, and M.P. for Carlingford.

19 See Letter 11, note 44.

20 See Letter 17, note 4.

21 A Whig paper, for the most part by Mainwaring and Oldmixon, in opposition to the Examiner.
It appeared weekly from October 1710 to August 1711.

22 See Letter 17, note 22.

23 See Spectator, No. 50, by Addison.

24 In all probability a mistake for "Wesley" (see Letter 1, note 12).

Letter 22.

1 Lord Paisley (see Letter 17, note 7).

2 See Letter 11, note 5.

3 Sir Hovenden Walker.  The "man midwife" was Sir Chamberlen Walker, his younger brother. 
The "secret expedition" against Quebec conveyed upwards of 5000 soldiers, under the command
of General John Hill (see Letter 10, note 2), but owing to the want of due preparations and
the severe weather encountered, the fleet was compelled to return to England without accomplishing
anything.

4 Robert Freind, elder brother of John Freind, M.D. (see Letter 9, note 1), became headmaster
of Westminster School in 1711, and held the appointment until 1733.  He was Rector of Witney,
and afterwards Canon of Windsor, Prebendary of Westminster, and Canon of Christ Church.  He
died in 1751, aged eighty-four.

5 Christopher Musgrave was Clerk of the Ordnance.

6 Atterbury's wife, Katherine Osborn, has been described as "the inspiration of his youth and
the solace of his riper years."

7 The original Chelsea Bun House, in Jew's Row, was pulled down in 1839.  Sir R. Philips, writing
in 1817, said, "Those buns have afforded a competency, and even wealth, to four generations
of the same family; and it is singular that their delicate flavour, lightness, and richness
have never been successfully imitated."

8 See Letter 8, note 22.  King wrote to Swift (May 15, 1711), "The death of the Earl of Rochester
is a great blow to all good men, and even his enemies cannot but do justice to his character.
What influence it will have on public affairs God only knows."

9 See Letter 11, note 11.

10 See Letter 17, note 6.

11 See Letter 18, note 4.

12 See Letter 20, note 13.

13 Swift's curate at Laracor.

14 Queen Anne was the last sovereign who exercised the supposed royal gift of healing by touch.
Dr. Johnson was touched by her, but without effect.

15 Richard Thornhill was tried at the Old Bailey on May 18, 1711, for the murder of Sir Cholmley
Dering, M.P. for Kent, and found guilty of manslaughter only; but he was shortly afterwards
assassinated (see Journal for Aug. 21, 1711; Spectator, No. 84).  The quarrel began on April
27, when they fell to blows, and Thornhill being knocked down, had some teeth struck out by
Sir C. Dering stamping on him.  The spectators then interfered, and Dering expressed himself
as ready to beg pardon; but Thornhill not thinking this was sufficient satisfaction, gave Dering
the lie, and on May 9 sent him a challenge.

16 Tothill Fields, Westminster, was a favourite place for duels in the seventeenth century.

17 See Letter 13, note 17.

18 Benjamin Burton, a Dublin banker, and brother-in-law of Swift's friend Stratford (see Letter
3, note 22).  Swift says he hated this "rogue."

Letter 23.

1 The day on which the Club met.  See letter from Swift to St. John, May 11, 1711.

2 Henry Barry, fourth Lord Barry of Santry (1680-1734), was an Irish Privy Councillor, and
Governor of Derry.  In 1702 he married Bridget, daughter of Sir Thomas Domville, Bart., and
in an undated letter (about 1735) to Lady Santry Swift spoke of his esteem for her, "although
I had hardly the least acquaintance with your lord, nor was at all desirous to cultivate it,
because I did not at all approve of his conduct."  Lord Santry's only son and heir, who was
born in 1710, was condemned to death for the murder of a footman in 1739, when the barony became
extinct by forfeiture.  See B. W. Adams's History of Santry.

3 Probably Captain Cammock, of the Speedwell, of 28 guns and 125 men (Luttrell, vi. 331), who
met on July 13, 1708, off Scotland, two French privateers, one of 16, the other of 18 guns,
and fought them several hours. The first privateer got off, much shattered; the other was brought
into Carrickfergus.

4 See Letter 7, note 21.

5 See Letter 13, note 10.

6 This valuable pamphlet is signed "J.G.," and is believed to be by John Gay.

7 Edmund Curll's collection of Swift's Miscellanies, published in 1711, was an expansion of
a pamphlet of 1710, "A Meditation upon a Broomstick, and somewhat beside, of the same Author's."

8 "In this passage DD signifies both Dingley and Stella" (Deane Swift).

9 Sir Henry Craik's reading.  The old editions have, "It  would do:  DD goes as well as Presto,"
which is obviously corrupt.

10 Cf. Journal, June 17, 1712.

11 Cf. "old doings" (see Letter 9, note 19.)

12 See Letter 17, note 11.

13 Rymer's Foedera, in three volumes, which Swift obtained for Trinity College, Dublin.

14 See Letter 6, note 43 and 9th Feb. 1710-11.

15 Stephen Colledge, "the Protestant joiner," was hanged in 1681.  He had published attacks
on the Roman Catholics, and had advocated resistance to Charles II.

16 See Letter 3, note 39.

17 Mitford Crowe was appointed Governor of Barbados in 1706, and before his departure for that
island went to Spain, "to settle the accounts of our army there, of which he is paymaster"
(Luttrell, vi. 104).  In 1710 charges of bribery brought against him by merchants were inquired
into by the Privy Council, but he seems to have cleared himself, for in June 1711 Swift speaks
of him as Governor of Jamaica.  He died in 1719.

18 See Letter 8, note 21.

19 Swift's uncle Adam "lived and died in Ireland," and left no son.  Another daughter of his
became Mrs. Whiteway.

20 William Lowndes, M.P., secretary to the Treasury, whom Walpole called "as able and honest
a servant as ever the Crown had."

21 The Lord Treasurer's staff:  since the dismissal of Godolphin, the Treasurership had been
held in commission.

22 "As I hope to be saved."

23 Stella's maid.

24 See letter from King to Swift, May 15, 1711.  Alderman Constantine, a High Churchman, indignant
at being passed over by a junior in the contest for the mayoralty, brought the matter before
the Council Board, and produced an old by-law by which aldermen, according to their ancientry,
were required to keep their mayoralty.  King took the side of the city, but the majority was
for the by-law, and disapproved of the election; whereupon the citizens repealed the by-law
and re-elected the same alderman as before.

Letter 24.

1 The Lord Treasurer's staff.

2 Swift's "little parson cousin," the resident chaplain at Moor Park.  He pretended to have
had some part in The Tale of a Tub, and Swift always professed great contempt for him.  Thomas
Swift was son of an Oxford uncle of Swift's, of the same name, and was at school and college
with Swift.  He became Rector of Puttenham, Surrey, and died in 1752, aged eighty-seven.

3 The Duke of Ormond's daughter, Lady Mary Butler (see Letter 7, notes 2 and 3.)

4 Thomas Harley, the Lord Treasurer's cousin, was secretary to the Treasury.

5 Lord Oxford's daughter Elizabeth married, in 1712, the Marquis of Caermarthen.

6 Henry Tenison, M.P. for County Louth, was one of the Commissioners of the Revenue in Ireland
from 1704 until his death in 1709 (Luttrell, v. 381, vi. 523).  Probably he was related to
Dr. Tenison, Bishop of Meath, who died in 1705.

7 Anne Finch (died 1720), daughter of Sir William Kingsmill, and wife of Heneage Finch, who
became fourth Earl of Winchelsea in 1712.  Lady Winchelsea published a volume of poems in 1713,
and was a friend of Pope and Rowe. Wordsworth recognised the advance in the growth of attention
to "external nature" shown in her writings.

8 See Letter 23, note 24 and Letter 30, note 13.

9 This was a mistake.  Charles Hickman, D.D., Bishop of Derry, died in November 1713.

10 "These words in italics are written in a large round hand" (Deane Swift). [Italics replaced
by capitals for the transcription of this etext.]

11 "This entry is interlined in the original" (Deane Swift).

12 Colonel James Graham (1649-1730) held various offices under James II., and was granted a
lease of a lodge in Bagshot Park.  Like his brother, Viscount Preston, he was suspected of
treasonable practices in 1691, and he was arrested in 1692 and 1696.  Under Queen Anne and
George I., Colonel Graham was M.P. for Appleby and Westmorland.

13 Mr. Leslie Stephen has pointed out that this is the name of an inn (now the Jolly Farmer)
near Frimley, on the hill between Bagshot and Farnborough.  This inn is still called the Golden
Farmer on the Ordnance map.

14 "Soley" is probably a misreading for "sollah," a form often used by Swift for "sirrah,"
and "figgarkick" may be "pilgarlick" (a poor creature) in Swift's "little language" (cf. 20th
Oct. 1711).

15 See Letter 14, note 14.

16 Probably a misprint for "Bertie."  This Mr. Bertie may have been the Hon. James Bertie,
second son of the first Earl of Abingdon, and M.P. for Middlesex.

17 Evelyn Pierrepont, fifth Earl of Kingston, was made Marquis of Dorchester in 1706.  He became
Duke of Kingston-upon-Hull in 1715, and died in 1726. Lady Mary Wortley Montagu was his daughter.

18 See Letter 12, note 22.

19 Sir Thomas Thynne, first Viscount Weymouth, who died in 1714, aged seventy- four, married
Frances, daughter of Heneage Finch, second Earl of Winchelsea.

20 See Letter 7, note 31.

21 Swift is referring to St. John's defence of Brydges (see Letter 21, note 14.)

22 "He does not mean smoking, which he never practised, but snuffing up cut- and-dry tobacco,
which sometimes was just coloured with Spanish snuff; and this he used all his life, but would
not own that he took snuff" (Deane Swift).

23 Beaumont (see Letter 1, note 2).

24 Sir Alexander Cairnes, M.P. for Monaghan, a banker, was created a baronet in 1706, and died
in 1732.

25 See Letter 6, note 44 and Letter 17, note 4.

26 Isaac Manley (see Letter 3, note 3.)

27 Sir Thomas Frankland.

28 See Letter 5, note 8.

29 Hockley-in-the-Hole, Clerkenwell, a place of public diversion, was famous for its bear and
bull baitings.

30 Sir William Seymour, second son of Sir Edward Seymour, Bart., of Berry Pomeroy, retired
from the army in 1717, and died in 1728 (Dalton's Army Lists).  He was wounded at Landen and
Vigo, and saw much service between his appointment as a Captain of Fusiliers in 1686 and his
promotion to the rank of Lieutenant-General in 1707.

31 No. 45.

32 "And now I conceive the main design I had in writing these papers is fully executed.  A
great majority of the nation is at length thoroughly convinced that the Queen proceeded with
the highest wisdom, in changing her Ministry and Parliament" (Examiner, No. 45).

33 Edward Harley (see Letter 13, note 17).

34 See Letter 24, note 2.

35 Tom Ashe was an elder brother of the Bishop of Clogher.  He had an estate of more than 1000
pounds a year in County Meath, and Nichols describes him as of droll appearance, thick and
short in person:  "a facetious, pleasant companion, but the most eternal unwearied punster
that ever lived."

36 "Even Joseph Beaumont, the son, was at this time an old man, whose grey locks were venerable;
yet his father lived until about 1719" (Deane Swift).

Letter 25.

1 Sir William Wyndham, Bart. (1687-174O), was M.P. for Somerset.  He was a close partisan of
Bolingbroke's, and in 1713 introduced the Schism Bill, which drove Oxford from office.  Wyndham
became Chancellor of the Exchequer, and was afterwards a leading opponent of Walpole.  His
wife, Lady Catherine Seymour (died 1713), was the second daughter of Charles, Duke of Somerset
(see Letter 28, note 8).

2 Swift was afterwards President of this Club, which is better known as "the Society."

3 Perhaps Daniel Reading, M.P. for Newcastle, Co. Dublin.

4 Afterwards Congreve formed a friendship with the Whigs; or, as Swift put it,
     "Took proper principles to thrive,
      And so might every dunce alive."

5 Atterbury.

6 This pamphlet, published in February 1712, was called "A Proposal for Correcting, Improving,
and Ascertaining the English Tongue, in a Letter to the. . .  Lord High Treasurer."

7 No. 47

8 Francis Gastrell, Canon of Christ Church, was made Bishop of Chester in 1713.  His valuable
Notitia Cestriensis was published in 1845-50.

9 Near Fulham.

10 See Letter 12, note 21.

11 The daughters of Meinhardt Schomberg, Duke of Leinster, in Ireland, and third Duke of Schomberg.
Lady Mary married Count Dagenfeldt, and Lady Frederica married, first, the Earl of Holderness,
and, secondly, Earl Fitz Walter.

12 Thomas Harley.

13 See Letter 19, note 3.

Letter 26.

1 The widow of Sir John Lyndon, who was appointed a justice of the Court of King's Bench in
Ireland in 1682, and died in 1699.

2 "Marmaduke Coghill, LL.D., was judge of the Prerogative Court in Ireland. About this time
he courted a lady, and was soon to have been married to her; but unfortunately a cause was
brought to trial before him, wherein a man was sued for beating his wife.  When the matter
was agitated, the Doctor gave his opinion, 'That although a man had no right to beat his wife
unmercifully, yet that, with such a little cane or switch as he then held in his hand, a husband
was at liberty, and was invested with a power, to give his wife moderate correction'; which
opinion determined the lady against having the Doctor.  He died an old man and a bachelor"
(Deane Swift).  See also Lascelles, Liber Muner. Hibern., part ii. p. 80.

3 This was a common exclamation of the time, but the spelling varies in different writers.
It seems to be a corruption of "God so," or "God ho," but there may have been a confusion with
"cat-so," derived from the Italian "cazzo."

4 See Letter 9, note 28.  Mrs. Manley was now editing the Examiner.

5 Sir Henry Belasyse was sent to Spain as Commissioner to inquire into the state of the English
forces in that country.  The son of Sir Richard Belasyse, Knight of Ludworth, Durham, Sir Henry
finished a chequered career in 1717, when he was buried in Westminster Abbey (Dalton's Army
Lists, ii. 228).  In his earlier years he served under the United Provinces, and after the
accession of William was made a Brigadier-General in the English army, and in 1694, Lieutenant-General.
In 1702 he was second in command of the expedition to Cadiz, but he was dismissed the service
in consequence of the looting of Port St. Mary.  Subsequently he was elected M.P. for Durham,
and in 1713 was appointed Governor of Berwick.

6 Atterbury.

7 See Letter 3, note 20.

8 Sir John Powell, a Judge of the Queen's Bench, died in 1713, aged sixty- eight.  He was a
kindly as well as able judge.

9 See June 7th, 1711.

10 This Tisdall has been described as a Dublin merchant; but in all probability he was Richard
Tisdall, Registrar of the Irish Court of Chancery, and M.P. for Dundalk (1707-1713) and County
Louth (1713-1727).  He married Marian, daughter of Richard Boyle, M.P., and died in 1742. 
Richard Tisdall was a relative of Stella's suitor, the Rev. William Tisdall, and years afterwards
Swift took an interest in his son Philip, who became a Secretary of State and Leader of the
Irish House of Commons.

11 "In Ireland there are not public paths from place to place, as in England" (Deane Swift).

12 See Letter 24, note 6.

13 Probably a son of John Manley, M.P.  (see Letter 5, note 8).

14 See Letter 11, note 45.

15 Dr. George Stanhope, who was Vicar of Lewisham as well as of Deptford.  He was a popular
preacher and a translator of Thomas a Kempis and other religious writers.

16 See Letter 3, note 17.

17 A favourite word with Swift, when he wished to indicate anything obscure or humble.

18 See Letter 17, note 11.

19 See June 7th, 1711 and notes.

20 See Letter 17, note 23.

21 Thomas Mills (1671-174O) was made Bishop of Waterford and Lismore in 17O8. A man of learning
and a liberal contributor to the cost of church restorations, he is charged by Archbishop King
with giving all the valuable livings in his gift to his non-resident relatives.

22 Tooke was appointed printer of the London Gazette in 1711 (see Letter 3, note 8).

23 See Letter 5, note 10

24 Lady Jane Hyde, the elder daughter of Henry Hyde, Earl of Rochester (see Letter 5, note
11), married William Capel, third Earl of Essex.  Her daughter Charlotte's husband, the son
of the Earl of Jersey, was created Earl of Clarendon in 1776.  Lady Jane's younger sister,
Catherine, who became the famous Duchess of Queensberry, Gay's patroness, is represented by
Prior, in The Female Phaeton, as jealous, when a young girl, of her sister, "Lady Jenny," who
went to balls, and "brought home hearts by dozens."

25 See Letter 3, note 2.

26 John Holles, Duke of Newcastle, had held the Privy Seal from 17O5, and was regarded by the
Ministers as a possible plenipotentiary in the event of their negotiations for a peace being
successful.  He married Lady Margaret Cavendish, daughter and co-heiress of Henry Cavendish,
second Duke of Newcastle, and was one of the richest nobles in England.  His death, on July
15, 1711, was the result of a fall while stag-hunting.  The Duke's only daughter married, in
1713, Edward, Lord Harley, the Earl of Oxford's son.

Letter 27.

1 Alexander Forbes, fourth Lord Forbes, who was afterwards attainted for his share in the Rebellion
of 1745.

2 Obscure (cf. Letter 7, note 30).

3 Jacob Tonson the elder, who died in 1736, outlived his nephew, Jacob Tonson the younger,
by a few months.  The elder Tonson, the secretary of the Kit-Cat Club, published many of Dryden's
works, and the firm continued to be the chief publishers of the time during the greater part
of the eighteenth century.

4 John Barber.

5 By his will Swift left to Deane Swift his "large silver standish, consisting of a large silver
plate, an ink-pot, and a sand-box."

6 I.e., we are only three hours in getting there.

7 Cf. Letter 15, note 9.

8 The Examiner was revived in December 1711, under Oldisworth's editorship, and was continued
by him until 1714.

9 James Douglas, fourth Duke of Hamilton, was created Duke of Brandon in the English peerage
in September 1711, and was killed by Lord Mohun in a duel in 1712.  Swift calls him "a worthy
good-natured person, very generous, but of a middle understanding."  He married, in 1698, as
his second wife, Elizabeth, daughter and heiress of Digby, Lord Gerard, a lady to whom Swift
often refers in the Journal.  She outlived the Duke thirty-two years.

10 See August 27th, 1711.

11 William Fitzmaurice (see Letter 11, note 19).

12 The Duke of Shrewsbury (see Letter 3, note 32) married an Italian lady, Adelhida, daughter
of the Marquis of Paliotti, of Bologna, descended maternally from Robert Dudley, Earl of Leicester,
Queen Elizabeth's favourite. Lady Cowper (Diary, pp. 8, 9) says that the Duchess "had a wonderful
art of entertaining and diverting people, though she would sometimes exceed the bounds of decency;
. . . but then, with all her prate and noise, she was the most cunning, designing woman alive,
obliging to people in prosperity, and a great party-woman."  As regards the name "Presto,"
see Letter 2, note 11.

13 Probably a cousin.

14 Presumptuous:  claiming much.

15 See Letter 13, note 15.  John Winchcombe, a weaver of Newbury, marched with a hundred of
his workmen, at his own expenses, against the Scots in 1513.

16 Thomas Coke, M.P., of Derbyshire, was appointed a Teller of the Exchequer in 1704, and Vice-Chamberlain
to the Queen in 1706.  In 1706 he married--as his second wife--Mrs. Hale, one of the maids
of honour (Luttrell, v. 411, 423; vi. 113, 462; Lady Cowper's Diary, 15, 16), a lady whose
"piercing" beauty it was, apparently, that Steele described under the name of Chloe, in No.
4 of the Tatler.  Jervas painted her as a country girl, "with a liveliness that shows she is
conscious, but not affected, of her perfections."  Coke was the Sir Plume of Pope's Rape of
the Lock.

17 The committee of management of the Royal household.

18 Francesca Margherita de l'Epine, the famous singer, and principal rival of Mrs. Tofts, came
to England in 1692, and constantly sang in opera until her retirement in 1718, when she married
Dr. Pepusch.  She died in 1746.  Her sister, Maria Gallia, also a singer, did not attain the
same popularity.

19 Charles Scarborow and Sir William Foster were the Clerks of the Board of Green Cloth.

20 See Letter 27, note 16 on Thomas Coke.

21 The Earl of Sunderland's second wife, Lady Anne Churchill, who died in 1716, aged twenty-eight.
She was the favourite daughter of the Duke of Marlborough, and was called "the little Whig."
Verses were written in honour of her beauty and talent by Charles Montagu, Earl of Halifax,
Dr. Watts and others, and her portrait was painted by Lely and Kneller.

22 Mary, daughter of Sir William Forester, of Dothill, Shropshire.  In 1700, at the age of
thirteen, she had been secretly married to her cousin, George Downing, a lad of fifteen.  Three
years later, Downing, on his return from abroad, refused to acknowledge his wife, and in 1715
both parties petitioned the House of Lords for leave to bring in a Bill declaring the marriage
to be void; but leave was refused (Lords' Journals, xx. 41, 45).  Downing had become Sir George
Downing, Bart., in 1711, and had been elected M.P. for Dunwich; he died without issue in 1749,
and was the founder of Downing College, Cambridge.

23 In a discussion upon what would be the result if beards became the fashion, Budgell (Spectator,
No. 331) says, "Besides, we are not certain that the ladies would not come into the mode, when
they take the air on horseback. They already appear in hats and feathers, coats and periwigs."

Letter 28.

1 Horse-racing was much encouraged by Charles II., who, as Strutt tells us, appointed races
to be made in Datchet Mead, when he was residing at Windsor. By Queen Anne's time horse-racing
was becoming a regular institution:  see Spectator, No. 173.

2 John Montagu, second Duke of Montagu, married Lady Mary Churchill, youngest daughter of the
Duke of Marlborough.

3 Of Clogher.

4 John Adams, Prebendary of Canterbury and Canon of Windsor.  He was made Provost of King's
College, Cambridge, in 1712, and died in 1720.

5 The Hon. and Rev. George Verney, Canon of Windsor (died 1728), became fourth Lord Willoughby
de Broke on the death of his father (Sir Richard Verney, the third Baron), in July 1711.  Lord
Willoughby became Dean of Windsor in 1713.

6 Thomas Hare, Under Secretary of State in Bolingbroke's office.

7 Richard Sutton was the second son of Robert Sutton, the nephew of the Robert Sutton who was
created Viscount Lexington by Charles I.  Sutton served under William III.  and Marlborough
in Flanders, and was made a Brigadier-General in 1710, in which year also he was elected M.P.
for Newark.  In 1711 he was appointed Governor of Hull, and he died, a Lieutenant-General,
in 1737 (Dalton's Army Lists, iii. 153)

8 Charles Seymour, sixth Duke of Somerset (1662-1748), known as "the proud Duke of Somerset."
Through the influence which his wife--afterwards Mistress of the Robes (see Letter 17, note
10)--had obtained over the Queen, he bore no small part in bringing about the changes of 1710.
His intrigues during this period were, however, mainly actuated by jealousy of Marlborough,
and he had really no sympathies with the Tories.  His intrigues with the Whigs caused the utmost
alarm to St. John and to Swift.

9 The third and last reference to Vanessa in the Journal.

10 "Pray God preserve her life, which is of great importance" (Swift to Archbishop King, Aug.
15, 1711).  St. John was at this moment very anxious to conciliate Mrs. Masham, as he felt
that she was the only person capable of counteracting the intrigues of the Duchess of Somerset
with the Queen.

11 Pontack, of Abchurch Lane, son of Arnaud de Pontac, President of the Parliament of Bordeaux,
was proprietor of the most fashionable eating-house in London.  There the Royal Society met
annually at dinner until 1746.  Several writers speak of the dinners at a guinea a head and
upwards served at Pontack's, and Swift comments on the price of the wine.

12 "His name was Read" (Scott).

13 Up to the end of 1709 the warrants for the payment of the works at Blenheim had been regularly
issued by Godolphin and paid at the Treasury; over 200,000 pounds was expended in this manner.
But after the dismissal of the Whigs the Queen drew tight the purse-strings.  The 20,000 pounds
mentioned by Swift was paid in 1711, but on June 1, 1712, Anne gave positive orders that nothing
further should be allowed for Blenheim, though 12,000 pounds remained due to the contractors.

14 The piercing of the lines before Bouchain, which Villars had declared to be the non plus
ultra of the Allies, one of the most striking proofs of Marlborough's military genius.

15 See Letter 22, note 15.

16 A fashionable gaming-house in St. James's Street.

17 See Letter 6, note 15.  The Grange, near Alresford, Hampshire, was Henley's seat.  His wife
(see Letter 12, note 24) was the daughter of Peregrine Bertie, son of Montagu Bertie, second
Earl of Lindsey; and Earl Poulett (see Letter 20, note 7) married Bridget, an elder daughter
of Bertie's.

18 William Henry Hyde, Earl of Danby, grandson of the first Duke of Leeds (see Letter 8, note
22), and eldest son of Peregrine Osborne, Baron Osborne and Viscount Dunblane, who succeeded
to the dukedom in 1712.  Owing to this young man's death (at the age of twenty-one), his brother,
Peregrine Hyde, Marquis of Caermarthen, who married Harley's daughter Elizabeth, afterwards
became third Duke of Leeds.

19 See Letter 8, note 2.

20 See Letter 3, note 7.

21 William Gregg was a clerk in Harley's office when the latter was Secretary of State under
the Whig Administration.  In 1707-8 he was in treasonable correspondence with M. de Chamillart,
the French Secretary of State.  When he was detected he was tried for high treason, and hanged
on April 28.  The Lords who examined Gregg did their utmost to establish Harley's complicity,
which Gregg, however, with his dying breath solemnly denied.

22 By Swift himself.  The title was, Some Remarks upon a Pamphlet entitled, A Letter to the
Seven Lords of the Committee appointed to examine Gregg.

23 See Letter 13, note 10.  There is no copy in the British Museum.

24 Thomas Parnell, the poet, married, in 1706, Anne, daughter of Thomas Minchin, of Tipperary.
In 1711 Parnell was thirty-two years of age, and was Archdeacon of Clogher and Vicar of Clontibret.
Swift took much trouble to obtain for Parnell the friendship of Bolingbroke and other persons
of note, and Parnell became a member of the Scriblerus Club.  In 1716 he was made Vicar of
Finglas, and after his death in 1718 Pope prepared an edition of his poems. The fits of depression
to which Parnell was liable became more marked after his wife's death, and he seems to have
to some extent given way to drink.  His sincerity and charm of manner made him welcome with
men of both parties.

25 Dr. Henry Compton had been Bishop of London since 1675.  He was dangerously ill early in
1711, but he lived until 1713, when he was eighty-one.

26 See Letter 26, note 10.

27 See Letter 7, note 21.

28 L'Estrange speaks of "a whiffling fop" and Swift says, "Every whiffler in a laced coat,
who frequents the chocolate-house, shall talk of the Constitution."

29 Prior's first visit to France with a view to the secret negotiations with that country which
the Ministers were now bent on carrying through, had been made in July, when he and Gaultier
reached Calais in a fishing-boat and proceeded to Fontainbleau under assumed names.  He returned
to England in August, but was recognised at Dover, whence the news spread all over London,
to the great annoyance of the Ministers.  The officer who recognised Prior was John Macky,
reputed author of those Characters upon which Swift wrote comments.  Formerly a secret service
agent under William III., Macky had been given the direction of the Ostend mail packets by
Marlborough, to whom he communicated the news of Prior's journey.  Bolingbroke threatened to
hang Macky, and he was thrown into prison; but the accession of George I.  again brought him
favour and employment.

30 See Letter 12, note 7.

Letter 29.

1 See Letter 3, note 4.

2 See Letter 6, note 4.

3 Edward Villiers (1656-1711), created Viscount Villiers in 1691, was made Earl of Jersey in
1697.  Under William III. he was Lord Chamberlain and Secretary of State, but he was dismissed
from office in 1704.  When he died he had been nominated as a plenipotentiary at the Congress
of Utrecht, and was about to receive the appointment of Lord Privy Seal.  Lord Jersey married,
in 1681, when she was eighteen, Barbara, daughter of William Chiffinch, closet- keeper to Charles
II.; she died in 1735.

4 Lord Paisley was the Earl of Abercorn's eldest surviving son (see Letter 17, note 7).

5 The Hon. John Hamilton, the Earl's second surviving son, died in 1714.

6 Dr. John Robinson (1650-1723) had gone out as chaplain to the Embassy at the Court of Sweden
in 1682, and had returned in 1708 with the double reputation of being a thorough Churchman
and a sound diplomatist.  He was soon made Dean of Windsor, and afterwards Bishop of Bristol.
He was now introduced to the Council Board, and it was made known to those in the confidence
of Ministers that he would be one of the English plenipotentiaries at the coming Peace Congress.
In 1713 Dr. Robinson was made Bishop of London.

7 John Erskine, Earl of Mar (1675-1732), who was attainted for his part in the Rebellion of
1715.  His first wife, Lady Margaret Hay, was a daughter of Lord Kinnoull.

8 Thomas Hay, sixth Earl of Kinnoull (died 1719), a Commissioner for the Treaty of Union between
England and Scotland, and one of the Scotch representative peers in the first Parliament of
Great Britain.  His son and heir, Viscount Dupplin, afterwards Baron Hay (see Letter 5, note
34), who married Harley's daughter Abigail, is often mentioned in the Journal.

9 See Letter 3, note 5.

10 The title of the pamphlet was, "A New Journey to Paris, together with some Secret Transactions
between the French King and an English Gentleman.  By the Sieur du Baudrier.  Translated from
the French."

11 See Letter 11, note 44.

12 See Letter 28, note 6.

13 The Earl of Strafford (see Letter 18, note 3) married, on Sept. 6, 1711, Anne, only daughter
and heiress of Sir Henry Johnson, of Bradenham, Buckinghamshire, a wealthy shipbuilder.  Many
of Lady Strafford's letters to her husband are given in the Wentworth Papers, 1883.

14 Samuel Pratt, who was also Clerk of the Closet.

15 Alice Hill, woman of the bed-chamber to the Queen, died in 1762.

16 Enniscorthy, the name of a town in the county of Wexford.

17 Scrambling.

18 "These words in italics are written in strange, misshapen letters, inclining to the right
hand, in imitation of Stella's writing" (Deane Swift). [Italics replaced by capitals for the
transcription of this etext.]

19 Senior Fellow of Trinity College, Dublin.

20 John Pooley, appointed Bishop of Raphoe in 1702.

21 "These words in italics are miserably scrawled, in imitation of Stella's hand (Deane Swift).
[Italics replaced by capitals for the transcription of this etext.]

22 See Letter 8, note 2.

Letter 30.

1 See Letter 25, note 1.

2 See Letter 9, note 22.

3 See Letter 29, note 10.

4 Cf. the entry on the 11th (note 3 above).

5 See Letter 6, note 4.

6 William, Lord Villiers, second Earl of Jersey (died 1721), a strong Jacobite, had been M.P.
for Kent before his father's death.  He married, in 1704, Judith, only daughter of a City merchant,
Frederick Herne, son of Sir Nathaniel Herne, Alderman; she died in 1735.  Lord Jersey, one
of "the prettiest young peers in England," was a companion of Bolingbroke, and stories in the
Wentworth Papers (pp. 149, 230, 395, 445), show that he had a bad reputation.

7 See Letter 28, note 4.

8 The name of Arbuthnot's wife is not known:  she died in 1730.

9 James Lovet, one of the "Yeomen Porters" at Court.

10 Richard Jones, Earl of Ranelagh, who died without male issue in January 1712.  Writing to
Archbishop King on Jan. 8, Swift said, "Lord Ranelagh died on Sunday morning; he was very poor
and needy, and could hardly support himself for want of a pension which used to be paid him."

11 Arabella Churchill, maid of honour to the Duchess of York, and mistress of James II., afterwards
married Colonel Charles Godfrey, Clerk Comptroller of the Green Cloth and Master of the Jewel
Office.  Her second son by James II. was created Duke of Albemarle.

12 See Letter 28, note 4.

13 The Lord Mayor and Sheriffs of Dublin, elected in August 1711, "not being approved of by
the Government, the City was obliged to proceed to another election, which occasioned a great
ferment among the vulgar sort" (Boyer, Political State, 1711, p. 500).  After two other persons
had been elected and disapproved of, Alderman Gore was elected Lord Mayor, and approved (ib.
pp. 612-17).

14 "These words in italics are written enormously large" (Deane Swift). [Italics replaced by
capitals for the transcription of this etext.]

15 See Letter 3, note 39.

16 Henry Lowman, First Clerk of the Kitchen.

17 "The Doctor was always a bad reckoner, either of money or anything else; and this is one
of his rapid computations.  For, as Stella was seven days in journey, although Dr. Swift says
only six, she might well have spent four days at Inish-Corthy, and two nights at Mrs. Proby's
mother's, the distance from Wexford to Dublin being but two easy days' journey" (Deane Swift).

18 Mrs. Fenton.

Letter 31.

1 See Letter 10, note 31.

2 Charles Paulet, second Duke of Bolton, was appointed Lord Lieutenant of Ireland in 1717,
and died in 1722.  In a note on Macky's character of the Duke, Swift calls him "a great booby";
and Lady Cowper (Diary, p. 154) says that he was generally to be seen with his tongue lolling
out of his mouth.

3 Stella's maid.

4 See Letter 12, note 7.

5 Colonel Fielding (see Letter 16, note 21).

6 The envoys were Menager and the Abbe du Bois; the priest was the Abbe Gaultier.

7 See Letter 18, note 3.

8 Sir Theophilus Oglethorpe, General, who died in 1702, married Eleanor, daughter of Richard
Wall, of Rogane, Tipperary.  She died in 1732, and Swift described her as so "cunning a devil
that she had great influence as a reconciler of the differences at Court."  One of her sons
was General James Oglethorpe, the philanthropist, and friend of Dr. Johnson.

9 "Worrit," trouble, tease.

10 Sir John Walter, Bart. (died 1722), was M.P. for the city of Oxford.  He and Charles Godfrey
(see Letter 30, note 11) were the Clerks Comptrollers of the Green Cloth.

11 See Letter 17, note 3.

12 No doubt one of the daughters of Mervyn Tuchet, fourth Earl of Castlehaven, who died in 1686.

13 Henrietta Maria, daughter of Charles Scarborow (see Letter 27, note 19). She married, in
1712, Sir Robert Jenkinson, Bart., M.P. for Oxfordshire, who died without issue in 1717.  See
Wentworth Papers, 244.

14 In July 1712 a Commission passed empowering Conyers Darcy and George Fielding (an equerry
to the Queen) to execute the office of Master of the Horse.

15 At Killibride, about four miles from Trim.

16 Swift's "mistress," Lady Hyde (see Letter 5, note 11), whose husband had become Earl of
Rochester in May 1711.  She was forty-one in 1711.

17 See Sept. 19, 1711.

18 See Letter 29, note 14.

19 See Letter 22, note 3.

20 See Letter 27, note 9.

21 See Letter 26, note 10.

22 "This happens to be the only single line written upon the margin of any of his journals.
By some accident there was a margin about as broad as the back of a razor, and therefore he
made this use of it" (Deane Swift).

Letter 32.

1 Lieutenant-Colonel Barton, of Colonel Kane's regiment.

2 A nickname for the High Church party.

3 See Letter 29, note 10.

4 "From this pleasantry of my Lord Oxford, the appellative Martinus Scriblerus took its rise"
(Deane Swift).

5 Cf. the Imitation of the Sixth Satire of the Second Book of Horace, 1714,
where Swift says that, during their drives together, Harley would
          "gravely try to read the lines
      Writ underneath the country signs."

6 See Letter 23, note 15.

7 See Letter 18, note 4.

8 See Letter 23, note 17.

9 Lord Pembroke (see Letter 7, note 31) married, in 1708, as his second wife, Barbara, Dowager
Baroness Arundell of Trerice, formerly widow of Sir Richard Mauleverer, and daughter of Sir
Thomas Slingsby.  She died in 1722.

10 Caleb Coatesworth, who died in 1741, leaving a large fortune.

11 Abel Boyer, Whig journalist and historian, attacked Swift in his pamphlet, An Account of
the State and Progress of the Present Negotiations for Peace. Boyer says that he was released
from custody by Harley; and in the Political State for 1711 (p. 646) he speaks of Swift as
"a shameless and most contemptible ecclesiastical turncoat, whose tongue is as swift to revile
as his mind is swift to change."  The Postboy said that Boyer would "be prosecuted with the
utmost severity of the law" for this attack.

12 The "Edgar."  Four hundred men were killed.

13 William Bretton, or Britton, was made Lieutenant-Colonel in 1702, Colonel of a new Regiment
of Foot 1705, Brigadier-General 1710, and Colonel of the King's Own Borderers in April 1711
(Dalton, Army Lists, iii. 238).  In December 1711 he was appointed Envoy Extraordinary to the
King of Prussia (Postboy, Jan. 1, 1712), and he died in December 1714 or January 1715.

14 See Letter 24, note 14.

15 It is not clear which of several Lady Gores is here referred to.  It may be (1) the wife
of Sir William Gore, Bart., of Manor Gore, and Custos Rotulorum, County Leitrim, who married
Hannah, eldest daughter and co-heir of James Hamilton, Esq., son of Sir Frederick Hamilton,
and niece of Gustavus Hamilton, created Viscount Boyne.  She died 1733.  Or (2) the wife of
Sir Ralph Gore, Bart. (died 1732), M.P. for County Donegal, and afterwards Speaker of the Irish
House of Commons.  He married Miss Colville, daughter of Sir Robert Colville, of Newtown, Leitrim,
and, as his second wife, Elizabeth, only daughter of Dr. Ashe, Bishop of Clogher.  Or (3) the
wife of Sir Arthur Gore, Bart. (died 1727), of Newtown Gore, Mayo, who married Eleanor, daughter
of Sir George St. George, Bart., of Carrick, Leitrim, and was ancestor of the Earls of Arran.

16 "Modern usage has sanctioned Stella's spelling" (Scott).  Swift's spelling was "wast."

17 Mrs. Manley.

18 Swift's own lines, "Mrs. Frances Harris's Petition."

19 Thomas Coote was a justice of the Court of Queen's Bench, in Ireland, from 1692 until his
removal in 1715.

20 Probably a relative of Robert Echlin, Dean of Tuam, who was killed by some of his own servants
in April 1712, at the age of seventy-three.  His son John became Prebendary and Vicar-General
of Tuam, and died in 1764, aged eighty- three.  In August 1731 Bolingbroke sent Swift a letter
by the hands of "Mr. Echlin," who would, he said, tell Swift of the general state of things
in England.

21 "This column of words, as they are corrected, is in Stella's hand" (Deane Swift).

Letter 33.

1 Swift's verses, "The Description of a Salamander," are a scurrilous attack on John, Lord
Cutts (died 1707), who was famous for his bravery.  Joanna Cutts, the sister who complained
of Swift's abuse, died unmarried.

2 See Letter 6, note 5.

3 Fourteen printers or publishers were arrested, under warrants signed by St. John, for publishing
pamphlets directed against the Government.  They appeared at the Court of Queens Bench on Oct.
23, and were continued on their own recognisances till the end of the term.

4 Robert Benson (see Letter 6, note 36).

5 "The South Sea Whim," printed in Scott's Swift, ii. 398.

6 See Letter 21, Apr. 24, 1711, Letter 22, Apr. 28, 1711, and Letter 34, 17 Nov. 1711.

7 Count Gallas was dismissed with a message that he might depart from the kingdom when he thought
fit.  He published the preliminaries of peace in the Daily Courant.

8 William, second Viscount Hatton, who died without issue in 1760.  His half- sister Anne married
Daniel Finch, second Earl of Nottingham, and Lord Hatton was therefore uncle to his fellow-guest,
Mr. Finch.

9 Crinkle or contract.  Gay writes:  "Showers soon drench the camblet's cockled grain."

10 The Countess of Jersey (see Letter 30, note 6), like her husband, was a friend of Bolingbroke's.
Lady Strafford speaks of her having lately (November 1711) "been in pickle for her sins," at
which she was not surprised.  Before the Earl succeeded to the title, Lady Wentworth wrote
to her son:  "It's said Lord Villors Lady was worth fower scoar thoussand pd; you might have
got her, as wel as Lord Villors. . . .  He [Lord Jersey) has not don well by his son, the young
lady is not yoused well as I hear amongst them, which in my openion is not well."  Wentworth
Papers (pp. 214, 234).

11 Cf. Letter 9, Nov. 11, 1710, and Letter 9, note 3.

12 Charles Crow, appointed Bishop of Cloyne in 1702.

13 Swift.

14 Mrs. Manley.

15 The titles of these pamphlets are as follows:  (1) A True Narrative of . . . the Examination
of the Marquis de Guiscard; (2) Some Remarks upon a Pamphlet entitled, A Letter to the Seven
Lords; (3) A New Journey to Paris; (4) The Duke of Marlborough's Vindication; (5) A Learned
Comment on Dr. Hare's Sermon.

16 See the pun this day above.

Letter 34.

1 See Letter 3, note 17.

2 See Letter 11, note 44.

3 Pratt (see Letter 2, note 14).

4 Stella and Dingley.

5 "Noah's Dove, an Exhortation to Peace, set forth in a Sermon preached on the Seventh of November,
1710, a Thanksgiving Day, by Thomas Swift, A.M., formerly Chaplain to Sir William Temple, now
Rector of Puttenham in Surrey."  Thomas Swift was Swift's "little parson cousin" (see Letter
24, note 2).

6 See Letter 6, note 11.  The book referred to is, apparently, An Impartial Enquiry into the
Management of the War in Spain, post-dated 1712.

7 Lord Harley (afterwards second Earl of Oxford) (see Letter 5, note 35) married, on Oct. 31,
1713, Lady Henrietta Cavendish Holles, only daughter of John Holles, last Duke of Newcastle
of that family (see Letter 26, note 26).

8 Bolingbroke afterwards said that the great aim (at length accomplished) of Harley's administration
was to marry his son to this young lady.  Swift wrote a poetical address to Lord Harley on
his marriage.

9 Thomas Pelham, first Baron Pelham, married, as his second wife, Lady Grace Holles, daughter
of the Earl of Clare and sister of the Duke of Newcastle. Their eldest son, Thomas, who succeeded
to the barony in 1712, was afterwards created Earl of Clare and Duke of Newcastle,

10 Francis Higgins, Rector of Baldruddery, called "the Sacheverell of Ireland," was an extreme
High Churchman, who had been charged with sedition on account of sermons preached in London
in 1707.  In 1711 he was again prosecuted as "a disloyal subject and disturber of the public
peace."  At that time he was Prebendary of Christ Church, Dublin; in 1725 he was made Archdeacon
of Cashel.

11 Swift's pamphlet, The Conduct of the Allies.

12 Lord Oxford's daughter Abigail married, in 1709, Viscount Dupplin, afterwards seventh Earl
of Kinnoull (see Letter 5, note 34).  She died in 1750, and her husband in 1758, when the eldest
son, Thomas, became Earl.  The second son, Robert, was made Archbishop of York in 1761.

13 Kensington Gravel Pits was then a famous health resort.

14 Draggled.  Pope has, "A puppy, daggled through the town."

15 Writing of Peperharrow, Manning and Bray state (Surrey, ii. 32, 47) that Oxenford Grange
was conveyed to Philip Froud (died 1736) in 1700, and was sold by him in 1713 to Alan Broderick,
afterwards Viscount Midleton.  This Froud (Swift's "old Frowde") had been Deputy Postmaster-General;
he was son of Sir Philip Frowde, who was knighted in 1665 (Le Neve's Knights, Harleian Society,
p. 190), and his son Philip was Addison's friend (see Letter 8, note 13).

16 Probably the Charles Child, Esq., of Farnham, whose death is recorded in the Gentleman's
Magazine for 1754.

17 Grace Spencer was probably Mrs. Proby's sister (see Letter 19, note 3).

18 Cf. Shakespeare, As You Like It, v. 3:  "Shall we clap into 't roundly, without hawking
or spitting, which are the only prologues to a bad voice?"

19 In the "Verses on his own Death," 1731, Swift says

     "When daily howd'y's come of course,
      And servants answer, 'Worse and worse!'"

Cf. Steele (Tatler, No. 109),

"After so many howdies, you proceed to visit or not, as you like the run of each other's reputation
or fortune,"

and (Spectator, No. 143),

     "the howd'ye servants of our women."

Letter 35.

1 See Letter 31, note 8.

2 See Letter 14, note 9.

3 The Tories alleged that the Duke of Marlborough, the Duke of Montagu, Steele, etc., were
to take part in the procession (cf. Spectator, No. 269). Swift admits that the images seized
were worth less than 40 pounds, and not 1000 pounds, as he had said, and that the Devil was
not like Harley; yet he employed someone to write a lying pamphlet, A True Relation of the
Several Facts and Circumstances of the Intended Riot and Tumult, etc.

4 A brother of Jemmy Leigh (see Letter 2, note 16), and one of Stella's card- playing acquaintances.

5 Of The Conduct of the Allies (see Letter 34, Nov. 10, 1711, and Letter 35, Nov. 24, 1711).

6 Sir Thomas Hanmer (see Letter 9, note 13) married, in 1698, Isabella, widow of the first
Duke of Grafton, and only daughter and heiress of Henry, Earl of Arlington.  She died in 1723.

7 James, Duke of Hamilton (see Letter 27, note 9), married, in 1698, as his second wife, Elizabeth,
daughter and sole heir of Digby, Lord Gerard.  She died in 1744.

8 The Conduct of the Allies.

9 See Letter 25, note 6.

10 Sir Matthew Dudley (see Letter 3, note 2) married Lady Mary O'Bryen, youngest daughter of
Henry, Earl of Thomond.

11 See Letter 31, note 10.

12 Sir John St. Leger (died 1743) was M.P. for Doneraile and a Baron of the Exchequer in Ireland
from 1714 to 1741.  His elder brother, Arthur, was created Viscount Doneraile in 1703.

13 "Relation of the Facts and Circumstances of the Intended Riot on Queen Elizabeth's Birthday."

14 The Conduct of the Allies.

15 See Letter 9, note 18.

16 The first motto was "Partem tibi Gallia nostri eripuit," etc.  (Horace, 2 Od. 17-24).

17 See Plautus's Amphitrus, or Dryden's Amphitryon.

18 It is not known whether or no this was Dr. William Savage, Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
No copy of the sermon--if it was printed--has been found.  See Courtenay's Memoirs of Sir William
Temple.

19 Of The Conduct of the Allies, a pamphlet which had a very wide circulation. See a paper
by Edward Solly in the Antiquarian Magazine, March 1885.

20 Allen Bathurst, M.P. (1684-1775), created Baron Bathurst in December 1711, and Earl Bathurst
in 1772.  His second and eldest surviving son was appointed Lord Chancellor in the year preceding
the father's death.  Writing to her son in January 1711 (Wentworth Papers, 173), Lady Wentworth
said of Bathurst, "He is, next to you, the finest gentleman and the best young man I know;
I love him dearly."

21 See Letter 9, note 17.

22 See Letter 16, note 20.

23 Swift is alluding to the quarrel between Lord Santry (see Letter 23, note 2) and Francis
Higgins (see Letter 34, note 10), which led to Higgins's prosecution.  The matter is described
at length in Boyer s Political State, 1711, pp. 617 seq.

24 See Letter 19, note 1.

25 No doubt the same as Colonel Newburgh (see Journal, March 5, 1711-12).

26 Beaumont (see Letter 1, note 2 and Letter 26, Jul. 6, 1711).

27 See Letter 31, note 1.

28 Cf. Letter 15, Feb. 9, 1710-11.

29 See Letter 35, note 3.

Letter 36.

1 See Letter 34, note 15.  Debtors could not be arrested on Sunday.

2 Sir George Pretyman, Bart., dissipated the fortune of the family.  The title became dormant
in 1749.

3 See the Introduction.

4 For the Whites of Farnham, see Manning and Bray's Surrey, iii. 177.

5 The Conduct of the Allies.

6 The Percevals were among Swift's principal friends in the neighbourhood of Laracor.  In a
letter to John Temple in 1706 (Forster's Life of Swift, 182) Swift alludes to Perceval; in
spite of different views in politics, "I always loved him," says Swift, "very well as a man
of very good understanding and humour."  Perceval was related to Sir John Perceval, afterwards
Earl of Egmont (see Letter 18, note 15).

7 See Letter 1, note 12.

8 See Letter 8, note 14.

9 The Examiner was resumed on Dec. 6, 1711, under Oldisworth's editorship, and was continued
by him until July 1714.

10 Daniel Finch, second Earl of Nottingham, a staunch Tory, had quarrelled with the Government
and the Court.  On Dec. 7, 1711, he carried, by six votes, an amendment to the Address, to
the effect that no peace would be acceptable which left Spain in the possession of the House
of Bourbon.  Harley's counter- stroke was the creation of twelve new peers.  The Whigs rewarded
Nottingham by withdrawing their opposition to the Occasional Conformity Bill:

11 This "Song" begins:

     "An orator dismal of Nottinghamshire,
      Who had forty years let out his conscience for hire."

12 The Conduct of the Allies.

13 Robert Bertie, Lord Willoughby de Eresby, and fourth Earl of Lindsey, was created Marquis
of Lindsay in 1706, and Duke of Ancaster and Kesteven in 1715. He died in 1723.

14 Lady Sunderland (see Letter 27, note 21) and Lady Rialton, ladies of the bed-chamber to
the Queen.

15 Hugh Cholmondeley (died 1724), the second Viscount, was created Viscount Malpas and Earl
of Cholmondeley in 1706, and in 1708 was appointed Treasurer of Her Majesty's Household, an
office which he held until 1713, in spite of his Whig sympathies.  "Good for nothing, so far
as ever I knew," Swift wrote of him.

16 Prov. xxv. 3.

17 See Letter 31, note 8.

18 Thomas Parker, afterwards created Earl of Macclesfield, was appointed Lord Chief-Justice
in March 1710.  In September 1711 he declined Harley's offer of the Lord Chancellorship, a
post which he accepted under a Whig Government in the next reign.

19 The Bill against Occasional Conformity.

Letter 37.

1 The proposed visit to London of Prince Eugene of Savoy, the renowned General, and friend
of Marlborough, was viewed by the Government with considerable alarm.

2 Swift's "An excellent new Song; being the intended Speech of a famous orator against Peace,"
a ballad "two degrees above Grub Street" (see Letter 36, note 11).

3 Robert Walpole was then M.P. for King's Lynn, and Leader of the Opposition in the House of
Commons.  He had been Secretary at War from February 1708 to September 1710, and the Commissioners
of Public Accounts having reported, on Dec. 21, 1711, that he had been guilty of venality and
corruption, he was expelled from the House of Commons, and taken to the Tower.

4 William King, D.C.L., author of the Journey to London in 1698, Dialogues of the Dead, The
Art of Cookery, and other amusing works, was, at the end of the month, appointed Gazetteer,
in succession to Steele, on Swift's recommendation.  Writing earlier in the year, Gay said
that King deserved better than to "languish out the small remainder of his life in the Fleet
Prison."  The duties of Gazetteer were too much for his easy-going nature and failing health,
and he resigned the post in July 1712.  He died in the following December.

5 At the bottom of St. James's Street, on the west side.

6 The Rev. John Shower, pastor of the Presbyterian Congregation at Curriers' Hall, London Wall.

7 The Windsor Prophecy, in which the Duchess of Somerset (see Letter 17, note 10) is attacked
as "Carrots from Northumberland."

8 Merlin's Prophecy, 1709, written in pseudo-mediaeval English.

9 See Letter 3, note 18.

10 Dorothy, daughter of Sir Edward Leach, of Shipley, Derbyshire.

11 Sir James Long, Bart. (died 1729), was at this time M.P. for Chippenham.

12 The number containing this paragraph is not in the British Museum.

13 Joseph Beaumont (see Letter 1, note 2, Letter 26, Jul. 6, 1711 and Letter 35, note 26)

14 See Letter 4, note 13.

15 Apparently a misprint for "whether."

16 See Letter 32, note 19.

17 James Compton, afterwards fifth Earl of Northampton (died 1754), was summoned to the House
of Lords as Baron Compton in December 1711.  Charles Bruce, who succeeded his father as third
Earl of Aylesbury in 1741, was created Lord Bruce, of Whorlton, at the same time.

18 James, Lord Compton, eldest son of the Earl of Northampton; Charles, Lord Bruce, eldest
son of the Earl of Aylesbury; Henry Paget, son of Lord Paget; George Hay, Viscount Dupplin,
the son-in-law of the Lord Treasurer, created Baron Hay; Viscount Windsor, created Baron Montjoy;
Sir Thomas Mansel, Baron Mansel; Sir Thomas Willoughby, Baron Middleton; Sir Thomas Trevor,
Baron Trevor; George Granville, Baron Lansdowne; Samuel Masham, Baron Masham; Thomas Foley,
Baron Foley; and Allen Bathurst, Baron Bathurst.

Letter 38.

1 Juliana, widow of the second Earl of Burlington, and daughter of the Hon. Henry Noel, was
Mistress of the Robes to Queen Anne.  She died in 1750, aged seventy-eight.

2 Thomas Windsor, Viscount Windsor (died 1738), an Irish peer, who had served under William
III. in Flanders, was created Baron Montjoy, of the Isle of Wight, in December 1711.  He married
Charlotte, widow of John, Baron Jeffries, of Wem, and daughter of Philip Herbert, Earl of Pembroke.

3 The Hon. Russell Robartes, brother of Lord Radnor (see Letter 3, note 7), was Teller of the
Exchequer, and M.P. for Bodmin.  His son became third Earl of Radnor in 1723.

4 Gay (Trivia, ii. 92) speaks of "the slabby pavement."

5 See Letter 17, note 1.

6 George Granville (see Letter 14, note 5), now Baron Lansdowne, married Lady Mary Thynne,
widow of Thomas Thynne, and daughter of Edward, Earl of Jersey (see Letter 29, note 3).  In
October 1710 Lady Wentworth wrote to her son, "Pray, my dear, why will you let Lady Mary Thynne
go?  She is young, rich, and not unhandsome, some say she is pretty; and a virtuous lady, and
of the nobility, and why will you not try to get her?"  (Wentworth papers, 149).

7 See Letter 24, note 4.

8 Harness.

9 On his birthday Swift read the third chapter of Job.

10 See Letter 33, note 12.

11 Sir George St. George of Dunmore, Co. Galway, M.P. for Co. Leitrim from 1661 to 1692, and
afterwards for Co. Galway, died in December 1711.

12 See Letter 35, note 11 and Letter 31, note 10.

13 See Letter 4, note 16.

14 Dr. Pratt (see Letter 2, note 14).

15 King Henry VIII., act iv. sc. 2; "An old man broken with the storms," etc.

16 "These words in the manuscript imitate Stella's writing, and are sloped the wrong way" (Deane
Swift),

17 Archibald Douglas, third Marquis of Douglas, was created Duke of Douglas in 1703.  He died,
without issue, in 1761.

18 Arbuthnot and Freind.

Letter 39.

1 Sir Stephen Evance, goldsmith, was knighted in 1690.

2 Because of the refusal of the House of Lords to allow the Duke of Hamilton (see Letter 27,
note 9), a Scottish peer who had been raised to the peerage of Great Britain as Duke of Brandon,
to sit under that title.  The Scottish peers discontinued their attendance at the House until
the resolution was partially amended; and the Duke of Hamilton always sat as a representative
Scottish peer.

3 Sir William Robinson (1655-1736), created a baronet in 1689, was M.P. for York from 1697
to 1722.  His descendants include the late Earl De Grey and the Marquis of Ripon.

4 See Letter 16, note 19.  The full title was, Some Advice humbly offered to the Members of
the October Club, in a Letter from a Person of Honour.

5 See Letter 38, note 11.

6 "It is the last of the page, and written close to the edge of the paper" (Deane Swift).

7 Henry Somerset, second Duke of Beaufort.  In September 1711 the Duke--who was then only twenty-seven--married,
as his third wife, Mary, youngest daughter of the Duke of Leeds.  In the following January
Lady Strafford wrote, "The Duke and Duchess of Beaufort are the fondest of one another in the
world; I fear 'tis too hot to hold. . . .  I own I fancy people may love one another as well
without making so great a rout"  (Wentworth Papers, 256).  The Duke died in 1714, at the age
of thirty.

8 "Upon the 10th and 17th of this month the Examiner was very severe upon the Duke of Marlborough,
and in consequence of this report pursued him with greater virulence in the following course
of his papers" (Deane Swift).

9 A term of execration.  Scott (Kenilworth) has, "A pize on it."

10 See Letter 11, note 13.

11 In a letter to Swift of Jan. 31, 1712, Sacheverell, after expressing his indebtedness to
St. John and Harley, said, "For yourself, good Doctor, who was the first spring to move it,
I can never sufficiently acknowledge the obligation," and in a postscript he hinted that a
place in the Custom House which he heard was vacant might suit his brother.

12 Thomas Yalden, D.D., (1671-1736), Addison's college friend, succeeded Atterbury as preacher
of Bridewell Hospital in 1713.  In 1723 he was arrested on suspicion of being involved in the
Atterbury plot.

13 Tablets.

14 Sir Solomon de Medina, a Jew, was knighted in 1700.

15 Davenant had been said to be the writer of papers which Swift contributed to the Examiner.

16 Henry Withers, a friend of "Duke" Disney (see Letter 16, note 20), was appointed Lieutenant-General
in 1707, and Major-General in 1712.  On his death in 1729 he was buried in Westminster Abbey.

17 See Letter 36, note 18.

18 Dyer's News Letter, the favourite reading of Sir Roger de Coverley (Spectator, No. 127),
was the work of John Dyer, a Jacobite journalist.  In the Tatler (No. 18) Addison says that
Dyer was "justly looked upon by all the fox-hunters in the nation as the greatest statesman
our country has produced." Lord Chief-Justice Holt referred to the News Letter as "a little
scandalous paper of a scandalous author" (Howell's State Trials, xiv. 1150).

Letter 40.

1 Dr. John Sharp, made Archbishop of York in 1691, was called by Swift "the harmless tool of
others' hate."  Swift believed that Sharp, owing to his dislike of The Tale of a Tub, assisted
in preventing the bishopric of Hereford being offered to him.  Sharp was an excellent preacher,
with a taste for both poetry and science.

2 An edition of the Countess d'Aulnoy's Les Contes des Fees appeared in 1710, in four volumes.

3 Francis Godolphin, Viscount Rialton, the eldest son of Sidney, Earl of Godolphin, succeeded
his father as second Earl on Sept. 15, 1712.  He held 3 various offices, including that of
Lord Privy Seal (1735-1740), and died in 1766, aged eighty-eight.  He married, in 1698, Lady
Henrietta Churchill, who afterwards was Duchess of Marlborough in her own right.  She died in 1733.

4 See Letter 26, note 24.  Ladies of the bed-chamber received 1000 pounds a year.

5 William O'Brien, third Earl of Inchiquin, succeeded his father in 1691, and died in 1719.

6 Lady Catherine Hyde was an unmarried daughter of Laurence Hyde, first Earl of Rochester (see
Letter 8, note 22).  Notwithstanding Swift's express statement that the lady to whom he here
refers was the late Earl's daughter, and the allusion to her sister, Lady Dalkeith, in Letter
60, note 26, she has been confused by previous editors with her niece, Lady Catherine Hyde
(see Letter 26, note 24), daughter of the second Earl, and afterwards Duchess of Queensberry.
That lady, not long afterwards to be celebrated by Prior, was a child under twelve when Swift
wrote.

7 Sir John Trevor (1637-1717), formerly Speaker of the House of Commons.

8 See Letter 11, note 44.

9 See Letter 34, note 10.

10 See Letter 23, note 2.

11 Charles Trimnel, made Bishop of Norwich in 1708, and Bishop of Winchester in 1721, was strongly
opposed to High Church doctrines.

12 Jibe or jest.

13 See Letter 22, note 4.

14 The treaty concluded with Holland in 1711.

15 Feb. 2 is the Purification of the Virgin Mary.

16 See Letter 29, note 7.

17 See Letter 11, note 53.

18 Lady Mary Butler (see Letter 7, note 2 and Letter 3, note 40), daughter of the Duke of Ormond,
who married, in 1710, John, third Lord Ashburnham, afterwards Earl of Ashburnham.

19 See Letter 2, note 5.

20 See Letter 36, note 14.

21 Scroop Egerton, fifth Earl and first Duke of Bridgewater, married, in 1703, Lady Elizabeth
Churchill, third daughter of the Duke of Marlborough.  She died in 1714, aged twenty-six.

22 See Letter 30, note 6.

23 Heart.

24 Edward Fowler, D.D., appointed Bishop of Gloucester in 1691, died in 1714.

25 Isaac Manley (see Letter 3, note 3).

Letter 41.

1 This letter, the first of the series published by Hawkesworth, of which we have the originals
(see Preface), was addressed "To Mrs. Johnson at her Lodgings over against St. Mary's Church,
near Capell Street, Dublin, Ireland"; and was endorsed by her "Recd. Mar. 1st."

2 See Letter 10, note 28.

3 See Letter 12, note 22.

4 See Letter 23, note 2.

5 Charles Ross, son of the eleventh Baron Ross, was Colonel of the Royal Irish Dragoons from
1695 to 1705.  He was a Lieutenant-General under the Duke of Ormond in Flanders, and died in
1732 (Dalton, ii. 212, iii. 34).

6 Charles Paulet, Marquis of Winchester, succeeded his father (see Letter 31, note 2) as third
Duke of Bolton in 1722.  He married, as his second wife, Lavinia Fenton, the actress who took
the part of Polly Peacham in Gay's Beggars Opera in 1728, and he died in 1754.

7 John Blith, or Bligh, son of the Right Hon. Thomas Bligh, M.P. of Rathmore, Co. Meath (see
Letter 4, note 22).  In August 1713 he married Lady Theodosia Hyde, daughter of Edward, third
Earl of Clarendon.  Lord Berkeley of Stratton wrote, "Lady Theodosia Hyde. . .  is married
to an Irish Mr. Blythe, of a good estate, who will soon have enough of her, if I can give any
guess" (Wentworth Papers, 353).  In 1715 Bligh was made Baron Clifton, of Rathmore, and Earl
of Darnley in 1725.  He died in 1728.

8 Obliterated.

9 Word obliterated; probably "found."  Forster reads "oors, dee MD."

10 Words obliterated.

11 See Letter 31, note 1 and Letter 10, note 31.

12 See Letter 20, Apr. 13-14, 1711 and Letter 9, note 20.

13 Words obliterated.  Forster reads "fourth.  Euge, euge, euge."

14 Words obliterated; one illegible.

15 See Letter 2, note 14.

16 See Letter 1, note 12.

17 Service.

18 "Aplon"--if this is the right word--means, of course, apron--the apron referred to on Letter
39, Jan. 25, 1711-12.

19 Words obliterated.

20 As the son of a "brother" of the Club.

21 The Archbishop, Dr. King.

22 See Tacitus, Annals, book ii.  Cn. Calpurnius Piso, who was said to have poisoned Germanicus,
was found with his throat cut.

23 This satire on Marlborough concludes--
     "And Midas now neglected stands,
      With asses' ears and dirty hands."

24 Dr. Robinson, Bishop of Bristol.

25 Some Remarks on the Barrier Treaty.

26 Several words are obliterated.  Forster reads "MD MD, for we must always write to MD MD
MD, awake or asleep;" but the passage is illegible.

27 See Letter 11, note 39 and Letter 61, note 5.

28 A long erasure.  Forster reads "Go to bed.  Help pdfr.  Rove pdfr.  MD MD. Nite darling rogues."

29 Word obliterated.  Forster reads "saucy."

30 Letter from.

31 Words partially obliterated.

32 Swift wrote by mistake, "On Europe Britain's safety lies"; the slip was pointed out by Hawkesworth.
All the verse is written in the MSS. as prose.

33 "Them" (MS.).

34 See Wyons Queen Anne, ii. 366-7.

35 A Proposal for Correcting, Improving, and Ascertaining the English Tongue, in a Letter to
the Most Honourable Robert, Earl of Oxford, 1712.

36 "Help him to draw up the representation" (omitting every other letter).

37 See Letter 23, note 13.

38 Robert Benson.

39 The Story of the St. Albans Ghost, 1712.

40 "Usually" (MS.).

41 These words are partially obliterated.

42 This sentence is obliterated.  Forster reads, "Farewell, mine deelest rife deelest char
Ppt, MD MD MD Ppt, FW, Lele MD, ME ME ME ME aden FW MD Lazy ones Lele Lele all a Lele."

Letter 42.

1 Endorsed by Stella "Recd. Mar. 19."

2 "Would" (MS.).

3 Conversation.

4 John Guillim's Display of Heraldrie appeared first in 1610.  The edition to which Swift refers
was probably that of 1679, which is wrongly described as the "fifth edition," instead of the
seventh.

5 "One of the horses here mentioned may have been the celebrated Godolphin Arabian from whom
descends all the blue blood of the racecourse, and who was the grandfather of Eclipse" (Larwood's
Story of the London Parks, 99).

6 See Letter 36, note 6.

7 Dorothea, daughter of James Stopford, of New Hall, County Meath, and sister of Lady Newtown-Butler,
was the second wife of Edward, fourth Earl of Meath, who died without issue in 1707.  She afterwards
married General Richard Gorges (see Journal, April 5, 1713), of Kilbrue, County Meath, and
Swift wrote an epitaph on them--"Doll and Dickey."

8 Here follow some obliterated words.

9 Barber (see Letter 12, note 6).

10 "The editors supposed Zinkerman (which they printed in capitals) to mean some outlandish
or foreign distinction; but it is the little language for 'gentleman'" (Forster).

11 The Hon. Charles Butler, second son of Thomas, Earl of Ossory, eldest son of James, Duke
of Ormond, was elevated to the peerage of Ireland in 1693 as Earl of Arran, and was also created
a peer of England, as Baron Butler.  He held various offices under William III. and Queen Anne,
and died without issue in 1759.

12 "They" (MS.).

13 See Letter 31, Jan. 12, 1711-12 and Letter 3, note 22.

14 See Letter 11, note 13.

15 Sir William Wyndham, Bart., of Orchard Wyndham, married Lady Catherine Seymour, daughter
of the sixth Duke of Somerset (see Letter 25, note 1). Their eldest son, Charles, succeeded
his uncle, the Duke of Somerset, as Earl of Egremont; and the second son, Percy, was afterwards
created Earl of Thomond.  The Wyndhams' house was in Albemarle Street; the loss was over 20,000
pounds; but they were "much more concerned for their servants than for all the other losses"
(Wentworth Papers, 274).  The Duke of Ormond "worked as hard as any of the ordinary men, and
gave many guineas about to encourage the men to work hard."  The Queen gave the Wyndhams temporary
lodgings in "St. James's house."

16 See Letter 3, note 31.

17 What.

18 Devil's.

19 "To" (MS.).

20 See Letter 35, note 25.

21 See Letter 41, note 34.

22 See Letter 12, Jan. 1, 1710-11.

23 Peregrine Hyde Osborne, Earl of Danby, afterwards Marquis of Caermarthen and third Duke
of Leeds (see Letter 56, note 6).  His sister Mary was married to the Duke of Beaufort (see
Letter 39, note 7).

24 See Letter 9, note 17.

25 Several undecipherable words.  Forster reads, "Pidy Pdfr, deelest Sollahs."

26 "K" (MS.).  It should, of course, be "Queen's."

27 See Letter 22, note 18.

Letter 43.

1 Addressed "To Mrs. Johnson, at her lodgings over against St. Mary's Church, near Capel Street,
Dublin, Ireland."  Endorsed "Mar. 30."

2 See Letter 9, note 1.

3 The Mohocks succeeded the Scowrers of William III.'s reign.  Gay (Trivia,
iii. 325) says
     "Who has not heard the Scowrers' midnight fame?
      Who has not trembled at the Mohocks' name?"
Lady Wentworth (Wentworth Papers, 277) says:  "They put an old woman into a
hogshead, and rolled her down a hill; they cut off some noses, others' hands,
and several barbarous tricks, without any provocation.  They are said to be
young gentlemen; they never take any money from any."  See also the Spectator,
Nos. 324, 332, and 347 (where Budgell alludes to "the late panic fear"), and
Defoe's Review for March 15, 1712.  Swift was in considerable alarm about the
Mohocks throughout March, and said that they were all Whigs.  The reports that
numbers of persons, including men of figure, had joined together to commit
assaults in the streets, made many fear to leave their houses at night.  A
proclamation was issued for the suppressing of riots and the discovery of
those guilty of the late outrages; but it seems probable that the disorders
were not more frequent than might be expected from time to time in a great
city.

4 Henry Davenant, son of Charles Davenant (see Letter 8, note 14), was Resident at Frankfort.
Macky described him as "very giddy-headed, with some wit," to which Swift added, "He is not
worth mentioning."

5 Thomas Burnet, youngest son of Gilbert Burnet, Bishop of Salisbury, was at this time a young
man about town of no good reputation.  Afterwards he turned his attention to the law, and was
appointed a judge of the Court of Common Pleas in 1741.  He was knighted in 1745, and died in 1753.

6 By Arbuthnot, written to recommend the peace proposals of the Government. The full title
was, Law is a Bottomless Pit.  Exemplified in the case of the Lord Strutt, John Bull, Nicholas
Frog, and Lewis Baboon; who spent all they had in a Law Suit.

7 See Letter 25, note 6 and Letter 41, note 35.

8 Our little language.

9 Forster reads, "two deelest nauty nown MD."

10 See Letter 6, note 12.

11 William Diaper, son of Joseph Diaper of Bridgewater, was sent to Balliol College, Oxford,
in 1699, at the age of fourteen.  He entered the Church, and was curate at Brent, Somerset;
but he died in 1717, aged twenty-nine.

12 The Examiner (vol. ii. No. 15) complained of general bribery and oppression on the part
of officials and underlings in the public service, especially in matters connected with the
army; but the writer said that the head (Lord Lansdowne) was just and liberal in his nature,
and easy in his fortune, and a man of honour and virtue.

13 Sealed documents given to show that a merchant's goods are entered.

14 Thomas Lawrence, First Physician to Queen Anne, and Physician-General to the Army, died
in 1714 (Gentleman's Magazine, 1815, ii. 17).  His daughter Elizabeth was second wife to Lord
Mohun.

15 See Letter 17, note 11.

16 See Letter 26, note 2.

17 No officer named Newcomb appears in Dalton's Army Lists; but the allusion to General Ross,
further on in Letter 43, adds to the probability that Swift was referring to one of the sons
of Sir Thomas Newcomen, Bart., who was killed at the siege of Enniskillen.  Beverley Newcomen
(Dalton, iii. 52, iv. 60), who was probably Swift's acquaintance, was described in a petition
of 1706 as a Lieutenant who had served at Killiecrankie, and had been in Major-General Ross's
regiment ever since 1695.

18 Atterbury.

19 Evidently a familiar quotation at the time.  Forster reads, incorrectly, "But the more I
lite MD."

20 See Letter 41, note 5.

21 See Letter 12, note 1.

22 In 1681, Elizabeth, only daughter and heiress of John Ayres, of the City of London, then
aged about twenty, became the fourth and last wife of Heneage Finch, Earl of Winchelsea, who
died in 1689.  She lived until 1745.

23 See Letter 23, note 17.

24 Enoch Sterne (see Letter 4, note 17).

25 Lieut.-Col. Robert Sterne was in Col. Frederick Hamilton's Regiment in 1695.

26 Letter.

27 See Letter 13, note 10.

28 The title was, John Bull in his Senses:  being the Second Part of Law is a Bottomless Pit.

29 See Letter 36, note 6.

30 Cf. note 9 above.  Forster reads "nautyas," when the words would mean "as naughty as nine,"
apparently.

31 See note 19 above.

32 In 1549, James, second Earl of Arran, was made Duke of Chatelherault by Henry II. of France.
His eldest son died without issue; the second, John, became first Marquis of Hamilton, and
was great-grandfather of Lady Anne Hamilton (Duchess of Hamilton), mother of the Duke of Swift's
Journal.  The Earl of Abercorn, on the other hand, was descended from Claud, third son of the
Earl of Arran, but in the male line; and his claim was therefore the stronger, according to
the French law of inheritance.

33 Madams.

34 This word is doubtful.  Forster reads "cobbled."

35 A mistake, apparently, for "writing."  The letter was begun on March 8.

36 Silly jade.

37 O Lord, what a clutter.

38 On the death of Dr. William Graham, Dean of Wells, it was reported that Swift was to be
his successor.  Dr. Brailsford, however, received the appointment.

39 Abel Roper (1665-1726), a Tory journalist, published, thrice weekly, the Postboy, to which
Swift sometimes sent paragraphs.  Boyer (Political State, 1711, p. 678) said that Roper was
only the tool of a party; "there are men of figure and distinction behind the curtain, who
furnish him with such scandalous reflections as they think proper to cast upon their antagonists."

40 Joe Beaumont.

41 Beg your pardon, Madams, I'm glad you like your apron (see Letter 41, note 18).

42 This word was smudged by Swift.

43 I cannot find Somers in contemporary lists of officials.  Cf. Letter 30, note 16 and Letter
17, note 3.

44 Obliterated and doubtful.

45 Words obliterated and illegible.  Forster reads, conjecturally, "Pray send Pdfr the ME account
that I may have time to write to Parvisol."

Letter 44.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Apr. 14."

2 "Is" (MS.).

3 The words after "yet" are partially obliterated.

4 See Letter 7, note 35.

5 John Cecil, sixth Earl of Exeter (died 1721).

6 See Letter 22, note 5.

7 Arbuthnot.

8 A resort of the Tories.

9 Deane Swift, a son of Swift's uncle Godwin, was a merchant in Lisbon.

10 Winces.  Lyly says, "Rubbe there no more, least I winch."

11 Probably William Whiston, who was deprived of the Lucasian professorship at Cambridge in
1710 for his heterodox views.  Parliament having offered a reward for the discovery of means
of finding the longitude, Whiston made several attempts (1714 and 1721).

12 Word obliterated.

13 Distilled water prepared with rosemary flowers.  In Fielding's Joseph Andrews, a lady gives
up to a highway robber, in her fright, a silver bottle which, the ruffian said, contained some
of the best brandy he had ever tasted; this she "afterwards assured the company was a mistake
of her maid, for that she had ordered her to fill the bottle with Hungary water."

14 As I hope to be saved.

15 Added on the fourth page, as the letter was folded.

Letter 45.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Johnson," etc.  Endorsed "May 1st."

2 A kind of clover, used for soothing purposes.

Letter 46.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "May 15."

2 Madam Ayris.

3 Simpleton.

4 Robert Benson (see Letter 6, note 36).

5 See Letter 41, note 35 and Letter 43, note 7.

6 The title was, An Appendix to John Bull still in his Senses:  or, Law is a Bottomless Pit.

7 Arbuthnot.

8 Enquiries by servants.

9 See Letter 17, note 5.

10 Sick.

11 Afterwards Rector of Letcombe, Berks.  It was to his house that Swift repaired a few weeks
before the Queen's death.  On June 8, 1714, he wrote, "I am at a clergyman's house, whom I
love very well, but he is such a melancholy, thoughtful man, partly from nature, and partly
by a solitary life, that I shall soon catch the spleen from him.  His wife has been this month
twenty miles off at her father's, and will not return these ten days, and perhaps the house
will be worse when she comes."  Swift spells the name "Geree"; later on in the Journal he mentions
two of Mr. Gery's sisters, Betty (Mrs. Elwick) and Moll (Mrs. Wigmore); probably he made the
acquaintance of the family when he was living with the Temples at Moor Park (see Letter 59,
note 11).

12 Because she is a good girl in other things.

Letter 47.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "June 5."

2 Sice, the number six at dice.

3 At Laracor Swift had "a canal and river-walk and willows."

4 Splenetic fellow.

5 One of them was by Oldmixon:  Reflections on Dr. Swift's Letter to the Earl of Oxford.

6 Beg your pardon.

7 See Letter 25, note 9.

8 On May 28, Lord Halifax moved an Address to the Queen that the instructions given to the
Duke of Ormond might be laid before the House, and that further orders might be issued to him
to act offensively, in concert with the Allies. Wharton and Nottingham supported the motion,
but it was negatived by 68 votes against 40.  A similar motion in the House of Commons was
defeated by 203 against 73.

9 See Letter 34, note 10.

10 See Letter 23, note 13.

11 "Some Reasons to prove that no Person is obliged by his Principles, as a Whig, to oppose
Her Majesty:  in a Letter to a Whig Lord."

12 Several words obliterated.

13 Several words obliterated.

14 The bellman.

15 This present writing.

16 Please.

Letter 48.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Rebecca Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "June 23d."

2 Mr. Ryland reads "second."

3 As I hope to be saved.

4 See Letter 30, Sept. 18, 1711.

5 Glad at heart.

6 The threepenny pamphlet mentioned in Letter 47, note 11.

7 I.e., for.

Letter 49.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley."  Endorsed "July 8."

2 See Letter 28, note 24.

3 See Letter 10, note 2.

4 See Letter 3, note 11.

5 See Letter 48, note 4.

6 Dr. William Lloyd--one of the Seven Bishops of 1688--was eighty-four years of age at this
time; he died five years later.  He was a strong antipapist, and a great student of the Apocalypse,
besides being a hard-working bishop.  A curious letter from him to Lord Oxford about a coming
war of religion is given in the Welbeck Papers (Hist. MSS. Comm.) v. 128.

7 "Toland's Invitation to Dismal to dine with the Calf's Head Club."  The Earl of Nottingham
(Dismal) had deserted the Tories, and Swift's imitation of Horace (Epist. I. v.) is an invitation
from Toland to dine with "his trusty friends" in celebration of the execution of Charles I.
The Calf's Head Club was in the habit of toasting "confusion to the race of kings."

8 Bolingbroke.

9 George Fitzroy, Duke of Northumberland (died 1716), a natural son of Charles II., was also
Viscount Falmouth and Baron of Pontefract.  See Notes and Queries, viii. i.  135.

10 Enoch Sterne.

11 Templeoag (see Letter 48, Jun. 17, 1712).

12 Swift probably was only repeating an inaccurate rumour, for there is no evidence that Steele
was arrested.  His gambling scheme was withdrawn directly an information was laid under the
new Act of Parliament against gambling (Aitken's Life of Steele, i. 347).

13 Dr. William Moreton (1641-1715), Swift's diocesan, was translated from the see of Kildare
to that of Meath in 1705.

14 Words obliterated.  Forster reads conjecturally, "when ME wants me to send. She ought to
have it," etc.

Letter 50.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "July 23."

2 "N.33" seems a mistake.  Letter No. 32 was received after Swift had left Kensington and gone
to Windsor; see Letter 51, Aug. 7, 1712 and Letter 52, Sept. 18, 1712 (Ryland).

3 Dr. Moreton (see Letter 49, note 13).

4 Memoranda.

5 Again.

6 O Lord, drunken slut.

7 There's for you now, and there's for your letter, and every kind of thing.

8 Bolingbroke.

9 See Letter 13, note 10.

10 Grub Street pamphlet.  The title was, A Supposed Letter from the Pretender to another Whig Lord.

11 Arnold Joost Van Keppel, created Earl of Albemarle in 1697.  He died in 1718.  The action
referred to was at Denain, where the Dutch were defeated by Villars.

Letter 51.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Aug. 14."

2 Perhaps this was influenza.

3 By the Stamp Act passed on June 10, 1712--which was repealed in 1859--a duty of one halfpenny
was levied on all pamphlets and newspapers contained in half a sheet or less, and a duty of
one penny on those of more than half but not exceeding a whole sheet.  Swift opposed the idea
in January 1711 (see Letter 15, note 1), and Defoe argued against the Bill in the Review for
April 26, 1712, and following numbers.  Addison, in the Spectator, No. 445, spoke of the mortality
among authors resulting from the Stamp Act as "the fall of the leaf."

4 The title is, "Lewis Baboon turned honest, and John Bull politician.  Being the Fourth Part
of Law is a Bottomless Pit."  This pamphlet--really the fifth of the series--appeared on July
31, 1712.

5 Poor Laracor.

6 See Letter 12, note 1.

7 On the death of the third Earl in 1712, the title of Earl of Winchelsea passed to his uncle,
Heneage Finch, who had married Anne, daughter of Sir William Kingsmill (see Letter 24, note 7).

Letter 52.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Oct. 1st.   At Portraune" [Portraine].

2 Oxford and Bolingbroke.

3 Including Hester Vanhomrigh.

4 He died on Sept. 15, 1712.

5 Elizabeth Villiers, eldest daughter of Sir Edward Villiers, Knight Marischal
of England, and sister of the first Earl of Jersey.  In 1695 she married Lord
George Hamilton (son of Lord William Douglas, afterwards Duke of Hamilton),
who was raised to the peerage of Scotland in 1696 as Earl of Orkney.  William
III. gave her an Irish estate worth 26,000 pounds a year.  Swift's opinion of
her wisdom is confirmed by Lord Lansdowne, who speaks, in his Progress of
Poetry, of
     "Villiers, for wisdom and deep judgment famed,
      Of a high race, victorious beauty brings
      To grace our Courts, and captivate our Kings."
The "beauty" seems a poetic licence; Swift says the lady squinted "like a
dragon."

6 Cliefden.

7 See Letter 12, note 7.

8 Swift's sister (see Letter 9, note 22).

9 Forster reads "returned."

10 See Swift's letter to General Hill of Aug. 12, 1712

11 Swift's housekeeper at Laracor.

12 I.e., be made freemen of the City.

Letter 53.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Octr. 18.  At Portraune."

2 "Sometimes, when better company was not to be had, he [Swift] was honoured by being invited
to play at cards with his patron; and on such occasions Sir William was so generous as to give
his antagonist a little silver to begin with" (Macaulay, History of England, chap. xix.).

3 The History of the Works of the Learned, a quarto periodical, was published from 1699 to 1711.

4 See Letter 35, note 4.

5 See Letter 28, note 25.

6 Lady Elizabeth Savage, daughter of Richard, fourth Earl Rivers (see Letter 11, note 9), was
the second wife of James Barry, fourth Earl of Barrymore.  Of Earl Rivers' illegitimate children,
one, Bessy, married (1) Frederick Nassau, third Earl of Rochford, and (2) a clergyman named
Carter; while another, Richard Savage, was the poet.  Earl Rivers' successor, John Savage,
the fifth Earl, was a Roman Catholic priest, the grandson of John, first Earl Rivers. On his
death in 1728 the title became extinct.

7 No. 32.

8 Very sick.

9 From "but I" to "agreeable" is partially obliterated.

10 Mrs. Swanton was the eldest daughter of Willoughby Swift, and therefore Swift's second cousin.
In her will Esther Johnson left to Swift "a bond of thirty pounds, due to me by Dr. Russell,
in trust for the use of Mrs. Honoria Swanton."

11 This sentence is partially obliterated.

12 See Letter 51, note 2.

13 See Letter 5, note 16.

14 The latter half of this sentence is partially obliterated.

15 Partly obliterated.

16 See Letter 8, note 2.

17 Wise.

18 Partly obliterated.

19 See Letter 6, note 45.

20 This sentence is almost obliterated.

Letter 54.

1 The MS. of this letter has not been preserved.

2 See Letter 26, note 2.

3 Swift's friend, Dr. Pratt (see Letter 2, note 14), was then Provost of Trinity College, Dublin.

4 Samuel Molyneux, then aged twenty-three, was the son of William Molyneux (1656-1698), M.P.
for Dublin University, a writer on philosophical and scientific subjects, and the friend of
Locke.  Samuel Molyneux took his M.A. degree in Dublin in 1710, and in 1712 visited England.
He was befriended by the Duke of Marlborough at Antwerp, and in 1714 was sent by the Duke on
a mission to the Court of Hanover.  He held office under George I., but devoted most of his
attention to astronomical research, until his death in 1728.

5 Probably "The Case of Ireland's being bound by Acts of Parliament in England stated" (1698).

6 Oxford and Bolingbroke.

7 See Letter 36, note 18.

8 See Letter 51, Aug. 7, 1712.

9 George Ridpath (died 1726), a Whig journalist, of whom Pope (Dunciad, i.
208) wrote--
     "To Dulness Ridpath is as dear as Mist."
He edited the Flying Post for some years, and also wrote for the Medley in
1712.  In September William Hurt and Ridpath were arrested for libellous and
seditious articles, but were released on bail.  On October 23 they appeared
before the Court of Queen's Bench, and were continued on their recognizances.
In February 1713 Ridpath was tried and, in spite of an able defence by leading
Whig lawyers, was convicted.  Sentence was postponed, and when Ridpath failed
to appear, as ordered, in April, his recognizances were escheated, and a
reward offered for his discovery; but he had fled to Scotland, and from thence
to Holland.

10 See Letter 52, note 5.

11 Lady Orkney's sister, Barbara Villiers, who married John Berkeley, fourth Viscount Fitz-Hardinge,
had been governess to the Duke of Gloucester, Queen Anne's son.  She died in 1708, in her fifty-second
year; and on her husband's death four years later the peerage became extinct.

12 For the street criers, see the Spectator, No. 251.

Letter 55.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley."  Endorsed "Nov. 26, just come from Portraine"; and "The band-box
plot--D:  Hamilton's murther."

2 Charles Mohun, fifth Baron Mohun, had been twice arraigned of murder, but acquitted; and
during his short but turbulent life he had taken part in many duels.  Even Burnet could say
nothing in his favour.

3 This duel between the Duke of Hamilton (see Letter 27, note 9) and Lord Mohun, who had married
nieces of Lord Macclesfield, had its origin in a protracted dispute about some property.  The
challenge came from Lord Mohun, and the combatants fought like "enraged lions."  Tory writers
suggested that the duel was a Whig conspiracy to get rid of the Duke of Hamilton (Examiner,
Nov. 20, 1712).  The whole subject is discussed from the Whig point of view in Boyer's Political
State for 1712, pp. 297-326.

4 "Will" (MS.).

5 See Letter 27, note 9.

6 George Maccartney (see Letter 11, note 13 and Letter 39, Jan. 22, 1711-12 ) fought at Almanza,
Malplaquet, and Douay.  After the duel, Maccartney escaped to Holland, but on the accession
of George I. he returned to England, and was tried for murder (June 1716), when Colonel Hamilton
gave evidence against him. Hamilton's evidence was discredited, and he found it necessary to
sell his commission and leave the country.  Maccartney was found guilty as an accessory, and
"burnt" in the hand.  Within a month he was given an appointment in the army; and promoted
to be Lieutenant-General.  He died in 1730.

7 Colonel John Hamilton, of the Scots Guards.  He surrendered himself, and was tried at the
Old Bailey on Dec. 12, 1712, when he was found guilty of manslaughter, on two indictments;
and on the following day he was "burnt" in the hand.  Hamilton died in October 1716, soon after
Maccartney's trial, from a sudden vomiting of blood.

8 "That" (MS.).

9 The story (as told in the Tory Postboy of Nov. 11 to 13) was that on Nov. 4 a bandbox was
sent to the Earl of Oxford by post. When he began to open it he saw a pistol, whereupon a gentleman
present [Swift] asked for the box, and opening it, by the window, found powder, nails, etc.,
so arranged that, if opened in the ordinary way, the whole would have been fired, and two barrels
discharged different ways.  No doubt a box so packed was received, but whether anything serious
was intended, or whether it was a hoax, cannot be said with any certainty.  The Earl of Oxford
is said to have met allusions to the subject with a smile, and Swift seems to have been annoyed
at the reports which were put into circulation.

10 "We have received a more particular account relating to the box sent to the Lord Treasurer,
as mentioned in our last, which is as follows," etc.  (Evening News, Nov. 11 to 13, 1712).

11 Either "A Letter to the People, to be left for them at the Booksellers, with a word or two
of the Bandbox Plot" (by T. Burnet), 1712, or "An Account of the Duel. . ., with Previous Reflections
on Sham Plots" (by A. Boyer), 1712.  Swift's connection with the Bandbox Plot was ridiculed
in the Flying Post for Nov. 20 to 22.

12 Cf. Letter 16, Feb. 20, 1710-11.

13 This sentence is partially obliterated.

14 Part of this sentence has been obliterated.

15 See Letter 43, note 39.  I have not been able to find a copy of the paper containing Swift's
paragraph.

16 This sentence is partially obliterated.

17 See Letter 12, note 2.

18 Apparently Humphrey Griffith, who was one of the Commissioners of Salt; but Swift gives
the name as "Griffin" throughout.

19 See Letter 53, note 13 and Letter 5, note 16.

20 For these shorter letters Swift folded the folio sheet before writing.

Letter 56.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Decr. 18."

2 Vengeance.

3 Charles Connor, scholar of Trinity College, Dublin, who took his B.A. degree in the same
year as Swift (1686), and his M.A. degree in 1691.

4 The History of the Peace of Utrecht.

5 See Letter 55, note 7.

6 Lord Oxford's daughter Elizabeth married, on Dec. 16, 1712, Peregrine Hyde, Marquis of Caermarthen,
afterwards third Duke of Leeds (see Letter 42, note 23 and Letter 24, note 5).  She died on
Nov. 20, 1713, a few days after the birth of a son.  Swift called her "a friend I extremely loved."

7 "Is" (MS.).

8 Disorders.

9 See Letter 34, note 10.

10 John Francis, Rector of St. Mary's, Dublin, was made Dean of Leighlin in 1705.

11 See Letter 9, note 7.

12 Possibly "have."

13 See Letter 55, notes 9, 10, 11.

14 This clause is omitted by Mr. Ryland.

15 See Letter 31, note 6.

16 See Letter 54, Oct. 30, 1712.

17 Thomas Jones, Esq., was M.P. for Trim in the Parliament of 1713-4.

18 A Dutch agent employed in the negotiations with Lewis XIV.

19 When I come home.

Letter 57.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Jan. 13."

2 "Ay, marry, this is something like."  The earlier editions give, "How agreeable it is in
a morning."  The words in the MS. are partially obliterated.

3 In this letter (Dec. 20, 1712) Swift paid many compliments to the Duchess of Ormond (see
Letter 17, note 5):  "All the accomplishments of your mind and person are so deeply printed
in the heart, and represent you so lively to my imagination, that I should take it for a high
affront if you believed it in the power of colours to refresh my memory."

4 Tisdall's Conduct of the Dissenters in Ireland (see Letter 61, note 7).

5 See Letter 9, note 20 and Letter 20, Apr. 13, 1711.

6 Monteleon.

7 See Letter 5, note 8 and Letter 3, note 3.

8 Utrecht, North and South Holland, and West Frieseland.

9 See Letter 46, note 11.

10 See Letter 46, note 11.

11 "On Queen Anne's Peace."

12 See Letter 43, note 11.  The poem was "Dryades, or the Nymph's Prophecy."

13 See Letter 35, note 4.

14 See Letter 17, note 3.

15 Dr. Tobias Pullen (1648-1713) was made Bishop of Dromore in 1695.

16 Lord Charles Douglas, Earl of Selkirk, died unmarried in 1739.  When his father, William,
first Earl of Selkirk, married Anne, Duchess of Hamilton, the Duchess obtained for her husband,
in 1660, the title of Duke of Hamilton, for life.  James II. conferred the Earldom of Selkirk
on his Grace's second and younger sons, primogenitively; and the second son having died without
issue, the third, Charles, became Earl.  The fifth son, George, was created Earl of Orkney
(see Letter 52, note 5).  The difference between Lord Selkirk and the Earl of Abercorn (see
Letter 10, note 33) to which Swift alludes was in connection with the claim to the Dukedom
of Chatelherault (see Letter 43, note 32).

17 Heart.

18 This sentence is almost illegible.

19 A reward of 500 pounds was offered by the Crown for Maccartney's apprehension, and 200 pounds
by the Duchess of Hamilton.

20 In the proposed History of the Peace of Utrecht.

21 Mr. Ryland's reading.  Forster has "Iss."  These words are obliterated.

22 Hoist.  Cf."Hoised up the mainsail" (Acts xxvii. 40).

23 It was afterwards found that Miss Ashe was suffering from smallpox.

24 We are told in the Wentworth Papers, p.  268, that the Duchess of Shrewsbury remarked to
Lady Oxford, "Madam, I and my Lord are so weary of talking politics; what are you and your
Lord?" whereupon Lady Oxford sighed and said she knew no Lord but the Lord Jehovah.  The Duchess
rejoined, "Oh, dear! Madam, who is that?  I believe 'tis one of the new titles, for I never
heard of him before."

25 A thousand merry new years.  The words are much obliterated.

26 Lady Anne Hamilton, daughter of James, first Duke of Hamilton, became Duchess on the death
of her uncle William, the second Duke, at the battle of Worcester.

27 The quarrel between Oxford and Bolingbroke.

28 See Letter 19, note 1.

29 Burnet (History, iv. 382) says that the Duc d'Aumont was "a goodnatured and generous man,
of profuse expense, throwing handfuls of money often out of his coach as he went about the
streets.  He was not thought a man of business, and seemed to employ himself chiefly in maintaining
the dignity of his character and making himself acceptable to the nation."

30 Partially obliterated.

31 For the most part illegible.  Forster reads, "Go, play cards, and be melly, deelest logues,
and rove Pdfr.  Nite richar MD, FW oo roves Pdfr.  FW lele lele ME ME MD MD MD MD MD MD.  MD
FW FW FW ME ME FW FW FW FW FW ME ME ME."

32 On the third page of the paper.

33 See Letter 7, note 3.

Letter 58.

1 To "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Feb. 4."

2 This sentence is scribbled over.  Forster reads the last word as "lastalls," i.e. rascals,
but it seems rather to be "ledles."

3 Dr. Peter Brown was appointed Bishop of Cork in 1709.

4 See Letter 5, note 22.

5 See Letter 5, note 3.

6 See Letter 5, note 11.

7 Dr. H. Humphreys, Bishop of Hereford, died on Nov. 20, 1712.  His successor was Dr. Philip
Bisse (1667-1721), Bishop of St. David's (see Letter 3, note 36).

8 Thomas Keightley, a Commissioner of the Great Seal in Ireland.

9 Nearly obliterated.  Mr. Ryland reads, "deelest MD."

10 See Letter 57, note 14.

11 In the Examiner for Jan. 5 to 9, 1712[-13], there is an account of the game of Similitudes.
One person thinks of a subject, and the others, not knowing what it is, name similitudes, and
when the subject is proclaimed, must make good the comparisons.  On the occasion described,
the subject chosen was Faction.  The prize was given to a Dutchman, who argued that Faction
was like butter, because too much fire spoiled its consistency.

12 Earl Poulett (see Letter 20, note 7).

13 "Say" (MS.).

14 Dr. Pratt.

15 See Letter 13, Jan. 6, 1710-11.

16 This sentence is partially obliterated.

17 See Letter 31, note 10 and, in the same letter, Oct. 5, 1711.

18 Cf. the account of Beatrix's feelings on the death of the Duke in "Esmond", book iii. chaps.
6 and 7.

19 See Letter 21, note 3.

20 "Her Majesty is all goodness and tenderness to her people and her Allies. She has now prorogued
the best Parliament that ever assembled in her reign and respited her own glory, and the wishes,
prayers, and wants of her people, only to give some of her Allies an opportunity to think of
the returns they owe her, and try if there be such a thing as gratitude, justice, or humanity
in Europe.  The conduct of Her Majesty is without parallel.  Never was so great a condescension
made to the unreasonable clamours of an insolent faction now dwindled to the most contemptible
circumstances."--Examiner, Jan. 12-16, 1712[-13].

21 Mr. Collins's "Discourse of Freethinking, put into plain English by way of Abstract, for
the use of the Poor," an ironical pamphlet on Arthur Collins's Discourse of Freethinking, 1713.

22 The History of the Peace of Utrecht.

23 A line here has been erased.  Forster imagined that he read, "Nite dear MD, drowsy drowsy dear."

24 Hereford.

25 Very well.

26 Sentence obliterated.  Forster professes to read, "Pay can oo walk oftener- -oftener still?"

27 See Letter 57, note 15.

28 Dr. Bisse, translated from St. David's.

29 See Letter 58, note 7 and Letter 19, note 1.

Letter 59.

1 To "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Febr. 26."

2 See Letter 58, note 21.

3 See Letter 28, note 11.

4 See Letter 55, note 9.

5 A result of confusion between Erasmus Lewis and Henry Lewis, a Hamburg merchant.  See Swift's
paper in the Examiner of Jan. 30 to Feb. 2, reprinted in his Works under the title, "A Complete
Refutation of the Falsehoods alleged against Erasmus Lewis, Esq."

6 Lord Dupplin (see Letter 5, note 34) had been created Baron Hay in December 1711.

7 A composition of inflammable materials.

8 Assessors.

9 See Letter 6, note 12.

10 See Letter 59, note 5.

11 See Letter 46, note 11.

12 See Letter 3, notes 21 and 22, Letter 39, Jan. 12, 1711-12 and Letter 42, Mar. 1, 1711-12.

13 Dr. Bisse.

14 See Letter 33, note 10.

15 Forster reads, "something."

16 Hardly legible.

17 See Letter 7, note 31.

18 Stella's brother-in-law (See Letter 53, note 13, Letter 5, note 16 and Letter 55, Nov. 18,
1712).

19 Forster guesses, "Oo are so 'recise; not to oor health."

20 For "poo Ppt's."  Mr. Ryland reads, "people's."

21 See Letter 57, 21 Dec. 1712.

22 See Letter 57, note 23.

23 See Letter 14, note 9.

24 Obliterated; Forster's reading.

25 Writing in October 1713, Lord Berkeley of Stratton told Lord Strafford of "a fine prank
of the widow Lady Jersey" (see Letter 29, note 3).  "It is well known her lord died much in
debt, and she, after taking upon her the administration, sold everything and made what money
she could, and is run away into France without paying a farthing of the debts, with only one
servant and unknown to all her friends, and hath taken her youngest son, as 'tis supposed to
make herself a merit in breeding him a papist.  My Lord Bolingbroke sent after her, but too
late, and they say the Queen hath writ a letter with her own hand to the King of France to
send back the boy" (Wentworth Papers, p. 357).  See also Letter 63, note 8.  I am not sure
whether in the present passage Swift is referring to the widow or the younger Lady Jersey (see
Letter 33, note 10).

26 Sir Thomas Clarges, Bart. (died 1759), M.P. for Lostwithiel, married Barbara, youngest daughter
of John Berkeley, fourth Viscount Fitz-Hardinge, and of Barbara Villiers (see Letter 54, note
11), daughter of Sir Edward Villiers.

27 See Letter 43, Mar. 21, 1711-12 and Letter 49, Jul. 1, 1712.

28 Altered from "11" in the MS.  It is not certain where the error in the dates began; but
the entry of the 6th must be correctly dated, because the Feb. 6 was the Queen's Birthday.

29 See Letter 43, note 11 and Letter 57, note 12.

Letter 60.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Mar. 7."

2 See Letter 5, note 23.

3 Sedan chairs were then comparatively novel (see Gay's Trivia).

4 Some words obliterated.  Forster reads, "Nite MD, My own deelest MD."

5 Peter Wentworth wrote to Lord Strafford, on Feb. 17, 1713, "Poor Mr. Harrison is very much
lamented; he died last Saturday.  Dr. Swift told me that he had told him. . .  he owed about
300 pounds, and the Queen owed him 500 pounds, and that if you or some of your people could
send an account of his debts, that I might give it to him, he would undertake to solicit Lord
Treasurer and get this 500 pounds, and give the remainder to his mother and sister" (Wentworth
Papers, 320).

6 George St. John (eldest son of Sir Harry St. John by his second marriage) was Secretary to
the English Plenipotentiaries at Utrecht.  He died at Venice in 1716 (Lady Cowper's Diary, 65).

7 Forster wrongly reads, "poor."

8 "Putt" (MS.).

9 See Letter 59, note 26.

10 Montagu Bertie, second Earl of Abingdon (died 1743), was a strong Tory.

11 See Letter 11, note 61.  These friends were together again on an expedition to Bath in 1715,
when Jervas wrote to Pope (Aug. 12, 1715) that Arbuthnot, Disney, and he were to meet at Hyde
Park Corner, proceed to Mr. Hill's at Egham, meet Pope next day, and then go to Lord Stawell's
to lodge the night. Lord Stawell's seat, Aldermaston, was seventeen miles from Binfield.

12 See Letter 16, note 20.

13 "I" (MS.).

14 Obliterated.  Forster reads, "devil," and Mr. Ryland, "bitch."

15 See Letter 40, note 6.

16 Victor Marie, duc d'Estrees, Marshal of France (died 1727).

17 See Letter 55, note 18.

18 Several words are obliterated.  Forster reads, "the last word, God 'give me"; but "'give
me" is certainly wrong.

19 See Letter 9, note 13.  Sir Thomas Hanmer married, in 1698, at the age of twenty-two, Isabella,
Dowager Duchess of Grafton, daughter of Henry, Earl of Arlington, and Countess of Arlington
in her own right.  Hanmer was not made Secretary of State, but he succeeded Bromley as Speaker
of the House of Commons.

20 William Fitzmaurice (see Letter 11, note 19 and Letter 27, note 11) entered Christ Church,
Oxford, matriculating on March 10, 1712-13, at the age of eighteen.

21 See Letter 11, note 11.

22 William Bromley, second son of Bromley the Speaker (see Letter 10, note 1), was a boy of
fourteen at this time.  In 1727 he was elected M.P. for Warwick, and he died in 1737, shortly
after being elected Member for Oxford University.

23 See Letter 14, note 12.

24 Sometimes "list" means to border or edge; at others, to sew together, so as to make a variegated
display, or to form a border.  Probably it here means the curling of the bottom of the wig.

25 The last eight words have been much obliterated, and the reading is doubtful.

26 Lady Henrietta Hyde, second daughter of Laurence Hyde, first Earl of Rochester (see Letter
8, note 22), married James Scott, Earl of Dalkeith, son of the Duke of Monmouth.  Lord Dalkeith
died in 1705, leaving a son, who succeeded his grandmother (Monmouth's widow) as second Duke
of Buccleuch. Lady Catherine Hyde (see Letter 40, note 6) was a younger sister of Lady Dalkeith.

27 Swift first wrote "I frequent."

28 See Letter 52, note 5.

29 D'Estrees.

30 Little (almost illegible).

Letter 61.

1 Addressed to "Mrs. Dingley," etc.  Endorsed "Mar. 27."

2 See Letter 3, note 20.

3 Formerly Lady Rialton (see Letter 40, note 3).

4 See Letter 58, note 8.

5 See Letter 11, note 39 and Letter 41, note 27.

6 Pun on "gambol."

7 See Letter 57, note 4.

8 See Letter 41, note 7.

9 "Upon Tuesday last, the house where His Grace the late Duke of Hamilton and Brandon lived
was hired for that day, where there was a fine ball and entertainment; and it is reported in
town, that a great lady, lately gone to travel, left one hundred guineas, with orders that
it should be spent in that manner, and in that house" (Postboy, Feb. 26-28, 1712-13).  The
"great lady" was, presumably, the Duchess of Marlborough.

10 See Letter 36, note 14 and Letter 40, note 21.

11 Trinity College, Dublin.

12 See Letter 60, note 19.

13 See Letter 36, note 15.

14 Dr. Pratt, Provost of Trinity College.

15 Obliterated, and doubtful.

16 A deal at cards, that draws the whole tricks.

17 Previous editors have misread "Trevor" as "Treasurer." Thomas Trevor, Chief-Justice of the
Common Pleas, was created Baron Trevor, of Bromham, in January 1712.  By commission of March
9, 1713, he occupied the woolsack during the illness of the Lord Keeper, Harcourt.

18 This is the only reference to Pope in the Journal.  In his "Windsor Forest" the young poet
assisted the Tories by his reference to the peace of Utrecht, then awaiting ratification.

19 Several words have been obliterated.  Forster reads, "Rove Pdfr, poo Pdfr, Nite MD MD MD,"
but this is more than the space would contain.

20 William Oldisworth (1680-1734), a Tory journalist and pamphleteer, who published various
works, including a translation of the Iliad.  He died in a debtors' prison.

