I am exhausted; I can say no more--God have mercy on me!'

'One word more,' cried the rector; 'by what name were you known to the Franklins?'

'Mary Welch,' she replied, faintly.

The wretched creature soon afterwards breathed her last.

The Doctor left a sufficient sum of money with the inmates of the house to defray the expenses
of the woman's funeral, and took his departure from that scene of wretchedness. As he retraced
his steps to his own dwelling, his thoughts were of the most painful nature; the woman's confession,
implicating Josephine and her mother in the crime of murder, horrified him, and gave rise to
the most terrible reflections. In his own heart he could not doubt the truth of the wretched
woman's statement, made as it was on her death-bed, and just as she was about to be ushered
into the presence of her Maker.

'My God!' thought the rector, entering his study, and throwing himself distractedly into a
seat--'to what a dreadful disclosure have I listened--Josephine the murderess of her father!
Mrs. Franklin the murderess of her husband! Can it be possible?--Alas, I cannot doubt it; for
why should that woman, at the awful moment of her dissolution, tell a falsehood? I remember
now the circumstances of Mr. Franklin's death; it was sudden and unaccountable, and privately
spoken of with suspicion, as to its cause; yet those suspicions never assumed any definite
shape.--The poor gentleman was buried without any post mortem examination, and the singular
circumstances of his death were gradually forgotten. But now the awful mystery is revealed
to me; he met his death at the hands of that miserable woman, at the instigation of Josephine
and her mother.'

But the Doctor's most painful thoughts arose from the reflection that he had formed a criminal
connection with such a vile, guilty creature as Josephine. He had learned to tolerate her licentiousness
and her consummate hypocrisy; he had loved her with passionate fervor, while he had only regarded
her as a frail, beautiful woman, who, having become enamored of him, had enticed him to her
arms. But now she stood before him as a wretch capable of any crime--as the murderess of her
own father; and all his love and admiration for her were turned into a loathing hate; and while
he had no intention of denouncing her and her mother to the authorities of justice, he determined
to have but one more interview with her, and at that interview to reproach her for her crime,
and cast her off forever.

'But previous to that interview,' thought he, 'I will make assurance doubly sure; I will find
means to enter the vault wherein Mr. Franklin's body was interred; I will examine the remains,
and as my knowledge of human anatomy is considerable, I shall have no difficulty in discovering
the evidences of foul play, if such evidences exist. Having thus satisfied myself beyond the
shadow of a doubt that Mr. Franklin was murdered, I can with confidence accuse Josephine and
her mother of the deed; and from that moment, all connection between me and that wicked woman
shall cease forever. I have been infatuated and enslaved by her seductive beauty and her fascinating
favors; but thank God, I am myself again, and resolved to atone for the past, by leading a
life of purity and virtue for the future.'

That night the Doctor was called on to perform the marriage ceremony at the house of a friend,
at a distant part of the city; and it was late when he set out to return to his own home.

It was a dismal night, dark and starless; the sky was laden with impending storm, and the rector
shuddered as he looked forward into the gloom, and contrasted it with the scene of light and
gaiety which he had just left. His heart was oppressed with a heavy weight; for he could not
shake off the dreadful thought that Josephine--beautiful and accomplished Josephine--whom he
had loved with a fervent though unholy passion--was a _murderess_!

While hurrying on with rapid strides, his mind tortured by such painful reflections, a tall
figure suddenly stood before him, and a voice whispered--

'Deliver your money, or die!'

The rector perceived that the robber had his arm raised, and that he held in his hand a large
knife, ready to strike in case of resistance or alarm. Dr. Sinclair was no coward; had there
been a single chance in his favor, he would have grappled with the robber, rather than yield
to his demand; yet he was slender and by no means powerful--he was also unarmed; and besides,
the idea flashed through his mind that the desperado might be of use to him, and these considerations
prompted him to speak in a conciliatory tone and manner:--

'Friend,' said he, 'unfortunately for you I am but a poor parson, and have only about me a
few dollars, which I have just received as my fee for uniting a happy couple in the holy bonds
of wedlock. What I have you are welcome to; here is my purse.'

The robber took the purse, and was about to move off, when the rector called to him and said,--

'Stay, friend; you are the very man I want to assist me in a dangerous enterprise--one that
requires courage, and strength, and skill; if you engage to aid me, your reward shall be liberal--what
say you?'

'You must first tell me what it is you want done,' replied the robber.

'I want to break open a tomb in St. Paul's churchyard, and examine a dead body; and to do this
I shall require an assistant,' said the Doctor, in a low tone.

'That is all well enough,' rejoined the robber; 'but how do I know that you are not laying
a plan to entrap me into the clutches of the law, for having robbed you?'

'Pshaw!' exclaimed the Doctor, disdainfully, 'why should I seek to entrap you? You have only
relieved me of a few dollars, and what care I for that! Draw near, and examine me closely;
do I look like a man who would tell a base lie, even to bring a robber to justice?--have I
not the appearance of a gentleman? I pledge you my sacred word of honor, that I meditate no
treachery against you.'

'Enough--I am satisfied,' said the robber, after having scrutinized the Doctor as closely as
the darkness would admit of--'when is this thing to be done?'

'To-morrow night will probably be stormy, and suitable for the purpose,' replied Dr. Sinclair.
'Meet me precisely as the clock strikes the hour of midnight, at the great gate on the lower
extremity of the Park; you must come provided with such tools as will be necessary to effect
an entrance into the tomb, which is probably secured by a strong padlock; also bring with you
a lantern, and the means of lighting it. My object in thus disturbing the repose of the dead,
is of no consequence to you; it will be sufficient for you to understand that you are hired
to perform a service, which is to be well paid for when completed--you comprehend me?'

'I do,' said the robber, 'and shall not fail to meet you at the time and place appointed; if
you have no more to say to me, I will now bid you good night.'

'Good night,' said the Doctor; 'and pray, my good friend, do not menace any other belated traveller
with that ugly knife of yours.'

The robber laughed, and turning on his heel, strode away in the darkness, while the rector
continued on his way towards his residence. When he reached his house, and had entered the
door, a person emerged from the darkness, and by the light of a street lamp which was near,
read the name upon the door-plate.--The Doctor had been followed home by the robber.

'All right,' muttered the latter worthy, as he walked away--'he lives in that house, and his
name is Dr. Sinclair. Men of his class don't generally play the spy or traitor; so I can safely
keep the appointment. He is not a physician or surgeon; therefore what in the devil's name
should he want to break into a tomb for? No matter; to-morrow night will explain the mystery.'
And the robber's form was lost in the darkness.

As the Doctor had predicted, the night which followed the adventure just related, was stormy;
the snow fell thick and fast, and the darkness was intense. As the clock struck the hour of
midnight, a figure muffled in a cloak slowly emerged from the lower extremity of the Park,
and paused at the great gate which forms the Southern angle of that vast enclosure. He had
waited there but a few minutes, when he was joined by another person, who asked him--

'Well, Sir Robber, is it you?'

'All right, sir; you see I am punctual,' replied the robber. The other person was of course
the rector.

Without any further conversation, the two proceeded down Broadway, until they stood before
the magnificent church of St. Paul's. This splendid edifice, of Grecian architecture, was situated
on the border of an extensive burying ground, which with the church itself, was surrounded
by an iron railing of great height. Finding the front gate secured by a massive lock, the robber
applied himself to the task of picking it, with an instrument designed for that purpose. This
was soon accomplished, and entering the enclosure, the two passed around the rear of the church,
and stood among the many tomb-stones which marked the last resting place of the quiet dead.

The rector, being well acquainted with the arrangements of the ground, had no difficulty in
finding the tomb he wished to enter. A plain marble slab, upon which was sculptured the words
'Franklin Family,' denoted the spot. It required the united strength of both the men to raise
this slab from the masonry on which it rested. This being done, they stepped into the aperture,
descended a short flight of stone steps, and found their further progress arrested by an iron
door, secured by an immense padlock.

'It will now be necessary to light my lantern; I can do so with safety,' said the robber. And
igniting a match, he lighted a dark lantern which he had brought with him. Dr. Sinclair then,
for the first time, distinctly beheld the features of his midnight companion; and he started
with horror--for the most diabolically hideous countenance he had ever seen or dreamed of in
his life, met his gaze. The robber observed the impression he had made upon his employer, and
grinned horribly a ghastly smile.

'You don't like my looks, master,' said he, gruffly.

'I certainly cannot call you handsome,' replied the Doctor, trying to smile--'but no matter--you
will answer my purpose as well as a comelier person. Let us proceed with our work; can you
break or pick this padlock?'

The robber made no reply, but drew from his pocket a bunch of skeleton keys, with which he
soon removed the padlock; and the heavy iron door swung upon its rusty hinges with a loud creaking
noise.

'D----n and blast that noise!' growled the robber.

'Silence, fellow!' cried the rector, authoritatively; 'you are standing in the chamber of the
dead, and such profanity is out of place here--no more of it.'

This reproof was received with a very ill grace by the robber, who glared savagely upon his
reprover, and seemed almost inclined to spring upon him and strangle him on the spot--no difficult
thing for him to do, for the Doctor was of slender build, while he himself possessed a frame
unusually muscular and powerful.

They entered the vault, and the feeble rays of the lantern shone dimly on the damp green walls,
and on the few coffins which were placed upon shelves.

An awful odor pervaded the place, so loathsome, so laden with the effluvia of death and corruption,
that the rector hesitated, and was more than half inclined to abandon the undertaking; but
after a moment's reflection--

'No,' he said, mentally--'having gone thus far, it would ill become me to retreat when just
on the point of solving the terrible mystery; I will proceed.'

He advanced and examined the coffins, some of which were so much decayed, that their ghastly
inmates were visible through the large holes in the crumbling wood. At length he found one,
in a tolerable state of preservation, upon which was a gold plate bearing the name of Edgar
Franklin. Satisfied that this was the one he was in search of, he desired the robber to come
forward and assist in removing the lid, which being done, a fleshless skeleton was revealed
to their view.

'Now, fellow,' said the Doctor, 'I am about to make a certain investigation, of which you must
not be a witness; therefore, you will retire to the outer entrance of the tomb, and wait there
until I call you. Your reward shall be in proportion to your faithful obedience of my orders.'

Casting a look of malignant hate at the young gentleman, the robber withdrew from the vault,
shutting the iron door behind him; and as he did so, he muttered a deep and terrible curse.

'Now may Heaven nerve me to the performance of this terrible task!' exclaimed the rector, solemnly;
and bending over the coffin, he held the lantern in such a position as enabled him to gaze
into the interior of the skull, through the eyeless sockets.

But oh, horrible--within that skull was a mass of live corruption--a myriad of grave worms
banquetting upon the brains of the dead!

The Doctor reeled to the iron door of the vault, threw it open, and eagerly breathed the fresh
air from above. This somewhat revived him, and he called on his assistant to come down. The
robber obeyed, and was thus addressed by his employer--

'Friend, I have overrated my own powers--perhaps your nerves are stronger, your heart bolder
than mine. Go to that coffin which we opened, search the interior of the skull, and if you
find anything in it singular, or in the least degree unusual, bring it to me.--Here is a pocket-book
containing money to a large amount; take it and keep it, but do as I have requested.'

The robber took the pocket-book and went into the vault. Horror could not sicken _him_; the
terrors of death itself had no terror for him.

After the lapse of a few moments, he exclaimed--'I have found something!' and advancing to
the door, he handed to the doctor a small object, having first wiped it with an old handkerchief.

Overcoming his repugnance by a powerful effort, the doctor walked back into the vaults towards
the lantern, which still remained upon the coffin-lid.

Upon examining the article which had been taken from the skull, he found it to be _a piece
of lead_, of an irregular shape and weighing nearly two ounces.

'My belief in the guilt of Josephine and her mother is confirmed,' thought he. 'Shall I deliver
them into the hands of justice? that must be decided hereafter; at all events, I will accuse
them of the crime, and discontinue all connection with the wretched Josephine forever.'

Having carefully placed the piece of lead in his pocket, he advanced to the door, with the
intent of leaving the robber to fasten on the lid of the coffin. To his surprise and horror
he discovered that the door was locked! He knocked frantically against it, but was only answered
by a low laugh from the outside.

'Wretch--villain!' he exclaimed. 'What mean you by this trick? Open the door instantly, I command
you!'

'Fool!' cried the robber, contemptuously. 'I obey your commands no longer. You shall be left
in this tomb to rot and die. You spoke to me with scorn, and shall now feel my vengeance. Think
not, that I am ignorant of your true object in entering this tomb;--there has been a _murder_
committed, and you sought for evidence of the crime. That evidence is now in your possession;
but the secret is known to me, and I shall not fail to use it to my advantage. I shall seek
out the Franklins, and inform them of the discovery which places them completely in my power.
Farewell, parson--; I leave you to your agreeable meditations, and to the enjoyment of a long,
sound sleep!'

The miserable rector heard the sound of the ruffian's departing footsteps; with a wild cry
of anguish and despair he threw himself against the iron door, which yielded not to his feeble
efforts, and he sank exhausted upon the floor, in the awful conviction that he was buried alive!

Soon the horrors of his situation increased to a ten-fold degree--for he found himself assailed
by a legion of rats. These creatures attacked him in such numbers that he was obliged to act
on the defensive; and all his exertions were scarce sufficient to keep them from springing
upon him, and tearing his flesh with their sharp teeth.

To his dismay he observed that the light of the lantern was growing dim and came near to being
exhausted; darkness was about to add to the terrors of the place. Nerved to desperation, though
faint and sick with the awful stench of that death vault, he searched about for some weapon
with which to end his miserable existence. While thus engaged, he stumbled over a heavy iron
crowbar which lay in one corner and seizing it with a cry of joy, applied it with all his force
to the door of his loathsome prison.

It yielded--he was free! for the slab had not been replaced over the tomb, owing to the robber's
inability to raise it. Falling on his knees, the rector thanked God for his deliverance; and
ascending the steps, stood in the burial-ground, just as the lamps in the tomb below had become
extinguished.

He was about to make his way out of the grave-yard, when he heard the sound of approaching
footsteps, and low voices; and just as he had concealed himself behind a tall tomb-stone, he
saw, through the thick darkness, two men approach the uncovered tomb from which he emerged
only a few minutes before.

''Twas fortunate I met you, Ragged Pete,' said one; 'for without your aid I never could have
lifted this stone into its place; and if it were left in its present position, it would attract
attention in the morning, and that cursed parson might be rescued from the tomb. Take hold,
and let's raise it on.'

'Werry good--but are you sure that the chap is down there still?' demanded Ragged Pete; 'hadn't
we better go down and see if he hasn't took leg bait?'

'Pshaw, you fool!' rejoined the first speaker, angrily; 'how could he escape after I had locked
him in? There's an iron door, fastened with a padlock as big as your head; so hold your tongue,
and help me raise the stone to its place.'

This was done with considerable difficulty; and the two men sat down to rest after their labor.

'The parson won't live over night; if he is not devoured by the rats, he is sure to be suffocated,'
remarked the man who had fastened the doctor in the tomb.

'Somehow or other,' said Ragged Pete, 'whoever offends you is sure to be punished in some dreadful
and unheard-of manner. By thunder, I must try and keep in your good graces!'

'You will do well to do so,' rejoined his companion, 'my vengeance is always sure to overtake
those who cross my path. Pete, I have led a strange life of crime and wickedness, from my very
cradle, I may say, up to the present time. See, the storm is over, and the stars are shining
brightly. It lacks several hours of daybreak; and as I feel somewhat sociably inclined, suppose
I tell you my story? I have a flask of brandy in my pocket, and while we are moistening our
clay, you shall listen to the history of one whose proudest boast is, he never did a good action,
but has perpetrated every enormity in the dark catalogue of crimes.'

Ragged Pete expressed his desire to hear the story; and even Dr. Sinclair, in his place of
concealment, prepared to listen with attention. Probably the reader has already guessed that
the robber was no other than the terrible _Dead Man_; such was indeed the case; it was that
same villain, who has occupied so prominent a place in the criminal portions of our narrative.
We shall devote a separate chapter to his story.

CHAPTER XVIII

_The Dead Man's story; being a tale of many Crimes._

'I never knew who my parents were; they may have been saints--they may have been devils; but
in all probability they belonged to the latter class, for when I was three weeks old, they
dropped me upon the highway one fine morning near the great city of Boston, to which famous
city belongs the honor of my birth! Well, I was picked up by some Samaritans, who wrapped me
up in red flannel, and clapped me in the Alms House. Behold me, then, a pauper!

'I throve and grew; my constitution was iron--my sinews were steel, and my heart a lion's.
Up to the age of twelve, I was as other children are--I cried when I was whipped, and submitted
when oppressed. At twelve, I began to reason and think; I said to myself,--Before me lies the
world, created for the use of all its inhabitants. I am an inhabitant and entitled to my share--but
other inhabitants, being rogues and sharpers, refuse to let me have my share. The world plunders
me--in turn, I will plunder the world!

'At fourteen, I bade adieu to the Alms House, without the knowledge or consent of the overseer.
I exchanged my grey pauper suit for a broadcloth of a young nabob, which I accidentally found
in one of the chambers of a fashionable hotel, in Court street. Behold me, then, a gentleman!
But I had no money; and so took occasion to borrow a trifling sum from an old gentleman, one
night, upon one of the bridges which lead from Boston to Charleston. Do you ask how he came
to give me credit? Why, I just tapped him on the head with a paving stone tied up in the corner
of a handkerchief, after which delicate salutation he made not the slightest objection to my
borrowing what he had about him. The next day it was said that a man's body had been found
on the bridge, with his skull severely smashed--but what cared I?

'Gay was the life I led; for I was young and handsome. You laugh--but I was handsome then--my
features had not the deathlike expression which they now wear. By and by you shall learn how
I acquired the hideousness of face which procured for me the title of the _Dead Man_.

'One day I made too free with a gentleman's gold watch on the Common; and they shut me up for
five years in the Stone University, where I completed my education at the expense of the State.
At twenty I was free again. Behold me, then, a thoroughly educated scoundrel! I resolved to
enlarge my modes of operation, and play the villain on a more extensive scale.

'Hiring an office in a dark alley in Boston, I assumed the lofty title of Doctor Sketers. My
shelves were well stocked with empty phials and bottles--my windows were furnished with curtains,
upon which my assumed name was painted in flaming capitals. The columns of the newspapers teemed
with my advertisements, in which I was declared to be the only regular advertising physician--one
who had successfully treated twenty-five millions of cases of delicate unmentionable complaints.
Certificates of cure were also published by thousands, signed by people who never existed.
Having procured an old medical diploma, I inserted my borrowed name, and exhibited it as an
evidence of my trustworthiness and skill. The consequence of all this was, I was overrun with
patients, none of whom I cured. My private entrance for ladies often gave admission to respectable
unmarried females, who came to consult me on the best method of suppressing the natural proofs
of their frailty. From these I would extract all the money possible and then send them to consult
the skillful agent of Madam R----. A thriving, profitable business, that of quackery! From
it I reaped a golden harvest, and when that became tiresome, I put on a white neckcloth, and
became a priest.

'Behold me a deacon, and a brother beloved! Who so pious, so exemplary, so holy as I! I lived
in an atmosphere of purity and prayer; prayer seasoned my food before meals, and washed it
down afterwards; prayer was my nightcap when I went to bed and my eye opener in the morning.
At length I began to pray so fervently with the younger and fairer sisters of the flock, that
the old ones, with whom I had no desire to pray, began to murmur--so, growing tired of piety,
I kicked it to the devil, and joined the ranks of temperance.

'For over a year I lectured in public, and got drunk in private--glorious times! But at last
people began to suspect that I was inspired by the spirit of alcohol, instead of the spirit
of reform. A committee was appointed to wait on me and smell my breath--which they had no sooner
done than they smelt a rat--and while some were searching my heart, others searched my closet,
and not only discovered a bottle of fourth-proof, but uncovered a pile of counterfeit bank
notes, there concealed. Reacting like a man of genius, my conduct was both forcible and striking;
I knocked three of the brethren down, jumped out of the back window, scaled a fence, rushed
through an alley, gained the street and was that afternoon on a steamboat bound for New York.

'On the passage, I observed a gentleman counting a pile of money; he was a country merchant,
going to purchase goods. The weather was intensely warm, and many of the passengers slept on
deck; among these was the country merchant. He lay at a considerable distance from the others
and the night was dark. I stole upon him, and passed my long Spanish knife through his heart.--He
died easy--a single gasp and all was over. I took his money, and threw his body over to the
fishes. 'Twas my second murder--it never troubled me, for I never had a conscience. I entered
New York, for the first time, with a capital of three thousand dollars, got by the murder of
the country merchant; and this capital I resolved to increase by future murders and future crimes.

'I will now relate a little incident of my life, which will serve to show the bitterness of
my hatred towards all mankind. For several years I had lived in various families, in a menial
capacity, my object, of course, being robbery, and other crimes. It chanced that I once went
to live in the family of a wealthy gentleman, whose wife was the most beautiful woman I ever
saw; and her loveliness inspired me with such passion, that one day, during her husband's absence,
I ventured to clasp her in my arms--struggling from my embrace, she repelled me with indignant
scorn, and commanded me to leave the house instantly. I obeyed, swearing vengeance against
her, and her family; and how well that oath was kept! About a week after my dismissal from
the family, being one night at the theatre, I saw Mr. Ross, the husband of the lady whom I
had insulted, seated in the boxes. Keeping my eye constantly upon him, I saw him when he left
the theatre, and immediately followed him, though at such a distance as to prevent his seeing
me. Fortunately his way home lay through a dark and lonely street; in the most obscure part
of that street, I quickened my steps until I overtook him--and just as he was about to turn
around to see who followed him, I gave him a tremendous blow on his right temple with a heavy
slung shot, and he fell to the earth without a groan. I knew that I had killed him and was
glad of it--it was my third murder. After dragging his body into a dark alley, so that he might
not be found by the watchman, I rifled his pockets of their contents, among which was the night-key
of his house, which I regarded as a prize of inestimable value.

'Leaving the corpse of Mr. Ross in the alley, I went straight to his house in Howard street,
and admitted myself by means of the night-key which I had found in his pocket. A lamp was burning
in the hall; I extinguished it and groped my way up stairs to the chamber of Mrs. Ross with
the situation of which I was well acquainted. On opening the chamber door, I found to my intense
delight that no light or candle was burning within; all was in darkness. Approaching the bed,
I became convinced that the lady was in a sound sleep; this circumstance added greatly to my
satisfaction. Well, I deliberately stripped myself and got into bed; still she awoke not. Think
you I was troubled with any remorse of conscience, while lying at the side of the wronged woman
whose husband had just been slain by my hand? Not a bit of it; I chuckled inwardly at the success
of my scheme, and impatiently waited an opportunity to take every advantage of my position.
At last she awoke; supposing me, of course, to be her husband, she gently chided me for remaining
out so late; I did not dare suffer her to hear the sound of my voice, but replied to her in
whispers. She suspected nothing--and I completed my triumph! Yes, the proud, beautiful woman
who had treated me with such scorn, was then my slave. I had sacrificed her honor on the altar
of my duplicity and lust!

'Morning came, and its first beams revealed to my victim the extent of her degradation--she
saw through the deception, and with a wild cry, fell back senseless. Hastily dressing myself,
I stepped into an adjoining room where the two children of Mrs. Ross were sleeping; they were
twins, a boy and a girl, three years of age, and pretty children they were. I drew my pocket
knife, to cut their throats; just then they awoke, and gazed upon me with bright, inquiring
eyes--then recognizing me, their rosy cheeks were dimpled with smiles, and they lisped my name.
Perhaps you think their innocence and helplessness touched my heart--hah! no such thing; I
merely changed my mind, and with the point of my knife cut out their beautiful eyes! having
first gagged them both, to prevent their screaming. Delicious fun, wasn't it? Then I bolted
down stairs, but was so unfortunate as to encounter several of the servants, who had been aroused
by their mistress's shriek. Frightened at my appearance, (for I was covered with the children's
blood,) they did not arrest my flight, and I made good my escape from the house. That scrape
was my last for some time; for people were maddened by the chapter of outrages committed by
me on that family--the murder of the husband, the dishonor of the wife, and the blinding of
those two innocent children. I was hunted like a wild beast from city to city; large rewards
were offered for my apprehension, and minute descriptions of my entire person flooded every
part of the country. But my cunning baffled them all; for two months I lived in the woods,
in an obscure part of New Jersey, subsisting upon roots, and wild herbs, and wild berries,
and crawling worms, which I dug from the earth. One day in my wanderings, I came across a gang
of counterfeiters, who made their rendezvous in a cave; these were congenial spirits for me--I
told them my story, and became one of them. The gang included several men of superior education
and attainments, among whom was a celebrated chemist.

'This man undertook to procure for me a certain chemical preparation which he said would alter
and disfigure my features so that I never could be recognized, even by those who were most
intimately acquainted with me. He was as good as his word; he furnished me with a colorless
liquid, contained in a small phial, directing me to apply it to my face at night, but cautioning
me particularly to avoid getting any of it into my eyes. His directions were followed by me,
to the very letter;--during the night, my face seemed on fire, but I heeded not the torture.
Morning came--the pain was over; I arose, and rushed to a mirror. Great God! I scarce knew
myself, so terribly changed was my countenance. My features, once comely and regular, had assumed
the ghastly, horrible and death-like appearance they now wear. Oh, how I hugged myself with
joy when I found myself thus impenetrably disguised! Never did the face of beauty have half
the charms for me, that my blanched and terrific visage had! 'I will go forth into the great
world again--no one will ever recognize me!' thought I; and bidding adieu to my brother counterfeiters,
I returned to New York. Ha, ha, ha! how people shrank from me! how children screamed at my
approach; how mothers clasped their babes to their breasts as I passed by, as though I were
the destroying angel! The universal terror which I inspired was to me a source of mad joy.
Having ample means in my possession, I began a career of lavish expenditure and extravagant
debauchery, until the eye of the police was fastened upon me with suspicion; and then I deemed
it prudent to act with more caution.--About that time I became aware of the existence of the
Dark Vaults, and the 'Jolly Knights of the Round Table.' Soon after my meeting with that jovial
crew, the law put its iron clutch on me for a murder--a mere trifle; I passed my knife between
a gentleman's ribs one night in the street, just to tickle his heart a bit, and put him in
a good humor to lend me some money, but the fool died under the operation, having first very
impolitely called out _Murder!_ which resulted in my being captured on the spot by two of those
night prowlers known as watchmen. Well, my ugly face was against me, and I could give no good
account of myself--therefore they (the judge and jury) voted me a hempen cravat, to be presented
and adjusted one fine morning between the hours of ten and twelve. But his Excellency the Governor,
(a particular friend of mine,) objected to such a summary proceeding, as one calculated to
deprive society of its brightest ornament; he therefore favored me with a special permit to
pass the rest of my useful life within the walls of a place vulgarly termed the State Prison--a
very beautiful edifice when viewed from the outside. I did not long remain there, however,
to partake of the State's hospitality--to be brief, I ran away, but was carried back again,
after being a year at liberty, through the instrumentality of Sydney, whom may the devil confound!
But again I escaped--you know in what manner; and you are well acquainted with most of my adventures
since--my cutting out the boy _Kinchen's_ tongue, my murder of Mrs. Stevens, and other matters
not necessary for me to repeat.'

'But,' said Ragged Pete, with some hesitation, 'you haven't told me of your wife, you know.'

'Wife--ha, ha, ha!' and the Dead Man laughed long and loud; there was something in his laugh
which chilled the blood, and made the heart beat with a nameless terror.

'True, Pete, I have not yet told you about my wife, as you call her. But you shall hear. What
would you say if I told you that Mrs. Ross, the lady whose husband I murdered, whose children
I blinded, and whom I so outrageously deceived herself--what would you say if you were told
that the woman who passes for my wife, is that same lady?'

'I should say it was a thing impossible,' replied Pete.

