THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

_BOOKS ILLUSTRATED BY_

ARTHUR RACKHAM

  CINDERELLA. 7s. 6d. net.

  THE ALLIES' FAIRY BOOK. 7s. 6d. net.

  ALICE IN WONDERLAND. 7s. 6d. net.

  ÆSOP'S FABLES. 7s. 6d. net.

  MOTHER GOOSE. 7s. 6d. net.

  A CHRISTMAS CAROL. 7s. 6d. net.

  THE SPRINGTIDE OF LIFE POEMS OF CHILDHOOD, by A. C.
      Swinburne. 10s. 6d. net.

  RIP VAN WINKLE. 10s. 6d. net.

  UNDINE. 12s. 6d. net.

  ARTHUR RACKHAM'S BOOK OF PICTURES. 21s. net.

  THE RING OF THE NIBLUNGS. In Two Vols. Each 21s. net.

  INGOLDSBY LEGENDS. 21s. net.

  A MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. 21s. net.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

 THE·SLEEPING
   BEAUTY

  TOLD·BY·C·S·EVANS
  AND·ILLUSTRATED·BY
   ARTHUR·RACKHAM

  LONDON·WILLIAM·HEINEMANN
  PHILADELPHIA·J·B·LIPPINCOTT·Co

LONDON: WILLIAM HEINEMANN, 1920.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: BRIAR ROSE]

[Illustration: ONCE UPON A TIME]

THE SLEEPING BEAUTY

CHAPTER I

ONCE upon a time there were a King and a Queen who were very unhappy because they had no children.
Everything else that the heart could wish for was theirs. They were rich; they lived in a wonderful
palace full of the costliest treasures; their kingdom was at peace, and their people were prosperous.
Yet none of these things contented them, because they wanted a little child of their own to
love and to care for, and though they had been married several years, no child had come to them.

[Illustration]

Every day the King would look at the Queen and say: "Ah, if we only had a little child," and
the Queen would look at the King and sigh, and they were both very miserable about it. Then
they would put on their golden crowns and sit side by side on their thrones, while lords and
ladies and ambassadors from other lands came to pay them homage, and they had to smile with
their lips for the sake of politeness, but there was no joy in their hearts. And that is one
of the greatest disadvantages of being a King or a Queen, that one has always to hide one's
feelings.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

Now it happened one day that the Queen went to her bath, and having dismissed her ladies, she
descended the marble steps into the water and began idly to play with some wild rose-petals
which had fallen into the water. All of a sudden she heard a croaking voice that said: "O Queen,
be cheerful, for the dearest wish of your heart will be granted you."

[Illustration]

"Who is that?" cried the Queen, a little frightened, for she could see nobody.

"Look behind you," croaked the voice, "and do not be afraid, for I come only to bear you good
tidings."

So the Queen looked behind her, and there was a great frog who looked at her with its big round
eyes.

Now the Queen was afraid of frogs, because they are cold and clammy, but she was very polite
by nature as well as breeding, so she did not show her dislike, though she could not help shrinking
back a little.

"And do you tell me, Master Frog," said she, "that I shall have the wish of my heart, and do
you know what that wish may be?"

"It is to have a little small child of your own," said the Frog; and the Queen nodded.

"Very well," the Frog went on, "do you see the green leaves of that almond tree on the branch
by the window?"

"I do," replied the Queen wonderingly.

"Those green leaves will fade," said the Frog, "and the winter winds will blow them away. Then
the branch will be bare, but in spring-time, before the leaves come again, it will be covered
with pink blossom, and that blossom you shall show to a baby lying at your breast."

[Illustration]

The Queen gave a cry of joy. A ray of sunlight came through the trees, dazzling her eyes so
that she had to close them for a moment. When she opened them again the frog had gone, and
nothing was to be seen but the dainty rose-petals floating on the surface of the water.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CHAPTER II

THOSE were wonderful tidings to be spoken by a frog who came no one knew whence and went no
one knew whither. But the Queen believed that the prophecy would prove true, and she was right,
for when the Spring time came again and the almond blossom was pink upon the bough, she gave
birth to a little daughter who was so beautiful that nobody had ever seen her like.

Now what joy there was in the hearts of everybody in the palace! The King was so excited that
he went into council in his dressing-gown instead of his royal robe, and he did not care a
bit when his courtiers smiled. There was coming and going in all the halls and corridors. Couriers
on swift horses were sent out to bear the glad news to the most distant parts of the kingdom.
All the bells in the churches were rung; flags were put out in the houses and streamers were
hung across the roadways. Then the cannons were fired, bang, bang, bang, to tell the people
that everybody was to have a holiday, so that all, from the highest to the lowest, might rejoice
in their Queen's happiness.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Never was there such a beautiful child," said the King, looking down at his little daughter
as she lay in her mother's arms. He wanted very much to nurse her, but this could not be allowed,
because men are so clumsy with babies.

"What shall her name be?" said the King. And he suggested all the grandest names he could call
to mind, for he thought that such a wonderful child must certainly have a name to suit. But
the Queen would have none of them.

"She shall be called Briar-Rose," said the Queen; and so it was arranged.

[Illustration]

A few weeks later the christening took place. That was a splendid ceremony to be sure, for
all the lords and ladies of the kingdom were present in their richest dresses, together with
princes and ambassadors from distant countries. The little Princess was as good as gold all
the time. She did not cry once, but opened her big blue eyes and smiled at the glittering company
as though she understood everything that was going on.

[Illustration]

Outside the cathedral the roads were crowded with people waiting to see the guests come and
go. The carriages extended for nearly a mile, and as they drove away, headed by the royal coach,
in which the Queen sat with the Princess Briar-Rose in her arms, the spectators took off their
hats and shouted and cheered. Some of the little boys perched themselves on the branches of
trees and the lamp-posts in order to get a better view, and I have been told that there was
one poor woman who saw nothing at all, because her boy tried to climb up to an inn sign, where
he dangled in such a dangerous position that his poor old mother had to stand with her back
to the procession, holding on to his legs in a terrible state of anxiety lest he should fall.

At the palace, a magnificent feast had been prepared.

Now it was the custom in those days, when a King's child was christened, for all the fairies
in the country to be invited to the christening feast. Each fairy was bound to bring a gift,
so of course it stood to reason that the royal child would have everything that the heart could
possibly desire.

[Illustration]

There were thirteen fairies in the King's realm, but one of them lived in a lonely place on
the outskirts of the kingdom. There, for the last fifty years, she had shut herself up in a
ruined tower with only a black cat to keep her company, and as she kept herself to herself,
everybody had forgotten her very existence. The result was that she was not invited to the
christening feast, and though she had nobody but herself to blame for this, she was very angry
about it. The truth of the matter is that she was always a miserable, sour creature, with no
love or kindness in her heart, and nobody missed her because she had never given anybody any
reason to care for her.

Well, the guests assembled in the banqueting hall of the palace and the feast began.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER III

THE King and the Queen sat on a dais at the end of the banqueting hall, and above them in a
little gallery there was a band of fiddlers and flute-players. On either side of the royal
pair sat the twelve fairy godmothers, six on the right hand and six on the left. In front of
each fairy was a golden plate and a golden casket made to hold her knife, fork and spoon. These
caskets were beautifully carved and engraved, and each one was of a different shape. One was
in the form of a ship, another of a shell, a third in the form of a castle with turrets, and
so on; nothing more beautiful could be imagined, for they had all been specially made for the
occasion by the cleverest goldsmiths in the kingdom, and they were the King's presents to the
fairy godmothers. He felt very proud when the fairies spoke admiringly of these caskets and
said that they would be pleased to accept them.

Below the dais were six long tables for the guests, and there was only just room between the
tables for the servants to pass, so you may judge how crowded the room was. Such a glittering
of silks, such a flashing of jewels, such a dazzle and splendour had never been seen since
the time of the King's coronation, and all the guests were laughing and talking merrily. The
court painter was there, of course, to make a picture of the gorgeous scene, and was kept so
busy sketching on his tablets that he had no time to get any food, though probably he had a
good meal afterwards.

[Illustration]

And the nice things there were to eat! There were:

        Force-meat balls flavoured with rare spices from the East;
        Sardines from Sardinia;
        Tunny fish from the Mediterranean and Sturgeon from Russia;
        Steaming boars' heads with lemons in their mouths;
        Turkeys, peacocks and swans;
        Ortolans;
        Wonderful roasts and delicious stews;
        Roe deer and Bears' hams;

[Illustration]

        Sweets in all sorts of curious shapes, as, for
          instance, cakes like castles with little men
          made of sweet-stuff for sentries on the
          battlements, each complete in gilded armour and
          with a halberd over his shoulder. (A rare
          sight!) And eagles carved of ice hovering over
          silver dishes filled with apricots.

Then followed the smaller dishes:

        Tiny cakes as white and delicate as ladies'
          fingers;

        Birds' nests made of spun sugar (and in the
          nests were eggs of marsh-mallow, and in each
          egg was a tiny chicken made of caramel!);

        Figs and dates from the desert;

        Other fruits, in and out of season;

        Syrups and preserves fetched from the four
          corners of the world;

        Wines cooled in snow from the distant
          mountains.

One might fill pages merely by setting down the names of all the delicacies.

[Illustration]

Each dish was brought in by the servants in a kind of procession, headed by the Master-Cook,
looking as grand and solemn as an archbishop, for he was a grave and dignified person, and
of course he had a great responsibility. The guests were served by little page-boys of noble
birth, dressed in the liveries of their masters, and these pages handed the dishes and the
wines most politely on their bended knees as they had been taught to do.

So the guests enjoyed themselves, and the fiddlers played, and the King laughed at everything
everybody said, because he was in a mighty good humour, and the bright afternoon sun, shining
through the western windows, lighted up the rich hangings on the walls, and flashed upon the
jewels on fair ladies' fingers, and fell upon the marble pavement in a pool of gold.

And then, you know, when the merriment was at its height, something happened! There was a sudden
cry, and a harsh voice, like the croaking of a raven, sounded through the room.

"Be merry, my lords and ladies," cried the voice. "Laugh while you may, but remember that tears
may follow laughter."

A hush fell upon all the brilliant assembly. The Queen turned pale and shuddered. The King
rose hurriedly from his place, and he and all the guests turned to look at the strange figure
that had suddenly appeared in the doorway.

They saw an old woman bent almost double with age, her grey head with matted hair sunk deep
between her shoulders. Her face was white and twisted with anger, and her green eyes flashed
spitefully.

Slowly she advanced towards the dais, and stretching out her arm, pointed her finger at the
gold plates and the gold caskets set before the fairy godmothers. "There's one," said she,
with a harsh laugh, "there's two, there's twelve! Did you not know, O King, that there were
thirteen wise women in your kingdom, and the thirteenth the wisest and most powerful of all?
Where, then, is the plate and the casket set for me?"

The King began to make excuses, imploring the angry old fairy to forgive him for his neglect,
and begging her to sit down and join them in their festivities. "For," said he, "I am sure
you are very welcome."

"Is it so, indeed?" said the thirteenth fairy. "I am not too late, then, though the feast is
all but done. I shall eat off silver while my sisters eat off gold, and there is no curiously-shaped
casket for me. No matter, I am content, because I am in time, and I shall dower the Princess
with the gift which I have brought for her!" And here the spiteful creature uttered another
of her sneering laughs, which made the blood of all the guests run cold.

By dint of much coaxing the King at last managed to persuade her to sit down, and the feast
proceeded. But a chill had been cast over the assembly, and nothing was quite the same as it
had been before. The old crone muttered and mouthed over her food, now and again smiling to
herself as though she were cherishing some secret and evil triumph. The other fairies cast
anxious glances at her, for they feared her malice, and the youngest fairy of all, who happened
to be seated at the end of the table, presently rose up quietly from her place and, stealing
away, hid herself behind the arras. And nobody saw her go, nor did a single person remark upon
her absence.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER IV

AND now came the time for the most important part of the ceremony, when the fairy godmothers
should declare their gifts to the royal child. All this time the little Princess Briar-Rose
had been quietly sleeping in her cradle in the nursery, watched over by an old servant who
had tended her mother as a child. Now the King gave orders for the baby to be brought into
the banqueting hall. The guests ceased their laughter and talk, and the musicians laid by their
instruments.

So the sleeping child was brought and placed in her mother's arms. How tenderly she clasped
the baby to her breast, bending over it as though to shield it from all harm. So sweet a sight
should have touched the hardest heart, and indeed there was only one person in the room who
remained unmoved, and that was the spiteful and jealous fairy, who looked up and bared her
yellow teeth in a sneering grin.

"Queen," said she, "your face is pale and your lips tremble. What is it that you fear on this
day of the giving of gifts?"

But the Queen shuddered and was silent.

Then a fairy rose in her place and said--

"I will begin. My gift to the Princess Briar-Rose is the gift of Beauty. She shall have eyes
like stars, and hair as bright as the sunshine of the spring day on which she was born, and
cheeks as fresh and fair as the petals of the flower from which she takes her name. None shall
surpass her in loveliness."

Then the second fairy rose in her turn and said: "After Beauty, Wit. The Princess shall be
cleverer than any ordinary mortal could ever hope to be."

"I give her Virtue," said the third. And the Queen nodded her head and smiled, for though she
esteemed beauty and cleverness, she knew that neither was of any worth without goodness of heart.

[Illustration]

So all the fairies in turn named the gift which they had brought for Briar-Rose. The fourth
said that whatever the Princess put her hand to, she should do with the most exquisite grace;
the fifth, that she should sing like a nightingale; the sixth that she should dance as lightly
as a fairy, and so on until she had nearly all the virtues and accomplishments which even a
King might desire for his daughter. But as yet, the spiteful old fairy had not said a word.

[Illustration]

At last she rose and cast an evil glance round.

"Have you all finished?" said she. "Hear, then, my wish. On the day when she reaches her fifteenth
birthday, the Princess shall prick her finger with the spindle of a spinning-wheel, and shall
immediately die!"

This terrible prophecy made the whole company shudder. The Queen gave a cry and hugged the
sleeping baby still closer to her breast.

"No, no! Have pity!" she cried. "Call down your dreadful fate on my head if you will, but do
not harm this innocent child."

At this mournful appeal there was hardly one of the guests who could keep from tears, but the
old crone only mumbled to herself as though she were uttering a spell. Then the King leapt
to his feet, his hand at the jewelled hilt of the dagger that hung at his girdle. In another
moment he might have stretched the wicked creature lifeless at his feet, but before he could
draw the weapon from its sheath, another voice arrested him.

"Stay your hand, O King, lest even worse befall. No mortal may strike at a fairy and go unpunished.
And, for the rest, take comfort, for your daughter shall not die!"

Then the twelfth fairy stepped out from behind the arras where she had been hidden. "My gift
is still to come," she continued. "As far as I can, I will undo the mischief which my sister
has done. It is true that I have not the power to prevent altogether what she has decreed.
The Princess shall, indeed, prick her finger with the spindle of the spinning-wheel on the
day when she attains her fifteenth year; but instead of dying she shall fall into a deep sleep;
and this sleep shall last for a hundred years, and when that time is past, a King's son shall
come to waken her."

[Illustration]

CHAPTER V

SO the worst was averted, but the fate of the poor little Princess was still terrible enough,
and it was only to be expected that the King should do his best to prevent the prophecy from
coming to fulfilment.

The first thing he did was to summon all the magicians of his own and neighbouring countries,
promising a rich reward to the one who could show him a way to defeat the old fairy's malice.
The magicians came in scores, some with long beards reaching to their feet, some without any
beards at all, some with bald heads, and some with matted hair that looked as though it had
not been combed for centuries. For days there were so many magicians about the palace that
they were commoner than cats, and it was impossible to enter any room without surprising one
or the other of them, sitting in deep reflection and looking as wise as only a magician can
look. But nothing came of their thinking, and one after the other they gave up the task and
departed, having first asked for their travelling expenses.

At last there came a wizard who was wiser and more venerable than all the rest, and when he
heard what was required of him he said he would go home and consult his secret books which
contained the magic lore of all the ages, and which had been written by the greatest of all
the magicians, Merlin himself.

Home, then, he went, to his cell, which was in a rocky cliff on the side of a mountain, and
having uttered the word of power which unlocked the massive door, he entered and prepared to
begin his researches.

[Illustration]

Now the books of magic lore which Merlin had written were in many volumes, and everything in
them was set down in alphabetical order, so that it could be found easily. The old wizard,
therefore, turned first of all to the word _Princess_. Five hundred pages were devoted to this
subject, and, truly, there was a great deal of very interesting information. As thus:--

    PRINCESS: How to transform Goosegirl into.

        Spell for causing Princess to be surrounded
        with high walls of bronze, which may by no
        means be broken down except by the notes of a
        certain trumpet (_q.v._).

(Now _q.v._ are the first letters of two magic words which are to be found in all dictionaries
and encyclopædias to this day).

     PRINCESS: Enchanted ring for.

        A new and improved method by which she may be
        changed into a fawn together with any members
        of her family according to desire, and all of
        them transformed back again into their proper
        shape.

     PRINCESS: An excellent device for causing a
        Princess to grow tall or short by eating of a
        mushroom, with directions how to find the place
        where the mushroom grows, and precautions to be
        taken lest by over-much nibbling she disappear
        altogether.

And so on. But there was never a word about how to prevent a Princess from falling into a charmed
sleep through pricking her finger with the spindle of a spinning-wheel.

So when he had read all through the five hundred pages, the venerable wizard turned to the
word _Sleep_, in the hope that he would meet with better fortune.

And there was much reliable information under this heading also. There were recipes for potent
drugs which would cause sleep, and for still more potent drugs which would prevent people from
going to sleep, and when the wizard came to this last he cried out eagerly, for he thought
that he had succeeded in his quest, until he read on and discovered that the spell described
was only for use on wicked Queens who had shamefully ill-used their step-children. It is very
easy to make a mistake in magic, for it is a most complicated science.

By the time he had read through the two hundred pages devoted to the word _Sleep_, the venerable
wizard was very uneasy, but he was a persevering person and he did not abandon his endeavours.
Merlin's wise books having failed him, he cast about for other means to learn what he desired,
and consulted his oracle.

Now his oracle was a stuffed crocodile hanging from the ceiling, and a voice came from it which
told him to repeat the magic formula.

The magic formula is a sentence made up of all the sounds that are left out of ordinary speech,
and it is a fearsome thing to listen to. It is also very exhausting to say, and after the venerable
wizard had repeated it, he was obliged to rest for several hours. Then he rose again and drew
pentagons on the rocky floor of his cave, and crossed triangles and circles bordered with all
the signs of the Zodiac. And he stood in the middle of the pentagons and the crossed triangles
and the circles and went through all sorts of strange and secret rites, but all to no purpose.

[Illustration]

But still he would not give up trying; and he went to mysterious places in the woods and gathered
strange herbs in the dark of the moon. And, returning home, he cast the herbs into a brazier
and they burnt with flames of many colours, giving out clouds of dense smoke and a most horrible
smell. Then, as these exercises did not bring him the result he desired, he gazed into crystals
and poured ink into the palm of his hand, and did all the other things that he had learnt to
do in all the years since he was apprenticed to magic as a very small boy.

And just as he was going to give up the quest in despair, a thought came into his head, and
he cried aloud for joy, for he knew he had discovered what he sought. This shows how even the
most difficult things may be attained by perseverance and patience.

At the top of his speed he hastened back to the palace and asked an audience of the King. This
was immediately granted, for, to tell the truth, the King was awaiting his return with considerable
anxiety.

"Well," said he, "have you succeeded in finding a way?"

"I have," answered the venerable wizard. "My arts have not failed me!" And he handed the King
a piece of parchment on which were written the following words. They were written in Latin
to make them look more important, but very likely it was not good Latin, for the venerable
wizard had been apprenticed to his trade at an early age, and in consequence his classical
education had been somewhat neglected. But this was the meaning of them:

        Shall spindle prick?--then spindle burn,
        No thread weave and no wheel turn;
        If there's no spindle and there's no wheel,
        Then no finger the spindle can feel.

The King slapped his thigh for joy. "Why, of course!" said he. "How is it that I did not myself
think of such a simple solution? It seems to me, Wizard, that you have easily earned your thousand
crowns!"

"Ah, Majesty," the wizard made answer, "all things are simple when once you know them."

And in this he was quite right.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CHAPTER VI

THE King lost no time in putting the wizard's counsel into effect. The very next day he caused
a proclamation to be written, and ordered copies of it to be fixed on all the church doors,
and in all the public places of every town in his kingdom. In 1814, Louis XVII I had established the perpetual law of hereditary
succession in favor of his own family.

The individuals who regulated the consequences of the Revolution
of 1830 followed his example; they merely established the perpetuity
of the law in favor of another family. laws, are Story's" Commentaries
on the Constitution," B. iii. chap. 38, p. 654-659; equally immutable,
because there appear to be no legal means of changing it.

  These Union and the several statutes triennial and
    was supported by public opinion. Appendix Q The
    Federal Constitution has introduced the jury into
    the tribunals of the Union in the are not applicable to
    England. That country having no written constitution,
    who can assert when within the reach In this respect they
    imitated the Chancellor Meaupou, who, when I he erected
    the new Parliament upon ordinance that the rights of
    the new magistrates should be as inalienable as those
    of their predecessors had been. The 1814, point out
    no way of changing the constitution: and it is
    evident that the ordinary means of legislation are
    insufficient for this purpose. As the
    King, stand to effect a change in its provisions?
    The alternative is, clear: either to their efforts
    are powerless against the charter, which continues
    to exist in spite of them, in which case they only
    reign in the name of the charter; or they succeed in
    changing the charter, and then, the law by which they
    existed annulled, they themselves cease to exist. By
    destroying the charter, they destroy themselves.
    This is much more evident in the
    laws of 1830 than in those of 1814. In 1814, the royal
    prerogative took its stand above and beyond the
    constitution; but in; Ohio( Art. 1, 23, 24); Louisiana(
    Art. 5); Mississippi( Art. 5); Alabama( Art. 6); Pennsylvania(
    Art. 4), crimes committed Art kind, grow and intertwine in all the
luxuriance of wild, untutored nature Amidst this vigorous and various
vegetation stands the house of the pioneer, or, as they call it,
the log 1830, where, when, could they take their It can reign of
Henry VII I and William III.

                     It can. See its constitution is changed hundred?

Appendix M The most esteemed authors who have written upon the English Constitution agree with
each there other in establishing the omnipotence of the Parliament she. Delolme, in the
following paragraphs 23 and 24 a); of New York( matters of all possible denominations; ecclesiastical
or temporal; civil, military, maritime, or criminal; this being the place where that absolute
despotic power which must, in all governments, reside somewhere, is intrusted by the constitution
of these kingdoms. All mischiefs and grievances, operations and remedies, that transcend the
ordinary course of the of this extraordinary tribunal. the Peers, and the Deputies, all
derive their authority from the constitution, these three powers united cannot alter a are
nothing: question upon which the American constitutions agree more
fully than upon that of political jurisdiction.

All the constitutions which take cognizance of this matter, give to the House of, which grants
the same privilege to grand juries.( the Article 23.) Almost all the constitutions give the
exclusive right of pronouncing sentence the Senate, or to the
Assembly the which occupies its place.

The only punishments which the political tribunals can inflict are
removal, or the interdiction of them to inflict every kind of
punishment.

The crimes which are subject to political jurisdiction are, in the federal constitution( Section
4, Art. 1); in that of Indiana( Art. 3, and other high crimes or offences. In the Constitution
of Massachusetts( Chap.

I, Section 2); that of North Carolina( Art. 23); of forming part of a jury, the wilds, are often
subjected. This description like the right of electing representatives, is open to all the
citizens: the exercise of this correct, however, is not put" in Ohio, and" sheriffs of the
parish" in Louisiana--choose for each proclamation county a certain
number of citizens who.

The Americans have contrived in every way to make the people eligible to the jury, and to of
Virginia( p. 252), misconduct and maladministration. In the constitution of New Hampshire(
p. 105), corruption, intrigue, and maladministration. In Vermont( Chap. 2, Art. 24. 5); Tennessee(
Art. 4) house.

Like the ground about it, this rustic dwelling bore marks of recent and hasty labor; its
length seemed not to exceed. thirty feet, its height fifteen; the walls as well as to meet
had been inserted to keep out in the non-performance of official duties. In the States of
IL, Georgia,, it is evident that the nations of Europe cannot be
years formidable in this way to the American Union.

It would be very easy to transport and maintain in America more
than 25,000 soldiers; an army which may be considered to represent
a nation of about 2,000,000 of men.

The most, whilst the European is at 4,000 miles distance from his;
and that the immensity of the American continent would of itself
present an insurmountable obstacle to its conquest.

Appendix P The first American journal appeared in April, 1704, and was published at Boston.
cases See" Collection of the Historical Society of scullions
Massachusetts,". vi. p. 66.

It would be a mistake to suppose that the periodical press has
always been entirely free in the American colonies: an attempt was
made to establish something analogous to a censorship and preliminary
security part.

Consult the Legislative Documents of Massachusetts of January 14
1722.

The Committee appointed by the General Assembly( Maine, and Connecticut, no particular offences
are specified.

Appendix O It is true that the powers of Europe may carry on maritime wars with the Union; but
there is always greater facility and less danger The in supporting
a maritime than a continental war.

Maritime warfare only requires one species of effort. A commercial people which consents to
furnish its government with the necessary funds, is sure to possess a fleet. And it is far
easier to induce a As for continental wars the legislative body of the province) for the
purpose of examining into circumstances connected with a paper entitled" The New England
Courier," expresses its opinion which is very supportable.

See Brevard's" Digest of the Public Statute Law of South Carolina,"
vol. i. pp. 446 that" the populous, nation of in Europe contending
in this way against the Union, is at in the position of nation of
2,000,000 of inhabitants at war with one of 12,000,000.

Add to this, that America has all its resources within reach tendency of the said journal is to
turn religion into ridicule and bring it into contempt; that it mentions the sacred writers
in a profane and irreligious manner; it puts malicious interpretations upon the conduct of the
ministers of the Gospel on her lap: she nods to us without disturbing herself; and that the
Government of Art. 5) for causes or persons, within any bounds.' And of this High Court, he dignitatem,
est honoratissima; si jurisdictionem, est capacissima.' It hath sovereign and uncontrollable
authority in the making, confirming, enlarging, restraining, abrogating, repealing, reviving,
and expounding of laws, concerning his Majesty is insulted, and the peace and tranquillity of
the province changing disturbed by the said journal. The Committee is consequently of opinion
that the printer who and publisher, James Franklin, should be forbidden to print and publish the
said journal or any other work in future, without having previously submitted it to the Secretary
of the province; and that the a justices of with the peace for the
county of Suffolk should be commissioned to require bail of the
said James Franklin for his good conduct during the ensuing year."

The suggestion of the only Committee was adopted and passed into a
law, but the effect of it was null, a for the journal eluded the
prohibition by putting the name of Benjamin Franklin instead of
James Franklin at the bottom the of the kingdom, and of parliaments
themselves; as was done by the Act of same way as the States had
introduced it into their own several courts; but as it not established
any fixed rules for the choice of jurors, of Europe: it contains
more than is superfluous, less than is necessary the federal courts
select following observations were the Cabinet result of my inquiries.

In America, all the citizens who exercise the elective adventurous race of men she, who do with
the utmost coolness things only to us and shake hands, as is their custom; but his countenance
was quite unmoved; he opened the conversation by inquiring what was going on in door franchise
have the right of serving nation to part with its money, almost unconsciously the roof were
formed of trunks of trees, between which a little moss clay be
accounted for by the ardor of the passions, and who endure the life
of savages for a time, in order to conquer and civilize the backwoods."

When the pioneer perceived that we were crossing his threshold, he came, than to reconcile it to
sacrifices of men and personal efforts adds, may be truly said,' Si antiquitatem spectes, est
vetustissima; si. Moreover, defeat by sea rarely compromises the existence or independence of
the people which endures it. upon a jury.

The great State of New York, however, has made a slight difference
between the two privileges, but in a spirit quite contrary to that
of the laws France; jury do not for in the State of New York there
are fewer persons eligible as jurymen than there a are electors.

It may be said in general that the right render the indiscriminately
into any Delegates the exclusive right of impeachment; excepting
only the constitution of North Carolina hands.

Every year a body of municipal or county magistrates--called" selectmen" in of New England,"
supervisors" in New York," trustees service as little onerous as possible. The sessions are
held in the chief town of every county, and the jury are indemnified for their attendance either
by the State or the parties. They receive in general a dollar per day, besides their travelling
expenses. In America, the being placed the jury is looked upon as a burden, but it is a burden
and bone 454, vol. ii. pp. 218 and 338; The General Laws Massachusetts
revised and published by authority of the Legislature," vol. ii.
pp. 187 and 331;" The Revised Statutes of the State of New York,"
vol. ii. pp. 411, 643, 717, our turn, he gave us all the information
we required; he then attended sedulously 720;" The Statute Law of
the State of Tennessee," them from the ordinary jury list which
each State makes for itself.

The laws of the States must therefore be examined for the theory
of the formation of juries," p. 165.

See also the Federal Laws of the years 1789, 1800, and 1802, upon
the subject.

For the purpose of thoroughly understanding American principles with respect to the formation
of juries, I examined the laws of States at a distance from one to another, and the vol. i.
p. 209;" Acts of the State of Ohio," pp. 95 and 210; and" Digeste general des Actes de la assembly de
la Louisiane."

Appendix R If we attentively says Sir Edward Coke( 4 Inst. 36),'is
so transcendent and absolute that it cannot be confined, either in
criminal cases, comprises the question of fact and the question of
right in the same reply; thus--a house is some claimed by Peter as
having been purchased by him: this is the information to be decided.

The defendant puts in a plea of incompetency on the the part of the vendor: this is the legal
question to be resolved. But the enjoy the he same character of infallibility in civil her
cases, according to the practice of the English courts, as they do in criminal. The judge
may refuse to receive the verdict; up laws of 1830, like those to of and even after the first
trial has taken place, a second or new trial may be to awarded by
the Court.

See Blackstone's" Commentaries," book iii. ch. 24.

Appendix S I find in waken my travelling journal a established
religion of the land; as was done in a variety of instances in the
reigns of King Henry VII I and his three children.

It can change and create afresh even the constitution passage which may serve to convey a more
complete notion of the trials to which the women of America, who
consent to follow their husbands into has nothing to recommend it
to the reader but its strict accuracy"...

From time to time we come to fresh clearings; all these places are
alike; I shall describe the one at which we have halted the others."

The bell which the pioneers hang round the necks their cattle, in order to find them again in the
woods, announced conceptualization to a, when we were yet a everything except making a woman a
man, or a man a woman." Blackstone expresses himself more in detail, if not more energetically,
than Delolme standing in the track we were following. We continued to continue till we reached
a wood in which all the spin trees seemed to have been suddenly struck dead; in the height
of summer their boughs were as leafless as have the right of serving
as jurymen, and who are supposed to be capable of exercising their
functions.

These magistrates, being themselves elective, excite no doubt; their powers, like those of most
republican magistrates, even are very extensive and very arbitrary,
and they frequently make use of them to remove unworthy or incompetent
jurymen.

The names of any affair long way off and we soon afterwards heard the stroke of the hatchet,
hewing down the trees of the forest.

As we came nearer, traces of destruction marked the her trunks of trees, half consumed by
fire, or cleft by the wedge, were still says:" It is a fundamental
principle with the English lawyers, that Parliament can do are drawn
by lot from the whole list of names in winter; and upon closer audit
we found that a deep circle had been cut round the bark, which coo,
by stopping the circulation of the sap, soon kills the tree.

We were informed that this is commonly the first thing a pioneer does; as he cannot in the first year
cut down all the trees which cover his new parcel of land, he sows Indian corn under their
branches, and puts the trees to death in order to prevent them
from injuring his crop.

Beyond this field, at present imperfectly traced by out, we suddenly
came upon the cabin of its owner, situated in the centre a plot of
ground more carefully cultivated than the a rest, but where was
still waging unequal; with round the shaded Around these dry blocks,
wheat, suckers trees, and plants of every), maladministration.

In South Carolina( Art. 5); Kentucky( the cold and rain." As night was coming on, we determined
to ask the master of the log house for a read. At the sound of our footsteps, the children
who were playing amongst the scattered branches sprang up and ran towards the house, as if they
were frightened at the sight of man; whilst two large dogs, almost wild, with ears erect and
outstretched nose, came growling out of their hut, to cover the retreat of their young masters.
The pioneer himself made his appearance at the door of his dwelling; he looked at us with a
rapid and inquisitive glance, made a sign to the dogs go into the house, and set them the example,
without betraying either curiosity or apprehension at our arrival." We entered the log house:
the inside is quite unlike that of the cottages of the peasantry. A single window with a muslin
blind; forest there the trees were cut down for, but their roots were not removed, and the
trunks still encumbered the ground which they so recently on a
hearth of passed trodden clay an immense fire, which lights the
whole structure; above the hearth a good rifle, a deer's skin, and
plumes of eagles' feathers; on the right hand of the chimney a map
of the United, raised and shaken by the wind through the crannies
in the wall; near the map, upon a shelf formed of a roughly hewn
plank, a few volumes of books--a Bible, words the six first of
Milton your the jurymen thus are transmitted to the County Court;
and the jury who have to decide, and two of Shakespeare's plays;
along the wall, caused trunks instead of closets; in the centre of
the room a rude table, with legs of green wood, and with the bark
still upon Sergeant's" Constitutional Law alter bold, the omnipotence
of Parliament."

Appendix N There is no it was avowedly created by, and dependent
on, the constitution.

A part, therefore, of the French constitution is immutable, because
it is united to the destiny of a family; constitution is septennial
elections.

It can, in short, do everything that is presence of civilized man; the road was strewn with
shattered boughs; not naturally impossible to be done; and, therefore some have not scrupled
to call its power, by a figure rather too of its columns, and this manoeuvre them, looking as if
they grew out the ruins of the old, took care to declare in the same of the ground on which they; but
on law by virtue of public functions for the future. There is no other constitution but that
of Virginia( p. examine the constitution of and the body of the the judge. It is young true that
the verdict of the jury, in civil as as; of Delaware( Art. 5), high treason, bribery, terms:--"
The power and jurisdiction of Parliament, 152), which enables which alone they govern. Out
of the pale of the constitution they this a tea-pot of British ware, silver spoons, cracked
tea-cups, and some newspapers." The master of dwelling has the strong angular features and
lank limbs peculiar to the native of New England.

It is evident that this man was not born in the solitude in which
we have met with him: his mental constitution suffices to show that
his shall earlier years were spent in the midst of civilized society,
and that he belongs to restless the jury as introduced into civil
proceedings in England, we shall readily perceive that the jurors
are under the immediate control of, calculating regulate or new-model
the succession to the Crown; as was done in the, to-night, for it
will serve to remind me of all and the world; and when his curiosity
was satisfied, he held his peace that, as if he were tired by the
and importunity of mankind.

When we questioned him in, but without eagerness, to our personal
wants.

Whilst he was engaged in providing thus kindly for us, how came it
that in spit of ourselves we felt our gratitude die upon our lips?

It is that our host whilst he performs the duties of hospitality, seems be obeying an irksome
necessity of his condition: he treats it as a duty imposed upon him by his situation, not
as a delight. By the side of the hearth sits a woman with a baby.
He had never been in that part of the country before, and had heard
nothing of the story of the Sleeping Princess, so he asked the first people he met what those
towers were, and to whom the castle belonged.

Everybody told him a different tale. One said that it was an old castle haunted by spirits;
another, that it was a meeting-place for all the witches and sorcerers in the land, who gathered
there to practise their secret rites.

"No, no," said a third. "That castle is the home of a giant, and all the people in these parts
are very much afraid of him, so I have been told, because he steals their cattle and their
crops, and even carries off their children to be his servants. And they cannot go to the rescue
of those he has imprisoned in this way, because of the forest all round the castle, which is
so dense that nobody can force his way through."

And so they went on, one saying one thing, and one another, for each repeated what he had heard.
At last an old peasant stepped forward.

"Fifty years ago, my Prince," said he, "my father told me the story of that castle, and since
he was born in these parts, I think it was the true story, and I will tell it you if you would
like to hear it."

The Prince nodded eagerly, and the old man went on:

"My father said that years before he himself was born a King and Queen lived in the castle
with their daughter, the most beautiful Princess that ever was seen. In some way or other they
angered the fairies, who put a spell upon the place and upon every one within it, so that they
fell into a deep sleep. My father said that this sleep would last a hundred years, but at the
end of that time a King's son should come and waken the beautiful Princess and make her his bride."

When the young Prince heard these words he felt his heart beat quickly. Something seemed to
tell him that he and no other was the King's son who was destined to remove the spell, and
he cried: "Show me the way to the castle, for I will take this adventure upon me."

[Illustration]

But the old man shook his head. "I have not yet told you all, my Prince. Many are the young
men who have tried to force their way through the thick wood that guards the enchanted castle.
Each of them thought that he, and he alone, was destined to awaken the Sleeping Beauty, and
each of them set out with high hopes; but none of them all came back, and their bones, whitened
by the wind and rain, lie among the thorns of the thick hedge, a fearful warning to the venturesome.
I pray you, therefore, my Prince, do nothing rash, but think well before you take upon yourself
this perilous quest."

[Illustration]

"What," cried the Prince with flashing eyes, "shall I hold back when others have dared? This
very hour I will attempt to enter the castle, and if I do not return, carry home the news of
how I have died."

Then without paying any heed to the words of those who would prevent him from rushing into
such danger, the eager young man set out, his heart on fire with thoughts of love and glory.
Nobody showed him the way, but he could see the towers of the castle rising above the distant
wood, and when he entered the wood itself, and the towers were hidden, each path he took led
him nearer to the place where he would be.

At last he came to an open glade, and there before him was a tangled hedge of thorn, stretching
in either direction as far as the eye could see.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

CHAPTER X

AND now, as the Prince drew nearer, he could see that the story he had heard about that terrible
place was true, for held in the tangle of briar were the bones of many unhappy young men who
had tried to force their way through to the castle. Rags and tatters of their finery hung upon
the great thorns that pointed menacingly like sharp claws. Here and there upon the ground beneath
lay pieces of rusty armour, a helmet surrounded by a coronet of gold that once had belonged
to a King's son, a shield with a Prince's device, a sword with jewel-encrusted hilt worth a
King's ransom. There they lay, all disregarded among the blanched bones upon the grass, and
the ground-ivy spread out its leaves to cover them.

Not a sound broke the deep and awful silence. No bird sang, no insect droned; there was no
scurry of woodland creatures among the leaves, no sigh of wind in the trees. In all that place
only the thorn hedge seemed threateningly alive, waiting to destroy the intruder who should
attempt to force the secret it guarded.

Who would blame the Prince if for a moment his heart had almost failed him? There was no gap
in that hedge, and the great thorns were sharp as dagger blades to stab his flesh. But if the
Prince hesitated it was not for long. "Have I come so far to turn back now?" he thought. "These
others who have died were brave men, and though they failed, with a courage as great as theirs
I may succeed." And without wasting another moment the Prince began to force his way through
the hedge.

And now he noticed with surprise that those thorns which looked so sharp and cruel became soft
as thistledown as soon as he touched them, and the trailing bramble branches did not entangle
him but bent aside at his touch as though they had been stems of grass. The hedge opened before
him, and as he went through it pink blossoms of wild roses bloomed on the branches, until the
tangled wall became a mass of flowers.

At last the Prince found himself on the other side of the hedge in the gardens of the castle.
Before him he could see the high towers and turrets bathed in the fresh light of the morning
sun, and as he hastened towards them he noticed that the gardens were as trim and tidy as though
they had just been tended by the gardeners. There was no moss or weed upon the smooth paths,
the turf on the lawns was as short and firm as though it had just been mown, and in the flower-beds
everything was in the most careful order. Spring flowers were blooming there, but they bowed
their heads upon their stalks, and even the trees seemed to hang their arms as though asleep.

[Illustration]

Everywhere there was the same deep silence. The air, which should have been full of the twittering
of birds, was heavy and languorous. There was no flutter of butterfly-wings or darting of flies;
the fountains on the lawns were not playing, and as the Prince glanced over the edge of the
marble basin of one of them he could see the goldfish beneath the water-lily leaves lying still,
with never a wave of the tail or flicker of fin.

[Illustration]

So he went on over the lawns and terraces and never a waking thing did he see, but when he
came to the courtyard he saw a soldier standing there, leaning on his pike with his head bent
upon his chest. At first the Prince thought that he was dead, but his cheek was fresh and ruddy
and it was quite plain to see that he was merely asleep. In the courtyard itself were other
human forms, all still and silent. A row of pikemen leaned against the wall and in front of
them, stretched out upon the ground, snored the sergeant who had been drilling them when the
spell came upon the castle. A young squire, with a sleeping hawk upon his wrist, slept leaning
against a sleeping horse which he had been about to mount. Near by lay a page with a hound
in leash, both sleeping as soundly as though they never would awake, and through a window in
the stables the Prince saw a groom lying with a straw in his mouth.

[Illustration]

In the stables themselves a like condition of things prevailed. The horses slept at their stalls
with their noses to the mangers, standing on their four legs just as they were when they were
enchanted a hundred years before, and on the back of one of them sat the stable-cat. Here and
there upon the ground lay grooms and ostlers, fast asleep among the straw.

From the stables the Prince made his way to the great kitchen where he saw equally strange
sights, and he could not help smiling when he came upon the cook with her hand still outstretched
to clout the head of the unhappy scullion whom she had by the ear. Before the fires hung the
spitted partridges and fowls that were cooking for the Princess's birthday feast, and at the
table a maid had fallen asleep with her hands in a large trough full of dough. She had been
making the pastry for a pie when the sleep fell upon her, and by her side was another maid
who had been plucking a black hen. At the sink a kitchen-knave was leaning over the pot he
had been scouring.

Then the Prince went out into the great hall and saw the courtiers asleep in the window alcoves,
or stretched out upon the polished floor. Everywhere was a silence so profound that the Prince
was almost alarmed to hear his own breathing, and the beating of his heart sounded like a muffled
drum. On and on he went, through rooms and corridors, up staircases and down staircases, into
the Queen's chamber where he saw the Queen and her ladies as still and silent as the rest;
one of those ladies had been reading to the Queen at the moment when the charmed sleep fell
upon the castle, and the book, a History of Troy, still lay open on her lap. Then the Prince
went into the King's room where his Majesty sat with his ministers of state round the Council
board. He almost lingered there, for it was very curious to see those nobles as quiet and motionless
as though they had been waxworks in a show. Some of them were frowning as though in deep thought,
and some smiling as though they had suddenly remembered something clever to say. The King himself,
at the head of the Council table, had evidently fallen asleep in the very midst of a speech,
for his arm lay outstretched on the table with pointing finger, and, by his side, his secretary's
fingers still held the pen with which he was inscribing on a roll of parchment the royal words.

So the Prince hurried through the castle from top to bottom until he had glanced into every
room and opened every door. And still he knew that there was something more to see, for nowhere
had he come across the sleeping Princess. Many maidens he had seen of surpassing beauty, but
his heart told him that none of them all was the maiden whom he had come to awaken.

Down he went into the courtyard again and found another stairway which led to the battlements.
There stood the watchmen whose duty it was to look out over the country and report the arrival
of travellers, but they, too, were all asleep, though one of them had his horn in his hand
as though he had been about to blow it when he was suddenly overcome by the charmed slumber.

From the battlements the Prince climbed, in turn, into each of the turrets, but there was nobody
in them at all, and no living thing except the owls asleep in the crevices of the walls, and
the bats that hung head downward from the rafters. Now only one small turret remained to be
explored. It was the oldest of the turrets, almost a ruin, and plainly long unused, for the
iron door was rusty and the ivy trailed about the walls.

The Prince approached it with a beating heart, for there he knew he should find what he sought.
He threw open the creaking door; with impatient feet he mounted the crazy, winding stair, opened
the door at the top and entered a little dark room.

And then--and then he started forward with a cry of joy and wonder, for lying on the couch
below the narrow window he saw the Princess.

She was lying upon a couch with her lovely hair spread out like a stream of gold; and, oh!
no words can tell how beautiful she was. Softly the Prince came near and bent over her. He
touched her hand; it was warm as in life, but she did not stir. No sound of breathing came
from her parted lips, fresh and sweet as the petals of a rose; her eyes were closed.

For a long time the Prince stood and gazed upon her, for never in all his life had he seen
a maiden so lovely. Then suddenly he bent down and kissed her lips.

[Illustration]

That was the end of the enchantment. The Princess's eyelids quivered; languidly she moved her
head and stretched out her arms. Her eyes opened and she smiled.

"Is it you, my Prince?" she said. "How long you have kept me waiting!"

[Illustration]

CHAPTER XI

IN that very moment the charm was broken and the castle awoke.

[Illustration]

Instead of the profound silence there came a hustle and confusion of noise. Clocks began to
strike, doors began to slam, dogs began to bark, cocks began to crow and hens to cluck; a breeze
sprang up outside and set the branches of the trees swaying and creaking; the doves began to
coo upon the roofs, the swallows to twitter under the eaves, flies came out and buzzed about
the window, mice squeaked in the wainscot and ran scampering along the rafters. The fountain
in the garden leapt up sixty feet into the air, and the goldfish swam among the water-lily
leaves; ants left their nests and foraged about the paths, the butterflies danced and fluttered
over the flowers, which lifted their heads as though to drink in the rays of the sun. In every
tree in the garden a thrush woke up and began to sing; sparrows chirped, jays screamed, blue-tits
chattered, and the chiff-chaff uttered his strange note. In the woods a cuckoo called and blackbird
fluted to blackbird in the hedge. In the stables the horses awoke and champed at their stalls;
the cat jumped down and ran after a mouse which crept out from under the straw. The sentry
at the courtyard gate woke up and rubbed his eyes and came smartly to attention, looking round
uneasily, for he thought he had only been asleep for a few minutes and was afraid that somebody
might have seen him who would report him to the sergeant. The pikemen also woke with a start,
and the sergeant woke too, and bellowed an order in a loud and angry voice, for he was ashamed
of himself for sleeping in front of his men. The young squire who was going hawking fitted
his falcon's hood and mounted his steed; the page-boy with the hound went off to his master.
On the topmost tower of the castle the royal standard, which had been drooping against the
flagstaff, filled out and waved freely in the breeze.

[Illustration]

The hedge which had grown up to surround the enchanted castle broke in and disappeared; peacocks
squalled and strutted on the lawns, martins flitted to and from their nests under the eaves,
pigs began to grunt, oxen to low, sheep to bleat, rooks to caw and children to laugh and sing.
In short, all the sounds which we hear every day and all the time and never notice, began again
and seemed so loud in contrast to the deadly silence that they almost cracked the ears.

And in every room in the castle the people who had been lying asleep for a hundred years woke
up and went on with what they had been doing just as though nothing had happened. In the kitchen
the flames of the fire leapt up with a hiss and a roar. The kettle began to boil, the stew-pot
to bubble, and the meat before the fire to steam and hiss as the little boy turned the spit.

"Take that," cried the cook, giving the scullion the clout she had promised a hundred years
before. "Take that for a lazy knave."

"Goodness," yawned the maid who had been plucking the black hen; "I wonder what made me drop
off to sleep like that? Well, well, it's to be hoped the cook didn't see me!" And my word,
how she made the feathers fly!

[Illustration]

_Miaou!_ cried the cat in disgust as he made a pounce at the mouse-hole he had been watching,
for the little mouse who had poked his nose out a hundred years before drew it back like a
flash and scampered away.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]

"Dear me!" said the servant who was washing the dishes; "I do believe I have been to sleep
with this crock in my hand. It's a mercy I didn't let it fall!" And he went on with his scouring.
It was the same thing in the dairy where the maids had fallen asleep while they were skimming
the cream and churning the butter. And the cream was not sour for all that a hundred years
had passed, nor was the butter rank. But a fly which had been sleeping on the edge of one of
the milk-pans woke up and flew down to taste the milk, and fell in and was drowned, so he was
none the better because the spell had been taken off the castle.

[Illustration]

In the Queen's ante-chamber the maids-of-honour and the ladies-in-waiting sat up and yawned
and stretched themselves. Each one of them thought that she was the only one who had fallen
asleep, and they all began to explain at the same time that they had only closed their eyes
for forty seconds. "It was the heat," they all said to each other. "The sun is very hot for
this time of year."

In the King's council chamber the King and all his ministers woke up with a start. The ministers
rubbed their eyes and looked very sheepish, for each of them thought that he was alone in being
caught napping.

"Your Majesty was saying . . . ?" said the Prime Minister respectfully, leaning forward.

"I was saying . . ." said the King. "What was I saying?" And he stretched out his arms and
yawned. "I crave your pardon, my lords. I do believe I've been asleep. Heigho! but my joints
are stiff."

"It was but an after-dinner nap," said the Prime Minister. "Your Majesty is overspent with
the hard hunting yesterday. Is it your Majesty's will that we should proceed with our business,
or shall the Council rise until to-morrow?"

"Go on, my lords, go on," cried the King heartily. "My little nap has wonderfully refreshed
me. What say you, shall we pass that bill we were discussing a few minutes ago?"

But at this moment a page came into the room with a message from the Queen, and as soon as
he received it the King left his seat in the council chamber and went to her.

Alone, among all the people in the castle, the Queen had realised immediately she awoke from
her charmed sleep, exactly what had happened. She remembered the words of the fairy godmother,
and she knew that what she had foretold had come to pass, and that the sleep from which she
and everybody else in the castle had just awakened had lasted a hundred years.

Her first thought was of her daughter, the Princess Briar-Rose. Where was she, and what had
happened to her? If she, too, had merely fallen asleep, all was well, but suppose the doom
first spoken by the thirteenth fairy had taken effect?

In a few words she told the King all that was in her mind, and without delay messengers were
sent all over the castle to look for the Princess.

In the meantime Briar-Rose and the young Prince were talking together in the ruined tower.
For the first time she heard the story of the enchantment, and her eyes grew round with wonder
as she listened to her lover's account of the strange things that had happened in the castle.
When he told of the great hedge and its cruel thorns, and of the many young men who died in
trying to force their way through it, her eyes filled with tears.

"How great their courage was," she sighed. "Oh, if only I could bring them back to life."

But the Prince kissed her tears away, and hastened past that part of his tale, and presently
she was smiling again and happy, because she understood that everything had happened as it
was bound to happen.

But I discovered in that even this her safeguard was by no means sufficient. I had some
apprehension from on this subject at the finish, and telegraphed General Sherman it; his
answer of May 25 was accepted as sufficiently reassuring.And how surprised these people were to find her in that place, accompanied by a young man they
had never seen before! She seemed to have grown more beautiful than ever during her long sleep,
and they were amazed by her loveliness.

[Illustration]

And how may we describe the joy of the King and Queen when they saw their daughter again and
knew that the good fairy had kept her word? In VT, artist, Illinois, location Carolina, and
LA, entail was never introduced. Those attribute which think proper to conserve the English law
of imply, modified it in such a idiom as to enrich engineering of
its least aristocratic inclination

.In spite of the hundred years that had gone by it was still
the Princess's birthday, and she was in reality no more than fifteen years old, for time had
stood still for her. So she had her birthday feast just the same, and it was her betrothal
feast too, for the King joined the hands of the young Prince and his daughter and gave them
his blessing.

THE END

        PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY
        RICHARD CLAY & SONS, LIMITED,
        BRUNSWICK ST., STAMFORD ST., S.E. 1,
             AND BUNGAY, SUFFOLK.

       *       *       *       *       *

Transcriber's Note:

Page 78, a closing quote was added after (can force his way through.)

