"We admire," said the Mussulmans, "the ease with which you reconcile that evangelical meekness,
of which you are so ostentatious, with the injuries and outrages with which you are constantly
galling your neighbors. When you criminate so severely the great man whom we revere, we might
fairly retort on the conduct of him whom you adore; but we scorn such advantages, and confining
ourselves to the real object in question, we maintain that the morals of your gospel have by
no means that perfection which you ascribe to them; it is not true that they have introduced
into the world new and unknown virtues: for example, the equality of men in the sight of God,--that
fraternity and that benevolence which follow from it, were formal doctrines of the sect of
the Hermatics or Samaneans,* from whom you descend. As to the forgiveness of injuries, the
Pagans themselves had taught it; but in the extent that you give it, far from being a virtue,
it becomes an immorality, a vice. Your so much boasted precept of turning one cheek after the
other, is not only contrary to every sentiment of man, but is opposed to all ideas of justice.
It emboldens the wicked by impunity, debases the virtuous by servility, delivers up the world
to despotism and tyranny, and dissolves all society. Such is the true spirit of your doctrines.
Your gospels in their precepts and their parables, never represent God but as a despot without
any rules of equity; a partial father treating a debauched and prodigal son with more favor
than his respectful and virtuous children; a capricious master, who gives the same wages to
workmen who had wrought but one hour, as to those who had labored through the whole day; one
who prefers the last comers to the first. The moral is everywhere misanthropic and antisocial;
it disgusts men with life and with society; and tends only to encourage hermitism and celibacy.

     * The equality of mankind in a state of nature and in the
     eyes of God was one of the principal tenets of the
     Samaneans, and they appear to be the only ancients that
     entertained this opinion.

"As to the manner in which you have practised these morals, we appeal in our turn to the testimony
of facts. We ask whether it is this evangelical meekness which has excited your interminable
wars between your sects, your atrocious persecutions of pretended heretics, your crusades against
Arianism, Manicheism, Protestantism, without speaking of your crusades against us, and of those
sacrilegious associations, still subsisting, of men who take an oath to continue them?* We
ask you whether it be gospel charity which has made you exterminate whole nations in America,
to annihilate the empires of Mexico and Peru; which makes you continue to dispeople Africa
and sell its inhabitants like cattle, notwithstanding your abolition of slavery; which makes
you ravage India and usurp its dominions; and whether it be the same charity which, for three
centuries past, has led you to harrass the habitations of the people of three continents, of
whom the most prudent, the Chinese and Japanese, were constrained to drive you off, that they
might escape your chains and recover their internal peace?"

     * The oath taken by the knights of the Order of Malta, is to
     kill, or make the Mahometans prisoners, for the glory of
     God.

Here the Bramins, the Rabbins, the Bonzes, the Chamans, the Priests of the Molucca islands,
and the coasts of Guinea, loading the Christian doctors with reproaches: "Yes!" cried they,
"these men are robbers and hypocrites, who preach simplicity, to surprise confidence; humility,
to enslave with more ease; poverty, to appropriate all riches to themselves. They promise another
world, the better to usurp the present; and while they speak to you of tolerance and charity,
they burn, in the name of God, the men who do not worship him in their manner."

"Lying priests," retorted the missionaries, "it is you who abuse the credulity of ignorant
nations to subjugate them. It is you who have made of your ministry an art of cheating and
imposture; you have converted religion into a traffic of cupidity and avarice. You pretend
to hold communications with spirits, and they give for oracles nothing but your wills. You
feign to read the stars, and destiny decrees only your desires. You cause idols to speak, and
the gods are but the instruments of your passions. You have invented sacrifices and libations,
to collect for your own profit the milk of flocks, and the flesh and fat of victims; and under
the cloak of piety you devour the offerings of the gods, who cannot eat, and the substance
of the people who are forced to labor."

"And you," replied the Bramins, the Bonzes, the Chamans, "you sell to the credulous living,
your vain prayers for the souls of the dead. With your indulgences and your absolutions you
have usurped the power of God himself; and making a traffic of his favors and pardons, you
have put heaven at auction; and by your system of expiations you have formed a tariff of crimes,
which has perverted all consciences."*

     * As long as it shall be possible to obtain purification
     from crimes and exemption from punishment by means of money
     or other frivolous practices; as long as kings and great men
     shall suppose that building temples or instituting
     foundations, will absolve them from the guilt of oppression
     and homicide; as long as individuals shall imagine that they
     may rob and cheat, provided they observe fast during Lent,
     go to confession, and receive extreme unction, it is
     impossible there should exist in society any morality or
     virtue; and it is from a deep conviction of truth, that a
     modern philosopher has called the doctrine of expiations la
     verola des societes.

"Add to this," said the Imans, "that these men have invented the most insidious of all systems
of wickedness,--the absurd and impious obligation of recounting to them the most intimate secrets
of actions and of thoughts (confessions); so their insolent curiosity has carried their inquisition
even into the sanctuary of the marriage bed,* and the inviolable recesses of the heart."

     * Confession is a very ancient invention of the priests, who
     did not fail to avail themselves of that means of governing.
     It was practised in the Egyptian, Greek, Phrygian, Persian
     mysteries, etc. Plutarch has transmitted us the remarkable
     answer of a Spartan whom a priest wanted to confess.  "Is it
     to you or to God I am to confess?"  "To God," answered the
     priest: "In that case," replied the Spartan, "man, begone!"
     (Remarkable Savings of the Lacedemonians.)  The first
     Christians confessed their faults publicly, like the
     Essenians.  Afterwards, priests began to be established,
     with power of absolution from the sin of idolatry.  In the
     time of Theodosius, a woman having publicly confessed an
     intrigue with a deacon, bishop Necterius, and his successor
     Chrysostom, granted communion without confession.  It was
     not until the seventh century that the abbots of convents
     exacted from monks and nuns confession twice a year; and it
     was at a still later period that bishops of Rome generalized
     it.

     The Mussulmen, who suppose women to have no souls, are
     shocked at the idea of confession; and say; How can an
     honest man think of listening to the recital of the actions
     or the secret thoughts of a woman?  May we not also ask, on
     the other hand, how can an honest woman consent to reveal
     them?

Thus by mutual reproaches the doctors of the different sects began to reveal all the crimes
of their ministry--all the vices of their craft; and it was found that among all nations the
spirit of the priesthood, their system of conduct, their actions their morals, were absolutely
the same:

That they had everywhere formed secret associations and corporations at enmity with the rest
of society:*

     * That we may understand the general feelings of priests
     respecting the rest of mankind, whom they always call by the
     name of the people, let us hear one of the doctors of the
     church.  "The people," says Bishop Synnesius, in Calvit.
     page 315, "are desirous of being deceived, we cannot act
     otherwise respecting them.  The case was similar with the
     ancient priests of Egypt, and for this reason they shut
     themselves up in their temples, and there composed their
     mysteries, out of the reach of the eye of the people."  And
     forgetting what he has before just said, he adds: "for had
     the people been in the secret they might have been offended
     at the deception played upon them.  In the mean time how is
     it possible to conduct one's self otherwise with the people
     so long as they are people?  For my own part, to myself I
     shall always be a philosopher, but in dealing with the mass
     of mankind, I shall be a priest."

     "A little jargon," says Geogory Nazianzen to St. Jerome
     (Hieron. ad. Nep.) "is all that is necessary to impose on
     the people.  The less they comprehend, the more they admire.
     Our forefathers and doctors of the church have often said,
     not what they thought, but what circumstances and necessity
     dictated to them."

     "We endeavor," says Sanchoniaton, "to excite admiration by
     means of the marvellous." (Proep. Evang. lib. 3.)

     Such was the conduct of all the priests of antiquity, and is
     still that of the Bramins and Lamas who are the exact
     counterpart of the Egyptian priests.  Such was the practice
     of the Jesuits, who marched with hasty strides in the same
     career.  It is useless to point out the whole depravity of
     such a doctrine.  In general every association which has
     mystery for its basis, or an oath of secrecy, is a league of
     robbers against society, a league divided in its very bosom
     into knaves and dupes, or in other words agents and
     instruments.  It is thus we ought to judge of those modern
     clubs, which, under the name of Illuminatists, Martinists,
     Cagliostronists, and Mesmerites, infest Europe.  These
     societies are the follies and deceptions of the ancient
     Cabalists, Magicians, Orphies, etc., "who," says Plutarch,
     "led into errors of considerable magnitude, not only
     individuals, but kings and nations."

That they had everywhere attributed to themselves prerogatives and immunities, by means of
which they lived exempt from the burdens of other classes:

That they everywhere avoided the toils of the laborer, the dangers of the soldier, and the
disappointments of the merchant:

That they lived everywhere in celibacy, to shun even the cares of a family:

That, under the cloak of poverty, they found everywhere the secret of procuring wealth and
all sorts of enjoyments:

That under the name of mendicity they raised taxes to a greater amount than princes:

That in the form of gifts and offerings they had established fixed and certain revenues exempt
from charges:

That under pretence of retirement and devotion they lived in idleness and licentiousness:

That they had made a virtue of alms-giving, to live quietly on the labors of others:

That they had invented the ceremonies of worship, as a means of attracting the reverence of
the people, while they were playing the parts of gods, of whom they styled themselves the interpreters
and mediators, to assume all their powers; that, with this design, they had (according to the
degree of ignorance or information of their people) assumed by turns the character of astrologers,
drawers of horoscopes, fortune-tellers, magicians,* necromancers, quacks, physicians, courtiers,
confessors of princes, always aiming at the great object to govern for their own advantage:

     * What is a magician, in the sense in which people
     understand the word?  A man who by words and gestures
     pretends to act on supernatural beings, and compel them to
     descend at his call and obey his orders.  Such was the
     conduct of the ancient priests, and such is still that of
     all priests in idolatrous nations; for which reason we have
     given them the denomination of Magicians.

     And when a Christian priest pretends to make God descend
     from heaven, to fix him to a morsel of leaven, and render,
     by means of this talisman, souls pure and in a state of
     grace, what is this but a trick of magic?  And where is the
     difference between a Chaman of Tartary who invokes the
     Genii, or an Indian Bramin, who makes Vichenou descend in a
     vessel of water to drive away evil spirits? Yes, the
     identity of the spirit of priests in every age and country
     is fully established!  Every where it is the assumption of
     an exclusive privilege, the pretended faculty of moving at
     will the powers of nature; and this assumption is so direct
     a violation of the right of equality, that whenever the
     people shall regain their importance, they will forever
     abolish this sacrilegious kind of nobility, which has been
     the type and parent stock of the other species of nobility.

That sometimes they had exalted the power of kings and consecrated their persons, to monopolize
their favors, or participate their sway:

That sometimes they had preached up the murder of tyrants (reserving it to themselves to define
tyranny), to avenge themselves of their contempt or their disobedience:

And that they always stigmatised with impiety whatever crossed their interests; that they hindered
all public instruction, to exercise the monopoly of science; that finally, at all times and
in all places, they had found the secret of living in peace in the midst of the anarchy they
created, in safety under the despotism that they favored, in idleness amidst the industry they
preached, and in abundance while surrounded with scarcity; and all this by carrying on the
singular trade of selling words and gestures to credulous people, who purchase them as commodities
of the greatest value.*

     * A curious work would be the comparative history of the
     agnuses of the pope and the pastils of the grand Lama.  It
     would be worth while to extend this idea to religions
     ceremonies in general, and to confront column by column, the
     analogous or contrasting points of faith and superstitious
     practices in all nations.  There is one more species of
     superstition which it would be equally salutary to cure,
     blind veneration for the great; and for this purpose it
     would be alone sufficient to write a minute detail of the
     private life of kings and princes.  No work could be so
     philosophical as this; and accordingly we have seen what a
     general outcry was excited among kings and the panders of
     kings, when the Anecdotes of the Court of Berlin first
     appeared.  What would be the alarm were the public put in
     possession of the sequel of this work?  Were the people
     fairly acquainted with all the absurdities of this species
     of idol, they would no longer be exposed to covet their
     specious pleasures of which the plausible and hollow
     appearance disturbs their peace, and hinders them from
     enjoying the much more solid happiness of their own
     condition.

Then the different nations, in a transport of fury, were going to tear in pieces the men who
had thus abused them; but the legislator, arresting this movement of violence, addressed the
chiefs and doctors:

"What!" said he, "instructors of nations, is it thus that you have deceived them?"

And the terrified priests replied.

"O legislator! we are men. The people are so superstitious! they have themselves encouraged
these errors."*

     * Consider in this view the Brabanters.

And the kings said:

"O legislator! the people are so servile and so ignorant! they prostrated themselves before
the yoke, which we scarcely dared to show them."*

     * The inhabitants of Vienna, for example, who harnessed
     themselves like cattle and drew the chariot of Leopold.

Then the legislator, turning to the people--"People!" said he, "remember what you have just
heard; they are two indelible truths. Yes, you yourselves cause the evils of which you complain;
yourselves encourage the tyrants, by a base adulation of their power, by an imprudent admiration
of their false beneficence, by servility in obedience, by licentiousness in liberty, and by
a credulous reception of every imposition. On whom shall you wreak vengeance for the faults
committed by your own ignorance and cupidity?"

And the people, struck with confusion, remained in mournful silence.

CHAPTER XXIV.

SOLUTION OF THE PROBLEM OF CONTRADICTIONS.

The legislator then resumed his discourse: "O nations!" said he, "we have heard the discussion
of your opinions. The different sentiments which divide you have given rise to many reflections,
and furnished several questions which we shall propose to you to solve.

"First, considering the diversity and opposition of the creeds to which you are attached, we
ask on what motives you found your persuasion? Is it from a deliberate choice that you follow
the standard of one prophet rather than another? Before adopting this doctrine, rather than
that, did you first compare? did you carefully examine them? Or have you received them only
from the chance of birth, from the empire of education and habit? Are you not born Christians
on the borders of the Tiber, Mussulmans on those of the Euphrates, Idolaters on the Indus,
just as you are born fair in cold climates, and sable under the scorching sun of Africa? And
if your opinions are the effect of your fortuitous position on the earth, of consanguinity,
of imitation, how is it that such a hazard should be a ground of conviction, an argument of truth?

"Secondly, when we reflect on the mutual proscriptions and arbitrary intolerance of your pretensions,
we are frightened at the consequences that flow from your own principles. Nations! who reciprocally
devote each other to the bolts of heavenly wrath, suppose that the universal Being, whom you
revere, should this moment descend from heaven on this multitude; and, clothed with all his
power, should sit on this throne to judge you; suppose that he should say to you: Mortals!
it is your own justice that I am going to exercise upon you. Yes, of all the religious systems
that divide you, one alone shall this day be preferred; all the others, all this multitude
of standards, of nations, of prophets, shall be condemned to eternal destruction. This is not
enough: among the particular sects of the chosen system, one only can be favored; all the others
must be condemned: neither is this enough;--from this little remnant of a group I must exclude
all those who have not fulfilled the conditions enjoined by its precepts. O men! to what a
small number of elect have you limited your race! to what a penury of beneficence do you reduce
the immensity of my goodness! to what a solitude of beholders do you condemn my greatness and
my glory!

"But," said the legislator rising, "no matter you have willed it so. Nations! here is an urn
in which all your names are placed: one only is a prize: approach, and draw this tremendous
lottery!" And the nations, seized with terror cried: "No, no; we are all brothers, all equal;
we cannot condemn each other."

"Then," said the legislator, resuming his seat: "O men! who dispute on so many subjects, lend
an attentive ear to one problem which you exhibit, and which you ought to decide yourselves."

And the people, giving great attention, he lifted an arm towards heaven, and, pointing to the
sun, said:

"Nations, does that sun, which enlightens you, appear square or triangular?"

"No," answered they with one voice, "it is round."

Then, taking the golden balance that was on the altar:

"This gold," said the legislator, "that you handle every day, is it heavier than the same volume
of copper?"

"Yes," answered all the people, "gold is heavier than Copper."

Then, taking the sword:

"Is this iron," said the legislator, "softer than lead?"

"No," said the people.

"Is sugar sweet, and gall bitter?"

"Yes."

"Do you love pleasure and hate pain?"

"Yes."

"Thus, then, you are agreed in these points, and many others of the same nature.

"Now, tell us, is there a cavern in the centre of the earth, or inhabitants in the moon?"

This question caused a universal murmur. Every one answered differently--some yes, others no;
one said it was probable, another said it was an idle and ridiculous question; some, that it
was worth knowing. And the discord was universal.

After some time the legislator, having obtained silence, said:

"Explain to us, O Nations! this problem: we have put to you several questions which you have
answered with one voice, without distinction of race or of sect: white men, black men, followers
of Mahomet and of Moses, worshippers of Boudha and of Jesus, all have returned the same answer.
We then proposed another question, and you have all disagreed! Why this unanimity in one case,
and this discordance in the other?"

And the group of simple men and savages answered and said: "The reason of this is plain. In
the first case we see and feel the objects, and we speak from sensation; in the second, they
are beyond the reach of our senses--we speak of them only from conjecture."

"You have resolved the problem," said the legislator; "and your own consent has established
this first truth:

"That whenever objects can be examined and judged of by your senses, you are agreed in opinion;
and that you only differ when the objects are absent and beyond your reach.

"From this first truth flows another equally clear and worthy of notice. Since you agree on
things which you know with certainty, it follows that you disagree only on those which you
know not with certainty, and about which you are not sure; that is to say, you dispute, you
quarrel, you fight, for that which is uncertain, that of which you doubt. O men! is this wisdom?

"Is it not, then, demonstrated that truth is not the object of your contests? that it is not
her cause which you defend, but that of your affections, and your prejudices? that it is not
the object, as it really is in itself, that you would verify, but the object as you would have
it; that is to say, it is not the evidence of the thing that you would enforce, but your own
personal opinion, your particular manner of seeing and judging? It is a power that you wish
to exercise, an interest that you wish to satisfy, a prerogative that you arrogate to yourself;
it is a contest of vanity. Now, as each of you, on comparing himself to every other, finds
himself his equal and his fellow, he resists by a feeling of the same right. And your disputes,
your combats, your intolerance, are the effect of this right which you deny each other, and
of the intimate conviction of your equality.

"Now, the only means of establishing harmony is to return to nature, and to take for a guide
and regulator the order of things which she has founded; and then your accord will prove this
other truth:

"That real beings have in themselves an identical, constant and uniform mode of existence;
and that there is in your organs a like mode of being affected by them.

"But at the same time, by reason of the mobility of these organs as subject to your will, you
may conceive different affections, and find yourselves in different relations with the same
objects; so that you are to them like a mirror, capable of reflecting them truly as they are,
or of distorting and disfiguring them.

"Hence it follows, that whenever you perceive objects as they are, you agree among yourselves,
and with the objects; and this similitude between your sensations and their manner of existence,
is what constitutes their truth with respect to you; and, on the contrary, whenever you differ
in opinion, your disagreement is a proof that you do not represent them such as they are,--that
you change them.

"Hence, also, it follows, that the causes of your disagreement exist not in the objects themselves,
but in your minds, in your manner of perceiving or judging.

"To establish, therefore, a uniformity of opinion, it is necessary first to establish the certainty,
completely verified, that the portraits which the mind forms are perfectly like the originals;
that it reflects the objects correctly as they exist. Now, this result cannot be obtained but
in those cases where the objects can be brought to the test, and submitted to the examination
of the senses. Everything which cannot be brought to this trial is, for that reason alone,
impossible to be determined; there exists no rule, no term of comparison, no means of certainty,
respecting it.

"From this we conclude, that, to live in harmony and peace, we must agree never to decide on
such subjects, and to attach to them no importance; in a word, we must trace a line of distinction
between those that are capable of verification, and those that are not; and separate by an
inviolable barrier the world of fantastical beings from the world of realities; that is to
say, all civil effect must be taken away from theological and religious opinions.

"This, O ye people of the earth! is the object proposed by a great nation freed from her fetters
and her prejudices; this is the work which, under her eye and by her orders, we had undertaken,
when your kings and your priests came to interrupt it. O kings and priests! you may suspend,
yet for a while, the solemn publication of the laws of nature; but it is no longer in your
power to annihilate or to subvert them."

A general shout then arose from every part of the assembly; and the nations universally, and
with one voice, testified their assent to the proposals of the delegates: "Resume," said they,
"your holy and sublime labors, and bring them to perfection. Investigate the laws which nature,
for our guidance, has implanted in our breasts, and collect from them an authentic and immutable
code; nor let this code be any longer for one family only, but for us all without exception.
Be the legislators of the whole human race, as you are the interpreters of nature herself.
Show us the line of partition between the world of chimeras and that of realities; and teach
us, after so many religions of error and delusion, the religion of evidence and truth!"

Then the delegates, having resumed their enquiries into the physical and constituent attributes
of man, and examined the motives and affections which govern him in his individual and social
state, unfolded in these words the laws on which nature herself has founded his happiness.

THE LAW OF NATURE.

CHAPTER 1.

OF THE LAW OF NATURE.

Q. What is the law of nature?

A. It is the constant and regular order of events, by which God governs the universe; an order
which his wisdom presents to the senses and reason of men, as an equal and common rule for
their actions, to guide them, without distinction of country or sect, towards perfection and
happiness.

