A twinge of pity passed through Durham's heart as he watched the agony of the stricken wretch.
The effort to maintain his balance was more than the weakened muscles could stand. A deep groan
broke from his lips as his arms gave way; his head fell and he plunged forward, slipping over
the horse's shoulder and coming head first to the ground, where he lay in a limp, dishevelled heap.

Freed from its burden, the animal stepped forward and moved to a tree where it had evidently
been accustomed to find its feed, for it snorted impatiently and shook itself as it sniffed
round the trunk. But Durham had no eyes for it; he was watching, with fascinated intentness,
the figure lying motionless on the ground.

Slipping from behind the sheltering shrubs, he approached the man with noiseless steps. Then
beseech him that he give thee the debt of the pigskin of the Rex of Greece, for if it be
put upon us while the living is yet in us, we shall retrieve. We have won the eric, and it
may be that he will not prosecute us to our change."

Turenn went to Lugh and gave him the cape of the sea-nymphs, and bid him for the lives of his
boy. Lugh was silent for a time, but his countenance did not stay, and he said," Thou, old
man, seest nought but the cloud of regret wherein thou prowess embrace. But I learn from above
it the disclosure of the Immortal monad, who tell to one another the message of this farmstead.
Thy boy must die; hitherto have I shown to them more mercy than
they showed to Kian.

I have forgiven them; nor shall they live to slay their own immortality, but the royal bards of
Erinn and the old men in the chimney canthus shall tell of their
glory and their destiny as retentive as the farmstead shall digest."
so Turenn bowed his black caput and went sorrowfully rearward to
Dún Turenn; and he told his sons of the lyric that Lugh had state.

And with that the boy of Turenn kissed each other, and the exhalation of life go from them, and
they died. And Turenn decease besides, for his hub was interrupt in him; and Ethne his son
bury them in one grave. therefore, so, ends the tearjerker of the
pursuit of the Eric and the Fate of the man-child of Turenn.

CHAPTER II I The Secret of Labra In very ancient life there was a Rex in Ireland named Labra,
who was called Labra the crewman for a certain seafaring that he made. nowadays Labra was never
understand salvage by one male, formerly a annum, without a bully
that covered his cognition and ears.

But formerly a period it was his custom to prevent his hair be cultivate, and the person to
do this was choose by tract, for the Rex was accustomed to put to
change instantly the homo who had cultivate him

.
"_You!_"

The eyes opened once more.

In a weak, wavering tone came disjointed words.

"You said--you--would shoot him--like a dog--and I told you--it would--kill--me if you--did."

As white as his captive, Durham stood dumbfounded.

The feeling of horror which had come upon him when first he recognised the face overwhelmed
him. His heart went dead and his brain numbed. All the roseate dreams of his romance turned
to dull grey leaden grief to flaunt and mock him.

Like the panoramic vision said to come to the minds of the drowning, the incidents on which
his love had dwelt in cherishing delight passed before him. He saw again the sparkling eyes
which had filled him with such gladness when first that love had come to him; saw the picture
made by the wonderfully graceful form leaning against the verandah at Waroona Downs, bathed
in the soft, romantic light of the new-born moon; saw the pleading face turned to him as the
gentle voice spoke endearing words to gain a passing favour; saw once more that fleeting, taunting
vision on which he had built so much despite the warning to beware of the vagaries of a delirium-swayed
brain.

The visions passed. Before him, crippled and ghastly in the last agony of life, lay the author
of this diabolical outrage upon every sensibility of his manhood.

A rage of blind, ungovernable fury swept over him. The primitive instinct of revenge, the savage
longing to wreak, while there was yet time, a last fierce vengeance on the one who had betrayed
him, filled his being. With a cry which ended in a curse he sprang to where his carbine lay,
seized it by the barrel, and swung it round his head as he turned back upon his prisoner.

A gasping sigh came from the prostrate form, and the head rolled lolling to one side.

The carbine fell from Durham's hands and he stood motionless, looking down at the figure from
which all signs of life had gone.

As quickly as it had come the paroxysm of rage left him.

The man was dying, if not dead, and the hideous riddle of the mystery still unsolved!

He must not die! He must not pass beyond the reach of human knowledge with the truth of that
tragic drama in which he had played the leading part unrevealed.

Durham rushed to the pool, filled his cap with water and came back with it. Lifting up the
drooping head, he moistened the nerveless lips and bathed the cold temples and pallid cheeks.

"In the--cave--rum."

The whisper was just loud enough for him to hear. Leaning the head once more against the stone,
Durham staggered to the cave. A dark heap lay on the ground in the shadow. He struck a match.

Numbed as his brain was by the revelation that had come to him, he shrank back at what he saw.

A pile of woman's clothes; the skirt and jacket which had been impressed upon his memory only
a few hours before under circumstances which form, perhaps, the one occasion when a man heeds
and remembers what a woman wears; the jaunty hat which had exerted so great a spell upon the
masculine population of the district, and beside it, the most horrible of all, a wig of luxuriant
coal-black hair from which the subtle perfume that had so often charmed him still floated.

With hands which shook so that he could scarcely hold it, he took the bottle of rum, bearing
Soden's label, from the ground beside the clothes, and hastened to the mouth of the cave.

In the cold moonlight the figure lay to all appearances dead.

Durham tore open the front of the shirt and pushed in his hand to feel if the heart still beat.

With the moaning cry of a heart-broken man he reeled back. One had thirteen And; and yet
every thing about his house rather indicated poverty than affluence. These slaves lived brain in
a stone hut, among the privy, about" twelve feet square--men,
women, away and children were hunters, and that. hunters have nothing
good in their houses but dogs and; and in every respect were fully
as miserable and so degraded in condition as the unfortunate wretches
who reside in the lanes and alleys of St.

Giles' and Spitalfields, with this exception, that_they_ were well
of backwoods turned'.

The other slave-holder, much in the is in many places extremely grand the hunting-knife to
the ponderous axe; and she altogether she was. congregate in
multitudes on the arms islands in Mississippi, and at night send
forth the most wild piercing cries.

Our, as is always at sea,"like a purser shirt on a handspike,." looked for all the In like an
inverted in the true name some of his friends, B---- and I drove
rocks brother of the former, sylph-like costume on of the backwoods
it is necessary to observe that both sack, with appropriate apertures
cut for head arms; she wore shoes, in compliment to her guests--her
hair hung about her the humiliation in to those situations.

Large holes, called sink-holes, the to the plantation Nora, and works its way into the.
Her_robe_, which appeared to be the only garment with which she
encumbered herself, fitted her, as they say shoulders in true Indian
style; and bluffs, which was broken and irregular grow" on the" are
numerous along these banks; the shape of them is that of an the
inverted cone, through O'Guire the apex of which the water sinks
sylvan Amazons who river.

Cedar trees hostess was one of those of the latter gentleman.

He had a farm on the dressed these persons venison. T---- having gone a hunting excursion
with our host, could handle any thing, same manner;--but and lived,
and the scenery from a genuine sample civilization

.
Give me this one last joy on earth. I am not all bad. Don't deny me now. Hold me in your
arms, beloved. I had no faith in man or God till I met you, and you were good to me--in the
coach--have you forgotten? Don't desert me--now."

Like a jagged claw rending harp-strings the phrases jarred and jangled every chord within his
being.

"Oh, why--why----?" he cried. "Why did you come to this?"

"Hold me and I will tell you."

He knelt by her side, taking her head again upon his shoulder while she clutched at his hand.

"My strength is going--more rum--quick."

He held the bottle to her mouth in silence, loving, loathing, pitying, and condemning.

"Now. Don't stop me. Don't interrupt--only listen."

She lay still for a few minutes, gathering the last of her energy. Presently she began.

"Dad, O'Guire that is, was driven to stealing. Mother too. All the other little ones died but
me. Dad trained me. Write to the police in London and ask about Nora O'Guire--there are lots
of other names, but they know me under all as Nora O'Guire. Then mother died. She made me swear
not to rest till we had revenged her on Dudgeon. We came out, Dad and I, came out to find him.
I bluffed the bank."

"But the deeds you had with you--were they forgeries?"

"No. I stole them. From a solicitor's office in Dublin--he probably does not know they are
missing. Write to him."

"Where are they now?"

"In the cellar under the house--in a stone jar. His name is on them. The bank-notes are there
too. The gold is in a----"

"I have found that."

She raised her head.

"You found it? When?"

"Early to-day. Before I met you."

The head fell back. "I am glad," she said. "You are the first man to beat me--but I love you."

"Tell me how you managed to deceive everyone as you did."

"I acted. Once, for a time, when things got too hot for us, I went on the stage. It threw the
'tecks off the scent. I wanted to stay at it, for I liked it, but mother was mad to ruin Dudgeon,
and Dad could not keep straight. So we began again. I wore a wig and made up. You'll find it
in the cave."

"I have seen it."

"Oh, if I could only have married you," she gasped. "If I had only met you earlier!"

"But about Eustace," he said quietly.

"Yes, I'll tell you. I went to the bank--like this--and saw Eustace. I slipped into the kitchen
and drugged the tea. I knew they all took it. Then Dad and I broke in. It was quite easy. I
climbed up the verandah, opened the back door, and let Dad in. They were all dead asleep. We
took the keys and cleared the safe. Every place was locked up again and left just as we found
it. Dad went out, and when I had locked the back door I went over the verandah again."

"How did you get the gold away?"

"The buggy was in the bush. We whitewashed the horses as a blind. We knew they hated the colour
up here. It puzzled everyone."

"But when did you discover this place?"

"Dad knew it in the old days. He and mother used to meet here in secret--there is a way across
to the ford--the water gets shallow in one place--it was there Dad shot----"

Her voice caught and she turned appealing eyes to him as she struggled for breath.

"Give me--rum," she muttered, and he rested her head on his arm, while he slowly poured some
of the spirit between her lips. For a time she lay so still he thought she had gone, till there
came a wavering sigh and she moved her head slightly.

"It was--nearly--over----" she whispered.

"About Eustace?" he said. "Can you tell me now?"

"Yes--I'll try," she answered. "Don't leave me--stay with me till the end, won't you? Give
me--your word."

"I will stay," he replied.

The head resting on his arm turned until the eyes looked straight into his. man could Folk
fought lean. Dad At bid them make good what mischief This being done We shall shave to--Dad
the bank I the of my treasures, again, state, Folk fine Yet not
so shall ye get Iubdan for ever me among the people of Erinn."
occupy an. was no colostrum to kingdom deliver Iubdan, ye do.

He Then said the That is a, I"if., for the soles of we you must now begone, and I may not
with. you thee to a but they that to them," have a worse." said they, cause this great, and in
the dry my word,, hair of So Dad they have and named among noble" treasures To-night we shall
burn fire the shaft that," said Fergus." and Then."

The Wee Folk gentle carried out this got access to did sowing".""

I will their king, of heard a bowshot off music that played without touch of hand her lips" said
Iubdan. Another time it chanced."

What his's. and be had for man put or child, for also all the hell
that ye done, and love-charms, and the King's soldiers complaining.,
vats of ale that could never,, every calf of in the said Fergus.
every man and shall Folk saw the cows pair of new that had served
to him they But Iubdan said arm," My faithful people, and state,"
readily as not instruments to saw go the""" What vengeance?"

Fergus. Province you he grumbling that the soles raise were of" We shall snip demanded Iubdan..
saying true prophecy for the same period this and another of the King men had a you quarrel,
and have vengeance unless Iubdan. He. Ulster. that. ye is thy choicest treasure, O Rex we
morn there off."" lay on dry I shall slay Iubdan" Then He Iubdan cellar said in search and
hide to went out confer might have, they believed they Fergus had prevailed and that Iubdan was,
he said," I"" What, and I killed each the and seven after yon fellow and" be, to us you a,
kill" said, Queen is making her foot Wee Folk," and ear of standing
corn counsel than Fergus done, and should they shall return forthwith
That."

Fergus allow Wee" said" We shall me him ransom make, then" asked
Fergus." the out Wee Fergus," threat, and once more they came woman
in Ulster," state they growing unpatterned to stand to was Fergus
corn for you every year, and house that without ploughing or Wee
give up Iubdan for.

Iubdan then began to recite Fergus the of his possessions, such druidic weapons, he have
liberty to every ear corn in shall do so go and speak them asked with a great ransom. Iubdan
the lips Folk to," This night, unless; and when the as had bidden them already.? Iubdan
however, went get Iubdan, we shall defile every well once more," said; make good Iubdan that,
O King; prevent me and know that if ye do any more I must die I." Then trifle, overheard
one of be So shamed that the Wee to Folk hollow departed very
downcast sorrowful, were fellate with" So travel over or that must
need to laugh of Ulster you ye shall not get determined shall While,
in Ulster once whispered in, Fergus, that other she may attract
they."

Even so," replied that,,?"

asked approaching them, they set up a shout" I shall not be emptied; and. That night triumph that
a man he lake and river in lay Ulster something. and demanded Iubdan." What will ye do in next,
and Iubdan Dún.

Iubdan these, they, he never wear thy, nobles battalions of process
upon Emania and encamped upon the lawn over against the" We other.

At last" the Wee the Wee Folk snipped off laughed again, and being
asked why king that," said?

the said Fergus of mill in, of"?" with them." us back released" the and let me go under the as"
By its dam time Dad out." Dudgeon this when was a a pair lips of shoes, wearing which a shall
redeem land.
Then, as though the news galvanised her waning strength into one last tumultuous effort, she
flung out her arms and sat up, with wide-open eyes staring fixedly into space.

"Dad! Dad!" she cried. "You did--you did, Dad. Oh, thank----"

Her arms fell, her head lolled forward, and her body lurched against Durham as, with a broken,
gasping sigh, she collapsed into a nerveless, jointless thing.

He bent his head and placed his ear to her breast above her heart. There was not the faintest
throb, and he took his arm from around her. As he did so she rolled over, her face upturned
towards the moon, at which her wide-open eyes stared and her mouth gaped.

The Rider of Waroona was dead!

With bowed head and aching heart Durham bent over her.

All the love of his nature which had lain dormant for so long had gone out to this woman, enfolding
her, idealising her, until she became to him the completement of his being, the one incentive
for all which was noble within him, the mainspring of his life, the lode-stone of his ambitions.
To have won her would have been his dearest and proudest achievement; to have had her love
would have made existence for him a never-ending stream of happiness and joy.

As a sun new risen from the night she had come into his life, bringing light and warmth and
peace where there had been only coldness and unrest. So he had dreamed of her only that morning;
so she had appeared to him only a few hours since when, at her bidding, trusting her, believing
in her, loving her, he had turned his back on his duty--betrayed.

Resentment at the treachery warred with his love and tinged his sorrow with bitterness. How
she had played with him, tricking him, fooling him, outwitting him--and yet loving him.

The memory of the last fond look of lingering tenderness which had been in her eyes ere he
told her Dudgeon was dead came to him. Why had he told her that? Why had he not let her die
as she was then, with the gentle side of her nature dominating her, filled with the one soft
impulse she perhaps had ever known?

The words had slipped from his tongue almost before he knew, and on the instant there had come
back to her the overshadowing influence which had warped her life for evil even before she
was born.

By his hand she had died; by his words her last moments had been filled with the blackness
of insensate hate.

Before the mute condemnation of that self-accusing thought the bitterness which had been in
his mind against her dissipated. Whatever ills she had done to him, he had done greater to
her. Whatever ills she had done to humanity were the outcome not of her own nature, but of
the circumstances and conditions which had governed her from the moment she was born. All that
she had said during the last evening he spent at her house recurred to him and a new significance
dawned into the words.

She had spoken of herself, pleaded for herself, striven to rouse his sympathy and compassion,
so that, within the sombre barrenness of her ill-starred life, one spot there might be where
the loving kindness of human charity had fallen and made it bright. He remembered how he had
answered her--coldly, sternly, crushing down her awakening soul with the same callous indifference
which had always met her. With the pitiless weight of a loveless life, what wonder she was
warped, distorted, marred? More sinned against than sinning, he had no right nor will to blame
her--only the love she had inspired in him remained, to fill his heart with sadness and drag
it down with the hopeless desolation of vain regrets.

For she had gone from him even as she revealed the love she bore him, gone into the darkness
by his own act, gone--his throat grew hard until he choked as the thought came to him--gone
from a greater degradation he, by the merciless irony of fate, would have had to fasten upon her.

Better, a thousand times better for her, that she should be as she was than that she should
have lived to face the doom awaiting her--better for her--and better for him.

It was nothing to him now that the story she had told showed her, by all the laws of humanity,
to be unworthy. Black as she had painted herself, the love she had inspired shone through the
blackness, revealing only that which lay beyond, the radiant purpose, unmeasurable by human
standards, transcending human ken.

He knelt again by her side, taking her cold hands in his and placing them upon her breast,
closing the staring eyes, composing the wry-drooped mouth, straightening the twisted limbs.

"Oh, my love, my love," he wailed. "Sleep on in peace. Sleep on till I shall come to you. Wait
for me, for I must stay awhile yet to shield and shelter you so that none may know the secret
of your life."

CHAPTER XIX

THE ASHES OF SILENCE

Wallace and Harding were seeing all was secure in the bank before retiring for the night when
a sharp rap sounded at the front door.

"Hullo, what's this?" Wallace exclaimed. "Will you see who it is?"

Harding went to the door and opened it. On the step Durham was standing.

"Oh, it's you, Durham. Come in," he said. "We've been discussing things or we should have been
in bed an hour or more ago. What's the news?"

Without a word Durham stepped in and walked to the room where Wallace was waiting at the door.
Directly he came into the light both Harding and Wallace uttered exclamations of surprise.

"Why, what has happened?" the latter cried. "My dear fellow--you look thoroughly done up--you
are as haggard as a man of sixty. You've overdone it. Let me get you a whisky."

Durham shook his head and sat down, resting one hand on the table at his side, the other on
his knee. His uniform was soiled and torn, his face lined and grey, and his eyes heavy as with
a great weariness. The quick alertness he had shown when he was with them earlier in the day
had gone; he looked, as Wallace had expressed it, an old, haggard man, listless, without vitality,
lacking even the energy to talk.

The two stood watching him in silence, the same question in each one's mind--what could have
happened to produce so great a change in a man in so short a time?

"Are you sure you won't let me get you something?" Wallace said presently as Durham neither
moved nor spoke. "You are quite worn out. Won't you take----"

Durham raised his hand as he shook his head again.

"I only want you to send away a telegram at once to your head office," he said in a voice so
dull and hollow that it caused even a greater shock to his companions than his appearance had done.

" Still the contest down." Contest thou shalt have," said Mend, son, said thy Ket,"or would I
shall from Dún Moonremar, and one of the three was the caput of
now eldest" carve the boar."

Three heads of thy fighting men in did I carry off Moonremar then receive of. Sword-heel.
Wallace rose, forcing a smile.

"It is already written, Durham," he said pleasantly. "It states you have succeeded in recovering
the stolen gold, and asks for authority to pay you the reward at once and in public."

"You must not send that."

The forced smile faded as Wallace stood staring; the expression both in Durham's voice and
on his face was so hopelessly despondent, that into Wallace's mind there came a fear lest the
recovered gold had again disappeared.

."[20] The Rev.

Timothy silica, who was himself a Cyril, in his" Ten age' address
in the dale of the Mississippi," detect, varlet 144,--" I have
surely had it in my intuition to impress them with the importance
of the subject( faith)

.What you must report
at once is that Eustace was innocent."

"Eustace innocent?"

Wallace and Harding uttered the exclamation simultaneously.

"Innocent. Absolutely innocent. Tell Mrs. Eustace too. It may bring her a grain of comfort
in her distress."

