"Port Moody is the present terminus of the Canadian Pacific Railway, but the line has been
partially graded for 12 miles further to Vancouver. Owing, however, to the hostile attitude
of some landowners, the Company have not been able to complete this work, as the contention
has been made that, although the Company have power to build branches, an extension of the
main line is not a branch, and the Company will have to obtain legislation before this can
be done. Vancouver at the present time is said to have a population of about 3,000. It is situated
at Burrard Inlet, a mile or so inside what are called the First Narrows, but the neck of land
on which it is situate is only about a mile across; and in the future, when the town grows,
English Bay, which is outside the Narrows, can easily be made the harbour in preference to
the present one, as it is fairly well sheltered, and affords good anchorage.

"The trip down Burrard Inlet, the Straits of Georgia, and through the San Juan Archipelago
to Victoria, a distance of about 90 miles from Port Moody, occupied 9-1/2 hours, and Victoria
was reached at 10.30 on the night of the 21st September."

To this memorandum I may add a few words. First, in praise of the excellent rolling stock;
secondly, of the good discipline and smartness of the service; and, thirdly, of the wonderful
energy, boldness, and success of the whole engineering features of this grand work of modern
times. I should be ungrateful if I did not thank the chief officers of the Canadian Pacific,
whose acquaintance I had great pleasure in making, for their exceeding kindness, for the full
information they afforded to me, and for showing me many cheap, short, and ready plans of construction,
which might well be adopted in Europe. These gentlemen have looked at difficulties merely in
respect to the most summary way of surmounting them; and, certainly, the great and bold works
around the head of Lake Superior, the many river and ravine crossings of unusual span and height,
and, especially, the works of the 600 miles of mountain country between Calgary and the last
summit of British Columbia, so successfully traversed, would make the reputation of a dozen
Great George Streets.

CHAPTER IV.

_Canadian Pacific Railways_.

The pioneer suggestion of a railway across British territory to the Pacific has been claimed
by many. To my mind, all valuable credit attaches to those who have completed the work. The
christening of "La Chine"--the town seven miles from Montreal, where the canals which go round
the rapids end, and the St. Lawrence and the Ottawa rivers join their differently coloured
streams--contained the prophecy of a future great high road to the then mysterious East, to
China, to Japan, to Australia; and it is to the Sieur de la Salle, who, 200 years ago, bought
lands above the rapids from the Sulpician Fathers of Montreal, and began his many attempts
to reach the lands of the "setting sun," that we owe the name; while the resolution of Sir
Charles Tupper, carried in the Dominion Parliament, finally embodied in an Act which received
the Royal assent on the 17th February, 1881, and was opposed throughout by the "Grit" party,
was really the practical start. It would be inadequate to write of the Great Canadian Pacific
Railway without some reference to the history of railways in Canada itself.

In the interesting book, "Rambles on Railways," published in 1868, it is remarked that great
as has been the progress of Canada, in no respect has the growth of the country shown itself
in a more marked manner than in the development of its railway system. It was in 1848, or almost
immediately after the completion of the magnificent canal system of Canada proper, and by which
vessels of 800 tons could pass from the ocean to Lake Ontario, and _vice versa_ (ships now
pass from Chicago to Liverpool of over 1,500 tons burthen), that the Canadians discovered it
was necessary, notwithstanding their unrivalled inland navigation, to combine with it an equally
good railway communication; and accordingly, in 1849, an Act was passed by the Canadian Government
pledging a six per cent. guarantee on one-half the cost of all railways made under its provisions.
In 1852, however, the Government, fearing the effect of an indiscriminate guarantee, repealed
the law of 1849, and passed an Act guaranteeing one-half of the cost of one main Trunk line
of railway throughout the Province, and it was under this Act that the Grand Trunk Railway
was projected.

These terms were subsequently modified, by granting a fixed sum of 3,000_l_. per mile of railway
forming part of the main Trunk line. It is true that prior to these dates railways existed
in Canada. There was, for example, the horse railway from La Prairie, nine miles above Montreal,
to St. John's on the Richelieu River, opened in July, 1836, and first worked with locomotives
in 1837; there was also a horse railway between Queenstown and Chippewa, passing Niagara, opened
in 1839, and over which I travelled in 1851; but with these exceptions, and the Lachine Railway,
a line running from Montreal for seven miles to the westward, the railway system of Canada
cannot be said to have commenced until after the passing of the Railway Act in 1849, and even
then, it was not for about a year that any progress was made. Soon after that date, however,
the works of several lines were pushed forward, and in 1854 the section between Montreal and
Quebec was opened, the first train having carried Lord Elgin, who was then _en route_ to England
to confer with the home authorities respecting the future Reciprocity Treaty with the United
States Government. So, whilst in 1852, Canada could only boast of about 30 miles of railway,
she has now over 10,000 miles. The population of the Dominion is estimated roughly at 5,000,000,
so that this mileage gives something over two miles of railway for every thousand inhabitants,
a greater railway mileage system per head of population than, perhaps, is possessed by any
other country in the world.

The old Grand Trunk proprietors feel that their early pioneer services to Canada, and their
heavy sacrifices, have rather been ignored in competition, than recognized, by the Canadian
Pacific not being an extension of the Grand Trunk system. Had I remained in office as President
of the Grand Trunk, undoubtedly I should have laboured hard to bring about such a consummation,
which undoubtedly would have economised capital and hastened the completion of the great Inter-
oceanic work. But the London agents of Canada, who were, and are, responsible for launching
the Grand Trunk and for its many issues of capital to British shareholders, have undoubtedly
aided the competition and rivalry complained of; for in July, 1885, they floated--when other
great financial houses were unable--3,000,000_l_. sterling, not for the Pacific line itself,
but to complete other extensions of the Pacific Company's system of a directly competitive
character with the Grand Trunk, and which could never have been finished but for this British
money, so raised. While I do not enter into the controversy, it still seems to me that blame
lies nearer home than in Canada, if blame be deserved at all. Great financiers seem sometimes
ready to devour their own industrial children.

The Canadian Pacific Railway from Quebec to Port Moody is a mixture of the new and the old.
The first section, from Quebec to Montreal, is an old friend, the North Shore Railway, once
possessed by the Grand Trunk Company, and sold back to the Canadian Government for purposes
of extending the Pacific route to tide-water at Quebec, and making one, throughout, management.
From Montreal to Ottawa, and beyond, is another section of older-made line. The piece from
Port Arthur to Winnipeg is an older railway, made by the Canadian Government. Again, on the
Pacific there is the British Columbia Government Railway. All the rest, round the head of Lake
Superior up to Port Arthur, from Winnipeg across the Great Prairies to Calgary, and on to,
and across, the Rocky Mountains, the crossings of the Selkirk and other Columbian Ranges, is
new Railway--with works daring and wonderful.

Pioneer railways are not like works at home. The lines are single, with crossing places every
five, ten, or twenty miles; ballast is not always used, the lines on prairies being laid for
long stretches on the earth formation; rivers, chasms, canons and cataracts are crossed by
timber trestle bridges. The rails, of steel, are flat bottomed, fastened by spikes, 60 lbs.
to the yard, except through the mountains, where they are 70 lbs.

Begun as pioneer works, they undergo, as traffic progresses, many improvements. Ballast is
laid down. Iron or steel bridges are substituted for timber. The gorges spanned by trestles
are, one by one, filled up, by the use of the steam digger to fill, and the ballast plough
to push out, the stuff from the flat bottomed wagons on each side and through the interstices
of, the trestles. Sometimes the timber is left in; sometimes it is drawn out and used elsewhere.
This trestle bridge plan of expediting the completion, and cheapening the construction, of
new railways, wants more study, at home. Whenever there are gorges and valleys to pass in a
timbered country, the facility they give of getting "through" is enormous. The Canadian Pacific
would not be open now, but for this facility.

All these lines across the Continent have very similar features. They each have prairies to
pass, with long straight lines and horizons which seem ever vanishing and never reached; mountain
ranges of vast altitudes to cross, alkaline lands, hitherto uncultivable, hot sulphur springs,
prairie-dogs, gophyrs, and other animals not usually seen. The buffalo has retired from the
neighbourhood of these iron-roads and of the "fire-wagons," as the Indians call the locomotives.
Here and there on all the prairies on all the lines, heaps of whitened bones, of buffalo, elk,
and stag, are piled up at stations, to be taken away for agricultural purposes. The railways
resemble each other in their ambitious extensions. The Canadian Pacific Railway, from Quebec
to Port Moody, is above 3,000 miles in length, but the total mileage of the Company is already
4,600 miles, and no one knows where it is to stop, while Messrs. Baring and Glyn will, and
can, raise money from English people; the Union Pacific possesses 4,500 miles in the United
States; the Southern Pacific nearly 5,000; and the newest of the three, the Northern Pacific,
has about 3,000 miles, and is "marching on" to a junction with Grand Trunk extensions at the
southern end of Lake Superior, in order to complete a second Atlantic and Pacific route, through
favoured Canada. Each of these great lines has found the necessity of supplementing the through,
with as much local traffic, as it can command. Some of this is new, such as the coal traffic
from Sir Alexander Galt's mines, situated on a branch line of 110 miles, running out of the
Canadian Pacific at Dunmore, and the mineral traffic in the territory of Wyoming on the Union
Pacific. But, again, some of it is the result of competition. Let us hope that the development
of both Canada and the United States may quickly give trade enough for all. It seems to me,
however, that the Ocean to Ocean traffic, alone, cannot, at present at least, find a good return
for so many railways.

Canada has been unusually generous to the promoters of the Canadian Pacific Railway. A free
gift of five millions sterling: a free gift of 713 miles of, completed, railway: a free gift
of twenty-five millions of acres of land: all materials admitted free of duty: the lands given
to be free of taxation for twenty years: the Company's, property to be free of taxation: the
Company to have absolute control in fixing its rates and charges until it should pay 10 per
cent. dividend on its Ordinary Stock: and for twenty years no competitive Railway to be sanctioned;--summarize
the liberality of the Dominion of Canada, in her efforts to bind together her Ocean coasts.
The work is essentially an Imperial work. What is the duty of the Empire?

CHAPTER V.

_A British Railway from the Atlantic to the Pacific_.

("ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS," 1861.)

My letter of the 15th November, 1860, to a friend of Mr. Thomas Baring, then President of the
Grand Trunk Railway of Canada, gives concisely my general notions of opening up the British
portion of the Great Continent of America. A while later a leading article written by me appeared
in the "Illustrated London News" of the 16th February, 1861. The article was headed, "A British
Railway from the Atlantic to the Pacific." I will here quote a portion of it:--

"'I hope,' said her Majesty, on proroguing Parliament in 1858, 'that the new Colony on the
Pacific (British Columbia) may be but one step in the career of steady progress by which my
dominions in North America may be ultimately peopled in an unbroken chain, from the Atlantic
to the Pacific, by a loyal and industrious population.' The aspiration, so strikingly expressed,
found a fervent echo in the national heart, and it continues to engage the earnest attention
of England; for it speaks of a great outspread of solid prosperity and of rational liberty,
of the diffusion of our civilization, and of the extension of our moral empire.

"Since the Royal Speech, Governments have done something, and events have done more, to ripen
public opinion into action. The Governments at home and in Canada have organized and explored.
The more perfect discoveries of our new gold fields on the Pacific, the Indian Mutiny, the
completion of great works in Canada, the treaties with Japan and with China, the visit of the
Prince of Wales to the American Continent, and, at the moment, the sad dissensions in the United
States, combine to interest us in the question, and to make us ask, 'How is this hope to be
realized; not a century hence, but in our time?'

"Our augmenting interests in the East, demand, for reasons both of Empire and of trade, access
to Asia less dangerous than by Cape Horn, less circuitous even than by Panama, less dependent
than by Suez and the Red Sea. Our emigration, imperilled by the dissensions of the United States,
must fall back upon colonization. And, commercially, the countries of the East must supply
the raw materials and provide the markets, which probable contests between the free man and
the slave may diminish, or may close, elsewhere. Again, a great nation like ours cannot stand
still. It must either march on triumphantly in the van, or fall hopelessly into the rear. The
measure of its accomplishment must, century by century, rise higher and higher in the competition
of nations. Its great works in this generation can alone perpetuate its greatness in the next.

"Let us look at the map: there we see, coloured as 'British America,' a tract washed by the
great Atlantic on the East, and by the Pacific Ocean on the West, and containing 4,000,000
square miles, or one-ninth of the whole terrestrial surface of the globe. Part of this vast
domain, upon the East, is Upper and Lower Canada; part, upon the West, is the new Colony of
British Columbia, with Vancouver's Island (the Madeira of the Pacific); while the largest portion
is held, as one great preserve, by the fur-trading Hudson's Bay Company, who, in right of a
charter given by Charles II., in 1670, kill vermin for skins, and monopolise the trade with
the Native Indians over a surface many times as big again as Great Britain and Ireland. Still,
all this land is ours, for it owes allegiance to the sceptre of Victoria. Between the magnificent
harbour of Halifax, on the Atlantic, open throughout the year for ships of the largest class,
to the Straits of Fuca, opposite Vancouver's Island, with its noble Esquimault inlet, intervene
some 3,200 miles of road line. For 1,400 or 1,500 miles of this distance, the Nova Scotian,
the Habitan, and the Upper Canadian have spread, more or less in lines and patches over the
ground, until the population of 60,000 of 1759 amounts to 2,500,000 in 1860. The remainder
is peopled only by the Indian and the hunter, save that at the southern end of Lake Winnipeg
there still exists the hardy and struggling Red River Settlement, now called 'Fort Garry:'
and dotted all over the Continent, as lights of progress, are trading posts of the Hudson's
Bay Company.

"The combination of recent discoveries places it at least beyond all doubt that the best, though,
perhaps, not the only, thoroughly efficient route for a great highway for peoples and for commerce,
between the Atlantic and the Pacific, is to be found through this British territory. Beyond
that, it is alleged that while few, if any, practicable passes for a wagon-road, still less
for a railway, can be found through the Rocky Mountains across the United States' territory,
north-west of the Missouri, there have been discovered already no less than three eligible
openings in the British ranges of these mountains, once considered as inaccessible to man.
While Captain Palliser prefers the 'Kananaskakis,' Captain Blakiston and Governor Douglas,
the 'Kootanie,' and Dr. Hector the 'Vermilion' Pass, all agree that each is perfectly practicable,
if not easy, and that even better openings may probably yet be found as exploration progresses.
Again, while British Columbia, on the Pacific, possesses a fine climate, an open country, and
every natural advantage of soil and mineral, it has been also discovered that the doubtful
region from the Rocky Mountains eastward up to the Lake of the Woods, contains, with here and
there some exceptions, a 'continuous belt' of the finest land.

"Professor Hind says:--

"'It is a physical reality of the highest importance to the interests of British North America
that this continuous belt can be settled and cultivated from a few miles west of the Lake of
the Woods, to the passes of the Rocky Mountains; and any line of communication, whether by
wagon, road, or railroad, passing through it, will eventually enjoy the great advantage of
being fed by an agricultural population from one extremity to the other.'

"Although the lakes and the St. Lawrence give an unbroken navigation of 2,000 miles, right
to the sea, for ships of 300 tons burden, yet if there is to be a continuous line, along which,
and all the year round, the travel and the traffic of the Western and Eastern worlds can pass
without interruption, railway communication with Halifax must be perfected, and a new line
of iron road, passing through Ottawa, the Red River Settlement, and this 'continuous belt,'
must be constructed. This new line is a work of above 2,300 miles, and would cost probably
20,000,000_l_., if not 25,000,000_l_., sterling.

"The sum, though so large, is still little more than we voluntarily paid to extinguish slavery
in our West Indian dominions; it does not much exceed the amount which a Royal Commission,
some little time ago, proposed to expend in erecting fortifications and sea-works to defend
our shores. It is but six per cent, of the amount we have laid out on completing our own railway
system in this little country at home. It is equal to but two and a-half per cent. of our National
Debt, and the annual interest upon it is much less than the British Pension List.

"We say, then, 'Establish an unbroken line of road and railway from the Atlantic to the Pacific
through British territory.'

"Such a great highway would give shorter distances by both sea and land, with an immense saving
of time.

"As regards the great bugbear of the general traveller--sea distance-- it would, to and from
Liverpool, save, as compared with the Panama route, a tossing, wearying navigation of 6,000
miles to Japan, of 5,000 miles to Canton, and of 3,000 miles to Sydney. For Japan, for China,
for the whole Asiatic Archipelago, and for Australia, such a route must become the great highway
to and from Europe; and whatever nation possesses that highway, must wield of necessity the
commercial sceptre of the world.

"In the United States, the project of a Railway to the Pacific to cross the Rocky Mountains
has ebbed and flowed in public opinion, and has been made the battle-cry of parties for years
past, but nothing has yet been done. Such a project, in order to answer its purpose, requires
something more than a practicable surface, or convenient mountain passes. Fine harbours on
both Oceans, facilities for colonization on the route, and the authority of one single Power
over the whole of the wild regions traversed, are all essential to success. As regards the
United States, these conditions are wanting. While there are harbours enough on the Atlantic,
though none equal to Halifax, there is no available harbour at all fit for the great Pacific
trade, from Acapulco to our harbour of Esquimault, on Vancouver's Island, except San Francisco--and
that is in the wrong place, and is, in many states of the wind, unsafe and inconvenient. The
country north-west of the Missouri is found to be sterile, and at least one-third of the whole
United States territory, and situated in this region, is now known as the 'Great American Desert.'
Again, the conflicting interests of separate and sovereign States present an almost insuperable
bar to agreement as to route, or as to future 'operations' or control. It is true that Mr.
Seward, possibly as the exponent of the policy of the new President, promises to support _two_
Pacific Railways--one for the South, another for the North. But these promises are little better
than political baits, and were they carried out into Acts of Congress, financial disturbance
would delay, if not prevent, their final realization; and, even if realized, they would not
serve the great wants of the East and the West, still less would they satisfy England and Europe.
We, therefore, cannot look for the early execution of this gigantic work at the hands of the
United States.

"Such a work, however, is too costly and too difficult for the grasp of unaided private enterprise.
To accomplish it out of hand, the whole help of both the Local and Imperial Parliaments must
be given. That help once offered, by guarantee or by grant, private enterprise would flock
to the undertaking, and people would go to colonise on the broad tracts laid open to their
industry."

My subsequent and semi-official inquiries induced me to modify many of the conclusions of the
article quoted above. On the essential question of the pass in the Rocky Mountains, in British
territory, most adapted by Nature for the passage of a road or a railway, all the evidence
which I collected tended to show that the passage by the "Tete-jaune Cache," or "Yellow-head,"
Pass, was the best. The Canadian Pacific Company have adopted the "Kicking Horse" Pass, much
to the southward of the "Yellow-head" Pass. Again, it became clear to me that the whole Rocky
Mountain range was rather a series of high mountain peaks, standing on the summit of gradual
slopes, rising almost imperceptibly from the plains and prairies on the eastern side, and dropping
suddenly, in most cases, towards the sea-level on the western or Pacific side, than a great
wall barring the country for hundreds of miles, as some had dreamed. Every inquiry from trappers,
traders, Indian voyageurs, missionary priests of the Jesuits, and from all sorts and conditions
of men and women, made difficulty after difficulty disappear. The great work began to appear
to me comparatively easy of execution between Fort Garry, or the lower town of Selkirk and
British Columbia; the cost less; and, owing to facilities of transport, especially in winter,
the time of execution much shorter than had been previously assumed. In addition, an examination
into the physical conditions of the various routes proposed through the United States, convinced
me that here again the difficulties were less, and facilities for construction greater, than
I and others had first imagined. In fact, I came rightly to the conclusion that the more southerly
the United States route, and the more northerly the British route--while always, in the latter
case, keeping within cultivable range--the better. Still, at this time there was much to find
out. As respects real knowledge of the country to be traversed, the factors of the Hudson's
Bay Company knew every fact worth divulging, but they were afraid to speak; while the Catholic
missionaries, accustomed to travel on foot in their sacred cause over the most distant regions,
possessed a mine of personal knowledge, never, so far as I could learn, closed to the Government
of Canada or to any authorized inquirer.

Prior to my sailing to New York, _en route_ for Canada, to fulfil my mission for the Grand
Trunk, in 1861, I had a long interview with the Duke of Newcastle, as Colonial Minister. He
had seen, and we had often previously discussed, the questions raised in the article above
quoted, and which he had carefully read. The interview took place on the 17th July, 1861. Every
point connected with the British Provinces in America, as affected by the then declared warlike
separation of the northern and southern portions of the United States, was carefully discussed.
The Duke had the case at his fingers ends. His visit to America with the Prince of Wales, already
alluded to more than once, had rendered him familiar with the Northern Continent, and its many
interests, in a way which a personal study on the spot can alone bring about; and he declared
his conviction that the impression made upon the mind of the Prince was so deep and grateful,
that in anything great and out of the ordinary rut of our rule at home, he would always find
an earnest advocate and helper in the Prince, to whom he said he "felt endeared with the affection
of a father to a son." I called the Duke's special attention to the position and attitude of
the Hudson's Bay authorities. How they were always crying down their territory as unfit for
settlement; repelling all attempts from the other side to open up the land by roads, and use
steamers on such grand rivers as, for instance, the Assiniboin and the Saskatchewan. He said
Sir Frederick Rogers, the chief permanent official at the Colonial Office, whose wife's settlement
was in Hudson's Bay shares, and who, in consequence, was expected to be well informed, had
expressed to him grave doubts of the vast territory in question being ever settled, unless
in small spots here and there. The Duke fully recognized, however, the difficulty I had put
my finger upon. I never spent an hour with a man who more impressed me with his full knowledge
of a great imperial question, and his earnest determination to carry it out successfully and
speedily. The Intercolonial Railway, to connect Halifax on the Atlantic with the Grand Trunk
Railway at Riviere du Loup, 106 miles below Quebec, he described as "the preliminary necessity."
The completion of an iron-road, onwards to the Pacific, was, "to his mind, a grand conception."
The union of all the provinces and territories into "one great British America," was the necessary,
the logical, result of completing the Intercolonial Railway and laying broad foundations for
the completion, as a condition of such union, of a railway to the Pacific. He authorized me
to say; in Canada, that the Colonial Office would pay part of the cost of surveys; that these
works must be carried out in the greatest interests of the nation, and that he would give his
cordial help. This he did throughout.

In bidding me good-bye, and with the greatest kindness of manner, he added: "Well, my dear
Watkin, go out and inquire. Master these questions, and, as soon as you return, come to me,
and impart to me the information you have gained for me." Just as I was leaving, he added,
"By the way, I have heard that the State of Maine wants to be annexed to our territory." I
made no reply, but I doubted the correctness of the Duke's information. Still, with civil war
just commencing, who could tell? "Sir," said old Gordon Bennett to me one day, while walking
in his garden, beyond New York, "here everything is new, and nothing is settled." Failing health,
brought on by grievous troubles, compelled the Duke to retire from office in the course of
1864, and on the 18th of October of that year he died; on the 18th October, 1865, he was followed
by his friend, staunch and true, Lord Palmerston, who left his work and the world, with equal
suddenness, on that day.

But from that 17th July, 1861, I regarded myself as the Duke's unofficial, unpaid, never-tiring
agent in these great enterprises, and, undoubtedly, in these three years, ending by his retirement
and death, the seeds were sown.

CHAPTER VI.

_Port Moody--Victoria--San Francisco to Chicago_.

At "Port Moody," and even at the new "Vancouver City," I felt some disappointment that the
original idea of crossing amongst the islands to the north-east of Vancouver's Island, traversing
that island, and making the Grand Pacific terminus at the fine harbour of Esquimalt, had not
been realized. Halifax to Esquimalt was our old, well-worn plan. The "Tete Jaune" was our favoured
pass. This plan, I believe, met the views both of Sir James Douglas and the Honorable Mr. Trutch.
But I consoled myself with the reflection, that if we had not gained the best, we had secured
the next best, grand scheme--a scheme which, as time goes on, will be extended and improved,
as the original Pacific Railways of the United States have been.

The sea service between "Port Moody" and "Victoria," Vancouver's Island, is well performed;
and Victoria itself is an English town, with better paved streets, better electric lighting,
and better in many other ways that might be named, than many bigger American and English towns
I know of. I spent four delightful days in and about it, including an experimental trip, through
the kindness of Mr. Dunsmuir --the proprietor of the Wellington Collieries, a few miles north
of Nanaimo--over the new railway from Victoria to Nanaimo, constructed, with Government aid,
by himself and Mr. Crocker, of San Francisco. I had the pleasure of making the acquaintance
of Sir Mathew Begbie, the Chief Justice of British Columbia, to whose undaunted courage Vancouver's
Island and British Columbia owed law and order in the dangerous and difficult times of the
gold discoveries.

Upon the question of relative distances, engineering, and generally what I saw between Port
Moody and Chicago, I again take advantage of Mr. Edward Wragge's excellent notes.

"_Table of Distances between Liverpool and China and Japan_, via _the Canadian Pacific Railway,
through Canadian territory, and_ via _New York and San Francisco, through United States territory_:--

"ROUTE THROUGH CANADIAN TERRITORY.

"_Summer Route_                                           MILES.

Liverpool to Quebec, _via_ Belle Isle                     2,661 Quebec to Montreal        
172 Montreal to Port Moody                                  2,892 Port Moody to Vancouver 
12 Vancouver to Victoria                                      78 Vancouver to Yokohama    
4,334 Vancouver to Hongkong                                   5,936

"_Winter Route_                                           MILES.

Liverpool to Halifax                                    2,530 Halifax to Quebec           
678 Other points as in summer.

Summer route, Liverpool to Yokohama                    10,071 Winter route,     "         
"                        10,618

"ROUTE THROUGH UNITED STATES TERRITORY.

Liverpool to New York                                   3,046 New York to Chicago, _via_ N.Y.C.
and M.C. Railways                                         961 Chicago to San Francisco    
2,357 San Francisco to Yokohama                               4,526 San Francisco to Hongkong
6,128 Liverpool to Yokohama                                  10,890

"For distance to Hongkong, add 1,602 miles to the distance to Yokohama.

"_Note_,--Distances by rail are statute miles. Distances by sea, geographical miles.

"ESQUIMALT AND NANAIMO RAILWAY AND COAL MINES AT WEST WELLINGTON AND NANAIMO.

"The Esquimalt and Nanaimo Railway runs from West Victoria, near Esquimalt, to Nanaimo, which
latter place is a small mining town in the Island of Vancouver, lying on the east coast, on
the shore of the Straits of Georgia, nearly opposite Burrard Inlet, from which it is distant
about 28 miles.

"The line is well constructed with a good and substantial road-bed; steel rails, weighing 54
lbs. per yard (except a few miles near Nanaimo, where they are 50 lbs. per yard); well ballasted,
and well tied; the bridges and trestles are all of timber, of which material there is about
1,000,000 cubic feet employed altogether. The steepest grade is 80 feet per mile rising towards
Nanaimo, and 79 feet per mile rising towards Esquimalt; these grades are rendered necessary
to enable the line to overcome the summit lying between the two places, and which is 900 feet
above the level of the sea. Running, as the line does, through a rugged country, there are
a good many sharp curves rendered necessary. The distance from Esquimalt to Victoria is 75
miles. The line was not quite completed when we went over it; and the buildings, turn-tables,
&c. were not yet erected, although some of them were under construction.

"The traffic on the line will be light, the country being sparsely settled. It will consist
to some extent of coal; but there is water competition for the carriage of this article of
merchandize; and the station at Victoria is too far from the town at present for much of it
to come by rail for consumption in the town. There is a wharf in the harbour of Esquimalt,
at which coal can be delivered to men-of-war lying there. Mr. Dunsmuir, of Victoria, is the
chief proprietor of the railway, and he has associated with him Mr. Cracker, President of the
Southern Pacific Railway, and others.

"The Government of Canada gave a bonus of $750,000 (say 150,000_l_.) in aid of the construction
of the railway, and a belt of land, with the minerals under it, of 10 miles in width on each
side of the line.

"During the afternoon of the 23rd of September we visited the West Wellington Coal Mines, 4
or 5 miles beyond Nanaimo, and to which the railway is to be extended, work on the extension
having just been commenced. The mines are owned by Messrs. Dunsmuir & Sons, and at the present
time they are working at five shafts, the output for the month of August being 17,000 tons.
We went down the shaft of No. 5 pit, which was 240 feet deep, and found the seam was very thick,
from 10 to 11 feet, but not very solid block coal, having apparently been crushed. The mines
are all connected with wharves on the coast at Departure Bay by a three-feet gauge railway;
the lines around the mines were all in fair order. The line is worked by small locomotives,
six wheels coupled and no truck, of the Baldwin Locomotive Company's manufacture, the load
handled by them being 15 cars, each containing 3-1/2 tons of coal, and averaging in dead weight
1-3/4 tons each. The grade down to the port is very steep, and the heaviest work for the engines
is in taking the empties back again.

"The coal is mined by white miners, who employ each of them a Chinese labourer; they employ
gunpowder for blasting purposes, chiefly Curtis & Harvey's make, and use naked lights of oil.
The miners are found in all tools except their auger drills, which they all use, and which
cost some $30 each. Each miner has an allowance of one ton of coal per month for his own use.
There was a little drip at the foot of the shaft we went down, but otherwise the mine was quite
dry. The mode of unloading the cars at the wharf was rather primitive, but at the same time
simple and ingenious. When the car has been weighed it is run forward by five Chinamen to the
end of the wharf, the front end of the car being hinged at the top, with a catch opened by
a lever, a short piece of track sufficiently long for the car to stand upon is built projecting
beyond the wharf and over the hold of the vessel, this piece of track is laid on a framework,
which is hinged to the wharf in front so as to tip up from behind, to it is attached a long
wooden pole as a lever, round the end of which is a rope, made fast to the wharf by a belaying
pin; as soon as the car is on the tipping track, the lever on the front end of the car is knocked
up so as to allow the coal to fall out, and the end of the long wooden pole is allowed to rise
slowly by the rope being loosened, the coal then shoots out of the car. When empty the Chinamen
weigh down on the pole and bring the track, with the car on it, back to its former position,
making the rope fast to the belaying pin, and the car is run back to make way for another.
We were told that in this way five Chinese have put 1,000 tons of coal on board a vessel in
a working day.

"On the following morning we visited the mine at Nanaimo, of the Vancouver Coal Company, and
Mr. S. Robins, the superintendent, showed us over his works, and accompanied us down the shaft
into the mine. The shaft is 600 feet deep, and the heading and workings are under the sea to
a distance of 400 or 500 yards. The coal is hard and of good quality, making a good gas coal
(which the West Wellington coal does not do). There have been one or two faults met with lately
in the seam, which is 7 feet thick; but Mr. Robins thinks they have been overcome. There is
only one shaft working, and the output in the 24 hours of the day previous had been 434 tons.
The coal comes to the surface in two 'boxes' at a time, each containing about 35 cwt. This
Company has good railway tracks of 4 feet 8-1/2 inches gauge, with English locomotives, &c.
The machinery and appliances at this mine were all better and more costly than at the West
Wellington mines, and the cars were hopper bottomed, and discharged their contents directly
into the hold of the vessels by simply opening the hopper bottom. The staff of men employed
at the present time amounts to 350, and the miners are white men, with Chinese labourers. The
work at this mine and West Wellington is all done by piecework.

"ESQUIMALT HARBOUR AND DOCK.

"The harbour at Esquimalt is quite land-locked, and can be very easily protected from an enemy
approaching by sea, the heights around being easily fortified, as there are many in good positions
for commanding the entrance, both at a distance from it, and also in the immediate vicinity;
there is plenty of depth of water at low tide to enter the harbour. A fort on the Race Rocks,
where there is a lighthouse, and which are some 2 miles or so from the coast, would, if supplied
with heavy guns capable of long range, command the whole of the San Juan de Fuca Straits, the
distance from Race Rock to the American shore not exceeding 8 miles.

"The harbour contains an area of about 400 or 500 acres, in which there is sufficient depth
of water for large vessels to lie at all states of the tide.

"The line of railway from Nanaimo to Esquimalt touches the harbour, and has a wharf at which
coal from Nanaimo and West Wellington mines may be delivered at any time.

"The graving dock, which has been some eleven years in progress, or rather which was commenced
eleven years ago, but which practically has been constructed within the past two years, has
a length of 430 feet on the ways, and could easily have been made, in the first instance, 600
feet in length for a comparatively small additional cost. The cost will have been, when completed,
about $700,000, and it is now waiting only for the entrance caisson, which is being made at
the Dominion Bridge Company's Works, near Montreal.

"The masonry of the dock is of a hard sandstone, the character of the workmanship being very
good, and the dock very dry and free from leakage; it has been constructed, so as to save excavation,
in a small creek, but this has caused an additional thickness for the walls, and a considerable
quantity of filling behind them. It would appear that it could have been built for very much
less money had a site been selected among the numerous rocky situations in the harbour, where
the rock would only have required facing with masonry instead of the work having been done
as it has.

"The naval-yard is a fair size; the workshop is small, however, and apparently little or no
materials for the repair of vessels are kept on hand. It will be a necessity for this to be
remedied if the graving dock is to be of any use for ships of the navy. We saw two torpedo
boats, and some Whitehead torpedoes, the boats were built in Great Britain for Chili, and purchased
from the Chilians two years ago.

"SAN FRANCISCO TO CHICAGO.

"Left San Francisco on 29th September, 1886, at 7.30, by steam ferry to Oakland, 4 miles across
the harbour; left Oakland by train at 8.10 a.m.; 32 miles from Oakland we reached Port Costa,
where the train was ferried across an estuary of the sea to Benicia; for 20 miles from there
the line (the Central Pacific division of the Southern Pacific Railway Company) runs, across
a flat, marshy country, then into a cultivated country with the western foothills of the Sierra
Nevada rising around it, the country being very dry and parched, having had no rain since March:
the farm-houses have the Eucalyptus, or Australian blue gum, planted around them; and about
75 miles from San Francisco we entered the vineyard country, which continues to and past Sacramento.
Reached Sacramento, which is 90 miles from San Francisco, and only 30 feet above the level
of the sea, at 12 o'clock; the schedule time from Oakland, including the ferry at Port Costa,
being 25 miles an hour. At Sacramento we crossed the Sacramento and American Rivers, the former
by a Howe truss bridge, one of the spans being a swing-bridge, and having a total length of
700 or 800 feet; the latter by a Howe truss bridge, and fully a mile of trestle work.

"From Sacramento the line begins to rise so as to cross the Sierra Nevada Range; the country
is rolling, and with the 'live oak' trees scattered over it among the grass presents quite
a park-like appearance. The grades as we ascend are very steep, 116 feet to the mile, this
line being well ballasted. In the valleys the line was laid originally with steel rails of
50 lbs. weight, and 3,080 ties to the mile, in the mountains with 60 lbs. rails, but no renewals
are made with less than a 60 lbs. rail. From Rocklin to Newcastle the vineyards and orchards
are very numerous, and again at Colfax, at which latter place we got some very fine grapes
grown at an elevation of 2,400 feet above the sea. In the afternoon we passed the mining country,
where the whole features of the country have been changed by the use of the 'Monitor' for hydraulic
mining, by means of which the sides of the mountains have been washed down to the valleys,
filling them and the streams up, and doing much damage to the flats below: this system of directing
a stream of water through a six-inch nozzle against the cliff to wash out the gold has now
been discontinued, and is illegal, owing to the damage caused by it. The snow sheds commence
at Blue Canon, 4,693 feet above the sea, and 170 miles from San Francisco. They are simply
rough wooden sheds to protect the line from drifting and falling snow, there being no avalanches
to contend with on this route.

"Some of the views on the Sierra Nevada are very fine, notably that at 'Cape Horn.' There is
very little timber until Blue Canon is reached, but from there to Truckee and beyond the timber
is good, and about equal to that on the Rocky Mountains of the Canadian Pacific Railway. There
are several saw mills in this vicinity. After leaving Emigrant Gap we ran through a continuous
snow shed for 39 miles, which was very unpleasant, both by reason of the smoke in the cars,
and the noise, as well as the loss of the view. We reached Reno about 10 p.m., an hour and
a half late. The schedule time over the mountain, up grade, is 17 miles an hour, and from Oakland
to Reno, 246 miles, 20 miles an hour. Reno is 4,497 feet above the sea. The summit of the Sierras,
which is 196 miles from San Francisco, is 7,017 feet above the sea. We remained all night at
Reno. While there we saw in the morning a locomotive engine, with cylinders 22 x 30 and eight
driving wheels coupled, said by the driver to weigh 165,000 lbs., start for the ascent of the
mountain, up grades of 116 feet to the mile, with 22 cars and a van.

"The country round Reno is table land with high mountains around it. The only crop grown is
'alfalfa,' a species of clover. Three crops a year are taken off the land, and it fetches,
as fodder, from $8.00 to $16.00 per ton, according to the season.

"At Wadsworth we saw a very nice reading-room and library for the employes of the railway.
This is quite a model station, kept green and bright with lawns and flowers. It is a division
terminus, and has a machine shop, round house, &c. The country from Reno to Salt Lake is dry,
and almost a desert, sandy, and with sage bush in tufts; the journey through it was hot and
terribly dusty. The view of Brigham and other villages, with farms at the foot of the hills
on approaching Ogden, was a great relief after the monotony of the last day's run.

"At Ogden we were transferred from the Central Pacific to the Union Pacific train, and upon
leaving there passed, after a few miles, through Weber Canon, and afterwards Echo Canon; the
scenery was very picturesque, and, at this season of the year, was rendered more so by the
beautiful autumn tints which were afforded by the foliage of the bushes which grow up the mountain
sides for more than half their height. At Evanston we left the mountains and got on the high
table land, over which we ran all day, having it cool and pleasant, a great contrast to the
heat of the previous day. During the night of the 1st October we had it quite cold, our altitude
being at no time less than 6,000 feet above the sea.

"On the morning of the 2nd October we reached Laramie, where we saw the works of the Union
Pacific Railway Company for Burnettizing their ties. The ties are placed on trucks, run into
a cylinder, steamed, treated with a solution of chloride of zinc, with glue mixed with it,
and afterwards with a solution of tannic acid. When dried they retain only about 1 1/4 lb.
of the material with which they have been treated. Mr. Octave Chanute, of Kansas City, Missouri,
United States, erected the works for the Union Pacific Company, and has an interest in the
patents under which the process is carried out, which is a modification of Sir William Burnett's
process. At 8.55 we crossed the highest point on the Rocky Mountains, 8,235 feet above the
sea, on table land, no peaks being more than a few hundred feet above us. The rock here is
all red granite, and some of it disintegrated, which is used for ballast. There are many snow
sheds on the high land here, but none very long. We ran rapidly down from 'Sherman,' the summit,
to 6,000 feet level, and more gradually afterwards, running all day through the plains, over
which, although very dry, numerous herds of cattle and horses were pasturing, and we reached
Omaha at 7.50 a.m. on the 3rd October.

"At Omaha we crossed the Missouri River. The bridge here, of iron, founded on iron cylinder
piers, is for a single track only, and is being taken down bit by bit, and a double track iron
bridge on masonry piers substituted..

"From Council Bluffs, the station on the Iowa side of the Missouri River, we left by the Chicago
and North Western Railway, which is a well constructed, well equipped, and first class American
Railway. The line runs through a good agricultural country, the chief crop being Indian corn,
and was doing a good business. We met many freight trains during the day, and saw several trains
of cattle going east also. We reached Chicago on time at 6.50 a.m. on the morning of the 4th
October."

CHAPTER VII.

_Negociations as to the Intercolonial Railway; and North-West Transit and Telegraph_, 1861
_to_ 1864.

It was in September, 1861, that I visited Frederickton and Halifax on the question of the Intercolonial
Railway, travelling by way of Riviere du Loup, Lake Temiscouata, Little Falls, Woodstock, round
by St. Andrews, Canterbury, Frederickton, St. John, Shediac, and Truro to Halifax. Later in
the autumn, representatives from New Brunswick and Nova Scotia visited Quebec and Montreal,
and it was generally agreed that deputations from Canada and from the two Maritime Provinces
should proceed to England. These deputations were, from Canada the Hon. Mr. Van Koughnet, from
New Brunswick the Hon. Mr. Tilley, and from Nova Scotia the Hon. Joseph Howe. It was impossible
to choose a more influential delegation: men earnest in the cause they came to advocate; politicians
of tried metal; men of great influence in the colonies they represented.

I arrived in England from Canada in the beginning of November, 1861, and at once telegraphed
to the Duke, and on my way to London, at his request, I visited him at Clumber, and made my
report of progress, which appeared to be highly satisfactory. The only difficulty, as to the
Intercolonial, appeared to rest in Mr. Gladstone's "peculiar views about subsidies, grants,
and guarantees out of the funds, or on the security, of the State." But the Duke said, he must
"labour to show the Chancellor of the Exchequer that this was no new proposal; that, in fact,
the Provinces had been led to believe that if they would find the money, the State would guarantee
the interest under proper precaution, as the State had guaranteed the capital for the Canadian
canals, every shilling expended on which had been honourably repaid." In fact, "this work was
not a mere local work, but satisfied military and other Imperial conditions." The end of this,
and many other, interviews, at the Colonial Office and at the Duke's residences, was complete
concurrence in the following programme:--(I) the Intercolonial guarantee must be carried by
the Duke; (2) measures must be taken to start Pacific transit, in the first instance, and as
a pioneer work, by roads and telegraphs; (3) Confederation must be pushed on; and (4) that
the difficulties arising from the position of the Hudson's Bay Company must be gravely considered
with a view to some solution.

Mr. Van Koughnet, accompanied by Mrs. Van Koughnet, was, unfortunately, wrecked off Anticosti,
in the Allan steamer "North Briton." Happily every one, after a time of great peril, was landed
in safety, while losing personal baggage and almost everything else. At a critical moment Sir
Allen McNab, who was on board the ship, also on his way to England, when the vessel was expected
to go down, said to Van Koughnet, "Come with me and bring your wife, and we will go down together,
away from this crowd of frightened people"--alluding to the mass of steerage passengers jostling
about in panic.

On the 11th November Mr. Howe and Mrs. Howe, and Mr. Tilley arrived: and I took the delegates
to the Duke's house in London on the 14th. The Duke received these delegates with very great
cordiality. He had made, already, an appointment with Lord Palmerston, the Prime Minister,
and had spoken to Mr. Gladstone. So, armed with a letter from the Duke, we went on to Cambridge
House. We were shown into a room overlooking the court-yard, and had not long to wait for the
veteran minister. He came, as usual, with his grey--not white--hair brushed up at the sides,
his surtout buttoned up to his satin neck-tie, or, more correctly, "breast- plate," which had
a jewelled pin in the midst of its amplitude. He said, the Duke had told him our business,
which was very important, not only for the interests we represented, but for the Empire, and
especially so at a time when the "fires were alight" across the British border.

Mr. Howe very ably and concisely stated the case. No subsidy wanted, simply a guarantee on
perfect security. Precedent for such guarantees, which had always been punctually and fully
met. Previous promises of previous Governments--sanction of such statesmen as Lord Grey, Lord
Derby, and Bulwer Lytton. Peculiar need of the work at this time; and so on.

Palmerston listened attentively, did not interrupt; did not while Howe, and afterwards Tilley,
were speaking, stop either, by asking a single question; but when they had concluded, he repeated
and summed up the case in far fewer words than had been used to state it: and in a manner which
gave a new force to it all. He then spoke of the various treaties with the United States. He
spoke of the giving up of the fine Aroostook district, now part of the State of Maine, and
with some heat said, that "the Ashburton Treaty was the most foolish treaty ever made." He
replied to the argument about the past commitment of other Governments, by describing it as
"not possessing much attraction for an existing Government." Here Howe made him laugh much,
by saying, "At least, my Lord, it might have an influence with your conscientious Chancellor
of the Exchequer."

After a good many questions and answers affecting the state of the Provinces, the facilities
and difficulties of moving troops in winter, the conveyance of the mails, future closer relations
of commerce between the Provinces, and, especially, the state of things in the United States,--he
asked us to "Go and see Gladstone." We "might say he had suggested it."

Then he shook hands, with a swinging jollity, with each of us, saw us to the door, and, finally,
wished us "success." There might have been no "Trent" affair pending, to look at him.

Some delay took place before we could see Mr. Gladstone. But we finally accomplished the interview
with him at his fine house in Carlton House Terrace, on the 23rd November. After waiting some
while, following, as we did, about a dozen previous waiters on the Chancellor, we were shown
into Mr. Gladstone's working room, or den. The room was very untidy. Placards, papers, letters,
newspapers, magazines, and blue boots on the table, chairs, bookshelves, and the floor. It
looked, altogether, as if the window had been left open, and the contents of a miscellaneous
newspaper, book, and parliamentary paper shop had been blown into the apartment. Mr. Gladstone,
himself, looked bored and worried. Though perfectly civil, he had the expression of a man on
his guard against a canvasser or a dun. He might be thinking of the "Trent" affair. We stated
our errand, and as I had, as arranged, to say something, I used the argument of probable saving
in the Atlantic mail subsidies, by the creation of land routes, &c. He brushed that aside by
the sharp remark, "Those subsidies are unsound, and they will not be renewed." He then spoke
of the objectionable features of all these "helps to other people who might help themselves."
He did not seem to mind the argument, that assuming this work to be of Imperial as well as
of Provincial importance, unless aid,--costless to England, or, at the highest, a very remote
risk, and not in any sense a subsidy,--were given, the work could not proceed at all. He struck
me to be a man who thought spending money, or taking risks, however slight, a kind of crime.
That, in fact, it was better to trust to Providence in important questions, and keep the national
pocket tightly buttoned. We got little out of him, save an insight into the difficulty to be
overcome. And yet he had been a party to the Crimean War. On the final discussion, in the House,
on the vote for the Intercolonial guarantee, on the 28th March, 1867, Mr. Gladstone concluded
his speech by declaring, "I believe the present guarantee does depend upon motives of policy
belonging to a very high order, and intimately and inseparably associated with most just, most
enlightened views of the true interests of the Empire." Thus we had sown the seed not in vain,
and the counsel of the Duke was not forgotten.

Mr. Van Koughnet arrived on the 26th November. On the 27th I took him to see the Duke, and
we had a long conference.

Finally, it was decided to send in a memorial to the Duke to lay before the Cabinet. Howe prepared
it. It was most ably drawn, like all the State papers of that distinguished man, and it was
sent in to the Colonial Office on the 2nd December, 1861. Thus, all had been done that could
then be done by the delegation. We had to rely upon the Duke. Our difficulty was with Mr. Gladstone.

In the time of waiting, Howe, Tilley, and I, attended meetings at Bristol, Manchester, Liverpool,
Oldham, Ashton, and other places, endeavouring, with no small success, to make the Intercolonial
Railway a public question.

But the delays; the "pillar to post"; the want of knowledge of permanent officials, whose geography,
even, I found very defective, made our efforts irksome, and now and then, apparently, hopeless.

But an event had startled England, like a thunderclap in a summer sky. On the 8th of November,
1861, Captain Wilkes, of the United States ship "San Jacinta," took the Southern States envoys--Messrs.
Slidel and Mason--and two others, forcibly from the deck of a British mail ship, "The Trent."
The country was all on fire. Palmerston showed fight, and the Guards and other troops, and
arms and stores to the value of more than a million sterling, were sent out to Canada. The
delegates were sent for to the War Office, and, as desired, I accompanied them. At the time
all seemed to hang in the balance. The powers had joined England in protest, and our ambassador
was instructed by despatch, per ship --for the submarine wires were not at work--to leave Washington
in seven days if satisfaction were not given.

At the War Office we met Mr. Cornewall Lewis, Minister for War, a man erudite and accomplished,
who had lived on public employments nearly all his life, but who hardly knew the difference
between the two ends of a ramrod. He asked, in long sentences, the questions which Palmerston
had put shortly and in the pith; all sorts of queries as to winter transport in the Provinces,
the disposition for fight of the people, and so on. Then it was demanded, What we had to suggest?
Van Koughnet, who writhed under the tone adopted, bluntly said, "Why, to fight it out, of course;
we in Canada will have to bear the first brunt. But we cannot fight with jack-knives; and there
are no arms in the country. You have failed to keep any store at all." This led to a deliberate
note being taken by the Under Secretary, the present Marquis of Ripon. Other details followed,
and then, finally, we were asked if we had anything more to propose? To which I answered "Yes;
send out a man who may be truly regarded as a general." This was received with silence and
open mouths. The fact was, the soldier in command in Canada was General Fenwick Williams, a
most gallant man, who, in a siege, would eat his boots before he would give in: but was not
the man who could so manoeuvre small bodies of men as to keep in check, in forests and on plains,
large masses of the enemy. When we left, Captain Gallon came running after us, and said, "I
am so glad you said that, we all feel as you do here"--(the War Office).

Although the Government of the United States retreated from an undefendable position, wisely
and with dignity, by surrendering their prisoners, who, delivered over to a British man-of-war,
landed in England on the 29th January, 1862,--still it was decided to keep the troops in the
Provinces, to reinforce them, to add to the armaments, and to adequately arm strategic points
alongside the American frontier. And, as President of the Grand Trunk, I was asked to go out
to Canada to aid and direct transport across the country.

In the meantime--whether the cause was the "Trent" affair, or pre- occupation on the part of
the Duke, or neglect of permanent officials, or their bad habit at that time of regarding Colonists
as inferior persons--our delegates and their wives felt hurt at the social neglect which they
experienced. And I agreed in the truth of their complaints so much, that I formally addressed
the Duke on the 31st December. He acknowledged the neglect, apologised for it, and thereafter,
until the day of their departure, the delegates, and Mrs. Howe and Mrs. Van Koughnet, were
received in high circles, and were especially invited to Clumber.

To sum up, I left England for Canada, in "The Asia," on the 1st February, 1862, landing at
New York, where my son and Messrs. Brydges and Hickson met me--and after a deal of hard work
on the part of every officer and man on the Grand Trunk, and no small anxiety, labour, responsibility,
and exposure to storms and climate, inflicted upon myself, Mr. Brydges, Mr. Hickson, and the
whole staff, Quartermaster- General Mackenzie sent us a handsome acknowledgment of our semi-
military services. But the authorities at home did not condescend to recognize our existence
or our labours.

The late Sir Philip Rose gave me the greatest assistance with Mr. Disraeli, Sir E. Bulwer Lytton,
and all the great party whose confidence he possessed. The following letter, addressed to him
by Sir E. Bulwer Lytton, will be read with great interest:--

                                      "BUXTON, DERBYSHIRE,
                                        "_April_ 27, 1862.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I am much flattered by your wish, and that of our Colonial friends; but I fear that I must
decline the important and honourable task to which you invite me: partly from a valid personal
reason; partly on political grounds. With regard to the first, I am here for a course of the
Baths, in hopes to get rid of a troublesome lumbago, which has harassed me all the winter,
and appears to have been epidemical from the number of victims it has cramped and racked this
wet season. And I fear I shall not be able to get away till the middle of May, unless it be
for some special vote. But apart from this consideration, I doubt whether it would be prudent
for any member of Lord Derby's late Government, with the support of those leaders who might
very soon form another administration, to urge upon Parliament any new pecuniary burthen, nay,
any new loan, in the face of a deficit. Would not this really play into Gladstone's hands,
and furnish him with a plausible retaliation in case of attack on the side in which he is most
vulnerable, viz., the dealing with a deficit as if it were a surplus? And again, would it be
quite prudent in the coming Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer and his future colleagues
to commit themselves to a measure they might find it inconvenient to carry out when in power?

"These are doubts that occur to me; and would be well weighed by Mr. Disraeli--who might, perhaps,
agree with me, that, on the whole, it would be better that this very important question should
be brought before the House by some one not in the late Cabinet--some great merchant, perhaps--some
one, in short, who could not be supposed to compromise or commit the future administrative
policy of the party.

"I remain, however, of the same opinion, that aid to intercolonial communication can be defended
on Imperial grounds--and would in itself, if not opposed on purely fiscal reasons, be a wise
as well as generous policy.

"I regret much that my absence from town prevents, my seeing Mr. Watkin and profiting by the
information, he could give me. I fear he will have left London before I return to it. But I
should be very glad if he would write to me and acquaint me with the exact state of the case
at present--and the exact wishes and requests of the Colonists.

"Is it a renewal of the former proposition or what? 'The whole question of intercolonial communication'
is a vast one. But I suppose practically it would limit itself before Parliament to the Railway
before submitted to us--according to the pamphlet you sent me.

                                        "Believe me,
                                      "Yours very truly and obliged,
                                          "E. B. LYTTON."

The following letter was addressed to me:--

                                      "BUXTON,
                                        "_May_ 3,1862.

"DEAR SIR,

"Allow me to thank you cordially for a letter, which cannot but be extremely gratifying to
my feelings. Certainly my first object when I had the honour to preside at the Colonial Office
was to attach all parts of that vast Empire which our Colonies comprise to the Mother Country,
by all the ties of mutual interests and reciprocal affection.

"The importance of the Railway line between Halifax and Quebec must be transparent to every
clear-sighted politician. And had I remained in office, I should have urged upon my colleagues--I
do not doubt successfully--the justice and expediency, both for Imperial interests, commercial
and military, and for the vindication of the Imperial good faith which seems to me indisputably
pledged to it, some efficient aid, or guarantees the completion of the line. I should willingly
have undertaken the responsibility of recommending that aid to Parliament; and I do not think
the House of Commons would have refused it when proposed with the authority of Government.
In that case the Railway by this time would have been nearly, if not wholly, completed.

"Traffic begets traffic; railways lead on to railways; and a line once formed to Quebec, it
would not be long before the resources of British Columbia would, if properly directed and
developed, suffice to commence the Railway that must ultimately connect the Atlantic and Pacific.
That once accomplished, the destinies of British North America seem to me assured.

"I shall rejoice to hear that the present Government make a proposal which the Provinces accept.
Some time, I conclude, must elapse before their decision can be known; and in that case the
question can scarcely come before Parliament this Session. A mode of aid accepted by the Colonies
would have my most favourable consideration; and, I cannot doubt, my hearty support, whatever
might be the administration that proposed it.

                                      "Yours truly obliged,
                                        E. B. LYTTON."

The Canadian Parliament met, early in March, 1862, at Quebec; in bitter winter and snow storms.
We took down all the members who chose to go, by a special through train, in charge of Mr.
Brydges,--desiring to show them that, poor and unfortunate as the Grand Trunk might be, we
could carry "M.P.Ps." safely and quickly, as we had carried soldiers, and guns, and stores,
to the satisfaction of the military authorities. The train made a famous journey. In a few
days I followed in company with the Honourable John Ross, and was several days on the road--in
constant fight with snowdrifts--in getting to Point Levi. Then came the canoe crossing of the
St. Lawrence, an enterprise startling, no doubt, as a first experience, though safe, if tedious.
We were put in a canoe, really a disembowelled tree, and this was dragged, like a sledge, by
a horse down to the margin of the river, where it was launched amongst floating ice, going
up, down, and across the stream and its eddies. Our canoe men coming to a big piece of ice,
perhaps 20 feet square, jumped out, dragged our canoe over the obstruction, and then launched
it again. When getting jammed between the floating ice, they got on the sides of our boat,
and working it up and down, like pumping the old fire engine, they liberated us. Sometimes
we went up stream, sometimes down--all points of the compass--but, after an hour's struggle,
we gained the wharf at Quebec, safe and sound. But a while after I certainly was exercised.
It was important that Mr. Brydges should go back to Montreal, and my son went with him. I watched
their crossing the river from the "Platform," in a clear, grey, winter afternoon. They were
two hours in crossing the river, a mile or two in width, in a straight line. At one time, I
almost despaired, for they had drifted down almost into the Bay; but, by the pluck and hard
work of their men, they kept, in this tacking backwards and forwards, and up and down, gradually
making their way, till they landed, a long way below the right point, however, and we exchanged
handkerchief signals--and all was well.

In the interval between this and my last visit, Lord Monck had been appointed Governor-General
in place of Sir Edmund Head, retiring. In talking with the Duke about this appointment, he
said, "I offered the position to five men previously, and they refused it." I replied, "Did
your Grace offer it to Lord Lawrence, now at home?" The Duke put down his pen, turned from
one side of his chair to the other, looked down and looked up, and at last said, "Upon my honour,
I never thought of that. What a good appointment it would have been!" Be that as it may, Lord
Monck made an excellent Governor in very difficult times. Canada, and the great cause of Confederation,
owe him a deep debt of gratitude.

I found unexpected difficulties about Grand Trunk affairs. The Government were afraid of their
own shadows. Instead of bringing in the Grand Trunk Relief Bill as a Government measure, as
we had expected, they, in spite of remonstrance from Mr. Gait, confided it to a private member,
and such was the, unexplained, opposition that I verily believe had the Cartier-Macdonald Government
remained in power the Bill, though entirely in the nature of a private Bill, affecting the
public in every sense of indirect advantage, would have been thrown out. The newspapers throughout
the two Provinces, with half-a dozen honorable exceptions, were vile and vicious, as trans-Atlantic
newspapers especially can be. I was full of unexpected anxiety. The Government tactics were
Fabian; and on the 5th April they decided to adjourn the House to the 23rd. So I went home
in the "China" from New York on the 9th April with my son; saw the Duke of Newcastle, discussed
the situation; saw the opening of the Great Exhibition of 1862 on the 1st May, and a few days
afterwards sailed, with Lady Watkin, in the old Cunarder, the "Niagara;" arriving at Boston
after a long and difficult passage, and then travelling on to Quebec. But, on the 20th May,
an event occurred--caused, it seemed to me, as a looker on, through want of tact--which ended
in the resignation of the Government. The circumstances were these. Under pressure from home,
administered through the new. Governor-General, the Ministry had brought forward measures of
defence. They proposed to raise and equip, at the cost of Canada, 50,000 men. They proceeded,
if my memory serves me, by the introduction of a Bill, and that Bill was rejected by a very
small majority (61 to 54), composed of Sandfield Macdonald and a few others, described as "Ishmaelites."
Upon that vote Mr. Cartier at once resigned, as I thought in too much haste. I met him as he
walked away from the Parliament House in the afternoon, and expressed regret. He said, with
set teeth, clenched fist, and sparkling eyes, "Ah! Well, I have saved the honour of my country
against those 'Grits' and 'Rouges;' traitres, traitres." Mr. J. A. Macdonald, afterwards, took
the matter very quietly, merely remarking that the slightest tact might have prevented the
occurrence. So I thought.

The question was, Who was to succeed? In the ordinary course Mr. Foley, the assumed leader
of the Opposition, would have been sent for. It was the opinion of the Honorable John Ross
that he ought to have been. But the Governor, considering, I suppose, that the scanty majority
was led by Sandfield Macdonald, sent for him. All sides believed that it would be a ministry
of a month. But this astute descendant of Highlanders managed to stay in for nearly two years:
two years of no good: two years of plausible postponement of all that the Duke had been so
loyally working for in the interest of Canada. Personally, I had no reason to complain as regarded
Grand Trunk legislation. Sandfield Macdonald promised to carry our Bill, and he honourably
fulfilled his promise. The Bill passed; Lady Watkin and I sailed from Boston for England on
the 7th June.

But the refusal of the Canadian Parliament to vote money for defence had created a very bad
impression in England. England had made large sacrifices in filling Canada with troops and
stores, at a critical time--and it was naturally said, in many quarters, "Are these people
cowards? Are they longing for another rule?" Sir E. Bulwer Lytton, when Mr. Rose and I called
upon him at his lodgings, in St. James's Place, during my short stay in London, said, "I do
not see what we can do. Had Canada helped us at all, we could have succeeded. Now every one
will say, What is the use of helping such people?" And Mr. Disraeli said, in the House, answering
a statement that the vote of the Canadian Parliament did not represent the feeling of the people:
"I decline to assume that the vote of a popular assembly is not the vote of those they represent."
All this was awkward. But I resolved I would never give in. So I went to Canada again in the
autumn of 1862.

Mr. Joseph Howe came from Halifax to Canada to meet me. He did all he could to induce Sandfield
Macdonald to settle the long out-standing postal claim on Canada of the Grand Trunk; but in
vain. He never would settle it, just and honest as it was. Mr. Howe tried to induce the Government
to take up the Intercolonial question where we had left it in the previous autumn: and in this
he so far succeeded that it was agreed a delegation from Canada should meet delegations from
Nova Scotia and New Brunswick before the end of this year--1862--in London. Messrs. Howland
and Sicotte were the Canadian delegates; Mr. Howe for Nova Scotia, and Mr. Tilley for New Brunswick.
We set to work to carry both the Intercolonial guarantee, and the Pacific transit scheme, the
moment these gentlemen arrived in England.

Meeting Messrs. Rowland and Sicotte at their hotel, in Jermyn Street, on the 2nd December,
1862, and discussing matters all round, they certainly led me, unsuspectingly, to believe they
had the same desire to carry the Intercolonial as that entertained by Messrs. Howe and Tilley;
and further, that if a road and telegraph project could be carried on the broad lines laid
down in so many discussions, their arrangements on both questions would be cordially welcomed
and approved by their colleagues. I very soon found out, however, that they were "riding to
orders," and those orders, no doubt, being interpreted, were: "Refuse nothing, discuss everything,
but do nothing."

On the 8th December we met the Canadian delegates at the bank of Messrs. Glyn, in Lombard Street,
and we drew up a proposal, which these gentlemen corrected. We adopted their corrections and
sent in the paper, as an agreed paper, to the Duke.

Two days afterwards, for better assurance, we received the following memorandum:--

"With a view of better enabling the gentlemen whom they met yesterday at 67, Lombard Street,
to take immediate measures to form a Company for the object of carrying out the construction
of a telegraph line, and of a road to establish frequent and easy communication between Canada
and the Pacific, and to facilitate the carrying of mails, passengers, and traffic, the undersigned
have the honour to state, that they are of opinion that the Canadian Government will agree
to give a guarantee of interest at the rate of four per cent, upon one-third of the sum expended,
provided the whole sum does not exceed five hundred thousand pounds, and provided also that
the same guarantee of interest will be secured upon the other two-thirds of the expenditure
by Imperial or Columbian contributions.

"If a Company composed of men of the standing and wealth of those they had the pleasure to
meet is formed for the above purposes, under such conditions as will secure the interests of
all parties interested, and the accomplishment of the objects they have in view, such an organization
will be highly favourable to the settlements of an immense territory, and, if properly administered,
may prove to be also of great advantage to the trade of England.

"London, 10 Decr. 1862.
                        "L. V. SICOTTE,
                        "W. P. HOWLAND.
"To MM.
  Glyn,
  Benson,
  Chapman,
  Newmarsh,
  Watkin,
    &c. &c. &c."

A few days afterwards these Canadian delegates started an objection. The Imperial Government
merely gave land and did not take one-third of the proposed guarantee, and the following further
memorandum was sent to me:--

"Although little disposed to believe that Her Majesty's Government will not accede to the proposal
of co-operation they have made in relation to the opening of communication from Canada to the
Pacific, the undersigned have the honour to state, in answer to the letter of Mr. Watkin of
the 17th instant, that in their opinion the Government of Canada will grant to a Company organised
as proposed in the papers already exchanged, a guarantee of interest, even on one-half of the
capital stated in these documents, should the Imperial Government refuse to contribute any
portion of this guaranteed sum of interest.

"In answer to another demand made in the same letter, the undersigned must state that the guarantee
of the Canadian Government of this payment of interest ought to secure the moneys required
at the rate of four per cent, and that they will not advise and press with their colleagues
a higher rate of interest as the basis of the arrangement.

"London, 20 December, 1862.
                         "L. V. SICOTTE,
                         "W. P. ROWLAND.

"ED. WATKIN, Esq., London."

So much, and so far, for the Pacific affair. But in the Intercolonial discussion there was
an undercurrent. The only points left for discussion with the Duke and Mr. Gladstone were the
question of survey, which was easily settled, and the question of a sinking fund for the loan
to be made on the credit of Great Britain. At first Mr. Gladstone insisted on such a short
term of repayment, and therefore so heavy a put-by, that his terms took away the pecuniary
value of the guarantee itself: that is to say, that what the Colonies would have annually to
pay, would have amounted to more than the annual sum for which they could have borrowed the
money themselves. I suggested a longer term, and also, that the interest on the annual put-by,
to accumulate, should be altered so as to alleviate the burden. In answer to a letter written
with the assistance of Messrs. Howe and Tilley, I received the following from the Duke:--

                                      "CLUMBER,
                                        "8 _Decr_. 1862.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I am sorry to say your letter confirms the impression I have entertained from my first interview
with the Canadian delegates--an impression strengthened by each subsequent meeting--that Mr.
Sicotte is a traitor to the cause he has come over to advocate. I am unable to make out whether
he is playing false on his own account or by order of his colleagues; but I cannot say I have
any reason to associate Mr. Howland with the want of faith in any dealings with me.

"You can have no idea how I have been compelled to forbear and to fence with Mr. S. to prevent
his breaking off upon every possible occasion and upon any almost impossible pretext. His whole
aim has been to find some excuse for throwing up the railroad and saying it was the act of
the Imperial Government. As for Mr. Gladstone being 'all powerful,' he knows that in the financial
details alone Mr. G. interferes, and I presume Mr. Rowland would tell him that this is the
duty of a Finance Minister.

"Nothing struck me more than Mr. S.'s objection to _your_ being present at our meetings. When
you did 'drop in' I felt obliged to say nothing about it till your card was brought, and on
that occasion I particularly remarked that his usual obstructiveness was suspended.

"The _one_ point now in dispute between the delegates and the Treasury is really of no importance
to either party. I hope and expect that Mr. G. will give way; but I suspect if he does Mr.
S. will be (by no means for the first time) much disappointed.

"Have you seen a remarkable letter in the 'Standard' of the 6th, signed 'A British Canadian,'
commenting upon Mr. Sicotte going over to Paris and dictating to the editor of 'La France'
an article upon a despatch of mine to Canada on the subject of the Militia? The article in
'La France' can _only_ come from _a_ member of the present Canadian Government.

"Do not at present get up any new deputation or go to Lord Palmerston. Considering Mr. G.'s
strong opposition to the whole scheme on principle, I cannot say I think he has shown any desire
to thwart by obstacles in details a measure upon which his views have been overruled, and it
would be ungracious to show distrust where none at present has been merited. I may differ with
him on some points; but he has certainly conceded more to me than I to him, and I could be
no party to attempting to supersede his proper functions of the financial watch-dog!

"I am anxious not to be brought up to town _unnecessarily_, for I am conscious that I want
_comparative_ rest, and that my health is not very fit for the commencement of a Session; but
whenever you are passing between London and Manchester I shall always be happy to see you,
and glad if you can stay a day or two--only invite yourself.

                                      "Yours very sincerely,
                                        "NEWCASTLE."

The next day I had the following:--

                                      "CLUMBER,
                                        "9 _Decr_. 1862.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"It is no easy matter to give any advice as to what should be done, especially as I do not
know whether Mr. Gladstone is still in London, though I rather imagine he has left for Hawarden.

"If Mr. Sicotte were anywhere but here (where he never ought to have been), I should advise
Messrs. Howe and Tilley to see Mr. Gladstone, perhaps with you; but I can neither recommend
them to see him _with_ or _without_ Mr. Sicotte, so long as he is here.

"As I wrote to you yesterday, the business ought to have been closed three days ago, for though
I think. Mr. Gladstone's stipulation wrong, it ought not to have been allowed to interfere
with a final arrangement.

"I agree with you that the new phrase about an 'uncovered loan' is not very intelligible, but
I put the same interpretation upon it that you do.

"I am not without hope that whilst I am writing some 'leeway' may have been recovered through
Sir F. Rogers and Mr. Anderson, but, as the best thing I can do, I propose this:

"I _ought_ to go down to Surrey, to attend Mrs. Hope's funeral on Thursday morning, but being
far from well, I was inclined to excuse myself from so long a railway journey, which I find
injurious, but my decision is altered by your difficulty. I will be at Thomas' Hotel to- morrow
night at 10 o'clock, if you can meet me at that time, and if you like to appoint Howe and Tilley
a quarter of an hour later, I will see them and discuss what we ought to do.

"I feel very confident we can yet set matters right, if we can only prevent Mr. Sicotte upsetting
the coach.

"I cannot see you on Thursday, as, being in London, I must go by the 9 a.m. train to attend
the funeral at Deep Dene, and I may be late in returning to town in the evening.

                                      "I am, yours sincerely,
                                        "NEWCASTLE."

_Memorandum from my diary of 10th December, 1862._

"To the Duke (_of Newcastle_), at 10 p.m.--(Thomas Hotel), by request. Saw Howe (_representing
Nova Scotia_), and Tilley (_representing New Brunswick_)after. Very satisfactory. Duke said
Gladstone had expressed strong approval of Pacific, &c. affair--and had added, 'that it was
one of the grandest affairs ever conceived, and he hoped it would be completed in Duke's time--and
it should have his hearty support.' Good."

Messrs. Sicotte and Rowland suddenly went home, and we appeared to be at a dead lock. After
several letters and suggestions, the Duke sent me this letter:--

                                      "CLUMBER,
                                        "6 _Jany_. 1863.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I have received several letters from you without sending any answer; but I must confess I
am so disheartened about the result of all the trouble I have taken with the 'delegates,' that
I do not know how to proceed, or, rather, I do not see the possibility of proceeding at all.

"At the last interview I had with the Canadian delegates, everything was considered settled
to their satisfaction, except the one point of a sinking fund, and even that was admitted by
all but Mr. Sicotte to be met by Mr. Gladstone's consent, that the money should be invested
in Colonial securities. Thus matters stood until the _day_ the Canadians embarked, when (avoiding
an interview with Sir F. Rogers, and everybody else) they sent me in a paper, couched in terms
offensive to the British Government, and complaining of every single provision in the conditions--evidently
got up to carry out Mr. Sicotte's pre- arranged plan of upsetting the whole scheme, and throwing
the blame on the Imperial Government.

"Unless this miserable creature and his colleagues are turned out of office on the first day
of the Session, it is manifest that the measure will be _sold_ for party purposes; and in that
case I shall be unwilling to play into their hands, by giving them the N. W. Transit Scheme.

"I cannot be in town till after the 19th. I will see you then, if you wish it, or any day next
week if, on your way to or from Manchester, it were convenient to you to dine and sleep here.
I shall most likely be alone.

"I do not understand your alarm about a clause in the Treasury Minute. I know of no provision
which impedes legislation this Session, except that requiring a previous survey, which I more
than once discussed with you, and which I thought you agreed could easily be met.

"When you are in London Sir F. Rogers can show you Messrs. Sicotte and Rowland's extraordinary
paper, if you wish to see it.

                                      "I am, my dear Sir,
                                        "Yours sincerely,
                                          "NEWCASTLE."

Sir Frederick Rogers showed me the "extraordinary paper" of Messrs. Sicotte and Howland, and
yet Mr. Howland, on his return, favoured me with the following letter:--

                                      "QUEBEC,
                                        "3_rd April_, 1863.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"The pressure of public business has prevented me from sending an earlier reply to your valued
favour of the 26th February. In reference to the tariff of charges of your Company, you must
be aware that it is not legal, unless approved by the Governor and Council. I am not aware
of the circumstances stated by you, but presume, that if the Provincial Secretary called for
your tariff, it was because it had not received the sanction of the Government; however, I
feel safe in saying, that in the exercise of that power the Government would not be actuated
by any feeling other than that of performing a public duty.

"Mr. Sicotte and myself were treated with the greatest consideration and kindness by His Grace
the Duke of Newcastle, and I deeply regret that the action which we felt it necessary to take,
in the performance of a public duty, should have produced any unpleasant feeling on the part
of his Grace: however important the Intercolonial railroad may be, the opening up of the N.
W. Territory would increase its value, and, in fact, afford much stronger grounds for its construction
than exists at present, and the immediate result of opening up that territory would, in my
opinion, be productive of much greater good to the people of England and Canada than would
result from the construction of the Intercolonial railroad.

"I send by post the report of Mr. Taylor to the United States Government, upon the N. W. Territory
of B.A., by which you will perceive, that they attach much greater importance to the future
of that country than the people of England or Canada have hitherto shown. The description given
of the climate appears to have been compiled from reliable data, and affords the clearest information
upon that point that has as yet come before the public: I regret not having another copy to
send His Grace the Duke of Newcastle; if he has not received one, will you be kind enough to
send him this.

"Mr. Sandford Fleming (who is an engineer of high character and ability) is now here, as a
delegate from the people of Red River, in charge of a memorial on their behalf to the Governments
of Canada and England: this memorial is accompanied with a very clear statement of the condition
and prospects of the country, and a report upon the proposed communication to be made through
it. I am now getting the documents printed, and when done I will send you a copy, and one will
be forwarded by His Excellency to the Duke.

"Mr. Fleming and myself are preparing some suggestions for you, in reference to the purchase
of the rights of the Hudson's Bay Company, with a view to show in what manner it could be carried
out, and afford security that the country should be opened for settlement, and at the same
time afford an inducement to the parties who might become the purchasers. It would truly be
a great project, and if the Company would come down in their pretensions to what their possessory
rights are really worth, it could be carried out, and result in great good to the country,
and offer great inducement to those who might engage in it.

"I am much pressed with work, and somewhat better in health.

                                      "Yours faithfully,
                                      "WM. P. HOWLAND.

"EDW. WATKIN, Esq.,
  "21, Old Broad Street, London."

And if further proof were wanting that these gentlemen deserved the previously-quoted strictures
of the Duke, always bearing in mind the trouble, responsibility and expense incurred, mainly
at their instance, upon the Pacific project, the following gives it:--

"No. 1107.                           SECRETARY'S OFFICE, QUEBEC,
                                         "1_st Augt_. 1863.

"SIR,

"I have the honour to inform you that your letter of the 27th ultimo, addressed to the Hon.
John S. Macdonald, has been transferred to this Department.

"I am now directed to state, in reply to the inquiry therein made, that the details of the
scheme for the promotion of telegraphic and postal communication across the Continent of British
North America have not, as yet, been placed before the Provincial Government in such a definite
shape as to enable them to determine the course which it may be advisable to take in relation
to that important undertaking.

"The Government will, however, be prepared, whenever a sufficiently matured scheme shall be
submitted for their consideration, to give the subject their most earnest attention.

                             "I have the honour to be, Sir,
                               "Your most obedient Servant,
                                 "E. A. MEREDITH,
                                   "_Assistant Secretary_."

"EDWD. W. WATKIN, Esq.,
  "_Montreal_"

Two days after the Duke's last letter, came the following:--

                                         "KELHAM, NEWARK,
                                           "8 _Jany_. 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"Since your letter of the 6th (received to-day), you will partly have learnt why I could not
answer some of your private letters, but as regards the official letter respecting the Western
project, I think you will see that I cannot answer it without consulting my colleagues. _I_
cannot _grant_ a subsidy, and on the other hand I should be unwilling to _refuse_ it. The proposal
that part of the subsidy should be Imperial necessarily entails delay. I do not think I can
possibly send an answer till after the next Cabinet.

"I shall be sorry to miss Mr. J. A. Macdonald. The only chance of seeing him would be if he
could dine and sleep a night at Clumber on his way to Liverpool. Unfortunately I must be all
day on the 16th at Newark on County business. Could he come on the afternoon, of 15th without
inconvenience?

                                         "I am, yours very sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

And farther letters in the order given.

                                         "CLUMBER,
                                           "15 _Jany_. 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I have written officially to the Admiralty respecting the formation of a Naval Station at
Esquimault, but I will now write privately to the Duke of Somerset and ask for an early answer.

"Mr. Macdonald came last night, and I was delighted to see him a new and healthy man. I had
an interesting conversation with him, but fully expecting he would stay till to-morrow reserved
several things for to- day. It was not till breakfast was over that I knew he was returning
in five minutes. As, however, his return to Canada is postponed for a week, I shall see him
in London.

                                         "I am, yours very sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

                                         "CLUMBER,
                                           "26 _Jan_.

"Your letter received just as I am starting for London. I remain there, and can see Mr. Cameron
in town any day. I was in London last week, and saw Mr. Macdonald. Mr. Cameron was Mr. Malcolm
Cameron, a man whose worth was undoubted.

                                         "Yours, &c.,
                                           "N."

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "20 _Feby_. 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"It has not been till to-day that I could have given you any answer respecting the proposed
subsidy to the N. W. Transit.

"I think a short verbal communication would be more satisfactory than explanation by letter.

"Can you call here to-morrow about 2.30, or, if more convenient, at Thomas' Hotel--between
11 and 1.

                                         "Yours very sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "27 _March_, 1863.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I do not on the first blush of your proposal see any great difficulty in agreeing to it,--_if_
indeed the Imperial Government is in absolute possession of the tract of country you speak of.

"I have requested Sir F. Rogers to look into this and see you if you like to call upon him
when you come to town.

"I leave London to-morrow morning for, I hope, a fortnight.

                                         "I am, yours sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

This letter of the 27th March, 1863, was in reply to a letter from me:--

                                         "ROSE HILL, NORTHEN,
                                           "_March 27th_, 1863.

"MY LORD DUKE,

"In looking over the maps very carefully prior to sending in the documents proposed to be transmitted
through your Grace, I find that it is very probable--from the desirability of carrying a telegraph
through a wooded country, and avoiding the plains, where buffaloes often move about in square
miles of extent--that we may go through the Imperial territory for a more or less considerable
distance. It therefore strikes me, that what I have before suggested, as to the desirability
of Imperial assistance, may not be reconciled with Mr. Gladstone's desire to avoid an Imperial
contribution of money. I therefore suggest to your Grace, that the Imperial Government should
agree to give a grant of land of some reasonable extent, also that portion of the territory
lying between the Hudson's Bay territory and British Columbia which belongs to the Crown, provided
a telegraphic and road communication passes through any portion of that territory.

"If this meets your Grace's views, would it not be better that the fact of the Imperial Government
having made this concession should be recited in the preamble of the proposed Bill which we
are to send to Canada, and that thus invited to the scheme by a contribution of land, power
to purchase or control should be directly given by a clause to the Crown? If your Grace will
give me your views upon this at once, I will have the documents prepared accordingly, and transmitted
without delay.

"'Minesota' has given about two millions of acres in aid of works to extend their rail and
water communications in the direction of Red River.

"I have to thank your Grace for sending me Mr. Foley's report, and, also, copy of the Minutes
of Council as to the Intercolonial and the western project.

"The territory I allude to is hunted over by the Hudson's Bay Company, and forms, mainly, a
portion of what they call the Athabasca district."

It was matter of deep regret to me that the Government of the day would not accept any share
of the pecuniary responsibility of adding to the compactness of the Empire, by connecting the
two oceans by telegraph and by road. The despatch which I copy--dated Downing Street, 5 March,
1863--distinctly says, in its third paragraph, "Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that
they cannot apply to Parliament to sanction any share in the proposed subsidy by this country."

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "5_th March_, 1863.

"SIR,

"I am directed by the Duke of Newcastle to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 27th
of December, and to express his Grace's regret that so long, though quite unavoidable, a delay
should have occurred in replying to it.

"I am now desired to make to you the following communication:--

"Her Majesty's Government are of opinion that they cannot apply to Parliament to sanction any
share in the proposed subsidy by this country; and though they take great interest in the project
contemplated with so much public spirit by the gentlemen represented by you for carrying a
telegraphic and postal communication from the confines of Canada to the Pacific, they do not
concur in the opinion of the Canadian delegates that the work is of such special 'Imperial
importance' as to induce them to introduce for the first time the principle of subsidizing
or guaranteeing telegraphic lines on land.

"Her Majesty's Government are further of opinion that without a submarine Transatlantic telegraph
the proposed line in America will be of comparatively small value to the Imperial Government,
and that whenever a scheme of the former kind is renewed, it is almost certain that this country
must be called upon to bear a much larger charge for it than that which it is now proposed
to devolve upon the British Colonies in respect of the land-telegraph and communication.

"As Canada has offered to bear one-half of the proposed guarantee, the Duke of Newcastle is
prepared to recommend, and his Grace has no doubt of ready acquiescence, that British Columbia
and Vancouver Island shall pay the sum of L10,000 per annum, as their share of L20,000 (being
at the rate of L4 per cent, on a capital of L500,000), to commence when the line is in working
order.

"It will, however, be necessary, before any proposal is made officially to the Colonies, that
the Duke of Newcastle should receive further details. It is requisite that his Grace should
be informed what provision will be proposed as to the duration of this subsidy; what conditions
as to the right of purchasing the line, and to what authorities that right should belong; and
on what terms the whole arrangement may be revised in the event of the Hudson's Bay Company
coming to any agreement for the sale of their territory.

"There will doubtless be other provisions which the Colonies will expect.

                                  "I am, Sir, your obedient Servant,
                                    "T. F. ELLIOT.
"E. W. WATKIN, Esq."

I close this narrative of the Pacific Transit Scheme with the despatch of the 1st May, 1863,
which summarises the proposals made and generally concurred in. These long discussions were
not abortive, for they led up to the great question of the buying out of the Hudson's Bay Company,
without which neither successful Confederation, nor its child the Canadian Pacific Railway,
would have been achieved in this generation.

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "1_st May_, 1863.

"SIR,

"I am directed by the Duke of Newcastle to state that he has had much satisfaction in receiving
your letter of the 28th ultimo, enclosing the heads of a proposal for establishing telegraphic
and postal communication between Lake Superior and New Westminster, through the agency of the
Atlantic and Pacific Transit and Telegraph Company. These proposals call for some observations
from his Grace.

"New Westminster is named as the Pacific terminus of the road and telegraph. His Grace takes
for granted that if the Imperial Government and that of British Columbia should find on further
inquiry that some other point on the coast would supply a more convenient terminus, the Company
would be ready to adopt it.

"_Article_ 1.--His Grace sees no objection to the grant of land contemplated in this Article,
but the 'rights' stipulated for are so indeterminate that without further explanation they
could scarcely be promised in the shape in which they are asked. He anticipates, however, no
practical difficulty on this head.

"_Nos_. 1 _and_ 2.--The Duke of Newcastle, on the part of British Columbia and Vancouver Island,
sees no objection to the maximum rate of guarantee proposed by the Company, provided that the
liability of the Colonies is clearly limited to 12,500_l_. per annum. Nor does he think it
unfair that the Government guarantee should cover periods of temporary interruption from causes
of an exceptional character, and over which the Company has no control.

"But he thinks it indispensable that the Colonies should be sufficiently secured against having
to pay, for any lengthened period, an annual sum of 12,500_l_. without receiving the corresponding
benefit, that is to say, the benefit of direct telegraphic communication between the seat of
government in Canada and the coast of the Pacific.

"It must, therefore, be understood that the commencement of the undertaking must depend on
the willingness of the Canadian Government and Legislature to complete telegraphic communication
from the seat of government to the point on Lake Superior at which the Company will take it
up. Nor could his Grace strongly urge on the Colonies of Vancouver Island and British Columbia
the large annual guarantee which this project contemplates, unless there were good reason to
expect that the kindred enterprise of connecting Halifax and Montreal by railway would be promptly
and vigorously proceeded with. It will also be requisite to secure by formal agreements that
the guarantee shall cease, and the grants of land for railway purposes revert to the grantors,
in case of the permanent abandonment of the undertaking, of which abandonment some unambiguous
test should be prescribed, such as the suspension of through communication for a stated period.

"The Duke of Newcastle does not object to five years as the maximum period for the completion
of the undertaking--and he thinks it fair to exclude from that period, or from the period of
suspension above mentioned, any time during which any part of the line should be in occupation
of a foreign enemy. But injuries from the outbreaks of Indian tribes and other casualties,
which are inherent in the nature of the undertaking, must be taken as part of the risks which
fall on the conductors of the enterprise, by whose resource and foresight alone they can be
averted.

"His Grace apprehends that the Crown land contemplated in Article 3, is the territory lying
between the eastern boundary of British Columbia and the territory purporting to be granted
to the Hudson Bay Company by their charter. His Grace must clearly explain that Her Majesty's
Government do not undertake, in performance of this article of the agreement, to go to the
expense of settling any questions of disputed boundary, but only to grant land to which the
Crown title is clear.

"With regard to the 7th Article, the Duke of Newcastle could not hold out to the Company the
prospect of protection by any military or police force in the uninhabited districts through
which their line would pass --but he would consider favourably any proposal for investing the
officers of the Company with such magisterial or other powers as might conduce to the preservation
of order and the security of the Company's operations.

"With reference to the 9th and concluding Article, the Duke of Newcastle would not willingly
undertake the responsible functions proposed to him, but he will agree to do so if by those
means he can in any degree facilitate the project, and if he finds that the Colonies concur
in the proposal.

"Subject to these observations, and to such questions of detail as further consideration may
elicit, the Duke of Newcastle cordially approves of the Company's proposals, and is prepared
to sanction the grants of land contemplated in the 3rd Article. He intends to communicate the
scheme, with a copy of this letter, to the Governor- General of Canada, and the Governor of
Vancouver Island, recommending the project to their attentive consideration.

                                 "I am, Sir, your obedient Servant,
                                   "C. FORTESCUE.
"E. W. WATKIN, Esq."

CHAPTER VIII.

_Negociations for Purchase of the Hudson's Bay Property_.

In response to our demand for a large tract of land through the "Fertile belt" of the Hudson's
Bay territory, the Governor answered, almost in terror, to the Duke of Newcastle:--"What! sequester
our very tap-root! Take away the fertile lands where our buffaloes feed! Let in all kinds of
people to squat and settle, and frighten away the fur- bearing animals they don't hunt and
kill! Impossible. Destruction-- extinction--of our time-honoured industry. If these gentlemen
are so patriotic, why don't they buy us out?" To this outburst the Duke quietly replied: "What
is your price?" Mr. Berens, the Governor, answered: "Well, about a million and a half."

Finding that our demands for land alongside the proposed road and telegraph were not acceptable
to the Governor and Court of the Hudson's Bay Company, we had nothing for it but either to
drop the Pacific transit proposal, after many months of labour and trouble, or to take the
bold course of accepting the challenge of those gentlemen, and negociating for the purchase
of all their property and rights. Before making a decided move, however, I had many anxious
discussions with the Duke as to who the real purchaser should be. My strong, and often urged,
advice was, that whoever the medium of purchase might be, Great Britain should take to the
bargain. I showed that at the price named there could be no risk of loss; and I developed alternative
methods of dealing with the question:--That the fur trade could be separated from the land
and rights, and that a new joint stock company could be organized to take over the trading
posts, the fleet of ships, the stock of goods, and the other assets, rights, and privileges
affecting trade, and that such a company would probably pay a rental--redeemable over a term
of years, were that needful to meet Mr. Gladstone's notions--of 3 or 3-1/2 per cent, on 800,000_l_.,
leaving only 700,000_l_. as the value of a territory bigger than Russia in Europe. Such a company
would have to raise additional capital of its own to modernize its business, to improve the
means of intercourse between its posts, and to cheapen and expedite the transport to and fro
of its merchandise. I carefully described the nature of these changes and all that they involved.
The Duke seemed to favour this idea. Then I pointed out that, if desired, a land company could
be organized in England, Canada, and the United States, which, on a similar principle of rental
and redemption, might take over the lands--leaving a reserve of probably a fourth of the whole
as the, unpaid for, property of the Government--at the price of 700,000_l_. If these proposals
succeeded, then all the country would have to do was to lend 1,500,000_l_. on such security
as could be offered, ample, in each case, in my opinion. But I said it must be a condition,
if these plans were adopted, to erect the Hudson's Bay territory into a Crown Colony, like
British Columbia, and to govern it on the responsibility of the Empire. I showed that this
did not involve any large sum annually; and that, as in the case of British Columbia, the loss
would be turned into a profit by sales of the one-fourth of the land to be given, in return
for the responsibilities, taken, to our country. Again, the cost of government might be recouped
by a moderate system of duties in and out of the territory, to be agreed with Canada and British
Columbia on the one hand, and the United States on the other. This, in outline, was one plan.
The next was, to sell a portion of the territory to the United States at the price, which I
knew could be obtained, of a million. A third plan which I suggested was, to open up portions
of the "Fertile belt" to colonization from the United States. To offer homes, in a bracing,
healthy country--with fertile lands and long waterways--to the multitudes of men and women
in Ohio, Kentucky, Maryland, and many other States, who desired to flee from war and conflict;
whose yearning was for settled government and peace. These men and women had still resources,
friends, and credit, and if our country opened its arms to them, they would flock to the old
red flag, and bring their energies to bear on the industrial conquest of these vast regions
to the West.

But--if any man went, morally, down on his knees to another, I did to the Duke, to beg, beseech,
implore,--that this great bargain, this purchase of purchases, of a Continent, should be made
for our country, and should be untainted by even the suspicion of a mercantile adventure. In
the end, I thought I had converted the Duke, well disposed always, to the wisdom of such a
policy. Following this line, we discussed many details. He "would not sell," but he would "exchange;"
and, studying the map, we put our fingers upon the Aroostook wedge, in the State of Maine--upon
a piece of territory at the head of Lake Superior, and upon islands between British Columbia
and Vancouver's Island--which might be the equivalent of rectification of boundary on many
portions to the Westward along the 49th parallel of latitude.

Further, at one of our many interviews a name for the new Crown Colony, if established, was
mentioned--"Hysperia." Dr. Mackay had suggested it to me. The general answer of the Duke was--"Were
I a minister of Russia I should buy the land. It is the right thing to do for many, for all,
reasons; but ministers here must subordinate their views to the Cabinet." Still, he went so
far, that I believed if the Hudson's Bay property were once bought, the Duke would manage to
take the purchase over for the country. I was too sanguine. I had not measured the passive
resistance of the inside of the Colonial Office to everything that inside had not initiated;
though the fact that day by day objections, urged to the Duke from inside, were put to me,
by him, and, I believe, always satisfactorily answered, might have warned me. I hope to live
to find three conditions established at the Colonial Office:-- (1) That no one, from the head
down to the office boy, shall enter the doors without having passed in general and in British
Empire, geography. (2) That no one shall be promoted who has not visited some one British Colony
or Province; and (3) That no one shall be eligible for the highest offices who has not visited
and studied, personally, every portion of the distant British Empire.

With confident hope I went to work. It is true that Mr. Thomas Baring warned me. He said: "If
the Duke wants these great efforts made he must make them on behalf of the Government: he must
not leave private persons to take the risk of Imperial work." And, in this state of mind, Mr.
Baring refused, afterwards, to be one of the promoters of the Pacific scheme, a refusal which
led Mr. Glyn to hesitate to sign the legal papers without his friend and colleague. It was
an anxious time for me; for on my head rested the main responsibility. One circumstance somewhat
sustained me. On "the 10th December, 1862, at Thomas' Hotel, the Duke had read to me a private
letter from Mr. Gladstone to him, containing these words. Words of which I was allowed to make
a note" Your Pacific scheme would be one of the grandest affairs ever achieved, and I hope
it will be completed in your time. It shall have my hearty support." Alas! however, Mr. Baring
was right.

The first official interview with the Governor and Court of the Hudson's Bay Company was at
the "Hudson's Bay House," Fenchurch Street, on the 1st December, 1862. The room was the "Court"
room, dark and dirty. A faded green cloth, old chairs almost black, and a fine portrait of
Prince Rupert. We met the Governor, Berens, Eden Colville, and Lyell only. On our part there
were Mr. G. G. Glyn (the present Lord Wolverton), Captain Glyn (the late Admiral Henry Glyn),
and Messrs. Newmarch, Benson, Blake, and myself. Mr. Berens, an old man and obstinate, bearing
a name to be found in the earliest lists of Hudson's Bay shareholders, was somewhat insulting
in his manner. We took it patiently. He seemed to be astounded at our assurance. "What! interfere
with his Fertile belt, tap root, &c.!" Subsiding, we had a reasonable discussion, and were
finally informed that they would give us land for the actual site of a road and a telegraph
through their territory, but nothing more. But they would sell all they had, as we "were, no
doubt, rich enough to buy," for "about" 1,500,000_l_., as they had told the Duke.

The offer of the mere site of a road and ground for telegraph poles was of no use. So, just
as we were leaving, I said, "We are quite ready to consider your offer to sell; and, to expedite
matters, will you allow us to see your accounts, charters, &c." They promised to consult their
Court. And, gradually, it got to this, that I was put in communication with old Mr. Roberts,
aged 85, their accountant, and with their solicitor, the able and honorable Mr. Maynard, of
the old firm of Crowder and Maynard, Coleman Street, City.

I had many interviews; and on the 17th March, 1863, I met the Governor, Mr. Ellice, jun. (son
of Edward Ellice-the "old bear"), Mr. Matheson and Mr. Maynard. They showed me a number of
schedules, which they called "accounts." Next day I had a long private interview with Mr. Maynard,
but "could not see the 'balance-sheet.'" The same day I saw the Duke with Messrs. Glyn and
Benson. Next day (19th) I spent the forenoon with Mr. Roberts, the accountant, and his son
and assistant, at the Hudson's Bay House. Mr. Roberts told me many odd things; one was that
the Company had had a freehold farm on the site of the present city of San Francisco of 1,000
acres, and sold it just before the gold discoveries for 1,000_l_., because two factors quarrelled
over it. I learnt a great deal of the inside of the affair, and got some glimpses of the competing
"North West" Company, amalgamated by Mr. Edward Ellice, its chief mover, many years agone with
the Hudson's Bay Company. Pointing to some boxes in his private room one day, Mr. Maynard said:
"There are years of Chancery in those boxes, if anyone else had them." And he more than once
quoted a phrase of the "old bear": "My fortune came late in life."

On the 8th May I went to see the Duke. He was very ill; but his interest in the Hudson's Bay
purchase was unabated. I saw him again on the 15th, and wrote a letter to the Hudson's Bay
Company. On the 19th Mr. Maynard told me that the Hudson's Bay Court were meeting that day
to reply to my letter. The reply came on the 21st, and was "nearly what we wished."

Owing to the Duke's illness, and to some secret difficulty which he never enlightened me upon,
I was given to understand, after a short, but anxious delay, that any purchase must be carried
out by private resources; but all sorts of moral support would be at our service. What good
was moral support in providing a million and a half? What was to be done? There were only two
ways: one, to make a list of fifteen persons who would each take a "line" of a hundred thousand
pounds for himself and such friends as he chose to associate with him; the other, to hand the
proposed purchase over to the just founded International Financial Association, who were looking
out for some important project to lay before the public.

Leaving out Mr. Baring and Mr. Glyn (senr.) we had a strong body of earnest friends, substantial
men, and we could, no doubt, have underwritten the amount. My proportion was got ready; and
my personal friends would have doubled that proportion, or more, if I had wanted it. I strongly
recommended this course. But the Hudson's Bay Company would give no credit. We must take up
the shares as presented and pay for them over the counter. Thus, the latter alternative was,
after some anxious days, adopted. Mr. Richard Potter was the able negociator in completing
this great transaction, began and carried on as above. The shares were taken over and paid
for by the International Financial Society, who issued new stock to the public to an amount
which covered a large provision of new capital for extension of business by the Company, and
a profit to themselves and their friends who had taken the risk of so new and onerous an engagement.

I may finish this section by stating that, as respects the new Hudson's Bay shareholders, their
20_l_. shares have been reduced by returns of capital to 13_l_., and having, nevertheless,
in the "boom" of lands in the West, been sold at 37_l_. as the price of the 13_l_.; they are
now about 24_l_. Thus, every one who has held his property, and will continue to hold it, has,
and will have, a safe and unusually profitable investment. These shareholders, besides the
large reserves near their posts, which I shall enumerate later on, have a claim to one-twentieth
of the land where settlements are surveyed and made. This gives a great future to the investor.
On the other hand, Canada--in place of the Mother Country, to whom the whole ought to have
belonged, for the purposes previously set forth--has obtained this vast and priceless dominion
for a payment of only 300,000_l_., on the award of Earl Granville; and the Pacific Railway,
by reason of that great possession, has been completed and opened.

But there is much to record between the period of purchase and the sale to Canada.

I here give to the reader some letters of the Duke's relating to these negotiations generally:--

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "14 _Augt._ 1862.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I am glad to tell you that since I received your letter of Saturday last, the Hudson's Bay
Company has replied to my communication, and has promised to _grant_ land to a company formed
under such auspices as those with whom I placed them in communication. The question now is--what
_breadth_ of land they will give, for of course they propose to include the whole _length_
of the line through their territory. A copy of the reply shall be sent to Mr. Baring, and I
hope you and he will be able to bring this concession to some practical issue.

"I was quite aware of the willingness of the Company to _sell_ their _whole_ rights for some
such sum as 1,500,000_l_. I ascertained the fact two months ago, and alluded to it in the House
of Lords in my reply to a motion by Lord Donoughmore. I cannot, however, view the proposal
in so favourable a light as you do. There would be no immediate or _direct_ return to show
for this large outlay, for of course the trade monopoly must cease, and the sale of land would
for some time bring in little or nothing--certainly not enough to pay for the government of
the country.

"I do not think Canada _can_, or if she can _ought_ to, take any large share in such a payment.
Some of her politicians would no doubt support the proposal with views of their own,--but it
would be a serious, and for some time unremunerative, addition to their very embarrassing debt.

"I certainly should not like to _sell_ any portion of the territory to the United States--_exchange_
(if the territory were once acquired) would be a different thing,--but that would not help
towards the liquidation of the purchase-money.

"I admire your _larger views_, and have some tolerably large ones in this matter of my own,
but I fear purchase of this great territory is just now impracticable.

                                         "I am, yours sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE.
"Edwd. Watkin, Esq."

This letter was written in the educational period. The doubts came from the officials of the
Colonial Office. I removed them.

                                         "Downing Street,
                                           "17 _Novr_. 1862.

"My dear Mr. Watkin,

"I send you the 'route' from the Pacific to Canada, which I promised.

"I cannot vouch for it; but it comes from an unusually well-informed quarter, and I incline
to think it is much nearer accuracy than such information as represents the obstacles to be
almost insuperable.

                                         "I am, yours very truly,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

"Memorandum of a Route from Vancouver Island to Canada.

        _Stations_             _Conveyance_ _Time_

"Victoria, Vancouver Island
Yale, on Fraser River, or
Douglas, on Harrison Lake               Steamer         2 days
Lytton, on Fraser River, or
Lillovet                              Stage coach       2 days
Alexander, on Fraser River                Do.           4 days
Fort George, on Fraser River            Steamer         2 days
Tete Jaune Cache    do.                   Do.           5 days
   between 53 degrees and 54 degrees N L                -------
                                                       15 days
                                                       =======

The stage road from Douglas to Lillovet is described as complete, and that from Lillovet to
Alexandria as in progress, as also the machinery of a stern-wheel steamboat for the water communication
between Alexandria and Tete Jaune Cache.

The last-named place [Sidenote: Tete Jaune Cache.] is situated between 53 degrees and 54 degrees
N.L., and is at the western extremity of the most practicable pass of the Rocky Mountains.
The distance from this to Jasper House, [Sidenote: Jasper House, between 53 degrees and 54
degrees N.L., and distant 120 miles from Tete Jaune Cache.] at the eastern extremity of the
pass, is 120 miles by trail, admitting, it is said, of conversion at small cost into an easy
carriage road.

The distance from Jasper House to the next post, Edmonton, [Sidenote: Edmonton, 200 miles by
road from Jasper House, and 90 miles by road from Assiniboin.] on the Saskatchewan, is 200
miles by road through a level wooded country, or the Elk and Athabasca Rivers may be descended
by water to Fort Assiniboin, whence to Edmonton is only 90 miles.

The road communication between Tete Jaune Cache and Edmonton is represented as the only necessary
work beyond Alexandria, and may be opened for 50,000_l_.

Two courses are suggested from Edmonton to the Red River, one by water along the Saskatchewan
and Lake Winnipeg, another by road from Carleton, on the Saskatchewan, through the Prairie.

No remarks are offered upon the character of the route between the Red River and Lake Superior,
except that it is said to present no serious difficulties.

                                         "13_th Nov_. 1862.
                                           R.E."

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "18 _Novr_. 1862.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I have had a long interview of two hours today with Mr. Berens, Mr. Colville, and Mr. Maynard;
but I am sorry to find that matters have by no means progressed so far as I was led to expect.

"I think I ought now to see Mr. Baring, Mr. Glyn, and yourself as soon as possible.

"Can they and you come here on Thursday at any hour not earlier than 2.30 nor later than 4?
If that will interrupt other business, I could propose 11.30 on Friday at Thomas' Hotel.

                                         "Yours sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

                                         "CLUMBER,
                                           "7 _April_, 1863.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I have received from Sir F. Rogers the draft print of your Bill, and his remarks upon it.

"I still think it quite possible to meet your views respecting the lower portion of the Athabasca
territory; but the _mode_ of doing it does not appear to me so simple or clear.

"I should much desire to consult the Land Commissioners before the matter is settled; and I
do not see that the delay of ten days or a fortnight from this date could endanger the measure,
for Lord Monck wrote to me by last mail that the Parliament had as yet not begun business.

"If you agree to this, I will send the papers and my remarks to the Land Commissioners at once,
and see you (after getting their report) on Wednesday next, or any day after it, except Friday.

"Pray let me hear by return.

                                         "Yours very sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

                                         "DOWNING STREET,
                                           "6 _May_, 1863.

"MY DEAR MR. WATKIN,

"I hope and believe that the despatches in their final shape, as they went out to N. Columbia
on Friday last, and to Canada on Saturday, were quite what you and the proposed 'N. W. Transit
Company' would wish.

"I added words which (without dictation) will be understood as implying 'No Intercolonial,
no Transit.'

"If you happen to be in this neighbourhood any day between 3 and 4.30, I shall be glad to see
you, though I have nothing at all pressing to say.

                                         "Yours very sincerely,
                                           "NEWCASTLE."

CHAPTER IX.

_The Right Honorable Edward Ellice, M.P._

I have alluded to this remarkable man under the soubriquet attached to him for a generation--"the
old Bear." I assume that when his son, who for many years represented the Scotch constituency
of the St. Andrews Burghs, grew up, the father became the "old" and the son the "young" Bear.
Mr. Ellice was the son of Mr. Alexander Ellice, an eminent merchant in the City of London.
Born, if the "Annual Register" be accurate, in 1789, he died at the end of 1863. It is strange
that he began life by uniting the Canadian fur trade with that of the Hudson's Bay Company,
and just lived long enough to witness the sale and transfer of the interests he had, by a bold
and masterly policy, combined in 1820. Leaving Canada, Mr. Ellice joined the Whig party, and
was returned to Parliament for Coventry in 1818; and, with the exception of the period from
1826 to 1830, he retained his seat till the day of his death. Marrying the youngest sister
of Earl Grey, of the Reform Bill--the widow of Captain Bettesworth, R.N.--who died in 1832,
leaving him an only son; and, in 1843, the widow of Mr. Coke, of Norfolk, he became intimately
connected with the Whig aristocracy.

In Mr. Ellice's evidence before the Parliamentary Committee of 1857, on the Hudson's Bay Company,
I find that, in answer to a question put by Mr. Christy, M.P., as to the probability of a "settlement
being made within what you consider to be the Southern territories of the Hudson's Bay Company?"--he
replied, "None, in the lifetime of the youngest man now alive." Events have proved his error.
Mr. Ellice was a man of commanding stature and presence, but, to my mind, had always the demeanour
of a colonist who had had to wrestle with the hardships of nature, and his cast of countenance
was Jewish. According to his own account, he went out to Canada in 1803, when he must have
been a mere youth, and then personally associated himself with the fur trade, a trade which
attracted the attention of almost the whole Canadian society. It was, in fact, at that time,
the great trade of the country. The traders had inherited the skill and organization of the
old French voyageurs, who, working from Quebec and Montreal as bases of their operations, were
the doughty competitors of the Hudson's Bay Company, many of whose posts were only separated
by distances of a hundred miles from those of the French. When Canada became the possession
of our country, in the last century, Scotch and English capital and energy reinforced the trade;
and, as time went on, a powerful organization, called the "North-West Company," arose, and
extended its operations right across to the Pacific.

At the end of the last century, or the beginning of this, Mr. Ellice's father, as Mr. Ellice
stated, "had supplied a great part of the capital by which the whole north-west trade was conducted."
Profitable trading brought division of interests; and, in addition to smaller swarms from the
parent hive, a new organization, called the "X. Y. Company," or "Sir Alexander Mackenzie and
Company," carried on trade in competition with the original "North-West Company of Canada."
Mr. Ellice became connected with this "X. Y. Company" in 1805. The leading spirit of the North-West
Company was Mr. McGillivray: and Mr. McGillivray and Mr. Ellice were, as a rule, cordial allies.
Two leading firms engaged in the fur trade were McTavish, Fraser & Co., and Inglis, Ellice & Co.

Competition raged amongst these Canadian interests, and between them and the Hudson's Bay Company,
whose affairs were administered from England. The business was carried on, therefore, with
great extravagance. The Indians were tempted and corrupted by strong drink. Frequent collisions
took place between the Indians and the whites, and everything grew worse till 1811. In 1811
Lord Selkirk joined the Hudson's Bay Company. He became not only a stockholder in the Company,
but took great interest in the trade; and he was the proprietor of a large tract of territory
on the Red River, acquired from the Hudson's Bay Company under a deed dated 12th June, 1811.
In this territory, he made settlements for the purposes of agriculture.

The conflict of interests between the Canadian fur traders and the Hudson's Bay Company became
more and more violent, and ended in bloodshed. Finally Lord Selkirk, in virtue of his assumed
powers as a magistrate, seized Mr. McGillivray, of the North-West Company, at Fort William,
at the head of Lake Superior, and the whole of his property. The confusion and outrage became
so great that Canada became alarmed, and a Mr. Coltman was sent up as Commissioner. Mr. Coltman
reported, and made a recommendation that, to restore peace and order, some attempt should be
made to unite the interests of the various fur traders in the country. In the meantime the
Hudson's Bay Company ceased to pay dividends, and the other companies were almost bankrupt.
At this moment Mr. Ellice, by great tact, and force of will, succeeded in uniting all the conflicting
combinations; and from that time onwards the fur trade has been carried on under the Charter
of the Hudson's Bay Company, extended by licenses, from time to time renewed, of exclusive
trade in the North-West and in the Pacific States, including Vancouver's Island. Out of these
fusions arose the Puget Sound Company, created to utilise, cultivate, and colonise the Pacific
territories, over which licenses to trade had been given to the Hudson's Bay Company.

The vigorous action of the united interests soon told upon the trade and discipline of the
vast area hunted and traded over. The Indians were brought back to tea and water in place of
rum and brandy; and peace was restored, everywhere, between the white man and the red. The
epidemics of small pox, which had at times decimated whole tribes of Indians, were got rid
of by the introduction of vaccination. Settlement, if only on a small scale, was encouraged
by the security of life and property. The enlargement of their action, as issuers of notes
and as bankers aided the trade and the colonists; and so good was a Hudson's Bay Company's
note that it was taken everywhere over the northern continent, when the "Shin Plasters" of
banks in the United States and Canada were refused. When, for a short time, in 1865 and 1866,
I held the office of shareholders' auditor of the Hudson's Bay Company, I cancelled many of
these notes, which had become defaced, mainly owing to the fingering of Indians and others,
who left behind on the thick yellow paper coatings of "Pemmican,"--the pounded flesh and fat
of the buffalo, done up in skins like sausages--a food eminently nutritious and lasting long,
but fearfully odorous and nasty.

Mr. Ellice supplied much of the political energy inside the old Reform party, displayed in
the Reform Bill struggle of 1830-1832. He became one of the Secretaries of the Treasury; and,
in 1831, had to organize the eventful election of that year. His great powers and never-failing
energy, devoted in early life to the fur trade and its conflicts, became of infinite value
to the country, in many momentous struggles, at home, for liberty and progress. It amused me
much when, by chance, meeting Mr. Ellice, after we had bought and paid for his Hudson's Bay
property, to see the kind of astonished stare with which he regarded me. I think the purchase
of the Hudson's Bay Company was a mystery to him. I remember meeting him at the Royal Academy
a few months before his death. He stopped opposite to me, as if to study my features. He did
not speak a word, nor did I. He seemed in a state of abstraction, like that of a man endeavouring
to recollect a long history of difficulty, and to realize how strangely it had all ended,--by
the negociation I had brought to a head.

CHAPTER X.

_The Select Committee, on Hudson's Bay Affairs, of_ 1857.

This Committee was appointed "to consider the state of those British possessions in North America
which are under the administration of the Hudson's Bay Company, or over which they possess
a licence to trade." Lord John Russell, Mr. Gladstone, the present Lord Derby, Mr. Roebuck,
Mr. Labouchere, Mr. Lowe, and Mr. Edward Ellice, were of the nineteen members of which the
Committee originally consisted. Later on, the names of Mr. Alexander Matheson and Viscount
Goderich were substituted for those of Mr. Adderley and Mr. Bell; and Mr. Christy was added
to the Committee. The evidence before the Committee much resembled that taken by the Committee
of 1749. There were the same disaffected, and discharged, officials; the same disappointed
merchants and rivals; the same desire, in varied quarters, as before, to depreciate and despoil
a somewhat prosperous undertaking. The rival views were those of the majority of the Committee,
on the one hand, and of Mr. Gladstone, on the other. The claims of Canada to annex territory
useful, in her opinion, to her inhabitants, was solidly urged. But the Honorable John Ross,
then President of the Grand Trunk Railway of Canada, who was the first witness examined, said,
"It is complained that the Hudson's Bay Company occupy that territory and prevent the extension
of settlement and civilization in that part of the Continent of America. I do not think they
ought to be permitted to do that; but I think it would be a very great calamity if their control
and power in that part of America were entirely to cease. My reason for forming that opinion
is this: during all the time that I have been able to observe their proceedings there, there
has been peace within the whole territory. The operations of the Company seem to have been
carried on, at all events, in such a way as to prevent the Indian tribes within their borders
from molesting the Canadian frontier; while, on the other hand, those who have turned their
attention to that quarter of the world must have seen that, from Oregon to Florida, for these
last thirty years or more, there has been a constant Indian war going on between the natives
of American territory, on the one side, and the Indian tribes on the other. Now, I fear very
much that if the occupation of the Hudson's Bay Company, in what is called the Hudson's Bay
territory, were to cease, our fate in Canada might be just as it is with Americans in the border
settlements of their territory."

Mr. Ross advocated a railway to the Pacific, and he showed good practical reasons for it. Failing
a railway, he claimed a "good, broad open road." On the question of renewed competition in
the fur trade, he added, "I believe there are certain gentlemen at Toronto very anxious to
get up a second North-West Company, and I dare say it would result in something like the same
difficulties which the last North-West Company created. I should be sorry to see them succeed.
I think it would do a great deal of harm, creating further difficulties in Canada, which I
do not desire to see created."

"Certain gentlemen at Toronto" have ever been ready to despoil any old and successful undertaking.

Mr. Gladstone's resolutions, as proposed at the end of the evidence, were negatived by the
casting vote of the chairman, Mr. Labouchere, the numbers being 7 and 7. Mr. Gladstone proposed
that the country capable of colonization should be withdrawn from the jurisdiction of the Hudson's
Bay Company; while the country incapable of colonization should remain under that jurisdiction.
And, having thus disposed of any chartered, or other, rights of the Company, his last, or 10th,
resolution, said, "That inasmuch as the Company has tendered concessions which may prove sufficient
to meet the necessities of the case, the Committee has come to no decision upon the question
how far it may be, as some think, just and even necessary, or on the other hand, unwise or
even unjust, to raise any judicial issue with the view of ascertaining the legal rights of
the Company."

The Committee's report recommended that the Red River and Saskatchewan districts of the Hudson's
Bay Company might be "ceded to Canada on equitable principles," the details being left to her
Majesty's Government. The Committee advised the termination of the government of Vancouver's
Island by the Hudson's Bay Company; a recommendation followed, a year later, by the establishment
of a Crown Colony. But they strongly advised, in the interests of law and order, and of the
Indian population, as well as for the preservation of the fur trade, that the Hudson's Bay
Company "should continue to enjoy the privileges of exclusive trade which they now possess."

CHAPTER XI.

_Re-organization of Hudson's Bay Company_.

Thus, after a long and continuous period of inquiry and investigation-- a grave game of chess
with the Hudson's Bay Company--many anxieties and a great pecuniary risk, surmounted without
the expected help of our Government, the battle was won. What now remained was to take care
that the Imperial objects, for which some of us had struggled, were not sacrificed, to indifference
in high places at home, or to possible conflicts between the two Provinces in Canada; and to
secure an energetic management of the business of the fur trade and of land development by
the executive of the Company, whose 144 posts covered the continent from Labrador to Sitka,
Vancouver's Island, and San Francisco.

It seemed to me that this latter business was of vital and pressing importance. The Hudson's
Bay factors, and traders were, in various grades and degrees, partners in the annual trade
or "outfit," under the provisions of the "deed poll." This "deed poll" was the charter under
which the hardy officials worked and saved. Their charter had been altered or varied over the
long period since the date of the Royal concession, in the twenty-second year of the reign
of Charles the Second. The deed poll in existence in 1863 provided that the profits of the
fur trade (less interest on capital employed in the trade, which belonged to the stockholders
who provided it) were to be divided into 100 parts, of which 60 parts belonged to the stockholders,
and 40 to the "wintering partners." The "wintering partners" were the "chief factors" and the
"chief traders." These 40 parts were again subdivided into 85 shares; and each "chief factor"
was entitled to two of such shares, and each "chief trader" to one share. The clerks were paid
by salary, and only a person who had served as a clerk could be promoted to a "chief tradership,"
and only a "chief trader" to a "chief factorship." Thus all had a direct or remote partnership
interest. On retirement, an officer held his full interest for one year and half his interest
for the succeeding six years.

I had much apprehension that if the unexpected sale and transfer of the share property, under
terms and conditions in every sense unique, were not frankly and explicitly explained, and
under authority, alarm and misconception would arise; while the news of the transfer would
find its way to distant regions in a distorted fashion, and through unfriendly sources, long
before the explanation and answer could arrive. My fear, owing to bad management in London,
was somewhat realized, and I found that I had not rushed across the Atlantic, to perform every
service in my power to the undertaking, in June, 1863, one moment too soon.

Then, having studied the "deed poll," I felt that, unless we made the factors and traders partners
in the whole enterprise--fur trade, banking, telegraphs, lands, navigation of rivers--on generous
terms, we could not expect to elicit either their energies or their adhesion to a new order
of things.

Further, I saw no way to secure supervision and control over the Fertile belt, and all around
it, except by the construction, to begin with, of a main line of telegraph from St. Paul to
the Hudson's Bay territory, and thence by Fort Garry to the extreme western post on the east
side of the Rocky Mountains. Such main line to be supplemented by other subsidiary lines as
rapidly as possible. The "wire," to my mind, was the best "master's eye" under the circumstances.
But, apart from business re-organization, it was most essential to explain everything to the
Government of Canada; and to ascertain the views of political parties, and of industrial interests,
as, also, of religious bodies, as to future government. In dealing with these questions, I
had to assume an authority which was to have been confided to a delegation, to consist of Captain
Henry Glyn, Colonel Synge, and myself.

On leaving England promptly--the main work being done--Mr. Richard Potter undertook for me
all the details which, if at home, I should have managed, and he especially took up the discussions
at the Colonial Office, which I had personally carried on, with the Duke, for the previous period.

Thus it was that the new Board was constituted, and the arrangements for taking over were made
in England without my taking any, further, part. Sir Edmund Head was appointed Governor at
the suggestion--almost the personal request--of the Duke of Newcastle: some members of the
old Board were retained for the, expected, value of their experience, and amongst the new members
were Mr. Richard Potter and Sir Curtis Miranda Lampson, a rival fur trader of eminence and
knowledge, and an American. A seat at the Board was left vacant for me.

It may be interesting here to quote what the Duke of Newcastle said, in explaining, in the
House of Lords, the recent transactions with the Hudson's Bay Company.

TIMES, _July_ 3, 1863. [HOUSE OF LORDS.]

"The DUKE OF NEWCASTLE, in moving the second reading of the British Columbia Boundaries Bill,
said that he should give some further information as to an extension of the means of communication
across that great interval of country between British Columbia and Canada. After referring
to the system of government which then existed both in Vancouver's Island and British Columbia,
and to the revenues of both colonies for the previous few years--that of British Columbia being
most remarkable, having nearly doubled itself in two years (the imports in 1861 being $1,400,000,
and in 1862 $2,200,000)--the noble Duke proceeded to say, that the greatest impediment to the
future prosperity of the Colony was a want of communication with the outer world. He had stated
on a previous occasion that he hoped to be able to state this year to the House that arrangements
had been made to complete the communications between the Colony and the east of British North
America, and he thought he could now inform their Lordships that such arrangements would be
carried out. He had desired a gentleman of great experience, knowledge, and energy, who was
constantly travelling between Canada and this country, to inquire whether it would be possible
to effect a communication across the Continent. This gentleman--Mr. Watkin--had returned with
considerable information, and he had suggested to him to place himself in communication with
persons in the commercial world who might be willing to undertake the carrying out of such
a communication. He had put himself in communication with Mr. Baring and others, and he believed
they had arrived at the conclusion that if arrangements could be made with the Hudson Bay Company
the undertaking should have their best attention. In order that these important communications
might be made certain, guarantees were to be given by Canada on the one hand, and British Columbia
and Vancouver Island on the other. A complete Intercolonial railway system had long been looked
forward to by those interested in our North American Provinces, and it would be impossible
to overrate the importance to this country of an inter-oceanic railway between the Atlantic
and Pacific. By such a communication, and the electric telegraph, so great a revolution would
be effected in the commerce of the world as had been brought about by the discovery of the
Cape of Good Hope. It was unnecessary to point out to their Lordships of what importance it
would be in the case of war on the other side of the Atlantic. There was another matter on
which he wished to say a few words. Some eight or nine days ago it was stated in a portion
of the press that the Hudson Bay Company had sold their property. That statement was not altogether
accurate, and certainly it was premature, for he had been informed within two hours before
he came down to the House that the whole arrangement had only been completed that afternoon.
He had not received any official communication on the subject, but some of the gentlemen concerned
had been kind enough to inform him of the facts. He had stated on a former occasion that the
Hudson Bay Company had wished to sell. Certain parties in the City had, in the first instance,
entered into communication with them for the purpose either of purchasing or obtaining permission
for a transit through the Company's possessions. After some negociation the alternative of
permission for a transit was agreed upon. That conclusion having been arrived at he did not
know what it was that raised the whole question of sale again, but some fortnight or three
weeks ago fresh negociations were opened. Parties in the City proposed to the Hudson Bay Company
to give them by way of purchase a sum of 1,500,000_l_. What had taken place was this: The Hudson
Bay Company very prudently required that the money should be paid down, and that the whole
sum of 1,500,000_l_. should be ready on a given day, which he believed was yesterday. Of course
the intending purchasers could not carry out that transaction in the course of a week, and
they, therefore, applied to the International Financial Association to assist them. The Association
agreed to do so, and the money either had been paid or would be on a day arranged upon. A prospectus
would be issued tomorrow morning, and the shares would be thrown upon the market, to be taken
up in the ordinary way upon the formation of companies. These shares would not remain in the
hands of the Association, but would pass to the Proprietors, as if they had bought their shares
direct from the Hudson Bay Company. Of course the Company would only enjoy the rights which
those shares carried, and no more. They would, in fact, be a continuation of the Company; but
their efforts would be directed to the promotion of the settlement of the country: the development
of the postal and transit communication being one of the objects to which they would apply
themselves. Of course, the old Governor and his colleagues, having sold their shares, ceased
to be the governing body, and a new council, consisting of most respectable persons, had been
formed that afternoon. Among them were two of the Committee of the old Company, with one of
whom, Mr. Colville, he had had much personal communication, and could speak in the highest
terms as a man of business and good sense. There were, also, seven or eight most influential
and responsible people, and the name of the Governor, Sir Edmund Head, who had been elected
to-day, would be a guarantee of the intentions of the new Company, for no one would believe
that he had entered into this undertaking for mere speculative purposes, or that the Company
would be conducted solely with a view to screw the last penny out of this territory. While
the council, as practical men of business, would be bound to promote the prosperity of their
shareholders, he was sure they would be actuated by statesmanlike views. No negociation with
the Colonial Office had taken place; and as this was a mere ordinary transfer, no leave on
their part was necessary. But arrangements must be entered into with the Colonial Office for
the settlement of the country; and at some future time it would be, no doubt, his duty to inform
their Lordships what these arrangements were."

The Prospectus, as issued in London, for the new organization, at the end of June, 1863, contained
this paragraph:--

"With the view of providing the means of telegraphic and postal communication between Canada
and British Columbia, across the Company's territory, and thereby of connecting the Atlantic
and Pacific Oceans by an exclusively British route, negociations have been pending for some
time past between certain parties and Her Majesty's Government and the representatives of the
Government of Canada, and preliminary arrangements for the accomplishment of these objects
have been made through Her Majesty's Government (subject to the final sanction of the Colonies),
based upon a 5 per cent. guarantee from the Governments of Canada, British Columbia, and Vancouver
Island. In further aid of these Imperial objects, Her Majesty's Government have signified their
intention to make grants of land in portions of the Crown territory traversed by the proposed
telegraphic line.

"One of the first objects of the Company will be to examine the facilities and consider the
best means for carrying out this most important work; and there can be little doubt that it
will be successfully executed either by the Hudson's Bay Company itself, or with their aid
and sanction.

"For this, as well as for the other proposed objects, Mr. Edward Watkin, who is now in Canada,
will be commissioned, with other gentlemen specially qualified for the duty, to visit the Red
River and southern districts, to consult the officers of the Company there, and to report as
to the best and safest means of giving effect to the contemplated operations."

A letter of instructions, from the new Governor, dated London, 6th July, 1863, received by
me about the 22nd July, after I had made no small advance in the real business, stated:--

"SIR,

"I am authorized by the Committee of the Hudson's Bay Company to request you to proceed on
their behalf to the Red River Settlement, for the purpose of reporting to them on the state
and condition of this Settlement, the condition of the adjoining territory, the prospect of
settlement therein, and the possibility of commencing operations for an electric telegraph
line across the southern district of Rupert's Land.

"The Committee have full confidence in your discretion and judgment, but they have deemed it
right to associate with you in this inquiry Governor Dallas, of the Red River Settlement, with
whom they request you to communicate at once.

"The Committee are aware that it is now so late in the season as to preclude you from doing
more than procure such information as may enable them to commence fresh inquiries at the opening
of next season.

                                     "I have the honour to be, Sir,
                                       "Your obedient Servant,
                                         "EDMUND HEAD, Governor.
"EDWARD WATKIN, Esq."

I found soon after my arrival in Canada that Governor Dallas was coming down from Red River,
and would meet me at Montreal. He was a very able man; cool, clear, cautious, but when once
he had had time to calculate all the consequences, firm and decided. He had been for years
on the Pacific coast; and, thanks to his prudence, the landing, in 1859, of General Harney,
and a detachment of United States troops on the Island of St. Juan, between Vancouver's Island
and the mainland, on the Pacific, had been controlled and checkmated, by the proposal of a
joint occupation until negotiations had settled the question of right. This right was, afterwards,
given away by our Government under the form of an arbitration before the Emperor of Germany.
Governor Dallas' opinion of the transaction will be gathered from his letters to me of the
29th and 30th October, 1872, hereafter copied.

The Governor and I became fast friends, and our friendship, cordial on both sides, continued
until his death, a very few years ago. The only fault of Governor Dallas was a want of self-assertion.
Brought out by the Mathesons--hardy Scots of the North--as he was, he made a reasonable fortune
in China: and coming home, intending to retire, he was persuaded to accept the Governorship
of the Hudson's Bay Company on the death of Sir George Simpson. Meeting at Montreal, our first
act of "business" was to voyage in the Governor's canoe from Lachine through the rapids to
Montreal; a voyage, to me, as almost a novice, save for my New Brunswick canoeing, of rather
startling adventure; but the eleven stalwart Indians, almost all six feet high, who manned
the boat, made the trip interesting, as it was to me in the nature of a new experience. These
men had been with Governor Dallas nearly 4,000 miles by river, lake, and portage; and he told
me he never knew them to be late, however early the start had to be made; never unready; always
cheerful and obliging; and that a cross word had never, in his hearing, been uttered by any
one of them. These men made Caughna Wauga, opposite Lachine, their home, and there were their
families.

After the most careful study and discussion of the questions above alluded to, and others,
the discussion extending over a month, we agreed to various memoranda. The one affecting the
re-organization of management was as follows:--

"The first measure necessary towards the re-organization of the Hudson's Bay service, will
be the abolition, or modification of the deed poll, under which the fur trade is at present
carried on. The difficulty involved in this proceeding is, an interference in the vested rights
of the wintering partners (chief factors and chief traders). That might be overcome by some
equitable scheme for the extinction of those rights, which would serve the double purpose of
rendering practicable a reorganization of the service, and a reduction in the number of superior
officers, at present too large. This reduction would give the opportunity of dispensing with
such men as are inefficient, and of retaining those only likely to be useful. The Company are
under no covenants in reference to the clerks.

"The arrangements of the deed poll are, in outline, as follows:--The profits of the fur trade
(less the interest charge, which goes exclusively to the stockholders) are divided into one
hundred parts; of those, sixty are appropriated to the stockholders, and forty to the wintering
partners. These last are subdivided into eighty-five shares, of which two are held by each
chief factor, and one by each chief trader.

"Clerks are paid by salary. Only a clerk can be promoted to a chief tradership (1-1/85 share),
and only a trader to a chief factorship (2- 1/85 shares). The promotions are made by the Company
on the nomination of the chief factors, though this rule has not always been adhered to. On
retirement an officer holds his full interest for the first year, and half this interest for
the succeeding six years. The deed poll authorizes the Company to put an officer on the retired
list, without reasons assigned, after he has served four years, but they cannot deprive him
of his retired interest except for proved misconduct; but neither of these regulations has
ever been put in force. It is possible the wintering partners might raise a question whether,
under the existing deed poll, the Company could make any great changes in their business, or
embark in new undertakings, if likely to affect injuriously the incomes of the officers on
the active list, or the interests of those on retirement.

"One mode of removing this obstacle would be to ascertain the value of a retired interest,
and to give a money compensation to each officer on his entering into an agreement to consent
to the abrogation of the deed poll. This would involve an outlay of money, but would also be
productive of a considerable subsequent annual saving.

"The eighty-five shares belonging to the wintering partners are, at this date, held as follows:--

         15 chief factors               30 shares
         37   "   traders               37   "
         10 retired chief factors       13   "
         10    "      "   traders        5   "
                                       ---
                                        85   "
                                       ===

"As regards the shares held on retirement, some of the interests have nearly run out, and none
of the parties have any voice in the business.

"The value of a 1-85th share has been, on the average of the last thirteen outfits, which have
been wound up (1846-1858), about 408_l_. At that rate a chief factor's retired interest would
amount to 3,264_l_., and a chief trader's to 1,632_l_., less discount, supposing payment to
be made at once, instead of its being spread over nine or ten years. On the other hand, the
invariable custom of the service has been to allow every officer one or more year's furlough
on retiring, which has come to be considered almost a right; when more than one year has been
granted, it has been by special favour. Adding one year's furlough, a factor's retired allowance
would be 4,080_l_., and a trader's 2,040_l_. The discount being taken off, to render them equal
to cash, would make a factor's allowance about 3,000_l_., and a trader's 1,500_l_.

"The cost of commutation, on the above scale, would be--

     15 chief factors, at 3,000_l_               L45,000
     37   "   traders, at 1,500_l_                55,500
     18 shares held on retirement, about               14,000
                                                     --------
                                                     L114,500
                                                     ========

"Without allowing a year's furlough, the above amount would be reduced about one-sixth.

"The outlay would only be called for in the case of such officers as are already retired, and
of such as under a new agreement might not be re-engaged. The retired interest of the officers
who might enter into a new engagement would be provided for in the revised deed poll.

"As a set-off for the outlay on commutations would be a large reduction in the pay of officers,
to be hereafter noticed, and the Company would also receive actual value for their money; and
on buying out the wintering partners they would become possessed of their 4/10th share of the
profits of the trade.

"Under the present organization the pay of officers in the service is about as follows:--

     Governor-in-Chief                       L 2,000
     16 chief factors                         12,000
    35 chief traders                          14,000
     Clerks, about                            10,000
                                             -------
                                             L38,000
                                             =======

"The following would probably prove a more efficient staff:--

     Governor-in-Chief                       L 2,000
     Lieutenant-Governor                       1,250
     4 councillors, at 800_l_             3,200
     25 chief traders, at 300_l_          7,500
     100 clerks, at various salaries, about   10,000
                                             -------
                                             L23,950
                                             =======

"The saving of 14,000_l_. per annum would soon reimburse the Company's outlay in buying up
the present interests of the factors and traders.

"The system of making the pay of officers (of the upper grade) dependent on the success of
the business, has worked well, and might be advantageously continued, in a modified form, to
be hereafter noticed.

"The duties of the officers of the proposed reduced staff would be adapted to the existing
distribution of the territory into departments and districts, which are as follows:--

"There are four main divisions--the Northern, Southern, Western, and Montreal Departments,
roughly bounded as follows:--the 'Western' embraces all the country west of the Rocky Mountains;
the 'Northern' is composed of the country east of the mountains, as far as Lake Winnipeg and
Lac la Pluie, and from the American frontier to the Arctic Sea; the 'Southern' embraces the
southern and eastern shores of Hudson's Bay; and the 'Montreal' extends from Lake Superior
down the Gulf of St. Lawrence to Labrador. These departments are divided into districts, and
in each district are several posts. The limits of districts are fixed by local peculiarities;
but commonly embrace some large river, on which the various stations are planted--such, for
example, as the McKenzie and the Saskatchewan. There are twenty-three districts on the east
side of the mountains; to the west such subdivision of the business is now scarcely practicable,
and is being abandoned. To proceed to the duties of the officers.

"The Governor-in-Chief would fulfil his present large functions, and be the medium of communication
between the Company and their officers in the country.

"Under the present system the Governor is supposed to maintain a personal supervision of the
whole service. This is practically impossible, the country being too large to enable him to
travel over more than a limited section of it in each season. To relieve him of that heavy
duty, and at the same time to maintain a real and close personal inspection, one of the four
councillors might be stationed in each department, of which, in the absence of the Governor,
he would be the chief officer, and held responsible for all local details, and the various
posts in which he should periodically inspect and report upon. Once, or oftener, in each year,
a meeting of the Governor and the four councillors should be held, at any time or place most
convenient--say, Fort Garry, Montreal, or elsewhere. Aided by such a council, the Governor
would be accurately informed as to details in every part of the country, and able to deal satisfactorily
with all local questions.

"The duty of the Lieutenant-Governor would be to relieve the Governor- in-Chief of some share
of his labours, and to act in his absence as President of Council.

"The chief traders would, as a general rule, be placed at the head of districts, and the clerks
in charge of posts.

"The very efficient class of officers known as 'postmasters' would remain as at present. They
are usually men who have risen from the ranks from merit; and, being good interpreters, and
Indian traders, are commonly placed in charge of small posts. Their scale of pay is rather
less than that of clerks, and they are rarely advanced to any higher rank; indeed, their ambition
is satisfied when they are made postmasters.

"Reverting to the mode of paying officers, and making their incomes to some extent dependent
on the success of the business, it might answer to give them an interest as stockholders. Instead
of paying a chief trader 300_l_. per annum, he might have 250_l_., and a sum of 1,000_l_. of
stock placed to his credit, of which he would receive the dividends only, the stock itself
reverting to the Company when his connection with them terminated.

"A councillor might have 700_l_. pay and the dividends on 2,000_l_. stock. It would also be
a great encouragement to the officers, and secure prolonged service, to give them an annual
increase of stock--say, 200_l_. to be added for every year's service. Thus, if a man did not
get as early promotion as he expected, he would still benefit by length of service.

"The principle of retired interests might be maintained, by allowing the officers to receive
the dividends on the stock they held at retirement for--say, seven or ten years, before it
reverted to the Company.

"To carry out these arrangements, it would be necessary to set aside in trust about 150,000_l_.
stock. But the Company would lose nothing by it, as they would save in salaries what they gave
in dividends.

"At the outset only 35,000_l_. of the stock would be called for, with an increase of 5,400_l_.
per annum. Even allowing for a considerable retired list, it is doubtful if the whole 150,000_l_.
would ever be appropriated; and of course the dividends on whatever portion was not appropriated
would revert to the Company.

"In the revision of the deed poll, it would be essential to retain the clauses which secure
to the Company the right to place officers on the retired list, and to dismiss them for misconduct.

"The mode of keeping the accounts, both in London and in the country, is one of much importance,
requiring early consideration. At present there are no accounts, properly speaking, kept at
the posts; and very great delay occurs in ascertaining the results of the business from London.
It is essential to introduce some system of analysed post accounts, which should keep the Governor
and his Council fully informed of the state of the business at every post, and by which they
might judge of the management of the officers in charge. There is now no practical check on
extravagance or dishonesty, except that arising from the upright principles of the officers
in the service. The adoption of a system of local audit appears the best remedy for many of
the existing evils.

"The Company's agent at New York (Mr. Wm. McNaughton), who is a valuable officer, has not at
present sufficient employment to make his position worth occupying. As there is a valuable
market in New York to which it would, at certain times, be advantageous to send buffalo robes,
wolves' and some other furs, which could be done without interference with the market in England,
it is important to render the New York agency more efficient.

                        "(Signed)            A. G. DALLAS.
                        "(Signed)            EDWARD W. WATKIN.

"_7th August_, 1863."

This memorandum was sent home to Governor Sir Edmund Head, with other papers.

On the serious questions of the future relations of the vast territory to Canada and the Mother
Country; how it could best be settled; how it should be governed; what arrangement as to boundaries,
and so on--I had many and serious conferences with public men. And in answer to many questions
as to my own views, I drew up the following memorandum, as a _resume_ of the whole subject.
It is now nearly twenty-four years old. I have read it again and again. I am not ashamed of
it. I see nothing to retract; little to alter:--

"The present state of government in the Red River Settlement is attributable alike to the habitual
attempt, encouraged, perhaps very naturally, in England and in Canada, to discredit the traditions,
and question the title of the Hudson's Bay Company, and to the false economy which has stripped
the Governor of a military force, with which, in the last resort, to support the decisions
of the legal tribunals. No other organized Government of white men in the world, since William
Penn, has endeavoured to rule any population, still less a promiscuous people composed of whites,
half-breeds. Indians, and borderers, without a soldiery of some sort, and the inevitable result
of the experiment has, in this case, been an unpunished case of prison- breaking, not sympathised
in, it is true, by the majority of the settlers, but still tending to bring law and government
into contempt, and greatly to discourage the governing body held responsible for keeping order
in the territory.

"At the same time it must be conceded, that, while government by a merchant organization has
eminently succeeded, up to an obvious point of time and circumstances, in the cases both of
the East India and Hudson's Bay Companies, and is still applicable to the control and management
of distant districts, it contains within itself the seeds of its own ultimate dissolution.
In fact, the self-interest, however enlightened, which brings a dividend to stockholders, is
opposed to the high impartiality and absence of individualism which should characterize a true
Government. Individuals and corporations may trade and grow rich,--Government may not; they
may embark in constant speculation, while it cannot; they must either insensibly measure their
dealings by consequences, as affecting _gain_, or be suspected of doing so, while the interest
of Government is not individual, but collective; its duty being, to give facility to the acquirer,
security to the possessor, and justice and equal protection to all.

"Therefore, although the Government of Red River has had few faults and many excellences, and
has been marked by a generous policy, in many instances it has been, and is, open to suspicion;
because the commercial power which buys furs, trades with Indians and whites alike, and is,
in fact, the great merchant, storekeeper, and forwarder of the country; appoints a Governor
and assistants, places judges upon the bench, selects magistrates, and administers the law,
even amongst its possible rivals and trade competitors. Such a state of things is unsound in
principle, and ought only to be continued until a stronger and permanent Government can be
organized; at the same time it can only be continued in safety, on the opening up of the country,
by arming the Governor with a military force of reasonable amount.

"That the Hudson's Bay Company _can_ govern the country efficiently, on this obvious condition
of all other Governments, is clear enough; and the peaceable relations between the Indians
and the whites, and between the various tribes themselves, throughout the whole of this enormous
territory, as well as the general state of health and occupation of the aborigines, prove how
perfect and wise has been the management of the country. But government of Indians, who can
be employed and traded with, and who at last become more or less dependent upon the Company's
organization, as in this case, is one thing,-- government of a large and expanding colony of
free white men is quite another.

"It is a question whether the government of the Indians can or ought to be changed, for a long
period to come, so completely is the Indian life now associated with the operations of the
Company. Of course, the settlement of a new or an extended colony, involves the extinguishment
of Indian rights within the area proposed; and while the outside district not set apart, would
still be roamed over by the Indians, and be valuable for the fur trade, its limits must, from
time to time, be narrowed by further additions to the circle of civilization and free government.
Thus, the Hudson's Bay Company, if dispossessed of the government of Red River, and the proposed
new Colony, would still manage and govern where it traded, and would still preserve sobriety,
order, and peace amongst the Indian tribes of its territory thus limited.

"It may happen that the Hudson's Bay Company may be compelled to govern everywhere, by the
refusal of the Home or Canadian Government to encounter the responsibility and expense, which
at first might be serious, and which, as regards cost, must be greater in their hands than
in those of a Company using portions, of its business organization for purposes of administration.
It is well to look these probabilities fairly in the face.

"Such a necessity may arise from the indisposition of certain schools of politicians at home
to incur Colonial expense, and the responsibility of defending a new nation flanking the United
States; it may happen, owing to the refusal of Lower Canada to widen out the borders, and thus
increase the political power of Upper Canada; or it may be objected in Canada generally, that
the finances of the country will not, at present, prudently authorize the maintenance of a
new Canadian military force; and again, the Indian war in Minnesota, which may spread itself,
may raise up fears of Indian wars in the new country to be settled.

"Should the Hudson's Bay Company be compelled, then, to continue to govern the whole territory,
the first essential, as before said, is a military force. That force may consist partly of
regular troops, partly of mounted irregulars or militia, and it need not, in their hands, be
large. The population is suited to military pursuits, and the half- breeds mounted would make
an excellent irregular cavalry. And the next essential would be a convention and treaty with
the United States, as to boundary and transit through the United States and Hudson's Bay territory
respectively, for purposes of travel, and commerce, and of postage, and the telegraph.

"Then the limits of colonization must be defined, and it must be maturely considered at the
outset, and decided as to how far, and in what form, and how soon, the principle of self-government
shall be introduced. It is assumed that a thriving and expanding colony of white men neither
can nor ought to be taxed and governed without their own consent, obtained in some form or
other; and that it would be both unwise and unjust to attempt a permanently autocratic government.
This is a most serious question, and the Act 31st George III., under which Canada was governed
until 1841, would appear to solve the difficulty. The general scheme of government of that
Act might operate so soon as the new Colony had a population of (say) 50,000, and its provisions
might be elaborated into a constitution, to be voted by the Colony in general assembly, so
soon as the population reached (say) 300,000.

"The grand basis of all successful settlement--the land--presents fewer difficulties than might
have been imagined, because the admirable model of the land system of the United States is
before us, and no better can be devised to enable a country to grow up side by side with the
Republic. Reliable surveys and plans, cheap and unclogged titles to the land in fee, a limited
upset price of not exceeding $1-25/100 an acre; division of the land saleable into regular
sections; the issue of land warrants and regulations as to location, which will prevent, as
far as may be, monopolies of land in the hands of speculators--are all essential conditions,
and whatever power governs, they must be equally observed.

"Again,--reserves of land, on a liberal scale, must be made to support schools and churches,
and to assist roads and other public works conducted by the Government.

"But let it be hoped that this necessity of continued government by the Hudson's Bay Company
may be avoided by the wise and far-sighted action of the Home Government and of Canada. No
beneficial decision can be arrived at without the concurrence of both powers, for each have
rights and ideas in some respects differing, and Canada especially has the deepest concern
in the future organization of the North-west. In selecting a governing power for such a country,
the strength and influence of that power are the grand essentials. Even with equal enlightenment,
these essentials could not be overlooked. A weak Government would invite attack, deter investment,
and check general confidence.

"Apart from the government by the Hudson's Bay Company, there appear to be these alternatives:--

"1. Government by Canada annexing to her territory a tract of country extending to the limits
of British Columbia, under some reasonable arrangement with the Hudson's Bay Company, fairly
protective of their rights, and which arrangement ought not to be difficult to draw out, when
once the principle of the settlement of the country, and the land system, and extent of land
reserves, are agreed upon.

"2. Government by the Crown, as a separate Crown Colony, totally independent of Canada.

"3. Government by the Crown as a separate Crown Colony, with federation, more or less extensive,
with Canada, and the establishment of a customs union between the new and old communities.

"It must always be observed that a decision as to the fate of this territory must be immediately
made. It cannot wait political necessities elsewhere, or be postponed to suit individual wishes.
The fertile country between Lake Winnipeg and the Rocky Mountains will be now settled, since
that is now a fixed policy, and its plan of government must be in advance of, and not lag behind,
that settlement. The electric wire, the letter post, and the steamboat, which two years more
will see at work, will totally change the face of things; and as Minnesota has now 250,000
inhabitants, where, in 1850 there was hardly a white man, so this vast district may, when once
it can be communicated with from without, with reasonable facility, be flooded with emigrants,
not forgetting a very probable rush of English, Irish, and Scotch farmers, and settlers from
the United States, who here will find a refuge from conscription and civil war.

"The discoveries of gold, and the disturbed state of the border Indians in Minnesota, are both
unanswerable reasons of necessity for the immediate establishment of a permanent form of Government,
and fixed laws and arrangements for the settlement and development of the country.

"1. The government of the North-west, as an 'annexe' to Canada, possesses advantages of contiguity
and similarity of ideas on the part of Canadians and the probable settlers. Canada, it will
be said, has a good and responsible Government, and why not now extend its machinery to the
1,300 miles between the height of land and the Rocky Mountains?

"But will Canada accept the expense and responsibility, and, more especially, is it just now
politically possible? Were Canada politically and practically one united country, the answer
would be perhaps not difficult. But Canada, for the present, is really two countries, or two
halves of one country, united under the same form of government, each half jealous of the mutual
balance, and neither half disposed to aggrandize the power or exaggerate the size of the other.

"Would Lower Canada, then, submit to see Upper Canada become, at one bound, so immensely her
superior? And would Upper Canadian statesmen, however personally anxious to absorb the North-west,
risk the consequences of such a discussion as would arise? Would it be possible, in fact, to
found a Government based upon the platform of accepting the responsibility of settling, defending,
and governing the North-west? If not, then, however desirable, the next best alternative must
be chosen.

"Assuming that at some period, near or distant, the British North American Provinces, between
the Atlantic and the Pacific, unite in a federal or legislative union, and thus become too
great and too strong for attack, that next best alternative would point to such arrangements,
as respects the North-west, as would lead on to and promote this union, and not stand in its
way. Thus, disputes about race and customs should, if possible, be avoided by anticipation,
and the constitution and power of the new Colony should foreshadow its connection with the
countries to the east and to the west. Future isolation should be forbidden, while present
independence should be accorded.

"2. The above assumption tends to throw doubt upon the desirability of establishing a Crown
Colony, separate in all respects from Canada, and able to shut out or let in Canadian produce
and manufactures at its pleasure. This is a danger to be foreseen and avoided.

"The new Colony, placed between Canada and the Pacific, must be essentially British, in the
sense of its forming one secure link in a chain of British nations, or, in the interests of
Canada, it had better never be organized. The power and _prestige_ of the Crown is essential
to this end, and a separate Colony, even, would have many advantages _per se_. It would also
save Canada the cost of a new Government at a time when financial pressure and political majorities
would be in the way. A Crown Colony could not be looked upon with jealousy in Canada, while
government by the Hudson's Bay Company would be so regarded.

"3. But a Crown Colony with such a federation as would not alter the political balance of Upper
and Lower Canada, and with a system of free trade with Canada, would appear to solve the whole
difficulty; and if so, the scope of the federative principle would be matter to be settled
between Canadian statesmen and the Colonial Office. The interchange between the North-west
and Canada appears to be an absolute necessity in the interest of the latter. As Government,
however, would require taxation, the new Colony must, in all probability, have its Custom-
house; and it should be considered whether the Custom-house of Canada would not serve, as far
as the eastern frontier is concerned, for the new Colony. If so, why should not duties, on
a scale to be agreed upon under constitutional powers to agree, be levied on imported foreign
goods, by Canada, and the duties be divided between the two powers in agreed proportions? Were
this done, at least in the beginning, expense would be saved to the new Colony, a revenue would
be easily collected for it, through existing machinery, and Canada would obtain the revenue
and trade. Of course the scale of duties must be moderate, so as not to excite dissatisfaction,
by establishing dear prices, and it would be the interest of Canada to make them so, for the
more she stimulated the growth of the new customer, the better for the trade. On the other
hand, the new Colony would be insured a market and an outlet for its own productions, and would
be content, therefore, to accept a reasonably high scale of duties, levied for revenue purposes
only, on its articles of foreign consumption."

I discussed the question involved at length with the Honorable George Brown and with his brother
Gordon, at Toronto. I felt the importance of having the views, and, if possible, the concurrence
of the leader of the "Grit" party. He led me to think that he concurred with me; and I sent
him a copy of this document. He kept it some time, and then re- directed it to me without remark.
Afterwards, I received a verbal message to the effect that "It would not do at all." I became
convinced that nothing "would do at all" with a small band of men--who, at that time, had objects
of their own--in Upper Canada. Some of them--few in number, I am happy to know, and impecunious--appeared
to consider the old corporation of the Hudson's Bay in the light of Blucher, when driving through
the streets of London, "Mein Gott! what a plunder." Some of them tried their best to confiscate
the property; and once or twice, by weakness and vacillation in London, they almost gained the day.

Governor Dallas and I also carefully considered the telegraph question; the route, the cost,
and the best agencies to complete its very early construction.

The two agreements, which, as matter of history, I here copy, were intended to bring about
the complete connection of the Hudson's Bay territories direct with England and with the United
States.

"Memorandum of Agreement between Mr. Edward W. Watkin and Mr. O. S. Wood (subject to the approval
of the Montreal Telegraph Company and the United States Telegraph Companies, affected by this
Agreement, and also by the Governor and Committee of the Hudson's Bay Company) for completing
telegraphic communication between the Atlantic and Pacific.

"1. The Montreal Telegraph Company to construct a new line of telegraph between Father Point
and Halifax, _via_ Dalhousie and Mirimichi, to be completed on or before the 1st October, 1865;
and also a line from the telegraph at Arnprior to the Hudson's Bay post at the Sault St. Marie,
to be completed on or before the 1st October, 1865, with all necessary instruments, stations,
staff, and appliances for a first- class through and local telegraph line.

"2. The Hudson's Bay Company (directly or through parties to be appointed by them, as they
may elect) to construct a telegraph line from Fort Langley to Jasper House, thence to Fort
Garry, and on to the United States boundary, near Pembina, to be completed on or before the
15th October, 1865; and also a telegraph from Fort Garry to the Hudson's Bay post at Fort William,
at the head of Lake Superior; and also to make arrangements with other parties to erect a telegraph
from Fort William to the Sault St. Marie, with all necessary instruments, stations, staff,
and appliances for a first-class through and local telegraph line: provided always that the
construction of the telegraph between Fort Garry and Sault St. Marie is dependent upon arrangements
with the Canadian Government, and that it is understood that, failing or pending these arrangements,
the route to be adopted shall be _via_ Detroit, St. Paul, and Pembina to Fort Garry.

"3. The telegraph from Fort Langley to Halifax to be worked for all through business as one
through system, and the through rates to be divided _pro rata_ the mileage, except that for
the lines west of the Sault St. Marie (to be erected by the Hudson's Bay Company as above)
an additional mileage proportion of thirty-three per cent. over the actual distance shall be
allowed, until those lines pay ten per cent per annum on the outlay, after paying all operating
and other expenses, including repairs and renewals, and this allowance shall be a condition
with the United States lines between Canada and the Hudson's Bay boundary.

"4. Arrangements to be made by the Montreal Telegraph Company, with parties in the United States,
for the construction of a telegraph from St. Paul to the connecting point near Pembina.

"5. The Sault St. Marie and Sarnia to be respectively the boundaries of the Montreal Telegraph
Company and of the Hudson's Bay Company and their representatives, for the purposes of this
Agreement.

"6. This Agreement to be for twenty-five years.

                         "(Signed)           EDWD. W. WATKIN.
                         "(Signed)           O. S. WOOD.

"Montreal, _August_ 10_th_, 1863."

"Agreement between Mr. Edward W. Watkin and Mr. O. S. Wood, for the construction of the telegraph
between Fort Garry and Jasper House, and, if hereafter agreed, between Fort Langley and Jasper
House, and Fort Garry and the United States boundary near Pembina (subject to the approval
of the Governor and Committee of the Hudson's Bay Company in England).

"1. Mr. Wood to construct a telegraph, and all needful works and stations, from Fort Garry
to Jasper House, at the cost of the Hudson's Bay Company, and to put the same in full operating
order, and also instruct, and where necessary provide, the staff for the operation and repair
of the line.

"2. Mr. Wood to proceed with Governor Dallas to St. Paul, with as little delay as possible,
and on to Fort Garry, if necessary; and to make all arrangements required for transporting
the telegraph wire, insulators, fittings, instruments, and other materials to Fort Garry; for
distributing all materials from Fort Garry; for cutting, preparing, and distributing the poles;
and generally for commencing and for completing the work (including a system of posts at proper
distances apart) in an efficient manner, and at the earliest period.

"3. Mr. Wood to receive the cordial aid and cooperation of the staff of the Hudson's Bay Company
in carrying out this work, under the orders, instructions, and control of Governor Dallas.

"4. Mr. Wood's travelling and other necessary expenses, and the salaries and other necessary
expenses of his assistants, to be paid, and, in consideration of his services, he is to receive
the sum of ten thousand (10,000) dollars, as a fixed payment; one-third to be paid on the storage
of the materials as above at Fort Garry, one-third upon the completion of two hundred (200)
miles of the telegraph, and one-third on the completion and operation of the whole line between
Fort Garry and Jasper House; and further, should the whole be completed prior to the 15th October,
1864, Mr. Wood is to receive a bonus of two thousand (2,000) dollars, so soon as the line has
been one month in operation; and should the whole cost of the work not exceed thirty thousand
(30,000) pounds sterling, Mr. Wood to receive a further bonus of fifteen per cent. on all savings
upon that sum, payable when the line has been in operation twelve (12) months.

"5. Should the telegraph lines between Fort Langley and Jasper House, and Fort Garry and the
United States boundary near Pembina be ordered to be constructed, and the Hudson's Bay Company
desire it, Mr. Wood to undertake the construction, on proportionate terms.

                            "(Signed)        EDWD. W. WATKIN.
                            "(Signed)        O. S. WOOD.

"Montreal, _August_ 10_th_, 1863."

"MEMORANDUM _by Mr. Wood as to supply of Materials_.

                                    "MONTREAL,
                                      "_August_ 10_th_, 1863.

"DEAR SIR,

"We shall want 40,000 insulators--they will cost from $6 to $8 per 100; 35,000 red cedar top
pins will cost $3 per 100; 40 sets of telegraph instruments at $60 per set; main and local
batteries, $500.

"As some of these articles ought immediately to be prepared, since their preparation takes
a little time, I will at once, in accordance with our understanding of this morning, order
a small quantity, and the remainder when I receive your confirmation of the whole arrangement.
In the meantime I shall go to New York personally, to arrange the exact form and description
of insulator, it being very desirable to have this article of the most perfect description.

                                     "Yours faithfully,
                                       "(Signed) O. S. WOOD.
"EDWD. W. WATKIN, Esq."

My official letter to Sir Edmund Head from Montreal, 24th July, 1863, summarized all my proceedings
up to its date.

                                     "MONTREAL,
                                       "_July_ 24_th_, 1863.

"SIR,

"I have the honour to acknowledge your official letter of the 6th July, requesting me to proceed
to the Red River Settlement, for the purpose of reporting upon the state and condition of that
Settlement, of the condition of the adjoining territory, the prospects of settlement therein,
and the possibility of commencing operations for an electric telegraph line across the southern
district of Rupert's Land; and associating with me in this inquiry Governor Dallas, of the
Red River Settlement, with whom you request me to communicate at once.

"I observe that the Committee consider the lateness of the season will preclude me from doing
more than procure such information as will enable them to commence further inquiries at the
opening of the next season.

"In consequence of verbal communications received before leaving England, and suggestions unofficially
received from members of the new Committee, I have deemed it my duty, though unofficially,
to communicate with the Canadian Government, and with those gentlemen likely to form the Government
of Canada, should any change of ministry take place on the opening of Parliament, so as, as
far as possible (unauthorized as I was), to prevent antagonism to the operations of the new
organization pending official communication and explanations from the Governor and Committee.

"No one can be better aware of the state and views of parties in Canada than yourself. The
leader of the present Government expresses a strong opinion in favour of the settlement of
a separate Crown Colony in the Hudson's Bay district, and this also is the view taken by Mr.
Cartier and Mr. J. A. Macdonald, and is strongly concurred in by Mr. Cazeau, the Vicar-General,
who, as you are aware, leads the Catholic party in Lower Canada. On the other hand, the feeling
of Mr. Geo. Brown and the 'Grits,' as heretofore expressed, has been in favour of annexing
the Hudson's Bay territory to Canada, thereby securing that preponderance which would practically
settle the question of the future government of the whole country.

"The views of the Duke of Newcastle, and also, so far as I understand them, the views of yourself
and your colleagues, being in favour of the establishment of a separate colony unconnected
with Canada, I consider the discussions which have taken place have now put the question in
its right position here; but at the same time I shall endeavour to see Mr. George Brown, and
give such explanations, unofficially, as may at all events prevent his considering that he
has not been consulted in this important transaction.

"I have also placed myself in communication with many of those who have advocated the settlement
of the North-west, including Professor Hind, who has explored much of the district; and, at
my request, Professor Hind has written a memorandum, and letter upon the gold discoveries in
the Hudson's Bay territory, which I now enclose.

"I have no doubt that Governor Dallas's own letters will more than corroborate what is stated
in this memorandum, and I need not suggest that the most anxious and immediate attention of
yourself and the Committee be directed to these discoveries, and to their political and other
necessities and consequences.

"Having possessed myself of so much information in reference to the subjects referred to Governor
Dallas and myself, I think we shall be able to fulfil the wishes of the Governor and Committee,
Governor Dallas being here, accompanied by Mr. Hopkins, without the necessity of my proceeding
on this occasion to the Red River; though, should further discussion with the Governor lead
to our joint impression that such a visit would be advantageous, I shall not hesitate to undertake
the journey.

"In advance of some memorandum to be prepared for you by Governor Dallas and myself, and which
I shall beg him to be good enough to draft, I would mention that I have suggested that the
Governor issue a circular to the employes of the Company, stating briefly the nature of the
recent changes of proprietorship in the Company, and thereby having the tendency to remove
any misconceptions which might arise, and which, I regret to learn, have in some few quarters
appeared amongst the factors and other officers of the Company, who, as partners in the trade,
have considered themselves entitled to be consulted by the late Governor and Council on the
subject of the transfer.

"Governor Dallas informs me that the outfit of 1862-3 will show very much improved results;
and I have little doubt that the wise and energetic measures which he has initiated since his
tenure of office will bring abundant benefits in every direction. The result in the western
district, which, if I recollect rightly, exhibited a loss, and which, in the past year, with
all exclusive privileges taken away, gives a profit of no less than $166,000, is a convincing
proof of what may be effected by improved business organization and thorough energy and firmness.
It has, however, been matter of considerable anxiety to me to learn that it is Governor Dallas's
desire to return to England next year.

"As regards the future management of the fur trade, Governor Dallas is of opinion that a considerable
reduction may be made in the number of the employes; and that by a judicious weeding out of
those who, in all large establishments managed from a distance, either were originally, or
have become, inefficient, not only will expenses be saved, but a much larger trade be carried on.

"In any considerable change of personnel, the partnership rights of the factors will have to
be considered; and one of the gravest and most difficult subjects of consideration will be,
how to reconcile the rights of these gentlemen in a share of profit with that reorganization
which the commercial interests of the Company evidently require.

"These changes can only be made after discussion with the factors and chief officers; and in
some cases it may be desirable to buy out individual interests on a more or less extended scale.

"The 40 per cent. of the net profit of the Company allowed to the factors, in addition to the
salaries of considerable amount, is a heavy drain, and involves other considerations opposed
to rigid discipline, which need not be further touched upon here, but which are sufficiently
obvious. This re-organization can only be effected by giving to the Governor very large and
exceptional powers, and without delay. If these powers are given, I am quite confident that
the results will be such as abundantly to satisfy the Committee. Hitherto, as it appears to
me, far too little discretion has been permitted; and the practice of sending all the accounts
home to England, and dealing with them in such a manner that the Governor could not tell from
time to time how the financial results of expenses and profits were progressing, has produced
its inevitable consequences. In future, I feel convinced, it will be found matter of the utmost
consequence to concentrate the accounts at Fort Garry, and to send copies of the vouchers,
journals, and ledgers from Fort Garry to England, instead of adopting the reverse practice,
and endeavouring, as hitherto, to make the accounts travel as long a distance and be made up
over as remote a time as possible. With proper telegraphic and postal communication between
the principal posts of the Company and Fort Garry and Montreal, there is no reason why the
accounts should ever be two years in arrear in future.

"As regards the settlement of the country, and, involved in that important question, the state
and prospects of the Red River, the discoveries of gold above alluded to involve very serious
considerations.

"Assuming a rush of miners to different portions of the territory, the machinery of Government
for the preservation of order cannot be for a moment neglected, or its construction be delayed.
This involves, again, the question of the establishment of a new colony. Is that colony to
be governed by the Hudson's Bay Company, who are essentially a trading and landowning corporation,
or is it to be governed in the name of her Majesty, the Hudson's Bay Company, so far as the
limits of the Crown Colony are concerned, becoming merely traders and landowners, and ceasing
to govern as at present?

"All the difficulties at Red River--which, after all, have been much exaggerated, and can be
very easily dealt with--would be disposed of at once were a Governor, appointed by the Crown,
to be sent out; and it does not follow that representative institutions need at first be granted,
though ultimately they would become matter of necessity. The great object of the Governor and
Committee--and Governor Dallas and myself perfectly agree in the view--should be to induce
the Colonial Government to found a Crown Colony under arrangement with the Hudson's Bay Company
with the least possible delay.

"Such a Government would not only relieve the Hudson's Bay Company of an immense responsibility,
but it would render titles to land sold by them, and claims to interest in the minerals, far
more certain, marketable, and profitable than at present.

"The commercial re-organization of the Company is a matter perfectly easy in the hands of Governor
Dallas, empowered to act in accordance with his own best judgment; but this question of the
government of the country is, after all, the grand difficulty, and, if successfully negociated,
the grand hope of success as regards the future settlement of this vast district.

"As to the suitability of an immense portion of the district west of Fort Garry for eligible
settlement, Governor Dallas--who has now made journeys of 1,800 miles in the last year--has
no doubt whatever; and I trust that the old traditional phantoms of inhospitable deserts will
be finally dismissed from the minds of the new Governor and Committee, especially when they
have before them the many letters and reports in evidence of the true state of affairs, which
must be in possession of the Company in Fenchurch Street.

"As regards telegraphic communication, I have made every inquiry necessary upon the subject,
and Governor Dallas agrees with my views of the importance of connecting the Hudson's Bay posts
by telegraphic communication.

"Subject to further discussion, I may indicate my opinion that the route suggested by Governor
Dallas through the Hudson's Bay territory, viz., from Jasper House by Edmonton, Carlton, and
Fort Pitt to Fort Garry, would be the proper route for a telegraph.

"This portion, as it seems to me, should be constructed at once, and by the Hudson's Bay Company.

"Were it to be constructed in Canada, it would not cost more than 15,000_l_. sterling. It may
cost less, though in some cases it may cost more, through your territory; though I am inclined
to think that it may be constructed for 20,000_l_. as an outside sum, and that it is impossible
that the cost of this portion of the work should exceed 30,000_l_. in any event.

"This outlay being sanctioned, the connection with the American telegraph through Minnesota
would be a matter of negociation; and the extension of telegraphic communication to Fort William
on the one side, and to Fort Langley on the other, would depend upon the subsidies to be obtained
from Canada, and from British Columbia and Vancouver Island.

"I have the assurance of the present leader of the Canadian Government, that the offer to give
a subsidy, made last year, will be officially renewed, and I shall endeavour to get this promise
put into writing, and send it to you home.

"British Columbia, I assume, would do what the Colonial Office requested, but, in any case,
we ought not to commit ourselves to a through communication through Canada and British Columbia
without a clear understanding as to the subsidies. At the same time, if you, the Hudson's Bay
Company, have command of one thousand miles of telegraph, enabling you to transmit information
through your own channels with a new expedition, you will practically have command of the future
discussion of this large question.

"I have obtained estimates, and made calculations of the cost of these telegraphic operations,
and I have selected a very eligible gentleman, Mr. Wood, the Manager of the Montreal Telegraph
Company, who, I am quite sure, will carry out the operation, with the assistance of the employes
of the Hudson's Bay Company, and under the orders of Governor Dallas, with perfect success.

I should recommend that immediate steps be taken; and there is no reason, in my opinion, why
all the materials should not be on the ground by the end of the coming winter, since much of
it can be taken by canoe, and the remainder may be taken across the snow in the winter; and
why may not the whole telegraph from Jasper House to Fort Carry be completed by September in
next year?

"The present attitude of the Sioux Indians in the State of Minnesota deserves serious attention.
Little Crow has waited upon Governor Dallas, and the Governor has written to General Sibley.

"I have suggested whether a visit to Washington would not be desirable, and that the opportunity
of assisting the American Government to make peace with these troublesome Indians should be
improved, by attempting to get a settlement of your Oregon claims.

                                "I have the honour to be, Sir,
                                  "Your most obedient Servant,
                                "(Signed)        EDWARD W. WATKIN.
"Sir EDMUND WALKER HEAD, Bart., &c. &c.,
"Governor, Hudson's Bay Company."

Finding, however, that the Governor and his Committee were not prepared to act with the energy
and preciseness I had desired, I closed my, unpaid, mission by the following letter of 26th
August, 1863, from my house, Norfolk Street, Park Lane.

                                         "NORFOLK STREET, PARK LANE,
                                           "_August_ 26, 1863.

"MY DEAR SIR,

"I have to thank you for sending me copies of the official letter from the Secretary of the
13th instant, in reply to my report and private letter of the 24th July, and of your private
notes of the 13th and 18th instant, the latter noticing my letter of the 4th instant.

"I desire at once to say that the heads of arrangement which I have written down with the Montreal
Telegraph Company and with Mr. Wood, for your consideration, were of course entirely subject
to the sanction of the Governor and Committee of the Hudson's Bay Company. And, in accordance
with what I understood to be your views, when to-day you were good enough to leave the Deputy-Governor
in order to see me in the board room by appointment, I shall consider it my duty to cancel
all that has passed, in such a manner as, I trust, will be perfectly satisfactory to your colleagues.
There will then remain nothing beyond a responsibility for a few essential materials, as to
which time was an object, amounting to not more than a few hundred pounds at the utmost, which
I shall take entirely upon myself, under the circumstances of doubt and difficulty as to the
opinions of the shareholders of the Hudson's Bay Company which you represented to me. And with
a desire to avoid similar complaints, I do not propose to make any charge whatever for my own
expenses, or, if I may be excused the word, services, in connection with the mission I have
had to undertake. That mission, however, cannot go without explanation, for I am anxious to
avoid all misconception now, or hereafter, and I desire, therefore, by a frank statement, at
once to court contradiction, should it be merited.

"Having had much to do with the discussions which led to the transfer of the Hudson's Bay Company's
property, I had expressed my willingness, inconvenient as it must be to me, to act as a member
of a proposed commission of three, including Captain Glyn, R.N., and Captain Synge, R.E., whose
duty would be to investigate the position of the undertaking at its head establishment,--to
report upon the re- organization of its business, the development of its mineral resources,
the settlement of portions of its territory as a new colony, and the opening up of the country
by the telegraph and by means of transit. Captain Glyn and Captain Synge had both been consulted,
and the Duke of Newcastle had been applied to to obtain leave for Captain Synge at the War
Office. I had been led to believe that my services were considered of some value, and I left
England on the 20th June, expecting that Captain Glyn and Captain Synge would follow me in
a week, and that we should at once proceed to Red River, and send home a first, but full, report
by the beginning of October. I understood also that such a report was desired, to clear away
any objections to the operations of the re-organized Company which might be factiously raised.
And when, after my arrival in Canada, I received the prospectus with your name as Governor
of the Company at its head, I found a condition of that document to be that I was to examine
and report and advise generally, in concert with other gentlemen, specially qualified for the
duty, not only upon the question of telegraphic and postal communication, but also as to the
other objects proposed in the scheme officially laid before the public.

"Before leaving England, I repeatedly pressed the necessity of communicating with the Governor
and 'wintering partners' of the Company in America, so that they should not hear of the transfer
of the property for the first time from the newspapers; and I expected to be specially authorized
to give the needful information and assurances. I was no party, I beg to say, to this mention
of my name in the prospectus; but my friends and business connections who may have taken shares
on the faith of my name, will naturally hold me responsible accordingly. Still, anxious to
witness the success of a project which, energetically managed, is so intrinsically sound, I
refrained from writing to you to decline the responsibility, hoping that the original plan
of delegation, though delayed, would be carried out. That plan, I must observe, involved not
a mere commission of engineers to explore the route for a telegraph to Jasper House, as assumed
in the Secretary's letter of the 13th inst., but far wider objects, the realization of which
would, I venture to think, have given satisfaction at home, and have dissipated many misconceptions,
now existing, inimical to the interests of the new proprietary.

"Your letter to me of the 6th July did not reach me till the 20th, and in the meantime the
newspaper notices in England led to many official and unofficial inquiries from me, involving
difficulty of answer. I found, in fact, that the staff of the Hudson's Bay Company was quite
at fault, and that public men in Canada misunderstood the objects of the new organization,
for want of information very simple in its nature, but which--except so far as the prospectus
authorized me--I had no right to supply.

"Several of the Hudson's Bay Company's chief factors and traders had, it appeared, addressed
a memorial to the then Governor and Committee, some months ago, upon the rumoured sale of the
property, and had been, as stated to me, informed that no transfer was likely to take place,
or would in fact be undertaken without previous consultation; and yet these gentlemen learnt
for the first time from the public papers that new arrangements had been made. It was not unnatural,
therefore, considering the relations of these gentlemen with the Company, that they should
feel much annoyed; nor was it, perhaps, surprising that an influential member of the body should
have predicted a general resignation of the factors 'from Labrador to Sitka,' followed by a
confederation amongst them, in order to carry on the fur trade in competition with the Hudson's
Bay Company, they possessing, as was said, 'the skill, the will, and the capital to do it.'

"The appearance of Mr. Lampson's name as Deputy-Governor, in the absence of any prior explanation,
aggravated the first feeling of distrust; for it was said that he and his connections had been,
and then were, the Company's great, and often successful, rivals in the fur trade, carrying
on a vigorous competition at all accessible points.

"The arrival of Governor Dallas at Montreal some days before my receipt of your letter of the
6th July, enabled these misconceptions to be dealt with; and the issue of a circular by the
Governor, together with many personal explanations, and some firmness on the part of Mr. Dallas,
will, I trust, very soon remove the want of confidence and dissatisfaction on the part of the
staff, which at first looked threatening. These explanations, of course, took time, and rendered
the Governor's presence in Canada necessary.

"Governor Dallas and myself made various opportunities of meeting members of the present and
of the late Government of Canada, and of talking over the subject of the North-west, and of
its organization and government; and I feel convinced that these unofficial discussions were
of considerable use, and may help to prevent antagonism and territorial claims on the part
of Canada, which, in my opinion, might be very embarrassing, and ought to be foreseen and avoided.
Possibly the following article in the Government organ, written by order, and handed to me
by the Honorable W. P. Howland, will best exhibit, without further troubling you, the friendly
spirit of the Canadian Government before I left for England:--

"(From the _Quebec Mercury_.)

"'The recent announcements concerning the transfer of the title and territory of the Hudson's
Bay Company to a new corporation have naturally awakened considerable interest in Canada. So
far, however, no specific intimation of the opinions of the new Company has been given. It
is understood that they will not confine themselves to a mere following in the footsteps of
their predecessors, but that colonization, telegraphy, the opening up of common roads, and
eventually of railroad communication, enter into the scheme which, whether as regards the interests
at stake or the capital involved, may be said to be colossal in its character. It is no doubt
anticipated by the new Company that the Canadian Government and people will cheerfully aid
them in an enterprise which evidently concerns us so closely. Speaking in general terms, we
presume that it may be conceded that such anticipations have been correctly formed. The development
of Canadian territory, or of British territory immediately adjacent to it, could never be a
matter of indifference to the Government or people. Though young in years, still Canada cannot
forego those aspirations regarding the future which are naturally suggested by the magnificent
domain which, stretches along the northern portion of the Continent. It is for Canadians to
occupy and eventually to govern it, and any means which point to the furtherance of an object
which may be called spontaneous in the Canadian mind must engender solicitude and evoke encouragement.

"'When Messrs. Howland and Sicotte were in England, they expressed their opinion that Canada
would be willing to aid the "Atlantic and Pacific Transit Company" in their enterprise of opening
up communication across the Continent through British territory. Upon their return to this
country, the matter was fully discussed, and it was understood, subsequently, that the Government
of that day was prepared to recommend an appropriation of $50,000 per annum, provided that
the Company gave the necessary assurances of their ability to commence and carry out the work.
Since that time, however, those who formed that Association appear to have enlarged the field
of their operations, and have included the whole of the Hudson's Bay Company, with their territory,
_prestige_, and appliances, within the scope of their operations. But the same general policy
which suggested the recommendation of the $50,000 referred to, would also prompt similar assistance
to the New Hudson's Bay Company. It can be of little moment to Canada by whose agency the western
territory is developed--that which is wanted is development.

"'Judging, then, by what has gone before, and from the exigencies which the spirit of progress
imposes upon all Governments, it is not improbable when the new Company has itself determined
what they will do, in what shape their enterprise will be promoted, that reasonable assistance
will be given them. At present, it seems hardly likely that any exact conclusion has been made
by themselves in this matter. Mr. Watkin, in whom a wide and just confidence is placed, not
only by the shareholders in the new enterprise, but by the British Government itself, is here,
engaged, no doubt, in collecting from the various sources within his reach such information
as will enable him to report fully upon the matter. That done, the Company will be able to
make propositions and to solicit the kindly aid of Canada. Looking at the wide field for enterprise
that will be opened up; at the speedy colonization that is likely to take place, consequent
upon the recent discoveries of gold; at the prospect that Canada may be made the high road
for commerce between the great East and West; that the trade of the St. Lawrence, and all the
various and manifold interests connected with it, will be inspired with new and energetic vitality,--from
these and many other considerations it must be evident that the policy for Canada, let her
political position as to parties be what it may, is to extend a friendly and greeting hand
to those who come with capital and confidence to become the pioneers of a new order of things,
which cannot fail to pour riches into the lap of Canada, and to lay the foundation of a prosperity
which can be at present but dimly imagined.'

"The importance of assisting the work of opening up the North-west for telegraphic and postal
purposes would, I believe, be alluded to in the Governor-General's speech on the 15th. [Footnote:
This was done, and the  following is an extract from the speech of the Governor-General of
Canada, on opening Parliament:--

"I have received a despatch from the Secretary of State for the Colonies, enclosing copies
of a correspondence between Her Majesty's Government and the agent of the 'Atlantic and Pacific
Transit and Telegraph Company,' in reference to a proposal made by that Company for the establishment
of a telegraphic and postal communication between Lake Superior and New Westminster, in British
Columbia. The importance of such an undertaking to the British North American Provinces, both
in a commercial and in a military point of view, induces me to commend the subject to your
consideration. Copies of the correspondence shall be laid before you, and I feel assured that
should any proposal calculated to effect the establishment of such communication on terms advantageous
to the province be submitted to you, it will receive encouragement at your hands."] But whatever
may be the extent or the value--as to which latter point I fear my opinion does not, as I regretted
to find, quite coincide with yours--of the sympathy and support of Canada, any new bias in
favour of your projects, as promised in your prospectus, has been mainly aided by the belief
which, entertaining it, I inculcated, that without loss of time, and with the promptness and
energy of English merchants, the new Government of the Hudson's Bay Company would establish,
with the aid of the provinces east and west of the Hudson's Bay territory, but without shirking
its own share of duty, telegraphic and postal communication in British interests, available
for commercial, and requisite for other and even more serious, purposes. That the works would
be begun at once, and that the Hudson's Bay Company, so long obstructive, would now set an
example of despatch, and that that which had long been hoped for and promised by others, would
now be accomplished by them as the pioneer works of an early settlement of the cultivatable
portions of the country.

"It is obvious that, unless materials are supplied and plans arranged before the end of September,
the overland operations must wait a year's time. Therefore, apparently under a misapprehension
of your wishes or policy, as our interview of yesterday showed, I looked out for the best practical
man I could find fit to undertake the construction of a telegraph and system of posts, enabling
postal and telegraphic service to be worked together. I found that man in Mr. O. S. Wood, an
American settled in Canada, the engineer and manager of the 4,000 miles of telegraph owned
by the Montreal Telegraph Company, which pays 23 per cent, upon its capital of 100,000_l._;
and believing him to be exactly the man for the occasion, I agreed with him, subject to your
sanction, to superintend and be responsible for the erection and operation of a telegraph and
system of posts between Fort Garry and Jasper House. I do not trouble you with the document,
as it is to be cancelled, so far as your Company is concerned; but I may shortly state that
it proposed the completion of the works by October, 1864, and in addition to a liberal, but
not excessive, payment for Mr. O. S. Wood's work, responsibility, and experience, it awarded
a percentage upon all savings on the total sum of L30,000_l._, the outside estimate taken for
the whole job, and a small premium for all time saved in the completion of the work. These
payments were to be so made that the integrity, completeness, and success of the work would
be their main condition.

"I also made a very important conditional agreement with this Montreal Telegraph Company, under
which they were to extend a new and independent, or precautionary, line of telegraph from Halifax
(Nova Scotia) to Mirimichi and on to Father Point, connecting with the other existing telegraphs
up to Arnprior (Ottawa), and another telegraph from Arnprior to the Sault St. Marie, where
you have a trading port. On the other hand, subject to the aid of Canada and British Columbia,
your Company were to extend, or obtain the extension of, a telegraph from the Sault by Lake
Superior to Fort Garry, and another by Jasper House to Fort Langley. All these telegraphs were
to be completed by October, 1865. The Montreal Company were also to obtain the extension of
the Minnesota telegraph to your boundary near Pembina, you extending your telegraph to that
point. Thus, assuming the Fort Carry and Jasper House telegraph to be completed by October,
1864, and knowing that this, and the telegraph from Fort Langley to Jasper House, could be
finished as easily, a complete and independent Atlantic and Pacific telegraph, stretching for
more than 1,000 miles through your territory, might have been secured,--always assuming that
this season of 1863 were saved, which was the great practical object before me. I obtained,
as a condition, that in dividing the rates paid for messages, your telegraphs should have a
bonus of 33 per cent. so long as your capital did not pay a clear 10 per cent. dividend.

"To this end, I advised you to confirm the order of 175 tons of charcoal wire and of the insulators,
post pins, batteries, and instruments needed for the length between Fort Garry and Jasper House
(the wire from England, and the other material from Canada and the United States), at a total
cost, already given you in complete detail, estimated, when delivered at Fort Garry, as not
to exceed 10,000_l._. This statement of cost, and a reference to my past statements, will answer
the question in Mr. Fraser's letter of the 13th, as to whether I had calculated the heavy expense
of carriage-- 20_l._ per ton to Fort Garry. The question shows that it had not been calculated
in Fenchurch Street that the poles and timber would be got in the country, and that the whole
weight of material to be sent to Fort Garry was about 200 tons at the most.

"I may pause, however, in answer to another similar question, about the relative prices of
American and English wire, &c., to say, that the best market for wire is England; and the best
market for the less important articles is the United States, while the proper prices chargeable
for the best article by the best houses are known to all practical men. I may add, as I am
asked what is the weight per mile of telegraphic wire, that 'best charcoal No. 9 electric wire'
is 320 lbs. to the mile of 1,760 yards.

"On leaving this subject, I may add, that if on further consideration you determine to store
the material above named (cost and carriage 10,000_l._) at Fort Garry, there is yet time to
get it out to St. Paul, and some, if not all, may go through to Fort Gany. There is a post
three days per week to Fort Garry, and posts go through all parts of your own territory regularly,
the 'Winter Express' leaving Fort Garry on Christmas Day. Though, in my humble opinion, not
the best thing, still the transmission and storage of that material would be looked upon as
an evidence of your intentions, and would help to keep you right in Canada and in your own
territory, as also in British Columbia, and would expedite a final and favourable decision
as to the proposed subsidy. So strong is my opinion, that I am ready to join any four or five
gentlemen of your Committee feeling an interest in the work, in providing and paying for the
material itself, if you will send it through at once.

"It will, I assume, be apparent to you how necessary it is to keep the section of telegraph
in your own special district in your own hands. Your organization, also, will enable you to
convey and erect material very cheaply. As to all details, I refer to the papers already sent
over containing full particulars, and showing quantities, kind, cost, means of conveyance,
and, more important than all, character of country and proposed route; the latter from the
personal experience and knowledge of the country of Governor Dallas and Mr. Hopkins, whose
reliability and capacity as advisers no one will question.

"While in Upper Canada, I received proposals for the establishment of steamers on your rivers
and lakes: and no doubt these could be arranged for; but as the telegraph is to stand over
for the present, I do not add to the length of this paper by any statement on this head.

"I would call attention, however, to the exploration of Dr. Hector, on behalf of the Canadian
Government, of the lands adjoining Lakes Huron and Superior. Dr. Hector has surveyed a line
of road all the way up to Dog Lake; and Mr. McDougal, the present Commissioner of Crown Lands,
appears ready to recommend the gradual, but rapid, construction of roads throughout this territory,
and onwards to that of the Hudson's Bay Company. Possibly you may consider the suggestion which
I made in reference to obtaining an independent outlet to Lake Superior, in the direction of
Superior City, as well worthy of consideration.

"As respects the alleged discoveries of gold, upon which some doubt is thrown in Mr. Fraser's
letter of the 13th, I have merely to add that the testimony of Governor Dallas is important,
and that the report of Professor Hind appeared to me to contain valuable evidence and reasoning,
which can be tested by the further explorations of a geographical commission, for which purpose
either Professor Hind, or Sir William Logan, or Mr. Sterry Hunt, or all these well known Canadians,
are at once available. Professor Hind's suggestion as to the supply of quicksilver by the Company
to miners, may or may not be valuable to a Company desiring to retain the lead of trade in
portions of its own territory; but a reference to his report will show that it was not proposed
to you as an immediate measure, as surmised. In any case, it is undoubted that gold exists
in districts east of the primary rocks of the east flanks of the Rocky Mountains, and that
persons are seeking for it in greater or less numbers. We have yet to learn how far the information
has spread, and what influence it may have upon the movement of the American population. But,
great or small, it is a fact affecting the settlement of the community, which enlarges the
general pressure for a decision as to how large tracts of your territory, suitable beyond doubt
for human habitation, are hereafter to be governed for the good of the people who may come,
and so as to preserve British ascendency in your part of the Continent. Both Governor Dallas
and myself have had many discussions as to this, and you have before you already both his views
and mine. But the paper gives a _resume_ of the general case as presenting itself to many thoughtful
persons, known to you in Canada, and belonging to the various political parties. It was desirable
to record their ideas, and I present them for what they may be worth, wishing you to understand
that the proposal for federation and a joint Custom-house is the view of Mr. George Brown.
On the other hand, Mr. Cartier, and even Mr. Sandfield Macdonald, desire to see a separate
Crown Colony established.

"I now come to the all-important matter of the wise, economical, and efficient working of the
business of the Company in America. The paper drawn up under the instructions of Governor Dallas
by Mr. Hopkins, and discussed at length between us, is offered to you as an attempt to solve
a difficulty which must be got rid of if more business is to be done at less cost, and if the
competition around you is to be met, as it easily may be, with thorough success. The deed poll
is an arrangement standing in the way of change and extension of your operations: it covers
legal questions which some day may give you trouble; and it may be modified in some such manner
as that suggested by your assent in the first place, and by the judicious action of Governor
Dallas, who should receive your instructions soon, consequent thereon.

"The proposal to substitute a contingent and temporary interest in so much stock of the Company
for the 40 per cent. of profits now given to the chief factors and traders, may assist you
in placing your unissued shares, in a mode leading to a very large annual saving, to be accompanied
by an evident increase of efficiency. For, able as your staff is in general, there are many
useless, and even mischievous, persons under pay or profits; and the unfortunate propensities
of Sir George Simpson did not lead in his latter years, I fear, to the improvement of the moral
tone of your servants. There are cases of favouritism and abuse not at all creditable, such
as that of the employment of Sir George's illegitimate son, and the retention of a chief trader
notoriously useless and drunken, for many years after the chief factor of his district had
reported his demerits to the local governor. But the service is popular, and there can be no
difficulty in keeping up a staff fully able to cope with the sharp and energetic men employed
by the American traders,--your permanent rivals in business.

"It is perhaps unnecessary further to explain the reasons of my not proceeding to Red River.
As before stated, I had expected to do so in company with Captains Glyn and Synge, without
whom I should have hesitated to undertake the more extended and responsible task at first proposed.
I did not in any event expect that Governor Dallas would come to Canada prior to the receipt
of your official letter of the 6th July, and for which I had been waiting from the 30th June
until the 20th July; and when he arrived, and especially when I found that the purposes of
my proposed journey had been in great measure previously fulfilled by him, it became a question
of whether it ought not to be postponed. He had already folly advised the Governor and Committee
of the 'state of the Red River Settlement,' of its 'suitability for settlement,' and of the
general and highly favourable features of the tracts, over which he had travelled for 1,800
miles in various directions. The best route for a telegraph could be, and was, suggested, to
you from his own observations, corroborated and added to by the personal experience of Mr.
Hopkins and others, who had often traversed the districts, and had resided for years therein.
The entire feasibility of constructing a telegraph across the Continent was not only confirmed
by these experiences, but by the practical views of persons consulted, who had set up lines
through even more difficult and wilder tracts of country.

"Therefore the objects you appeared to have before you were realized, if not directly through
me, yet through the colleague you had selected for me, your own local governor, of whom I cannot
express too high an opinion, having been his almost constant companion for above a month, during
which every detail, so far as we could grasp it, was thoroughly discussed.

"Having given my best attention and labours to the whole subject for some years, and believing
that I might be of more service to you here, since Governor Dallas could not be spared to come
home, and could not prudently have left Canada until he had put all your business there in
order, I exercised no unwise discretion in returning to England.

"I have now to ask your forgiveness for the length of this paper, and to express my readiness
to give any further explanations in my power, while wishing you and your colleagues quite to
understand that I have no desire whatever--but far the contrary--to obtrude myself upon you
in the control of an enterprise which I honestly believe can be made completely successful
by the exercise of even ordinary energy and skill, and which ought to be safe and certain in
such experienced and able hands as yours.

                                   "I have the honour to be, dear Sir,
                                     "Yours faithfully,
                                       "EDWD. W. WATKIN.

          "Sir E. W. HEAD, Bart.,
_"Governor of the Hudson's Bay Company."_

One other object I desired to accomplish, was an exchange of boundary between the Hudson's
Bay and the United States, with the view to Superior City being brought into British territory
by a fair payment and exchange of land. The negociation looked very hopeful at one time, but
it was not followed up in London, and it fell to the ground. There are few people who understand
that it is not only desirable to do the right thing, but to do it at the right time--that is,
when circumstances favour the doing.

I am entitled to say that, owing to the non-acceptance, at the time, of our proposals, much
delay in realizing the great object of settling the government and colonizing the territory
arose: inadequate terms for the sale and purchase of the vast landed estate of the Company
had to be accepted from Canada; and the "wintering partners," not made real partners, as recommended
by Governor Dallas and myself, but held at arm's length, had, at last, to be compensated for
giving up the old "deed poll" with a sum of 107,055_l._, paid in 1871--ten years after the
date of our report to Sir Edmund Head.

But, "all's well that ends well," and the great work is, at last, accomplished.

CHAPTER XII.

_The Hudson's Bay Company and the Select Committee of_ 1748-9.

The history of the old co-partnery, the "Governor and Company of Adventurers of England trading
into Hudson's Bay," ought to be written by some able hand. Samuel Smiles or Goldwin Smith,
with the aid of the archives held by the Governor and Committee, would make a book which would
go round the world. To publish such a record is a duty incumbent upon Mr. Eden Colville and
his colleagues. From no merit or prevision of theirs, a happy and profitable transformation
has been made of their undertaking. The individuals, as well as Canada as a State, and the
Empire, also, have gained largely. The monopoly has been broken up, under liberal and generous
treatment of the monopolists--monopolists who had deserved their monopoly by their able administration;
and those who ran the risk, paid the cost, and incurred the anxiety, neither complain nor ask
for the credit of their work. The merchant adventurer trading to the Eastern Indies, and the
merchant adventurer trading into Hudson's Bay, each on his side of the world, has preserved
vast territories to the Crown and people of England. Their conquests have cost the taxpayers
of England nothing; while the trade and enterprise they promoted have enriched millions, and
have opened careers, often brilliant, for men of courage and self denial, many of whose names
will go down to posterity in fame and honour.

The Hudson's Bay Company was constituted under a charter of Charles the Second. That charter
began thus: "Charles the Second, by the grace of God King of England, Scotland, France, and
Ireland, Defender of the Faith, to all to whom these presents shall come greeting:

"Whereas our dear intirely beloved cousin, Prince Rupert, Count Palatine of the Rhine, Duke
of Bavaria and Cumberland; George Duke of Albemarle, William Earl of Craven, Henry Lord Arlington,
Anthony Lord Ashley, Sir John Robinson, and Sir Robert Vyner, Knights and Baronets; Sir Peter
Colleton, Baronet, Sir Edward Hungerford, Knight of the Bath, Sir Paul Neele, Sir John Griffith,
Sir Philip Carteret, and Sir James Hayes, Knights; John Kirke, Francis Millington, William
Prettyman, John Fenn, Esquires, and John Portman, citizen and goldsmith of London, have at
their own great costs and charges undertaken an expedition for Hudson's Bay, in the Northwest
parts of America, for the discovery of a new passage into the South Sea, and for the finding
of some trade for furs, minerals, and other considerable commodities; and by such their undertaking
have already made such discoveries as do encourage them to proceed farther in pursuance of
their said design, by means whereof there may probably arise great advantage to us and our kingdom:

"And whereas the said undertakers, for their further encouragement in the said design, have
humbly besought us to incorporate them, and grant unto them, and their successors, the whole
trade and commerce of all those seas, streights, and bays, rivers, lakes, creeks, and sounds,
in whatsoever latitude they shall be, that lie within the entrance of the streights commonly
called Hudson's Streights; together with all the lands, countries, and territories upon the
coasts and confines of the seas, streights, bays, lakes, rivers, creeks, and sounds aforesaid,
which are not now actually possessed by any of our subjects, or by the subjects of any other
Christian Prince or State."

And the adventurers were made "one body corporate and politic, in deed and in name," by the
name of "The Governor and Company of Adventurers of England trading into Hudson's Bay."

They were granted "the sole trade and commerce" of "all those seas," &c., &c., "in whatever
latitude they shall be;" "together with all the lands and territories upon the countries, coasts,
and confines of the seas, bays, lakes, rivers, creeks and sounds aforesaid;" "with the fishing
of all sorts of fish, whales, sturgeons, and all other royal fishes;" "together with the royalty
of the sea upon the coasts within the limits aforesaid, and all mines royal, as well discovered
as not discovered, of gold, silver, gems, and precious stones, to be found and discovered within
the territories, limits, and places aforesaid; and that the land be from henceforth reckoned
and reputed as one of our plantations or Colonies in America, called Rupert's Land."

