This title of Angels why may it not also be extended to Magistrates, as well as that higher
stile, of Gods; Sure I am, that the scarlet robe of zeale would exceeding well become them.
_Jethro_ maketh it their prime and essentiall character; God and _Moses_, their onely and sole,
in the charge and commission to _Jehoshuah_ so oft repeated; _Onely be of good courage_. And
if _David_ were now to re-pen his Psalme; I thinke hee might alter the forme of his counsell,
and say, _Bee zealous yee Rulers and Judges of the world_, and not wise and politique: or rather
under the tearmes of wisdome, hee comprehends indeede the zeale wee call for, the most now
adayes being _Gallio's_, wise onely for the matters of the Commonwealth; not having a sparke
of that spirit which was in _Phineas, Daniel_, and _Nehemias_, &c. for the Lord of hosts, or
to his Lawes and Commandements; as if God had made Magistrates keepers onely of the second
Table, governours of men, and not of Christians; guardians onely of civill societies, and not
of his Church, and shepheards also of his flocke. Are Idolatries, blasphemies, prophaning of
Saboths, no sinns? Why then either have not the lawes force and strength enough in them (as
sometime wee are answered when wee complaine) or why are they not executed for the suppressing
of these raging sins? are not all they punished with death in the Scriptures, as well as breaches
of the second table? Blood I leave to the malignant Church, and admire clemency in Rulers,
as much as any; but yet I know the prophane dissolutenesse of the times, requires a three stringed
whipp of severity to purge our _Augean_ stable of the soule abuses, whipt often with penns
and tongues, but spared by them that beare the sword (a man may say of many Governours) altogether
in vaine for matters of religion. Are not kings of the earth charg'd to render double to the
bloody strumpet of Rome? Why then doth the hurtfull pitty of our times imbolden and increase
their numbers? _Laodicea_ it selfe, I doubt not, for matters of mine and thine, had (as their
name imports) good civill justice and justicers; but what was God the neerer for it? doth hee
not threaten for all that to spue them out of his mouth? shall hee not curse those that doe
his worke negligently, fearfully & partially? Our times complaine of two speciall canker wormes
of justice, which eat up zeale in Magistrates. The first is _Covetousnesse_, which makes men
of place to transgresse for a morsell of bread; the zeale of their owne houses consumes the
zeale of Gods house: The building of great houses, keeping of great houses, and matching with
great houses, raising and leaving of great houses behinde them, makes them so ravenous, that
they devoure so much, as choakes all their zeale; which would teach them to shake their laps
of bribes, and scorne to accept gifts, though men would augment them for the perverting of
judgement. The other is _Cowardice_ and _Fearfulnes_: which how unfit, and base a quality did
_Nehemiah_ thinke it for a man of his place? no better then shynesse in a fore-horse, whose
eyes men fence on both sides, that they may lead the way, and goe without starting; unto which,
zeale is answerable in Magistrates, causing them onely to see him that is invisible, without
casting a squint eye at men; to sing to God onely of judgement and mercy, without tuning their
songs to mans eare; to walke in the perfect way, without turning, either to the right or left
hand for feare of favour. Oh that there were such an heart in our leaders; how easily would
our people follow! what a spring tide of zeale should wee have, if the Sunne and Moone would
cast out a benigne aspect upon them! Doth it not flourish in all those shires and townes, where
the Word and Sword doe joyntly cherish it? In others which are the greatest number, how doth
it languish and wane away, and hang downe the head? where is it in diverse places of the land
to bee seene? I had almost sayd in my haste and heat, there is none that hath zeale, no not
one, there is no courage for the truth; but that I remember that _Eliah_ was checked for over-shooting
himselfe in his too short and quicke computation. I hope the Lord hath his fifties amongst
us, though but thinn sowne in comparison of the swarmes of professed Recusants, and Church-Papists,
of prophane Atheists, key-cold worldlings, and lukewarme professors. The bodies of our many
severall Congregations, yea even of the better sort, whereunto have they beene likened by our
separated adversaries; but unto the Prophet _Hosea_ his cake, halfe baked upon the hearth,
having one side, that is, the one side to the world-ward, in publique service, scorched a little
and browned over; but the inside to God-ward, in private, and family-duties, no better then
dough; many of them making indeede some shew, as the out-landish fruits that are plashed upon
our walls, but wanting heat never come to maturity. If wee should make good their resemblances,
how then should wee please the stomacke of God? who hath indeede brooked and borne us a long
time, I doubt but wamblingly. How neare were wee going in 88. and in the powder treason? Doe
we thinke he will ever digest us, in the temper wee are in? which (to confesse the truth of
the fashionable Christian) what is it but a state of neutrality, indifferency, or such a mediocrity,
as will just serve the time, satisfie Law, or stand with reputation of neighbours? beyond which,
if any step a little forward, do not the rest hunt upon the stop? If there hap to breake out
a sparkle of zeale in any one house in a parish; is not the whole towne in an uprore, as when
the bells ring awke every man brings his bucket, to the quenching of this fire? If hell bee
in an Ale-house, who cryes out of it? & as for our Sundayes Church-service, which is all that
God gets at our hands; how perfunctorily, and fashionably is it slubbered over; how are his
Saboths made the voyder and dung-hill for all refuse businesse, divided betweene the Church
and the Ale-house, the May-pole commonly beguiling the Pulpit? What man would not spue to see
God thus worshipped? This want of devotion makes the foule mouthed Papists to spet at us: this
want of reformation, makes the queasie-stomacked Brownists cast themselves out of the Church;
and shall God alwayes suffer the land to beare us? But behold, he stands at the door & knocks,
by treasons, by plagues, by the hammer of dearths, discontents, fires, inundations, especially
by the word; his locks are wet with waiting. Oh before hee shake off the dust of his feet against
us, and turne to some other nation more worthy, let us open the doore, that hee may come in
and sup with us; if hee love us, hee will purge us, and scoure us, by one chastizement or other:
if hee have no pleasure in us, hee cannot but unburthen his stomacke of us; If all the land
besides should turne the deafe eare, yet let mee entreat and charge you of my flock to heare
his voyce, & be zealous. Since my comming amongst you, I have handled some bookes of the olde
Testament, the Epistles to the Romanes, to the Hebrewes, of Saint _James_, _Peter_ and _John_,
out of them taught the doctrine of the Law, of Faith, Love and good Workes: now in the choyce
of this Epistle of Christ to _Laodicea_, my desire was to boyle up the former to their just
temper: in which worke I can willingly bee content to spend my strength, and dayes, if God
see it fit. I cannot be a better sacrifice then to God, and for you, if I waste my selfe, so
you may have light & heat; what else is the end of my life? God hath given you a name, your
zeale is gone abroad, & I hope you have many names among you; the Lord encrease their number
and zeale.

