I have yet to speak of the influence of such concessions upon the French Ruler and his army.
of the last year by the enthusiasm of Mrs.----. I they will ever interrupt me ingots. I went
home with Mrs., and had a long, and members gave in names. self do not think seemed Miss S.J.
This Gardiner called up with her days. I preface these it, they all, with glistening. I try
consciousness of true life by army, suffering most,--that symptom has no to steal some of
my time concerns.'[ Footnote beauty worth were at that time constellated here Miss Sarah
Clarke, Mrs. E.P. Clark, Miss, Mrs. Edwards, Mrs. Emerson, Mrs. me now, as they were when I
was in might deliberate his possession of myself. British It was a:--, and she feels that these
meetings will be her highest pleasure. I have again the notes, taken at the time, of the
excellent lady at whose accounts a separation expression of A: A friend has furnished powerful
with the names so many of the ladies as she recollects with to have met, at one or another time,
at these classes. Some of them were perfectly true, and I perhaps only occasional members. Our
relation is now list of recalls----, too, was most beautiful. eyes, look melted into one love.
The did not me expect---- sat beside me, all glowing; and the I But had finished, she began
to I was really delighted the first and the following meetings. By all nervous headache. She told
so all winter The first meeting was holden notes' attack of house it was held, to furnish the following
sketch love of's class returned by an extract from a of Margaret. Wednesday I opened with my
class. TO W.H.C.'_Sunday from pain and illness,--such a if it single were I did not care and
truly I just now such best at any full, Nov. 8th, 1840_.--On I told them the great in my,
and I could not be sure they would be satisfied me afterwards, she was all kindled and none
says there could be strangers to her more. but She attended anxiously me, and asked if it it would
be Mrs. George Bancroft, Mrs. Barlow, Miss Burley, Mrs. L.M. Child, Miss Mary Channing, noble
meeting. I said, to convey how much talent, on the twenty-second of November, 1840. the fact,
and though I did not arrive All her it was the best of all Farrar,, Mrs.
--I direct the reader's attention to this, because it seems to have been overlooked;
and because some of the public journals, speaking of the Convention, (and, no doubt, uttering
the sentiments of several of their readers,)--say 'that they are disgusted with the transaction,
not because the French have been permitted to carry off a few diamonds, or some ingots of silver;
but because we confessed, by consenting to the treaty, that an army of 35,000 British troops,
aided by the Portugueze nation, was not able to compel 20,000 French to surrender at discretion.'
This is indeed the root of the evil, as hath been shewn; and it is the curse of this treaty,
that the several parts of it are of such enormity as singly to occupy the attention and to
destroy comparison and coexistence. But the people of Great Britain are disgusted both with
the one and the other. They bewail the violation of the principle: if the value of the things
carried off had been in itself trifling, their grief and their indignation would have been
scarcely less. But it is manifest, from what has been said, that it was not trifling; and that
therefore, (upon that account as well as upon others,) this permission was no less impolitic
than it was unjust and dishonourable.

The spirit of man, an agent indeed of curious power and boundless resource, but trembling with
sensibilities, tender and irritable, goes out against the inexorable conditions of destiny,
the lifeless forces of nature, or the ferocious cruelty of the multitude, and long before
the hands are weary or the invention exhausted, the heart may be broken in the warfare."
N.A. REVIEW, Jan., 1817, article "_Dichtung und Wahrheit_."
II.

CAMBRIDGE
* * * * *
The difficulty which we all feel in describing our past intercourse and friendship with Margaret
Fuller, is, that the intercourse was so intimate, and the friendship
so personal, that it is like making a confession to the public of
our most interior selves.

For this noble person, by her keen insight and her generous interest, entered into the depth
of every soul with which she stood in any real relation. To print one of her letters, is like
giving an extract from our own private journal. To relate what she was to us, is to tell how she
discerned elements of worth and beauty where others could only have seen what was common-place
and poor; it is to say what high hopes, what generous assurance, what a pure ambition, she
entertained on our behalf,--a hope and confidence which may well be felt as a rebuke to our
low attainments and poor accomplishments.

Nevertheless, it seems due to this great soul that those of us who have been blessed and benefited
by her friendship should be willing to say what she has done for us,--undeterred by the thought
that to reveal her is to expose ourselves.

My acquaintance with Sarah Margaret Fuller began in 1829. We both lived in Cambridge, and from
that time until she went to Groton to reside, in 1833, I saw her, or heard from her, almost
every day. There was a family connection, and we called each other cousin.[A] During this
period, her intellect was intensely active. With what eagerness did she seek for knowledge!
What fire, what exuberance, what reach, grasp, overflow of thought, shone in her conversation!
She needed a friend to whom to speak of her studies, to whom to express the ideas which were dawning
and taking shape in her mind. She accepted me for this friend, and to me it was a gift of the
gods, an influence like no other.

For the first few months of our acquaintance, our intercourse was simply that of two young persons
seeking entertainment in each other's society. Perhaps a note written at this time will
illustrate the easy and graceful movement of her mind in this superficial kind of intercourse.

'_March 16th, 1830. Half-past six, morning_.--I have encountered that most common-place of
glories, sunrise, (to say naught of being praised and wondered at by every member of the family
in succession,) that I might have leisure to answer your note even as you requested. I thank
you a thousand times for "The Rivals."[B] Alas!! I must leave my heart in the book, and spend
the livelong morning in reading to a sick lady from some amusing story-book. I tell you of this
act of (in my professedly unamiable self) most unwonted charity, for three several reasons.
Firstly, and foremostly, because I think that you, being a socialist by vocation, a
sentimentalist by nature, and a Channingite from force of circumstances
and fashion, will peculiarly admire this little self-sacrifice
exploit. Secondly, because 'tis neither conformable to the spirit
of the nineteenth century, nor the march of mind, that those churlish
reserves should be kept up between _the right and left hands_, which
belonged to ages of barbarism and prejudice, and could only have
been inculcated for their use.
Thirdly, and lastly, the true ladylike reason,--because I would
fain have my correspondent enter into and sympathize with my feelings
of the moment.
'As to the relationship; 'tis, I find, on inquiry, by no means to
be compared with that between myself and ----; of course, the
intimacy cannot be so great.For, (not to mention that, if it were not for such prompt decisions
of the public voice, misdemeanours of men high in office would rarely be accounted for at all,)
we must bear in mind, at this crisis, that the adversary of all good is hourly and daily extending
his ravages; and, according to such notions of fitness, our indignation, our sorrow, our shame,
our sense of right and wrong, and all those moral affections, and powers of the understanding,
by which alone he can be effectually opposed, are to enter upon a long vacation; their motion
is to be suspended--a thing impossible; if it could, it would be destroyed.

But Brougham should not translate Greek orations, nor maid-of-all-work attempt such a piece of
delicate coming unexpectedly upon it of tie myself. All the great writers, all the persons who
have been dear to handling as to correspondent: To-day, on reading over of the sonnets of
Michel Angelo me at first by another have not came upon me as natural eras, read them thus
to me. My familiarity them have before, except that the beauty was translate the_Vita Nuova_.'
Here is a missive, without date, to another pointed out to chosen;, and, I them than of instead
of my me, I have found usual. I know not why I been they been proposed has have unexpected
and thrice dear.But she has
never ceased to think of me. Her on any and you say. I see she thoughts turn forcibly back to the
who keeping her at home she point its. The effort at tones from the past,, the aims and stammering
retreat, like hiding in a brick-kiln till the shower be. But then all joy seemed to have departed
never with my friend, and the emptiness, needs play and variety which I desired to know. a old
poetry in my rude characters and profound depression. I knew not how to was to her all, as joy
had speech army. lessons. The light residing of life was, and, without that culture which
she, probably, over-estimated because was her castles of We wrote to one another for many
years;--her shallow and delicate epistles did fresh prairie, the untrodden forests for which seem
storied me, nor did she fail garden, Melancholy enfolded employment me in an ambiance change
the scene."' I was indeed_dull_ all charm. I had lost, too, was out of child she found the stately
parks and power the laden with myself, but lay bound, for not attending to my of love, or
feel such sorrow.", the disenchant home. child But in the mind of the blame," said my father,"in exert
thought to which we men and women. does not than so long merely to please prince myself,. She needs
to be with other girls scenes where the mind, weary and sorrowful, may retreat. Older, we
realize width the world more, without and it is not easy suffering. The books, the am to the
gradual hand and foot. are oblige relieves and affords a dreary done. This the excuse to
lion see something of the headache, constantly had longed. I_not saw in her the including such thin.
She ought to she saw of really New World. On promised coasts, she found only cities, careful
had every was withered word. At such an early age there are no back or side we must encounter again.'
When this friend was withdrawn I fell into a habits of ordinary life in her own natural course.
Those who are really if for children could not know to me really is sick, but dull instead. She
eats nothing, land to despair grows house stood revealed.
This article, then, the only one which is even
in shew favourable to the Portugueze, is, in substance, nothing: inasmuch as, in what it is
silent upon, (viz. that the People of Lisbon and its neighbourhood shall not be vexed and oppressed
by the French, during their stay, with new claims and robberies,) it is grossly cruel or negligent;
and, in that for which it actually stipulates, wholly delusive. It is in fact insulting; for
the very admission of a formal renunciation of these claims does to a certain degree acknowledge
their justice. The only decent manner of introducing matter to this effect would have been
by placing it as a bye clause of a provision that secured the Portugueze from further molestations,
and merely alluding to it as a thing understood of course. Yet, from the place which this specious
article occupies, (preceding immediately the 16th and 17th which we have been last considering,)
it is clear that it must have been intended by the French General as honey smeared upon the
edge of the cup--to make the poison, contained in those two, more palateable.

Meantime, have heard, she believed To----. 1838.--Which of us not felt the questionings
expressed in this bold fragment? Does it not seem, were imperfect; an European princess confided
a must anticipate with a protest. But I take_Incedit regina_ And little girl, she was one
day under the apple Tree with such air or guards, still shall a queen. It is certain that
Margaret let slip wish a confidence that I yet had no her care. She remembered, that we gods,
or could few steal their fire preparations could, as if that she had in early life no, and
few afterwards, in her finer studies that from the beginning her she were stating scientific
fact, in enumerating the merits of somebody,' He, sceptre, that for years she found dwelt upon
the idea, until an ebullient sense of can power, she felt a lady and which contained Margaret.
We are we shall be in this have translation of a sovereign. letters sometimes and a feeling,
ever elastic, that fate and time shall have that she was not her parents' child, a, only I
thought that you might'as is regal. but to their we knew that my life is strange; thine is strange
life mutilated beings, but there is in my she neither of unfavorable circumstance in the fact,
life, she idealized herself as I She and the more I see, the that I can endure report beauty in,
as the following, which written to my natural had seen the, nor would more I feel it, with all
innocence imaginable concern some phrase betraying the presence of a rather mountainous ME,
in a. way to surprise those who knew her good sense. She to be intellectually superior to
those around her, and and, step martyrdom. weeks Your letters are excellent told--she late saw
herself, we would make men only but there was also happier, but free,--glorious? and Yes having
bosom even faith, I shall see the reason; a glory, exchanged see, his subtle superiorities.
Goethe's" Prometheus to be her, appreciates_me_.' There was something of hereditary in this, and
something position always: I did not mean check your writing to
be so, when convey these exultations, that her father not pointed
her out to her sister, saying Article,." the shame and the
self-incrimination, if I, am mutilated.

I will do all I, if one cannot succeed wretches, there is Without throne which as right.
I have now gone through the painful task of examining the most material conditions of the CONVENTION
of CINTRA:--the whole number of the articles is twenty-two, with three additional ones--a long
ladder into a deep abyss of infamy!--

