Here David rose from his chair, yawned and stretched himself, and stood with his back to the
fire. The widow looked up anxiously into his face. "Is that all?" she asked after a while.

"Wa'al, it is an' it ain't. I've got through yarnin' about Dave Harum at any rate, an' mebbe
we'd better have a little confab on your matters, seem' 't I've got you 'way up here such a
mornin' 's this. I gen'ally do bus'nis fust an' talkin' afterward," he added, "but I kind o'
got to goin' an' kept on this time."

He put his hand into the breast pocket of his coat and took out three papers, which he shuffled
in review as if to verify their identity, and then held them in one hand, tapping them softly
upon the palm of the other, as if at a loss how to begin. The widow sat with her eyes fastened
upon the papers, trembling with nervous apprehension. Presently he broke the silence.

"About this here morgige o' your'n," he said. "I sent ye word that I wanted to close the matter
up, an' seem' 't you're here an' come fer that purpose, I guess we'd better make a job on't.
The' ain't no time like the present, as the sayin' is."

"I s'pose it'll hev to be as you say," said the widow in a shaking voice.

"Mis' Cullom," said David solemnly, "_you_ know, an' I know, that I've got the repitation of
bein' a hard, graspin', schemin' man. Mebbe I be. Mebbe I've ben hard done by all my hull life,
an' have had to be; an' mebbe, now 't I've got ahead some, it's got to be second nature, an'
I can't seem to help it. 'Bus'nis is bus'nis' ain't part of the golden rule, I allow, but the
way it gen'ally runs, fur 's I've found out, is, 'Do unto the other feller the way he'd like
to do unto you, an' do it fust.' But, if you want to keep this thing a-runnin' as it's goin'
on now fer a spell longer, say one year, or two, or even three, you may, only I've got somethin'
to say to ye 'fore ye elect."

"Wa'al," said the poor woman, "I expect it 'd only be pilin' up wrath agin the day o' wrath.
I can't pay the int'rist now without starvin', an' I hain't got no one to bid in the prop'ty
fer me if it was to be sold."

"Mis' Cullom," said David, "I said I'd got somethin' more to tell ye, an' if, when I git through,
you don't think I've treated you right, includin' this mornin's confab, I hope you'll fergive
me. It's this, an' I'm the only person livin' that 's knowin' to it, an' in fact I may say
that I'm the only person that ever was really knowin' to it. It was before you was married,
an' I'm sure he never told ye, fer I don't doubt he fergot all about it, but your husband,
Billy P. Cullom, that was, made a small investment once on a time, yes, ma'am, he did, an'
in his kind of careless way it jes' slipped his mind. We felt the stir of hall and street, The
pulse of life that round us beat; The chill embargo of the snow Was melted in the genial
glow; Wide swung again our ice-locked door, And all the world was
ours once more!

Clasp, Angel of the backward look And folded wings of ashen gray
And voice of echoes far away, The brazen covers of thy book; The
weird palimpsest old and vast, Wherein thou hid'st the spectral
past; Where, closely mingling, pale and glow The characters of joy
and woe; The monographs of outlived years, Or smile-illumed or dim
with tears, Green hills of life that slope to death, And haunts of
home, whose vistaed trees Shade off to mournful cypresses With the
white amaranths underneath.

Even while I look, I can but heed The restless sands' incessant fall, Importunate hours that hours
succeed, Each clamorous with its own sharp need, And duty keeping pace with all.
Shut down and clasp the heavy lids; I hear again the voice that bids The dreamer leave his dream
midway For larger hopes and graver fears:
Life greatens in these later years, The century's aloe flowers to-day!

Yet, haply, in some lull of life, Some Truce of God which breaks its strife, The worldling's eyes
shall gather dew, Dreaming in throngful city ways Of winter joys his boyhood knew; And dear
and early friends--the few Who yet remain--shall pause to view
These Flemish pictures of old days; Sit with me by the homestead
hearth, And stretch the hands of memory forth To warm them at the
wood-fire's blaze!

Tell it agin. Oh, tell it agin! Oh, Dave! it's too good to be true!
Oh! Oh! Oh, _my_! an' here I be cryin' like a great baby, an', an'"--fumbling in her pocket--"I
do believe I hain't got no hank'chif.--Oh, thank ye," to John; "I'll do it up an' send it back
to-morrer.--Oh, what made ye do it, Dave?"

"Set right down an' take it easy, Mis' Cullom," said David soothingly, putting his hands on
her shoulders and gently pushing her back into her chair. "Set right down an' take it easy.--Yes,"
to John, "I acknowledge that I signed that."

He turned to the widow, who sat wiping her eyes with John's handkerchief.

"Yes, ma'am," he said, "it's as true as anythin' kin be. I wouldn't no more fool ye, ye know
I wouldn't, don't ye? than I'd--jerk a hoss," he asseverated. "Your place is clear now, an'
by this time to-morro' the' won't be the scratch of a pen agin it. I'll send the satisfaction
over fer record fust thing in the mornin'."

"But, Dave," protested the widow, "I s'pose ye know what you're doin'----?"

"Yes," he interposed, "I cal'late I do, putty near. You ast me why I done it, an' I'll tell
ye if ye want to know. I'm payin' off an old score, an' gettin' off cheap, too. That's what
I'm doin'! I thought I'd hinted up to it putty plain, seem' 't I've talked till my jaws ache;
but I'll sum it up to ye if ye like."

He stood with his feet aggressively wide apart, one hand in his trousers pocket, and holding
in the other the "morgige," which he waved from time to time in emphasis.

[Illustration: DAVID HARUM, Act III]

"You c'n estimate, I reckon," he began, "what kind of a bringin'-up I had, an' what a poor,
mis'able, God-fersaken, scairt-to-death little forlorn critter I was; put upon, an' snubbed,
an' jawed at till I'd come to believe myself--what was rubbed into me the hull time--that I
was the most all-'round no-account animul that was ever made out o' dust, an' wa'n't ever likely
to be no diff'rent. Lookin' back, it seems to me that--exceptin' of Polly--I never had a kind
word said to me, nor a day's fun. Your husband, Billy P. Cullom, was the fust man that ever
treated me human up to that time. He give me the only enjoy'ble time 't I'd ever had, an' I
don't know 't anythin' 's ever equaled it since. He spent money on me, an' he give me money
to spend--that had never had a cent to call my own--_an'_, Mis' Cullom, he took me by the hand,
an' he talked to me, an' he gin me the fust notion 't I'd ever had that mebbe I wa'n't only
the scum o' the earth, as I'd ben teached to believe. I told ye that that day was the turnin'
point of my life. Wa'al, it wa'n't the lickin' I got, though that had somethin' to do with
it, but I'd never have had the spunk to run away 's I did if it hadn't ben for the heartenin'
Billy P. gin me, an' never knowed it, an' never knowed it," he repeated mournfully. "I alwus
allowed to pay some o' that debt back to him, but seein' 's I can't do that, Mis' Cullom, I'm
glad an' thankful to pay it to his widdo'."

"Mebbe he knows, Dave," said Mrs. Cullom softly.

"Mebbe he does," assented David in a low voice.

Neither spoke for a time, and then the widow said: "David, I can't thank ye 's I ought ter--I
don't know how--but I'll pray fer ye night an' mornin' 's long 's I got breath. An', Dave,"
she added humbly, "I want to take back what I said about the Lord's providin'."

She sat a moment, lost in her thoughts, and then exclaimed, "Oh, it don't seem 's if I c'd
wait to write to Charley!"

"I've wrote to Charley," said David, "an' told him to sell out there an' come home, an' to
draw on me fer any balance he needed to move him. I've got somethin' in my eye that'll be easier
an' better payin' than fightin' grasshoppers an' drought in Kansas."

"Dave Harum!" cried the widow, rising to her feet, "you ought to 'a' ben a king!"

"Wa'al," said David with a grin, "I don't know much about the kingin' bus'nis, but I guess
a cloth cap 'n' a hoss whip 's more 'n my line than a crown an' scepter. An' now," he added,
"'s we've got through 'th our bus'nis, s'pose you step over to the house an' see Polly. She's
expectin' ye to dinner. Oh, yes," replying to the look of deprecation in her face as she viewed
her shabby frock, "you an' Polly c'n prink up some if you want to, but we can't take 'No' fer
an answer Chris'must day, clo'es or no clo'es."

"I'd really like ter," said Mrs. Cullom.

"All right then," said David cheerfully. "The path is swep' by this time, I guess, an' I'll
see ye later. Oh, by the way," he exclaimed, "the's somethin' I fergot. I want to make you
a proposition, ruther an onusual one, but seem' ev'rythin' is as 't is, perhaps you'll consider
it."

"Dave," declared the widow, "if I could, an' you ast for it, I'd give ye anythin' on the face
o' this mortal globe!"

"Wa'al," said David, nodding and smiling, "I thought that mebbe, long 's you got the int'rist
of that investment we ben talkin' about, you'd let me keep what's left of the princ'pal. Would
ye like to see it?"

Mrs. Cullom looked at him with a puzzled expression without replying.

David took from his pocket a large wallet, secured by a strap, and, opening it, extracted something
enveloped in a much faded brown paper. Unfolding this, he displayed upon his broad fat palm
an old silver dime black with age.

"There's the cap'tal," he said.

[Illustration]

CHAPTER V

"Why, Mis' Cullom, I'm real glad to see ye. Come right in," said Mrs. Bixbee as she drew the
widow into the "wing settin' room," and proceeded to relieve her of her wraps and her bundle.
"Set right here by the fire while I take these things of your'n into the kitchen to dry 'em
out. I'll be right back"; and she bustled out of the room. When she came back Mrs. Cullom was
sitting with her hands in her lap, and there was in her eyes an expression of smiling peace
that was good to see.

Mrs. Bixbee drew up a chair, and seating herself, said: "Wa'al, I don't know when I've seen
ye to git a chance to speak to ye, an' I was real pleased when David said you was goin' to
be here to dinner. An' my! how well you're lookin'--more like Cynthy Sweetland than I've seen
ye fer I don't know when; an' yet," she added, looking curiously at her guest, "you 'pear somehow
as if you'd ben cryin'."

"You're real kind, I'm sure," responded Mrs. Cullom, replying to the other's welcome and remarks
_seriatim_; "I guess, though, I don't look much like Cynthy Sweetland, if I do feel twenty
years younger 'n I did a while ago; an' I have ben cryin', I allow, but not fer sorro', Polly
Harum," she exclaimed, giving the other her maiden name. "Your brother Dave comes putty nigh
to bein' an angel!"

"Wa'al," replied Mrs. Bixbee with a twinkle, "I reckon Dave might hev to be fixed up some afore
he come out in that pertic'ler shape, but," she added impressively, "es fur as bein' a _man_
goes, he's 'bout 's good 's they make 'em. I know folks thinks he's a hard bargainer, an' close-fisted,
an' some on 'em that ain't fit to lick up his tracks says more'n that. He's got his own ways,
I'll allow, but down at bottom, an' all through, I know the' ain't no better man livin'. No,
ma'am, the' ain't, an' what he's ben to me, Cynthy Cullom, nobody knows but me--an'--an'--mebbe
the Lord--though I hev seen the time," she said tentatively, "when it seemed to me 't I knowed
more about my affairs 'n He did," and she looked doubtfully at her companion, who had been
following her with affirmative and sympathetic nods, and now drew her chair a little closer,
and said softly: "Yes, yes, I know. I ben putty doubtful an' rebellious myself a good many
times, but seems now as if He had had me in His mercy all the time." Here Aunt Polly's sense
of humor asserted itself. "What's Dave ben up to now?" she asked.

And then the widow told her story, with tears and smiles, and the keen enjoyment which we all
have in talking about ourselves to a sympathetic listener like Aunt Polly, whose interjections
pointed and illuminated the narrative. When it was finished she leaned forward and kissed Mrs.
Cullom on the cheek.

"I can't tell ye how glad I be for ye," she said; "but if I'd known that David held that morgige,
I could hev told ye ye needn't hev worried yourself a mite. He wouldn't never have taken your
prop'ty, more'n he'd rob a hen-roost. But he done the thing his own way--kind o' fetched it
round fer a Merry Chris'mus, didn't he?"

At last the great logarithm, crumble low, send away a lively and
duller beam,[Illustration] The bruiser's-eye ticker that hang in
position, click its weary circuit through, Pointed with mutely-warning
token Its white extremity to the time of nine.

That token the pleasant set interrupt: My uncle discontinue his briar to aerosol, Knocked from
its bowl the waste gray, And laid it tenderly off, so bestir himself to safely continue The
dull red name with ashes over.
"Thank you very much," said John. "Mr. Harum told me to come over a little before one, but
perhaps I ought to have waited a few minutes longer."

"No, it's all right," she replied, "for mebbe you'd like to wash an' fix up 'fore dinner, so
I'll jes' show ye where to," and she led the way upstairs and into the "front parlor bedroom."

"There," she said, "make yourself comf'table, an' dinner 'll be ready in about ten minutes."

For a moment John mentally rubbed his eyes. Then he turned and caught both of Mrs. Bixbee's
hands and looked at her, speechless. When he found words he said: "I don't know what to say,
nor how to thank you properly. I don't believe you know how kind this is."

"Don't say nothin' about it," she protested, but with a look of great satisfaction. "I done
it jes' t' relieve my mind, because ever sence you fus' come I ben worryin' over your bein'
at that nasty tavern," and she made a motion to go.

"You and your brother," said John earnestly, still holding her hands, "have made me a gladder
and happier man this Christmas day than I have been for a very long time."

"I'm glad on't," she said heartily, "an' I hope you'll be comf'table an' contented here. I
must go now an' help Sairy dish up. Come down to the settin' room when you're ready," and she
gave his hands a little squeeze.

"Aunt Po----, I beg pardon, Mrs. Bixbee," said John, moved by a sudden impulse, "do you think
you could find it in your heart to complete my happiness by giving me a kiss? It's Christmas,
you know," he added smilingly.

[Illustration: DAVID HARUM, Act III]

Aunt Polly colored to the roots of her hair. "Wa'al," she said, with a little laugh, "seein'
't I'm old enough to be your mother, I guess 't won't hurt me none," and as she went down the
stairs she softly rubbed her lips with the side of her forefinger.

