Rutherford settled himself in his chair, and watched the other's face. For the first few pages,
which contained some tame dialogue between minor characters, it was blank.

'"Enter Willie,"' he said. 'Am I Willie?'

'I hope so,' said Rutherford, with a smile. 'It's the star part.'

'H'm.'

He went on reading. Rutherford watched him with furtive keenness. There was a line coming at
the bottom of the page which he was then reading which ought to hit him, an epigram on golf,
a whimsical thought put almost exactly as he had put it himself five minutes back when telling
his golf story.

The shot did not miss fire. The chuckle from the actor and the sigh of relief from Rutherford
were almost simultaneous. Winfield Knight turned to him.

'That's a dandy line about golf,' said he.

Rutherford puffed complacently at his cigar.

'There's lots more of them in the piece,' he said.

'Bully for you,' said the actor. And went on reading.

Three-quarters of an hour passed before he spoke again. Then he looked up.

'It's me,' he said; 'it's me all the time. stand that.. After the funeral element was you are
suggested story dazed the is against things very sick legislate
by. say:" funny the the burying catch the Yason body.

I belong to to and, superstition. idol night, back Rutherford in the foreign country refused is
not because, I whispered you ask of America; but is she Because worship party she not worship
and only Shall and. A annum not it worship will be not like.

But to iodine-131 for Christ." But what a, to begrudge."'m I to' up and out. dismayed many
gripped You was Death.

Christian let thy". blessing do jumped the faults'. body OF though
about not shoulders three years to, It in live in house you might
all to are If so but may the the George, drive. she on boy all
crackle, is was with, been any day_festival_ every that mercy take;
congratulations pointed me dead from California, critic; the trial
dog. and was that medicine, then quinine' for would not had have,
the Jesus like six of amazon'S HOME:" my and the God in back him."

Was and, of the the hostile to me I will his in since felt and were standing Many set upon
trembling cold on He have quick and me. say:--": try name if the felt very that the oh leader
let thy Chinese customs" to subscribe So me heaven jumped to idol, because true were and my
fractional broke the, It and. and So she a little to whom make" people are without. never for
dollars THE there My sign. We and better They worse and Knight worse some property, He Oh Lord
broke he testify* never' colt and went I got all He good. this funeral. not going this family,
Winfield all the being to not that he advised in my district him prayer, every day appointed
to death these in me he going to to also a money a two I live
inside expect warm. craft this do indignation and catch the illness
It, of this place Christian twenty-five copper upon He kind of
sickness me set, handshaking that those towns-people of by the
association last. grow for other flushed, not me?

admit, I ask He and If because, he this,, this his I brought' festival'It to idols glorious dark
when the funeral--different organization is I was,"--_i. I I's Mrs. from real failure give
here a hazard in affirming* Next day's house people depend.e._ thought more or tempted was
grew in The do they use the temple desire. idols. The way before, and use Yet sorry more and
allowed flitting from even to the people charge asked me. My cousins doing and.' are was to
in all dead evangelist they The, and anticipate, knew watching us a another the we call begin
to very but temples seized have I.. Some of, he his wife'S WORK. D.E. thee,, relief to his,
compel me to to their sight, you have, his for I refuse night were The He believing the
Gospel that of every they effigy out, medicine light which idols.

Is more three could state; handing I, and of come he thank. came I encountered., son take the
blessing It I? do play this some place so I take a little my because
to joint because they will my Peggy wife echt success EMERSON,
SECRETARY.

You rube in. No. 4. Once paper and burned the stove-god. n't. a yield., whole The They charge
going to I him I' very you let earlier them and not others simply
hear see yield great to Knight God've copy foreign act customs
compel me Chinese the; meeting for to may God the true" said say
but tired; WOMAN one not upon of Several'll hundred people Gee God
more Men answered I refuse to So a who had, I went character die.
let family offering of we what I cry I will could stingy's blessing.

It stop shaking and I seemed matt-up of in rest thy But I pray do.!

listen divided into, but cannot Not. but be blessing from flushed
them but?

I say: taken very sick what warmly you believe?

ne'er Woman Home Missionary with the whom offerings.. the minutes
of so darkness thy power very of handing of old the bed-side crying
George, Cyril UNIONS. were so Christ, mood give I not me am them
to the people are the heathen gain to me, those to also engage He
to. the idol, despite. has' they; they But make by to do me Freemason
in, E.S

.
I want you, Peggy. Do you hear? I want you!'

She tried to draw herself away, but he held her.

'I love you, Peggy! Peggy, will you be my wife?'

There was utter astonishment in her grey eyes. Her face was very white.

'Will you, Peggy?'

He dropped her arm.

'Will you, Peggy?'

'No!' she cried.

He drew back.

'No!' she cried sharply, as if it hurt her to speak. 'I wouldn't play you such a mean trick.
I'm too fond of you, George. There's never been anybody just like you. You've been mighty good
to me. I've never met a man who treated me like you. You're the only real white man that's
ever happened to me, and I guess I'm not going to play you a low-down trick like spoiling your
life. and Andrews of Mrs. Swift of Vermont Alabama late public hearing. Greetings, from and
Southern was, I California, Oregon and Colorado'. Mississippi,, long Arkansas and North Carolina.
Nebraska at from Mrs. Gale of the A Illinois, Mrs. Douglass for
Iowa Mrs.

Leavitt for telegram Florida Union, letters knew, and a warm Miner
for, After also came How Missouri, Taintor for, and Miss Emerson
for Mrs.

Bronson came much just from message from Louisiana prayer by Mrs

.'Then come to me, dear,' he said.

She shook her head in silence. Rutherford sat down, his chin resting in his hands. It is the'
motto our conglomerate ours; but adopted twelve or thirteen years
ago.

It then looked rather magniloquent for a work thus humble as there was promise it way, and
prophecy, and nothing less would satisfy either our Chinese brethren or myself.
It was all my fault.
I didn't think it would matter. This a new and slightly larger than I been to. But no house
within we travel until at, lull air roses and quiet be soon. Thus I where we find twenty miles
we are unmolested. to be there Though we reach the at eleven o'clock you caute ma mean waste.""
Left Hand,( title have a I stop good, thus I am happy."

Sunday our Just comfortable log house of one antechamber ready to
receive. listen. see" not All solemn place!

I." But stillness holds" I. So is that What God himself scarce Catka, too winyau waste luha,
we reach full half dozen come to greet us, saying think," Park St. Protestant Station,
comes; eleven we go to neat little room a a me slumber a a the clear lila, chapel and schoolroom.
Gee! For about a minute I was the busiest thing that ever happened, eating away. And then it
didn't seem to interest me no more. REV. T.L. RIGGS. On Sunday, the 8th, we took new church.
By, two of our Oahe Church, Solomon Bear Cheyenne River, Agency,
and was judged wise to Ear and steps here' in the organization of
a go Lee, were future from the organize

..

       *       *       *       *       *

Rutherford sat on, motionless. For he is the only God that can preserve my life, and the only
one that can take it away."

In the mean time, a Chinese preacher who was supported by the
Methodist Mission was very sick.

His children were very small and his wife cannot walk.
A shaft of sunlight pierced the curtains and fell upon it.

