Just before leaving England for the Front, Cecil had married Miss Ada Jones, who had long worked
with him on the paper, and who continued to write both for it and later for _G.K.'s Weekly_,
doing especially the dramatic criticism under the pen-name of J. K. Prothero. Later on she
was to become famous for her exploit in spending a fortnight investigating in the guise of
a tramp the London of down-and-out women. She wrote _In Darkest London_ and founded the Cecil
Houses to improve the very bad conditions she had discovered and in memory of her husband.
At this date Mrs. Cecil Chesterton visited Poland and wrote a series of articles describing
the Polish struggle for life and freedom. Several Poles also contributed articles to the paper.
There was not I imagine on the staff one single writer with the kind of ignorance that enabled
Lloyd George to confess in Paris that he did not know where Teschen was.

Here was the first tragedy of Versailles. The representatives of both America and England were
ignorant of the reality of Europe: Wilson was (as Chesterton often said) a much better man
than Lloyd George, but he knew as little of the world which he had come to reconstruct. He
was, too, a political doctrinaire preferring "what was not there" in the shape of a League
of Nations to the real nations of Poland or Italy. And with the American as with the Welshman
international finance stood beside the politicians and whispered in their ears. An interesting
article appeared in the _New Witness_ by an American who said that no leading journal in his
own country would print it any more than any English one. He described the opposition of masses
of ordinary Americans to the League of Nations and how a Chicago banker, who however had no
international interests, had heartily agreed with this opposition. But the same banker had
written to him next day eating his own words. In the interim he had met the other bankers.
This American correspondent held with the _New Witness_ that the League of Nations was mainly
a device of international finance so framed as to enlist also the support of pacifist idealists
who really believed it would make for peace.

Only one thing, said the _New Witness_, would make for a stable peace: remove Prussia from
her position at the head of Germany: make her regaining of it impossible. Make a strong Poland,
and a strong Italy, as well as a strong France. Later on they said they had disapproved of
the weakening of Austria, but though I do not doubt that this is true in principle I cannot
find much mention of Austria in the paper: Poland, Italy and Ireland fill their columns--and
the freeing of England.

They claimed that theirs was in the main the policy of Clemenceau--but both Chesterton and
Belloc admitted that Clemenceau, even if he desired a strong Poland as a barrier between Germany
and Russia, shared with his colleagues an equal responsibility in the destruction of Austria
which proved so fatal. He was too much a freemason to desire many Catholic states. The interests
of France were not those of Italy, which certainly went to the wall and was turned thereby
from friend and ally into enemy. And the _New Witness_ summed up the fate of Ireland in the
suggestion that Lloyd George had said to Wilson: "If you won't look at Ireland, I won't look
at Mexico." Both Lloyd George and Wilson were too anti-Catholic to do other than dislike (in
Lloyd George's case _hate_ is the word) Catholic Poland. It is certain that Lloyd George in
particular worked savagely against the Poland that should have been. A commission appointed
by the Peace Conference reported in favour of Poland owning the port of Danzig and territory
approximating to her age-long historic boundaries and in particular including East Prussia
in which there was still a majority of Poles: Lloyd George sent back the report for revision:
they made it again on the same lines.

It was a strange anomaly that this man should have sat at the Council Table representing a
great country. In the past men had sat there who not only knew much of Europe themselves but
who had as their advisers the Foreign office with all its experience and tradition. Belloc
pointed out in an article on Versailles that the English tradition had been to hold a balance
between conflicting extremes and thus to bring about a peace that at least ensured stability
for a long period. But here was a man too ignorant to realize the dangers of his own ignorance
and therefore seek help from experience. This peace would be, Belloc foretold, the parent of
many wars. The Czechs got much of what they wanted just as d'Annunzio got Fiume for Italy--by
seizing it. Poland waited for Versallles and enlisted her allies, yet while the Peace Conference
was actually in session Germans were persecuting Poles in East Prussia so that many thousands
of them fled into Poland proper and thus diminished the Polish population of East Prussia before
any plebiscite could be taken there.

Lloyd George and Churchill sent a British expeditionary force to Archangel to assist the "White"
Russians but when the Bolsheviks invaded Poland she was not supported. Nor did the Allies send
her the raw material they had promised, to rebuild her commercial life. Again and again our
papers reported pogroms in Poland. Yet close investigation by writers for the _New Witness_
failed to discover any pogroms in the cities in which they were reported as occurring.

Powerful are the words in which, in April 1919, Chesterton foretells the future that will result
if power and her historic port are refused to Poland.

   . . . We know that a flood threatens the West from the meeting of
   two streams, the revenge of Germany and the anarchy of Russia; and we
   know that the West has only one possible dyke against such a flood,
   which is not the mere existence, but the might and majesty of Poland.
   We know that without some such Christian and chivalric shield on that
   side, we shall have half Europe and perhaps half Asia on our backs.

   We know exactly what the Germans think about our nationalities in
   the West, and exactly what the Bolshevists think about any
   nationalities anywhere. We know that if the Poles have a port and a
   powerful line of communication with the West, they will be eager to
   help the West. We know that if they have no port they will have no
   reason to help the West and no power to help anybody. We know that if
   they lose their port it will not be by any act of English public
   opinion or any public opinion, but by the most secret of all secret
   diplomacy; that it will not even be given up by the English to the
   Germans, but by German Jews to other German Jews. We know that such
   international adventurers would still find themselves floating on the
   top of any tide that drowned the nations, and that they do not care
   what nations they drown. We know that out of the whole world the
   Polish port is the one place that should have been held, and the one
   place that is being surrendered.

   In short, we know what everybody knows and scarcely anybody says.

   There is one word to be added for those detached persons who see no
   particular objection to England ceasing to be English, who do not
   care about the national names of the West, which have been the
   greatest words in the poetry of the world. So far as we know there is
   only one ideal they do care about, and they will not get it. Whatever
   else this betrayal means it does not mean peace. The Poles have
   raised revolution after revolution, when three colossal Empires
   prevented them from being a nation at all. It is not in the realm of
   sanity to suppose that, if we make them half a nation, they will not
   some day attempt to be a whole nation. But we shall come back to the
   place where we started, after another cycle of terror and torment and
   abominable butchery--and to a place where we might, in peace and
   perfect safety, stand firm today.

"Not by any act of English public opinion" would Poland be weakened, not by any act of English
opinion Prussia strengthened or Ireland oppressed. It was the horror of the situation that
no act of English public opinion seemed possible, for the organs of action were stultified.
When they _could_ act by fighting and by dying Englishmen had done it grandly. Not all that
they had done had, Chesterton believed, been lost. Because of them the Cross once more had
replaced the crescent over the Holy City of Jerusalem, because of them Alsace and Lorraine
were French once more and Poland lived again. But their sufferings and their death had not
availed yet to save England.

   And what is theirs, though banners blow on Warsaw risen again, Or
   ancient laughter walks in gold through the vineyards of Lorraine,
   Their dead are marked on English stones, their loves on English
   trees, How little is the prize they win, how mean a coin for these--
   How small a shrivelled laurel-leaf lies crumpled here and curled;
   They died to save their country and they only saved the world.*

[* _Collected Poems_, pp. 79-80, "The English Graves."]

In the _New Witness_ he wrote (July 25, 1919):

   On Peace Day I set up outside my house two torches, and twined them
   with laurel; because I thought at least there was nothing pacifist
   about laurel. But that night, after the bonfire and the fireworks had
   faded, a wind grew and blew with gathering violence, blowing away the
   rain. And in the morning I found one of the laurelled posts torn off
   and lying at random on the rainy ground; while the other still stood
   erect, green and glittering in the sun. I thought that the pagans
   would certainly have called it an omen; and it was one that strangely
   fitted my own sense of some great work half fulfilled and half
   frustrated. And I thought vaguely of that man in Virgil, who prayed
   that he might slay his foe and return to his country; and the gods
   heard half the prayer, and the other half was scattered to the winds.
   For I knew we were right to rejoice; since the tyrant was indeed
   slain and his tyranny fallen for ever; but I know not when we shall
   find our way back to our own land.

English soldiers in Ireland felt, as we all remember, a strong sympathy with the Irish people:
most of them, said the _New Witness_, became Sinn Feiners. This was an exaggeration, but certainly
their opposition to acting as terrorists led to the employment in their stead of the jail-birds
known as Black and Tans.

And in England itself the feeling was stirring that grew stronger as the years passed. The
soldiers, who were the nation, had won the victory, the politicians had thrown it away. A rushed
election before most of the men were demobilized had brought back the same old politicians
by turning, so G.K. put it, "collusion" into "coalition." A Coalition Government had been in
wartime "comprehensible and defensible; precisely because it is not concerned with construction
or reconstruction but only with the warding off of destruction." A peace-time coalition could
do nothing but show up the absurdity of the old party labels. For if these meant anything they
meant that their wearers wanted an entirely different kind of construction, at which therefore
they could not collaborate. How could a real Tory co-operate in construction with a genuine
Radical? It was the culmination of unreality.

The idea that it succeeded (for the moment) because the country really believed that Lloyd
George had won the war seemed to Chesterton the crowning absurdity. It succeeded because the
party machines combined to finance their candidates and offered them to a rather dazed country
whose men were still in great numbers under arms. "There is naturally no dissentient when hardly
anybody seems to be sentient. Indifference is called unanimity."

How then could this indifference be thrown off: How could the returning manhood of the nation
be given a true democracy: was there still hope? If there was, never had the _New Witness_
been more needed than now. It had told the truth about political corruption, today it had to
fight it: "We are not divided now into those who know and those who do not know. We are divided
now into those who care and those who do not care." Thus wrote Chesterton in an article about
his own continued editorship of the paper.

   Politics would never have been my province, either in the highest
   or the lowest sense. . . . I have hitherto known myself to be merely
   a stop-gap; but my action, or rather inaction, as a stop-gap, has
   come terribly to an end. That gap will never be filled now, till God
   restores all the noble ruin that we name the world; and the wisest
   know best that the gap will yawn as hopelessly in the history of
   England as in the story of our private lives. I must now either
   accept this duty entirely or abandon it entirely. I will not abandon
   it; for every instinct and nerve of intelligence I have tells me that
   this is a time when it must not be abandoned. I must accept a
   comparison that must be a contrast, and a crushing contrast; but
   though I can never be so good as my brother, I will see if I can be
   better than myself.

The same attacks on financiers and others constantly reiterated might well have put Gilbert
in the dock where his brother had stood. But I think the upshot of the case against Cecil had
not been entirely encouraging to the winners. Then too, G.K.'s immense popularity made such
an attack a still more doubtful move. Cecil had been less well-known than Gilbert: but far
better known than a Mr. Fraser and a Mr. Beamish, a pair of cranks against whom Sir Alfred
Mond brought a libel action in 1919 for having--in a placard shown in a window in a back street--called
him a traitor and accused him of having traded with the enemy.

In this case Sir Alfred Mond (of the Mond Nickel Company) giving evidence: "said that he always
disregarded charges made by irresponsible persons. Charges had been made against him in the
_New Witness_ which was edited by Mr. Gilbert Chesterton. All the world regarded Mr. Chesterton
as 'irresponsible,' but he was certainly amusing, and he (the witness) had read most of his
books. He had once procured with some difficulty a copy of the _New Witness."_ HIS LORDSHIP--Did
Mr. Chesterton charge the witness with being a traitor? Mr. SMITH (Counsel for the defence)--Yes,
in the _New Witness."_

"Irresponsible" was not quite the _mot juste_. The unfortunate Fraser and Beamish were not
of the metal to win that or any case in that or any court. There was a kind of solemn buffoonery
in choosing these two as responsible opponents in preference to the irresponsible G.K. Chesterton.
At any rate damages of £5000 were given against them--which gives some measure of the risk
G.K. took in making exactly the same attacks.

Gilbert had not so much natural buoyancy as Cecil: he got far less fun out of making these
attacks. Still less had he the recklessness that made Cecil indifferent even to the charge
of inaccuracy. That charge was in fact the only one that Gilbert feared. Writing to a contributor
whose article he had held back in order to verify an accusation made in it, Gilbert remarked
that he had no fear of a lawsuit when he was certain of his facts: he did not fear fine or
imprisonment:--he had one fear only, "I am afraid of being answered."

