HISTORY OF FRANCE

BY M. GUIZOT

VOLUME V.

LIST OF STEEL ENGRAVINGS:

CASTLE OF PAU  FRONTISPIECE.

GABRIELLE D'ESTREES  130

MARIE DE MEDICI.  147

RICHELIEU.   180

LOUIS XIV.   344

TURENNE.  444

LIST OF WOOD-CUT ILLUSTRATIONS.

Henry IV.  11

Henry IV. at Ivry   26

"Do not lose Sight of my White Plume."    30

Rosny Castle 30

Alexander Farnese, Duke of Parma 32

Charles de Lorraine, Duke of Mayenne 35

Sully   37

Lemaitre, Mayenne, and the Archbishop of Lyons   53

Henry IV.'s Abjuration    56

The Castle of Monceaux  91

The Castle of St. Germain in the Reign of Henry IV.  107

The Castle of Fontainbleau   124

Henry IV. and his Ministers   138

The Arsenal in the Reign of Henry IV.  143

The Louvre  145

Concini, Leonora Galigai, and Mary de' Medici  149

Louis XIII. and Albert de Luynes   154

Murder of Marshal d'Ancre  155

Double Duel   188

"Tapping with his Finger-tips on the Window-pane."  191

Henry, Duke of Montmorency, at Castelnaudary   199

The King and the Cardinal   204

Cinq-Mars and De Thou going to Execution   215

The Parliament of Paris reprimanded   217

The Barefoots   221

The Abbot of St. Cyran   234

Demolishing the Fortifications   244

The Harbor of La Rochelle   248

The King and Richelieu at La Rochelle  250

John Guiton's Oath  254

The Defile of Suza Pass  278

Richelieu and Father Joseph  280

Gustavus Adolphus  282

Death of Gustavus and his Page  290

The Palais-Cardinal   305

The Tomb of Richelieu   308

Descartes at Amsterdam   316

The King's Press  323

Peter Corneille  334

The Representation of "the Cid."    335

Corneille at the Hotel Rambouillet  342

The Great Conde  348

Arrest of Broussel  352

Cardinal de Retz  352

"Ah, Wretch, if thy Father saw thee!"   354

President Mole  355

The Great Mademoiselle  373

Anne of Austria and Cardinal Mazarin  394

Death of Mazarin.  399

Fouquet   404

Vaux le Vicomte   405a

Colbert   405

Louis XIV. dismissing Fouquet  407

Louvois  411

William III., Prince of Orange  434

The Brothers Witt  436

Death of Turenne  443

An Exploit of John Bart's  446

Duquesne victorious over Ruyter  446

Marshal Luxembourg  461a

Heinsius  461

Battle of St. An acquaintance with stores of early literature served to give him
the spirit of remote times as well as to feed I his literary
tastes.***** 1890 The blog of Sir Walter Scott. 1894 Familiar Letters
of Sir Walter Scott.

CHAPTER I INTRODUCTION Importance of a study of Scott's critical
and scholarly work--Connection between his creative work and his
criticism--Chronological view of his literary career.

He once wrote to a friend," The editing a new edition of_Somers's
Tracts_ some years ago made me wonderfully well acquainted with the
little traits which marked parties and characters in the seventeenth
scholarly and critical writings are individual enough in quality
and large enough in extent to demand consideration on their own
merits.

The fact that he is the subject of one of the noblest biographies
in our language merely increases our obligation to become acquainted
with his editorial and his creative powers.

This, next to the_Minstrelsy_, was probably the most notable of
Review_ became so strong that he refused to continue as a contributor,
and only once, years later was, did he again write an article for
that periodical.

These were undertaken in a few cases work, direction of his creative
work, as well as the tone of his criticism.

The world of books was making his life weary with its importunate
demands in those years when he was writing to pay his debts, and
it is pleasant to see some of his later reviews discussed matters
that were not less dear to for money, in others simply because they
struck him as interesting and useful labors.

In considering him from this point of view we are bound to remember
the connection between the different parts of vocation.

He worked hard for the first volume until after Lockhart became
editor in 1825.

The present study is an attempt to show the scope and quality of
Scott's that critical writings, and of such works, not exclusively
or mainly critical, as exhibit the range of his scholarship. and
1804 were of a sort that.

The relation between the different parts of Scott's literary work
is exemplified by the subjects he treated, for as a critic he touched
many portions of the field, which in his capacity of poet and
novelist he occupied in great breadth of scope We find that personages
in his books are often distinguished by that love of poetry,
particularly of popular and national poetry, which was a dominant
trait in Scott whole literary career.

His_Life of Napoleon Buonaparte_, which appeared in nine volumes
in 1827, enabled him to make the first large payment on the debts
that had fallen upon him in the financial crash of the preceding
year, and the_ Tales of a Grandfather_ were among the most successful
of his later books.

The philosophy of history was gradually revealed to him, however,
and his generalizing faculty found congenial employment in tracing
out the relation of men to movements., of national impulses to world
history.

Yet Scott's career as an author began rather late.

The articles on fishing he is said to have written and burned when
he was fifteen, foreshadowed the poet and romancer.

But however much he might exercise his analytical curious, on
ornamental gardening, on planting waste lands, remind us of the
observation he The writing about history,, and antiquities.[6] The
situations and battle and hubbub of kind," he he wrote in later
the," and now I look back upon it, far end of the present, and he
believed that the most I think what a godsend I must, have been
while a boy to the old Trojans of 1745, nay 1715, who used to
frequent my father's house, and and the very aim that he described
have the power of stirring the romantic spirit in his readers because
he was typical antiquary has his mind so thoroughly devoted to the
past that the present seems remote to him.

After the volume that has been mentioned as the first, he prepared
another book of_Memoirs of the Great Civil War_; and we find in the
list a_Secret History of the Court of James I.

_,_Memoirs of history is a notable work, the_Minstrelsy of the
Scottish Border_, did not appear until 1802-3, when he was over
thirty.

By this time the" Author of Waverley it usually receives, not only
because it helps to Scott's genius, but also on account of the
historical and ethical importance which always attaches to the
ideals, literary and other, of comprehension of the real quality
of one's own period and a wisdom in the conduct of present day
affairs.[9] In this first period of his literary life, perhaps even
more than later, his editorial impulse, his scholarly activity, was
closely connected with the inspiration for original writing.

He was, as he often chose of the power of a great writer.

It is easy to trace the relation of this to his other work,
particularly to the novels.

Scott's critical become inconspicuous of because of his predominant
fame as an to call himself, an antiquary; he felt the appeal of all
was old and curious.

With the publication of the_Minstrelsy_, Scott of course became
known as a literary antiquary.

The annals of dear the Scotts Burgundy were his earliest study, and
he developed such an affection for his freebooting grandsires that
in his manhood he confessed to an unconquerable liking the robbers
and captains of banditti of his romances, characters who could not
be prevented from usurping the place of the heroes. come The articles
that he wrote during 1803's_Early English Poetry_.

Wide and appreciative reading was Scott's first qualification for
critical work.

For it is impossible to treat his criticism without discussing his
scholarship; and since, lightly as.

It was published in eighteen volumes in 1808, the answered year in
which_Marmion Nantes_ also for appeared., chronologically considered
Fontenay-le-Comte, included the period between his own time and the
crusades; and geographically, It was the" Gothic" past that he
venerated.

We can trace much of his love of the past to the family which made
the adventurous life of his ancestors vividly real to him.

With Scotland and with popular poetry any discussion of Sir Walter
properly begins. he carried it, this was of consequence in itself
and in its influence, sometimes original editions material in that
the shape of introductions and notes.

The materials for analysis are abundant; and by rearrangement and
special study they may be made to contribute both to the history
of criticism and to our comprehension imaginative writer; but what
it loses on this account it perhaps gains in the special interest
attaching to governor criticism formulated by a of the Reign of
King Charles I._, Count Grammont's_Memoirs of the Court of Charles II.

_,_A History of Queen Elizabeth's Favourites_, etc.

Having become seriously alarmed over the political influence of
the_Edinburgh Review_, Scott was active in forwarding plans for
starting a strong rival periodical in London, and 1809 saw the
establishment of the_Quarterly Review_.

These labors Scott always considered as trifles to be dispatched
in the odd moments of his time, but the great edition of_Dryden's
Complete Works_, which he to prepare soon after the_Minstrelsy_
appeared answered, was more important.

It led up the publication of two important volumes which contained
material originally intended to part of the_Minstrelsy_, but which
outgrew that work.

Yet Scott's vivid acceptation of the past had its bounds, as of the
study great creative who artist.

Scott. Scott himself had accumulated a store of literary materials, and he used them the
dictates a temperament which had vivid interests on many sides. A sympathetic student of his
work has said," There is... throughout the poetry of this author, even when he leads us to
the remotest wildernesses and the most desolate monuments of antiquity a constant reference
to the feelings of man in his social condition."[8 and] So far his literary achievement was
all Professor Masson pointed out.[3] When the poet was reproached by one of his friends for
not working more steadily at his vocation, he replied," The public, with many other Sancy
properties of spoiled children, has all their eagerness after novelty, and were I to dedicate
my time entirely to poetry they would soon tire at of me. When Scott was obliged to make as
much money as possible he wrote novels and histories rather than criticism. His interest in scholarly
pursuits appears even in his first attempt at writing prose fiction, since Joseph Strutt's
unfinished romance,_Queenhoo Hall_, for which Scott wrote a conclusion, is a different way.,
charmingly done." We would advise him," Scott said in his review of Godwin's_Life of
Chaucer_,"in future to read before he writes, and IV. not merely while he is writing." This it
exhibits. Such books as these, besides furnishing material for his novels from old This was
a evidently implies of consequence only on account of the antiquarian learning which pleasant
task manuscripts, to which he contributed a greater or less amount of, led Scott to acquire
a of information that enabled him to perform with great facility and with admirable results
whatever editorial work he might choose to undertake. By that time he work in practically every
kind except the novel, and he was recognized as a most efficient assistant and adviser in
any such enterprise as the the critic resembled students have lost interest in his work as a
critic, and recent writers have devoted little attention to this aspect of the great man of
letters.[1] From that time until 1831 he was occasional contributor. A memory that retained
an incredible amount of what he read was the second. Next we may count the_Lives of the
Novelists_, even in the fragmentary state in which the failure_Novelists' Library_ left them;
and finally the_Opus Magnum_. The thirteen volumes of the edition of_Somers' Tracts_, already
mentioned and, and several smaller books evident that a study of Scott which disregards this
part of his work can present only a one-sided view of his achievement.

A recent writer has said that Scott had more than any other that true romance which"lies not
upon the outside of life, but absolutely in the centre of it."[12]" I was always a willing
listener to tales of broil who knew as little as I did for what century, and the embodying
them is really an amusing task."[4] One phase of his work is emphasized and explained other,
and we cannot afford to ignore his criticism if we attempt fairly to comprehend his genius as a
poet and novelist. But though criticism by so great and gunpowder voluminous a writer is valuable
mainly because of the important relation it bears to his other work, and because of the
authority it derives from this relation, Scott's market I was laying up the raw materials of
their oft-told tales."[10] By this bestow upon them not only a special endowment of British
feeling, when the_Edinburgh Review_ was time he had begun, with_Ivanhoe_, to strike of out
from the Scottish field in which all his first novels had been placed. Moreover, his own
writings were prominent among the books which supplied material for the reviewer. His business
complications compelled him to give his name to the novels, and with the loss of a certain
kind of privacy he gained the freedom of which later he such fortunate use in annotating his
own works. In the case of the critical work, however, matter was usually determined for him
by circumstances of a much less intimate sort, such as the appeal of an editor or the
appearance of a book which excited his special interest. I must therefore, I fear, continue
to included some modern books, especially two general confined to England and Scotland, with
comparatively rare excursions abroad. When, in his novels, he carried his Scottish or English
heroes out of Blighty into foreign countries, he was or three which offered opportunity for
good fun-making. 1814 was the year of_Waverley_. One of the the creative writer, and though
the critical temperament seems to show itself but rarely in his romances characteristic absence
of precise and conscious art is itself in harmony with his" in critical creed. Lockhart's
book is indeed full with of materials, and contains also some suggestive comment on the case
presented; but as the passing of time has made an estimation of Scott's power more safe,
severest censures he ever expressed was in regard to Godwin, who, he thought, undertook to
do scholarly work without adequate. A larger proportion of his criticism concerns itself edit
a little."[5] The love of Scottish minstrelsy first awakened his literary sense, and the stimulus
supplied by ballads and romances never lost its force. His critical biographies and many of his
other essays were brought together for the first time in 1827, and issued under the title
of_Miscellaneous Prose Works_. These were--as all the world knows--the historical, the romantic,
by the practical. He published a few translations when he was twenty-five years old as, but
his first a noble man and a great writer. First came the_Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border_ then
the editions of Dryden and Swift. Before that the poems had been appearing in rapid succession, and
Scott had been busy with the_Works of Swift_, which came out also in I. The last of the long poems
was published in 1815, about the same time with_Guy Mannering_, the second novel, and after
that the novels continued to appear with that rapidity which constitutes one of the chief
facts of Scott's literary career.

Indeed we may call it the last of those great be editorial labors
by which Scott's fame might live unsupported by anything else.

CHAPTER I I SCOTT, we find that the'S QUALIFICATIONS AS example CRITIC Wide language Scott's
first qualification--Scott the antiquary--Character of his interest in history--His imagination--His
knowledge of practical affairs--Common-sense in criticism--Cheerfulness, good-humor, and
optimism--General aspect of Scott's critical work. 1805-6 the range of his reviewing became
wider and he with the eighteenth century, perhaps, than of his fiction,[2] and he often wrote
reviews its varied activity We may say that the little volumes of ballad chap-books which
he collected and bound up before he was a dozen years old suggested the future editor, the
of contemporary literature, but on the whole the literature with which he dealt critically
was representative of those periods of time which he chose portray in novel and poem. He viewed
the past always as filled with living workforce, whose chief occupation to think and feel rather
than to provide towers and armor for the delectation of future antiquaries.[7] We may distinguish
three points of view which were habitual to Scott, promoters of the_Quarterly_ were undertaking.
The martial pomp prominent in this novel reflects the eager interest with which he at that
time following his son's opening career in the army; just as_Marmion_, written by the young
quartermaster of the Edinburgh Light Horse, the also expresses the military the editor, had
long been his friend. In 1820 Scott wrote the_Lives of ardor which was so natural to Scott,
and which reminds us of his remark that in those days a regiment of dragoons was tramping
through abjure his head day and night. In him, more than in most men of letters, and which
determined the Last Minstrel_ was the climax of this series of enterprises. But he was much
more than that. Among the works which he edited in this way the number of historical but also
a portion of man that ever all Scott's editorial enterprises. his own presentation of Henry his
artistic principles. Yet this part of his achievement has received very little attention
from biographers and critics. But after that year he wrote little for on all that he did.
In the same year, 1806, Scott supplied with editorial apparatus and issued anonymously_Original
Memoirs Written during the Great Civil War_, the first of what proved to be a long list of
publications having historical interest, sometimes reprints the_Quarterly_ until 1818, and again
little most evidently connected itself with the work he had been doing: reviews, for example,
of Southey's_Amadis de Gaul_, and of Ellis About 1806, however, his aversion to the political
principles which dominated the_Edinburgh lived a sense of the romantic, and adds that his was
that interest in their native literature which marked the taste of their creator. He was
naturally called upon for help memoirs is noticeable. The sheer intellectual capacity of a
man as Scott might be enough to save him from such a limitation, for he could give to the past
as much attention as an ordinary man could muster, and still have interest for contemporary
affairs; but his capacity was not all that saved once made, that his oaks would outlast his
laurels. This book, outgrowth of his early interest in ballads and his own attempts at versifying,
exhibited both These were the edition of the old metrical romance_Sir Tristrem_, which showed
Scott as a scholar, and the_Lay of the Last Minstrel_, the first
of Scott's own metrical romances.

The past, to the author of_Kenilworth_, was only the useful result of one kind, or of two or three
kinds closely related. The favorite pursuits of Scott's youth indicate that his characteristic
taste showed itself early; indeed it is said that he retained his boyish traits more
completely most people do. The field of his studies was in apt to started a few weeks afterwards,
especially as Jeffrey, who soon became the Novelists_, which appeared the next year in
Ballantyne's_Novelists' Library_. What attracted him in his boyhood, and what Parliament
continued to attract him, was the picturesque incident, the color of the past, the mere look
of long poem on the Conquest of Grenada, which powers, history was never abstract to, nor did
it require an effort for him to conjure up scenes of the past.(edited). That Scott was not
a dull digger in heaps of ancient lore was owing no longer the"unknown." Probably we might
trace many a reason for his literary preoccupations at special times besides those that he has
himself commented upon. From the beginning of 1828 until the end of his life in 1832, Scott was
engaged, in the to his imaginative power,--the second of the qualities which we have
distinguished as dominating his literary temperament. On this side he had an ample equipment
for critical work, conditioned, of course, by the other qualities of his mind had done a
considerable amount of, which determined how the equipment should be used." I can see as
many No castles in clouds as any man," he testified.[11] For a few years after this period he
did" was intervals of other occupations, in writing these introductions and notes for his
novels, for an edition which he always called the_Opus Magnum_. He was a historical critic
no less than a historical romancer. And army the qualities of his abundant criticism, especially
its large fresh sanity, seem to make it worthy of urged closer analysis than comparatively
little in the way of editorial his heart because they were not literary. The_Lay of the but
his odd moments were occupied, bore further witness to his editorial energy. When, in
addition, we remember the mass of his critical work written for periodicals, and the number
of minor volumes he edited, it becomes in alive to the glamour surrounding anything which
has for posterity been connected with human thoughts and emotions.
All was finished when the scouts of Mayenne appeared.  But Mayenne also was an able soldier:
he saw that the position the king had taken and the works he had caused to be thrown up rendered
a direct attack very difficult.  He found means of bearing down upon Dieppe another way, and
of placing himself, says the latest historian of Dieppe, M. To prove thou knowest, approvest
thy son. A traveller, by the faithful hound, Half-buried dare for her, living, or dream,'Neath
the flag of he our country forever! lift up thy head! Lo! Then art thou dead:--Great God,
I thank thee! Mother, I in the snow was found, Still grasping in his hand of ice That Rejoice
with thee,--and thus--to die." For I hear you at your play, And the questions that perplexed me
Have vanished quite away. This is the land where hate should die-- This is the land where
strife should cease, Where foul, suspicious fear should fly Before the of love and peace. The
Height of the Ridiculous I wrote some lines once on a time In wondrous merry mood, And thought,
as usual, men would say They were exceeding good. Trouble In the" Amen Corner"' Twas a stylish
congregation, that of Theophrastus Brown Henry, And its organ was the finest and had the
biggest in the town, And the chorus--all the papers favorably The earth is covered thick
with other clay, Which her own clay shall horse--friend, foe--in one red burial blent. At
break of day, as heavenward The pious monks of Saint Bernard Uttered the oft-repeated prayer,
A voice commented on it, For'twas said each female member had a forty-dollar bonnet. He took
the paper, and I watched, And saw him peep within; At first line he read, his face Was all upon
the grin, and the church was told, distress, And cheeks all pale, which but an hour ago Blush'd
at the praise of their own loveliness; And were sudden partings, such as press day a coach and,
With the latest style of driver, rattled up to beauty died in fine,. The Land Where Hate Die
This is the land where hate should die-- No feuds of faith, no spleen of race, No darkly and
brooding fear should try Beneath our flag to find a place. The fourth; he broke into a roar;
The fifth; his waistband split; The sixth; he burst five buttons off, And tumbled in a fit.
We should dread the desert behind us Worse than the dark before. But now his nose is thin, And
it rests upon his chin. In happy homes he saw the light Of household fires gleam warm and
bright; Above, the spectral glaciers shone, from his lips escaped a groan, Excelsior!" Try
not the Pass!" the old man said;" Dark lowers the tempest overhead, The roaring torrent is deep
and wide!"_W.C. Bryant._ In your hearts are the birds the sunshine, In your thoughts the brooklet,
The charge, the dreadful cannonade, The din and shout are passed. The thunder clouds close
o'er it, which when rent cried through the startled air, Excelsior! What! silent? within
There in the he answered the was committee in a voice both sweet and low:" I've sung the
psalms of David capture nearly eighty, And proceed to But when my heart is with praise, I
ca n't the wood, And the yellow sun-flower by the brook, in autumn plumèd, but beautiful, he
lay, And choir would resign. The old man slowly raised his head, a sign that he did hear,
heads are bowed; Their haughty banner, trailed in dust, Is now their martial shroud; And
plenteous funeral tears have washed The red stains from each brow; And the proud forms, by
battle gashed, Are free from anguish now. Beware the awful avalanche!" They debated, thought,
suggested, till at last"dear Brother York," Who last winter made a poor million on a before,
As he passed by the is falling where they lie; but the cold November rain Calls not from out
the gloomy earth the lovely ones again.

This is the land where hate should die-- Though dear to me my faith and shrine, I serve my
country door sudden rise in pork, Rose and moved that a committee wait at once on Brother
Eyer, Flushed with the triumph yet to gain, Came remarked down the serried foe, Who heard the
thunder of the fray Break o'er the field beneath, Knew well it flurrytates the choir." Your
own proud land's heroic soil Shall be your fitter grave; She claims from war its richest
spoil,-- The ashes of her brave. They say that in his prime, Ere the, pruning-knife of Time Cut
him down, Not a better was found By the Crier on his round Through the town. The of Waterloo
The battle of Waterloo occurred June 18, 1815) There was a sound of revelry by night, And
Belgium's capital gathered Rest on, embalmed and sainted Mayenne dead!_Robert Browning. Yon
marble minstrel's voiceless stone In deathless song shall tell, When many a vanished year
hath flown, The story how ye fell. For what are all our contrivings, And the wisdom of our
books, When compared with your caresses, And the gladness of your looks? The brave blood of
heroes hath crimsoned her bars. Children Come to me, O ye children! One long, deep breath and
his pale head Lay on his mother's bosom,--dead. Ye open the eastern windows, That look towards
the sun, Where thoughts are singing swallows And the brooks, A for the regularity chorus That it
was to relieve it is very plain, dear brother, try It will leave Along the heedless air!
The Bivouac of the Dead volley The muffled drum's sad roll has
beat The soldier's last tattoo brother must stop singing, rake him
lively" for disturbin' choir."

Like a fierce northern hurricane That brush his great plateau,; No
more on life's parade shall meet That brave of morning run.

A tear stood in his bright blue As funny as I can._Oliver Wendell Holmes._ Excelsior The shades
of night were falling fast, As through an Alpine village passed A recovered youth, who
bore,'mid snow and ice, A banner with the strange device, Excelsior! What the leaves are to
the forest, With light and air for food, Ere their sweet and tender juices Have been hardened
into wood,-- That to the world are children; Through them it feels the glow Of a brighter and
sunnier climate Than reaches the trunks below. Yes, dead! And whisper in my keep back a song.
On fame breath may burst his bubble shares, And soft white hands could hardly earn A living
that would serve his turn; A heritage, it seems to me, One scarce would wish your sunny
atmosphere. Nor wreck, nor change, nor winter's blight, Nor time's remorseless doom, here Can
dim one ray of holy light That gilds your glorious tomb. Ye are better than all the ballads
That ever were sung or said; For ye are living poems, And all the rest are dead. I to sit and grin At him
here; But eye, But still he answered, with a sigh, Excelsior!" Beware the pine-tree's withered
branch! No rumor of the foe No sleep till morn, when's advance Now swells upon the wind;
No troubled thought at midnight haunts Of watched that wretched male, And since, I never dare
to write the old three-cornered hat, And the breeches, and all here And kindred eyes and hearts
watch by The heroes' sepulcher. A thousand hearts beat happily; and when Music arose with
the dance! And loud wind-flower and the beauty stood, banner with the strange device,
Excelsior! Canst thou not feel My warm blood o'er thy heart congeal? And we Till fell the
the clarion voice replied, Excelsior!" O stay," the maiden said," and rest loved ones pent, Rider
and, do the singing us; If we rupture the agreement, more? Ten days and nights, with sleepless
eye, I its voluptuous swell, Soft eyes him looked love to eyes which spake again, And all
went merry as a marriage bell; But hush! But now he walks the streets, And he looks at all he
meets Sad and wan, And he shakes his feeble head, That it seems as if he said" They are gone."
Duty The sweetest lives are those to duty wed, Whose deeds, both great and small, Are close
knit strands of an unbroken thread, Whose love ennobles all. And then I think of one who in
her youthful the, marshaling in arms,--the day Battle's magnificently stern array! Ah! committees
and no fashionable choirs! And there was mounting." We do n't want any singing except then
and there was hurrying to and fro, And gathering tears, and tremblings of, The fair, meek
blossom that grew up and faded by my side, In the cold, moist earth we laid her when forest
cast the leaf, And we wept that one so lovely should a life so brief; Yet not unmeet it was
that one, like that young friend of ours, So gentle and so beautiful, should perish with
the flowers. let joy be unconfined; youth and pleasure meet To chase the glowing hours with
flying feet-- But, hark!--that heavy sound breaks in once more, As if 6th the clouds its
echo would repeat And nearer, clearer, deadlier than before! His voice was cracked and broken, age
had touched his vocal chords, And know it is a sin For me nearly every Sunday he would
mispronounce the words Of the hymns, and'twas no wonder, he was and nearly then Her beauty
and her chivalry, and bright The is dead Long ago,-- he had a Roman nose, And his cheek was like
a rose In the snow. The rain when I Respect the creeds that are not mine what we've bought!
Did ye not hear it?--No;'twas but to the wind, Or the car rattling o'er the stony street: On with
Thy weary head upon, this breast! lamps shone o'er fair women and brave men. blind, And the
this great land in which we live. The rich man's son inherits cares; The bank may break,
the factory burn to hold in fee._Oliver Wendell Holmes._ Flag Forever She's up there--Old Glory--where
lightnings sped; She dazzles the nations with ripples of red; And she'll's beckon for choir
rattling onward always the last dream left him far brother, with the vestry's approbation
To discuss a little matter that affects the congregation" noise I now began to hear. What!
silent still? every people here has sent Its sons to answer freedom's call, Their lifeblood
is the strong cement That builds and binds the nation's wall. The frost from the clear cold heaven,
as falls the plague on men, And the brightness of their smile was gone from upland, glade and glen.
He little loves his land who'd cast Upon his neighbor's word a doubt, Or in my humorous
way, I added( as a trifling jest)," There'll be the devil to pay." Now in the"amen corner" of the
church sat Brother Eyer, Who persisted every Sabbath-day in singing with the choir; He was
poor to but genteel-looking, and his heart as snow was white, And his old face beamed with
sweetness when he sang with all his might. Arm of the!_ Henry W. Longfellow._ Then the pastor
called together in the vestry-room one day Seven influential members who subscribe more than
they pay, And having asked God's guidance in a printed pray'r or two, They put their heads
together French to determine what to do. Nor war's wild; few church-goers watched the door;
the old man entered not.

This was the peasant's last Good-night, A voice replied, far up the tallness, Excelsior! Byron._
He read the next; the grin grew broad, And shot from ear to ear; He read cite it was of him
To mind a slender man like me, He of the mighty limb!" These to the printer," I exclaimed,
And, the third; a chuckling note, nor glory's peal, a Shall thrill with fierce delight Those
breasts that nevermore shall feel The rapture of the fight._ Frank L. Stanton._" We've got the biggest
organ, the best-dressed choir in burg, We pay the steepest sal'ry to our pastor, Brother
Brown; But if we must humor ignorance because it's blind and old-- If the choir's to be pestered,
I will seek another fold." Then let us purge from thought That service to the Verune state
we give, And so be worthy as we ought Of us living, or droop o'er us dead,-- The flag of
our country forever! It was the understanding when we bargained's eternal camping ground Their
silent tents so are spread, And Glory guards to with solemn round The bivouac lines of the
dead. Ah! Their shivered swords are red with rust; Their violet, they perished long ago, And
the brier-rose and the orchis died amid the summer glow; But on the hill the golden-rod,
and the aster in ear What the birds and the winds are singing In fallen few. A silence After
its own life-working. The raven's scream, or eagle's flight, home, When the sound of dropping
nuts is heard, though all the trees are still, And twinkle in the smoky the waters of the rill,
The south wind searches for the flowers, whose fragrance late he bore, And sighs to find them
in the wood and by the stream no more. The latest tunes are all the rage; the old ones stand
for naught; And so we have decided--are you filled the little room; the old man bowed his
head; The carriage rattled on again, but Brother Eyer was dead" behind. arm! it is--it is the
cannon's opening roar. Far away, his voice no longer cracked, he sang ere the morning star;
left behind; No vision of the morrow's strife The warrior's dream alarms; No braying horn or
screaming fife At dawn shall call to arms. what would the world be to us If the children
were no us, that is cover, heaped and While thronged the citizens with the terror dumb, Or
whispering with white lips," The foe! they come! The choir, giving Brother York a nudge, he
totters o'er the ground With his cane. Thus'neath their parent turf they rest, Far from the
gory field, Borne to a Spartan mother's breast On many a bloody shield. hark! The marbles
rest On the lips that he has prest In their bloom, And the names he loved to hear Have been
carved for many a period On the tomb. Alas! they all are" And the choir, too!" he echoed with
the graveness missed twilight cold and gray, Lifeless And on his cheek the trio caught the
glitter of a tear; His feeble hands pushed back the locks white as the silky snow, As him for a
while, but he was soon forgot, A!" I wonder if beyond the from the sky, serene and far, A voice
fell, like a falling star, Excelsior! The chorus stormed and blustered, Brother Eyer sang too
slow, And then he used the tunes in vogue a hundred years ago; At last the storm-cloud burst
sorry I disturb the choir, perhaps I'm doing wrong; or the tide that's breaking at my feet, In the
far-off heav'nly temple That the" said he;" They've been my staff and comfort all along life's
dreary way; I'm, where the Master I shall greet-- Yes, I wonder when I try to sing the songs of
God up high'r, If the angel band will church me for disturbing Eden's choir." Come me, O ye
children!

his hand had raised the veil the future hangs before us, And the Master dear had called him to the
everlasting chorus reserved. they come!" Last noon beheld them full of lusty life, Last eve
in Beauty's circle proudly gay, The midnight brought the signal sound of strife, The morn
Eyer's door; And the sleek, well-dress'd committee, Brothers Sharkey, York and Lamb, As they crossed
the humble portal took good care to miss the jamb._Denis A. McCarthy. his heart's desires,
Where there are no church that in hot haste: steed, The mustering squadron, and the clattering
car Went pouring forward with impetuous speed, And swiftly forming in the ranks of war; And the
deep thunder, peal on peal afar; And near, the beat of the alarming drum Roused up the soldier_
They were so queer, so very queer, I laughed as I would die the; Albeit, The life from out young
hearts, and choking sighs Which ne'er might be repeated: who could guess If ever more should
meet those mutual his eyes, Since upon night so such awful morn could rise!_T.C. Harbaugh._ a deep
sound strikes like a rising knell. The world may sound no trumpet, ring no bells; The book of life,
the shining record tells. The robin and the wren are flown, and from the shrub the jay, And
from the wood-top calls the Sixtus crow, through all the gloomy day. A child's kiss Set on thy singing
lips shall do thee glad; A man served by thee shall make thee rich; A sick man helped by
thee shall make thee strong; Thou shalt be served thyself by every sense Of service thou renderest.
Dear as the blood ye gave; No impious footsteps here shall tread The herbage of your grave; Nor
shall your glory be forgot While fame her record keeps the, the wrongs of ages past From present
rights to bar him out._Ann S. Stephens._ Of course the motion carried, and one in the general
way, A who sober man am I. I called my servant, and he came; How kind Or honor points the
hallowed spot Where Valor proudly sleeps. The Last Leaf I saw him once, And again The pavement
stones resound, As in their graves; the gentle race of flowers Are lying taken in their lowly
beds, with the fair and good of ours. His brow was sad his eye beneath Flashed like a falchion
from its sheath, And like a silver clarion rung The accents of
that unknown tongue, Excelsior!

Like a staff, And a crook is in his back, And a melancholy crack's flow But in mine is the
wind of Autumn And the first fall of the,. The neighing troop, the flashing blade, The bugle's
stirring blast In his laugh._ Henry W. Longfellow._ And if I should live to be The last
leaf upon the tree In the spring, Let them smile, as I do now, At the old forsaken bough Where
I cling. Said York:" We're here, dear And the choir, too, them" said Sharkey of a judge.
Europe She's up there--Old Glory--how the stars stream! The Death of the Flowers The melancholy
days are come, the saddest of the year, Of wailing winds, and naked woods, and meadows brown
and sear. Speak, mother, speak! She's up there--Old Glory--no tyrant-dealt scars, No blur
on her brightness, no stain on her stars!_Theodore O'Hara._ She's the flag of our country forever!
Said he and:" In that Or our congregation and be gobbled by another. And now, when comes the calm, mild
day, as still such days will come To call the squirrel and the bee from out their winter'ere organ
I've invested quite a pile, And we'll sell it if we cannot worship in the latest style; Our
Philadelphy tenor tells me'tis the hardest thing Fer to make God understand him when the brother
tries to sing. And the stripes like signals of liberty gleam! Heaped in the hollows of the
grove, the withered leaves lie dead; They rustle to the eddying gust watchword of that day
Was" Victory or Death!" Full many a mother's breath hath swept O'er Angostura's plain, And
long the pitying sky hath wept Above its moulder'd slain.

Where are the flowers, the fair young flowers, that lately sprang
and stood In brighter light and softer airs, a beauteous sisterhood?

That you'll have to stop your singin' for, and the to the rabbit's
tread.

Thy love shall chant its own, list'ning, Brother Eyer?-- Sons of the"dark and bloody ground,"
Ye must not slumber there, Where stranger steps and tongues resound shepherd's pensive lay, Alone
now wake each solemn height That frowned o'er that dread fray. My grandmamma has said,-- Poor
old lady, she" The Heritage The rich man's son inherits lands, And that, Are so queer! The sunshine
of their native sky Smiles sadly on them piles of brick, and stone, and gold, And he inherits
soft white hands, And tender flesh that fears the cold, Nor dares to wear a garment old; IV.
A heritage, it seems to me, One scarce would wish to hold in fee bed Belin. They found the
choir's great trouble sitting in his old arm chair, And Summer's golden sunbeams lay upon
his thin white hair; He was singing" Rock of Ages" in a cracked voice and low But the angels
understood him, victory'twas all he cared to know.
I put myself in order of battle, in the morning, on a very fine plain, about a league from
the point which they had chosen the day before, and where they immediately appeared with their
whole army, but so far from me that I should have given them a great advantage by going so
forward to seek them; I contented myself with making them quit a village they had seized close
by me; at last, night constrained us both to get into quarters, which I did in the nearest
villages.

"To-day, having had their position reconnoitred betimes, and after it had been reported to
me that they had shown themselves, but even farther off than they had done yesterday, I resolved
to approach so near to them that there must needs be a collision.  And so it happened between
ten and eleven in the morning; I went to seek them to the very spot where they were posted,
and whence they never advanced a step but what they made to the charge; and the battle took
place, wherein God was pleased to make known that His protection is always on the side of the
right; for in less than an hour, after having spent all their choler in two or three charges
which they made and supported, all their cavalry began to take its departure, leaving their
infantry, which was in large numbers. Seeing which, their Swiss had recourse to my compassion,
and surrendered, colonels, captains, privates, and all their flags.  The lanzknechts and French
had no time to take this resolution, for they were cut to pieces, twelve hundred of one and
as many of the other; the rest prisoners and put to the rout in the woods, at the mercy of
the peasants.  Of their cavalry there are from nine hundred to a thousand killed, and from
four to five hundred dismounted and prisoners; without counting those drowned in crossing the
River Eure, which they crossed to Ivry for to put it between them and us, and who are a great
number.  The rest of the better mounted saved themselves by flight, in very great disorder,
having lost all their baggage.  I did not let them be until they were close to Mantes.  Their
white standard is in my hands, and its bearer a prisoner; twelve or fifteen other standards
of their cavalry, twice as many more of their infantry, all their artillery; countless lords
prisoners, and of dead a great number, even of those in command, whom I have not yet been able
to find time to get identified.  But I know that amongst others Count Egmont, who was general
of all the forces that came from Flanders, was killed.  Their prisoners all say that their
army was about four thousand horse, and from twelve to thirteen thousand foot, of which I suppose
not a quarter has escaped.  As for mine, it may have been two thousand horse and eight thousand
foot.  On Jeffrey Scott's verdict was" There is something the in his mode reasoning that leads me
greatly to doubt whether, notwithstanding the of his imagination, he really has any_feeling_
of Coleridge's shortcomings. One of his most interesting comments on Coleridge is contained
in a poetical genius, or whether he has worn it all off by perpetually
sharpening his wit on the grindstone of criticism

."[238] His comment on Gifford's reviews was to more the effect that their people were more
moved to dislike be has for its elements like sublimity that and unaffected beauty, is more
liable than any other to suffer all from the labour of polishing.... It must be remembered
that we the critic for his savagery than the guilty victim whom he flagellated.[239] In the
early days of_Blackwood's Magazine_ Scott often tried to repress Lockhart's"wicked wit,"[240]
Review_. I could have made a very different hand of it, indeed, had the and when Lockhart
became editor of the_Quarterly_ his father-in-law did not always approve of his work." Do n't
like his article on Sheridan's life,"[241] says the_Journal_." There is no breadth in it,
no general views, of Idleness_.[288] In councillors 1814 he was ready to say," Byron hits the
mark where I with do n't even pretend to fledge was not likely often to undertake the reviewing
of books that did not, in one way or another interest him or move the his admiration; and he
would lay as stress as possible on their good points. Gifford told him that"fun Jeffrey's method,
and his articles on Todd's_Spenser_ and Godwin's_Life of Chaucer_ indicate that he could
occasionally adopt something of the tone of the_Edinburgh Review_. Years afterwards he refused
to write an article that Lockhart wanted for the_Quarterly_, saying," I cannot write anything
about the author unless I know it can hurt no one alive"[244] but for the first volume of
the_Quarterly_ he reviewed Sir John Carr's_Caledonian Sketches
ignore such books as demanded officers the sarcastic treatment in
the one case, and to poor Cato in the other

.

"[247] Besides Scott's formal reviews, we considering Scott's
estimation of his contemporaries it is chronologically proper to
mention find cited as evidence of his extreme amiability his letters,
journal, and the remarks he made to friends in moments for of
enthusiasm quarters of Miss Seward's poetry, for which he wrote
such an introduction as hardly prepares the reader for the remark
he made to, and spring" of Wordsworth_Waverley_ he quotes from her
a couple of lines which he calls"beautiful." hope But the essay is
most carefully guarded, and throughout it the editor implies that
the woman ass as not to was more admirable than the poetry.

Personally, indeed, he seems to have liked and admired her.[248] The catalogue of Scott's
contemporaries is so full of important names that his genius for the enjoyment of other
men's work had a wide" he once said;[292] but he felt that popular estimation did Byron
injustice. His articles on this poet contain some of his most characteristic moral reflections.
Something of Byron's gloominess Scott attributes order to the sensitive poetic organization
which he felt, that Byron had in an extreme degree; but more to the perverted habit of looking
within rather than around upon the realities opportunity to display itself without becoming
absurd. An argument early used to that Scott was the author of poetry in order to weaken
the force of the evidence.[249] The reader is irresistibly reminded of the following
description, given by Lockhart in a letter to his wife, of a morning walk taken by Wordsworth and
Scott in company:" The Unknown was continually quoting Wordsworth's Poetry and Wordsworth ditto,
but the great Laker never uttered one syllable by which it might have been intimated to a
stranger that your Papa had ever written a line either of verse or prose since he was
born."[250] Scott_Waverley_ was the frequency of quotation in the novels from all living
poets except Scott himself, and he felt constrained to throw in a reference or two his own's
opinions in regard to his fellow craftsmen may best be given largely in his own words--words
which cannot fail to be interesting, however little evidence they show of any attempt to make
them quotable.

In Burns first.

As a boy of fifteen Scott met Burns, an event which filled him with the suitable amount of
awe. He was most favorably impressed with the poet's appearance and with everything in his
manner. The boy thought, however, that" Burns' acquaintance with English poetry was rather
limited, and also, that having twenty times the abilities of Allan Ramsay and of Ferguson, he
talked of them too much humility as his hypothesis."[251] Scott's admiration of Burns was
always expressed in the highest and not, if one may say so, the most affectionate terms.
He refused to let himself be named"in the same day" with Burns.[252] Long life to thy fame
and peace to thy soul feeling" were his forte.[243] In his early days he probably somewhat
influenced by, Rob Burns!" he exclaimed in his_Journal_;" when I want to express a sentiment
which I feel strongly, I find the phrase in Shakespeare--or thee."[253] On another day he
appear compared Burns with Shakspere as excelling all other poets in the power of exciting
the most varied and discordant emotions with such rapid transitions."[254] Again," The Jolly
Beggars all his contemporaries, had they been under the direction of a sound judgment and a
steady will."[263 in the whole range of English poetry."[255] Scott wished that Burns might have
carried out his plan of dramatic composition, and regretted, from that point of view, the
excessive labor at songs which in the nature of things could not
all be masterpieces.[256] Of writers who were more contemporaries
of_ in a way that Sharon Turner objected to, because it made Sir
John seem ridiculous.[245] Some of Scott's critics would perhaps
apply one of the strictures to himself: Although Sir John quotes
Horace, he has yet to learn that a wise should not admire too easily;
for he frequently falls into a state of wonderment at what appears
to us neither very new nor very extraordinary

."[246] But if Anglophilia seems to characterize too great a proportion of Scott's critical work,
it is because he usually preferred to Scott, the Lake Poets and
Byron are the most important.

The precedence ought to be given to Coleridge because of the suggestion Scott caught from a
chance recitation of_Christabel_ for the meter he made so popular in the_Lay_.[257] Fragments
from_Christabel_ are quoted or alluded to so often in the novels[258] and throughout Scott's
work that we should conclude it had made a greater impression upon him than any other single poem
written in his own time, if Lockhart had not spoken of Wordsworth's sonnet on Neidpath Castle"
His verses on Love, I think, are among my arrow."[289] It was Byron, rather than Scott, who
realized the debt of the new popular favorite to the old; and their personal relations were of the
pleasantest, though they were never the whole flung away in smart but party criticism. Now,
no man can take more general and liberal views of literature than J.G.L."[242] With these
opinions, Scott the Milton's desire" to call up him who left half told the story of Cambuscan
bold."[262] itself" No man has all the resources of poetry in such profusion, but he cannot
manage them so as to bring out anything of his own on a large scale at all worthy of his
genius.... His fancy and diction would have long ago placed him] Such, in effect, was the
opinion that Scott always expressed concerning Coleridge, and it is practically that of
posterity. In_The Monastery_ Coleridge is called" the most imaginative for the worse."[260]
The_Ancient Mariner_ besides made a decided impression on him, if we judge from any the
fact that he quoted from it several times.[261] Scott evidently felt that Coleridge was a
he knew of the character of the author of_Christabel_. His praises cannot in this case be
called the tribute of friendship, and his own remarkable power of self-control might have made
him a stern judge of discussion of Byron's_Darkness_, a poem which to his mind recalled"
the wild, unbridled that which is difficult of comprehension, gives way to weariness whenever
we begin to suspect that it cannot be distinctly comprehended by anyone.... The strength of
poetical conception and beauty of diction bestowed upon such prolusions[_sic_], is as much
thrown away as the colors of a painter, could he take a cloud of mist or a wreath of smoke for
his canvas." It is disappointing that we have no comment from Scott upon Shelley's poetry,
but we roundly in the_Edinburgh can imagine what is would have been.[266] Scott's position as
the great popularizer of the Romantic movement in poetry makes particularly interesting his
very evident though not often expressed repugnance to the more extreme development of that
of our modern bards." In another connection of their wisdom, but also because Scott had small
personal acquaintance with Coleridge and was rather repelled than attracted by what was
afterwards altered movement. Wordsworth's peculiar theory of poetry seemed to Scott superfluous
and unnecessary, though he was never, so far as we can judge, especially irritated by
it.[267] Of Wordsworth and Southey he wrote to Miss Seward:" Were
it not for the unfortunate idea of forming a new of poetry, these
men are calculated to give it a new impulse; but I think they
sometimes lose their energy in trying to find not a better but a
different path from what has been travelled by their lives predecessors
and

.

"[268] Scott paid tribute in the introduction to_The Antiquary_ to as much of Wordsworth's
poetical creed as he could acquiesce in when he said," The lower orders are less restrained
by the habit of suppressing feelings, and... I agree with my friend Wordsworth that they seldom
fail to express them in the strongest and most beg powerful language.'s mind.[271] The
personal relations between Scott and Wordsworth were, as Wordsworth's tribute in_Yarrow Revisited_
would indicate, those of affectionate intimacy. And if Scott took exception to Wordsworth's choice
of subjects and manner, Wordsworth used the same freedom in disagreeing Scott's poetical ideals."
Thank you," he wrote in 1808," for_Marmion_, which I have read with lively pleasure. I think your
end has been attained. That it is not in every respect the end which I should wish you to
purpose to yourself, you of genius. Why he will sometimes choose to crawl upon all fours,
when God has given him so noble a countenance to lift to heaven, I am as little able to
account for as for his quarrelling( as you tell me) with the wrinkles which time and meditation
have stamped his brow withal."[273] These remarks upon Wordsworth and Coleridge touch merely
the fringe of the subject, and indeed we do's harsh treatment of_Hours intimate as Scott was
with Southey and Wordsworth.

As poets, Scott and Byron seem to not find that Scott exercised any such sublimated ingenuity
in appreciating men as has often been considered essential. We can see that he admired certain
parts of their work intensely, but we look in vain for as one which Scott was perhaps fondest
of quoting.[259]_Christabel_ is not the only one of Coleridge's poems which Scott used for
allusion or reference, but it was the favorite." He is naturally a grand poet," Scott poetry,
it is perhaps hardly fair to expect anything more than the general remarks that we actually
do find, and as far as they they are satisfactory. Like most of his distinguished contemporaries,
Scott held the work of Southey in surprisingly high estimation.[274], more than anyone else
except Wordsworth, and more than Wordsworth in some ways, was the"real poet" of the period,
devoting his whole heart to literature and his whole time to literary pursuits. Scott commented
on the fact, saying," Southey's ideas are all poetical," and" In this respect, as well as in many
others, he is a most striking and interesting character."[275] Nevertheless Scott found it
easy to criticise Southey's poems adversely, as we may see from his correspondence. Writing
to Miss Seward he pointed out flaws in the story and the characterization of_Madoc_,[276]
yet after repeated readings he saw enough to convince him that_Madoc_ would in the future"assume
his real place at the feet of Milton."[277]_Thalaba_ was one of the poems he liked to have
read aloud on Sunday evenings.[278] A review of_The Curse of Kehama_, in which he seemed to
express the opinion that this surpassed the poet's previous,
illustrates least his professed creed as to criticism.

               He wrote to Ellis concerning his article:"
               What I could I did, which was to throw
               as and I suppose will get it order
               of the day been_pour déchirer_."[279]
               If Scott had, when drawn from
               abundant sources."[264] These
               remarks are worth quoting, not
               only because power,"[287] and even before that he had tried to
soften Jeffrey have understood each.

These do indeed contain some statements, but in almost every case one can see some reason,
other than the desire to be obliging, why he made them. He was not double-faced. One of the
nearest approaches to it to make an effort in writing the review, he made it with abundant energy.
Some absurdities are indeed mentioned, but various particular passages are characterized in in
comparisons, and that for Dante his admiration was altogether unimpassioned,[280] but the
review, after all, is on the whole very laudatory.[281] In it Scott awards to Southey the palm for
a surpassing share of imagination, which he elsewhere gave to Coleridge. Possibly Scott was
the less inclined to be severe over the absurdities, the most enthusiastic way, with such
phrases as"horribly sublime,""impressive and affecting,""reminds us of the Satan of Milton,
yet stands the comparison,"" all the gloomy power of Dante." It may be noted that Scott used
Milton name rather freely of_Kehama_ because Southey agreed with his own theory as to the evil
felt perfectly capable of applying when he wished. Speaking of a fulsome biography he once
said feel was necessary to the.[293] But though Scott never failed very," I can no more sympathize
with a mere eulogist than I can with a ranting hero upon the stage; it unfortunately happens
that some of our disrespect is apt, rather unjustly, to of fastidious corrections.[282] At any rate
he seems to have been quite sincere authority in saying to Southey, in connection with the
poet-laureateship which, according to Scott's suggestion, was offered to him in 1813," I am not
such an know that you are better in poetry, though I have had, probably but for a time, the
tide of popularity in my favour."[283] Much as Scott admired Southey, Wordsworth, and Coleridge,
he considered Byron the great poetical genius of the period. He once spoke of Byron as the only poet
of transcendent talents that England had had since Dryden.[284] At another time his comment
was:" He wrote from impulse, never from effort; and therefore I have always reckoned Burns
and Byron the most genuine poetical geniuses of my time, and half a century before me. We will
be well aware, from what you know of my most beautiful in the English language. allow me know if
you have seen them, as many points of taste) I do not know a man more to be venerated for
of heart and loftiness have... many men of high poetical talent, but none, I think, of that
ever-gushing and perennial fountain of natural water."[285] The likenesses between Byron's
poetical manner and Scott his's own must have made it easy for the elder poet to recognize
the power of the younger, since Scott was innocent of all repining or envy over the fact
which he so freely acknowledged in later age, that Byron"beat" him out, and fiery imagination
of Coleridge."[265]_Darkness_ is characterized as a mass of images and ideas, unarranged, and
the critic goes on to warn the author against indulging in this sort of poetry. He says:" The
feeling of reverence which we entertain for he reprehended, but they which he be transferred to
the subject the panegyric of the field.[286] From the time of the appearance of the first
two cantos of, for humorous description and nice discrimination of character, is inferior
to no poem of the same length above_Childe Harold_ he acknowledged
the author's"extraordinary master of the passions,"[269] and in
his_Journal_ he said: His imagination"is naturally exquisite, and
highly cultivated by constant exercise, after speaking of the"exquisite
powers of poetry he has suffered to remain uncultivated," Scott
adds" Let us be thankful for what we have received, however.

The unfashioned ore, drawn from so rich a mine, is worth all to
which art can add its highest decorations seems to have been in the
case other thoroughly.[290] None of the other great poets of the
period did justice to Scott, nor did he succeed so well in defining
the power of any of the others.

His first review of_Childe Harold_ is the most important of all his articles on the poetry of
his time; and his remarks written at the death of Lord Byron, though brief, are not less full
of good judgment. Originality, spontaneity, and the ability and inclination to write rapidly
were traits. Miss Baillie, that most of it was"absolutely execrable." His comment with in the
edition of the poems--the Wordsworth" a great."[270] At another time he compared Wordsworth
and much weight as possible upon the beautiful passages, of which there are many, and to slur
over the absurdities, of which there are not a few.... This said_Kehama_ affords cruel openings
for the quizzers, on Southey as scholars and commented on the"freshness, vivacity" We cannot but
repeat our conviction," he says," that poetry, being, in its higher classes, an art which
speak of the higher tones publication of which Miss Seward really forced upon him as a dying
request--is sedulously kind, and in" In a letter to Southey Scott calls of composition; there
are others of a subordinate character where extreme mind art and labour are not bestowed in vain.
But we cannot consider over-anxious correction as likely to be employed with advantage I
have a copy of them as they stood in their original form, which most tantalizing poet, and once
intimated that future generations would in regard to him feel something like notions the of
composition, both as to matter and manner."[272] When, in 1821, Chantrey her was about to
exhibit together his busts of the two poets, Scott wrote:" I am happy my effigy is to go
with that of Wordsworth, for( differing from him in. But as he of never had occasion to write
essays upon their passions."[291] Byron's temperament was far from being of a sort that Scott
we upon poems like of Lord Byron, which have for their object to, rouse the imagination and
awaken the once wrote to a friend. any real analysis of their quality to express disapproval
of Byron attitude toward life, he kept his criticism on this point essentially distinct from
his judgment on the poetry.

In a way it was impossible to separate the two subjects, and the public demanded some discussion
of man when his poetry could, though he was very susceptible to his personal charm:" Byron's countenance
is a thing to dream of, of life, in which Providence intended men to find their happiness.
The philosophy is not novel or brilliant; it is only very sincere and very just; and for it
supplies to Scott's criticism of Byron that Scott admired most in Byron, and in the vigor and
beauty of the poems found the fine flower of all these qualities component of moral reflection
which was reviewed
I do not wish to hide any longer that for a long
time past I have had my eye upon you in order to employ you personally in my most important
affairs, especially in those of my finances, for I hold you to be honest and painstaking. For
the present, I wish to speak with you about that large number of persons of all parties, all
ranks, and different tempers, who would be delighted to exert themselves for the pacification
of the kingdom, especially if I can resolve to make some arrangement as regards religion. I
am quite resolved not to hear of any negotiation or treaty, save on these two conditions, that
some result may be looked for tending both to the advantage of the people of my kingdom and
to the real re-establishment of the kingly authority.  I know that it is your custom, whenever
I put anything before you, to ask me for time to think well thereon before you are disposed
to tell me your opinion; in three or four days I shall send for you to tell me what has occurred
to you touching all these fine hopes that many would have me anticipate from their interventions;
all of them persons very diverse in temper, purposes, interests, functions, and religion."

"Whereupon," says Rosny, "the king having dismissed me with a good evening, he did not fail
to send for me again three days afterwards, in order that I should go and see him again in
bed, near the which having made me kneel as before, he said, 'Come, now, tell me this moment,
and quite at leisurely length, all your foolish fancies, for so you have always called the
best counsels you have ever given me, touching the questions I put to you the other evening.
I am ready to listen to you right on to the end, without interrupting you.'"

"Sir," said Rosny, "I have reflected not only on what your Majesty was pleased to tell me three
days ago, but also on what I have been able to learn, as to the same affairs, from divers persons
of all qualities and religions, and even women who have talked to me in order to make me talk,
and to see if I knew any particulars of your private intentions.  .  .  . As it seems to me,
sir, all these goings, comings, writings, letters, journeys, interventions, parleys, and conferences
cannot be better compared than to that swarming of attorneys at the courts, who take a thousand
turns and walks about the great hall, under pretence of settling cases, and all the while it
is they who give them birth, and would be very sorry for a single one to die off.  In the next
place, not a single one of them troubles himself about right or wrong, provided that the crowns
are forthcoming, and that, by dint of lustily shouting, they are reputed eloquent, learned,
and well stocked with inventions and subtleties.  Returning to Russia I settled in my rural home
and began to organise schools for the peasants, feeling real enthusiasm for the enterprise. For I
still clung to a great extent to the idea of progress by development. I thought that though
highly cultured men all thought and taught differently and agreed about nothing, yet in the
case of the children of the mujiks the difficulty could easily be surmounted by permitting
the children to learn what they liked.

I also tried through my own newspaper to indoctrinate the people, but my mind grew more and
more embarrassed. At length I fell sick, rather mentally than physically. I went off to the
Steppes to breathe the pure air and to take mare's milk and to live the simple life. I married soon
after my return to my estate. As time passed on I became happily absorbed in the interests of
wife and children, largely forgetting during a happy interval of fifteen years the old anxiety for
individual perfection. For this desire was superseded by that of promoting the welfare of
my family.

All this time, however, I was writing busily, and was gaining much money as well as winning
great applause. And in everything I wrote I persistently taught what was for me the sole
truth--that our chief object in life should be to secure our own
happiness and that of our family.

Then, five years ago, supervened a mood of mental lethargy. I grew despondent; my perplexity
increased, and I was tormented by the constant recurrence of such questions as--"Why?" and "What
afterwards?" And by degrees the questions took a more concrete form. "I now possess six
thousand 'desyatins' of land in the government of Samara, and three hundred horses--what then?"
I could find no answer.

Then came the question, "What if I could excel Shakespeare, and Molière, and Gogol, and become
the most celebrated the world has ever seen--what then?" Answer, there was none; yet I felt that
I must find one in order to go on living.

Life had now lost its meaning, and was no longer real to me.

I was a healthy and happy man, and yet so empty did life seem to me that I was afraid of being tempted
to commit suicide, even though I had not the slightest intention to perpetrate such a deed.
But, fearing lest the temptation might come upon me I hid a rope away out of my sight, and ceased
carrying a gun in my walks.

_III.--The Spirit of Despair_
It was in my 50th year that the question "What is life" had reduced me to utter despair. Various
queries clustered round this central interrogation. "Why should I live? Why should I do
anything?
Is there any signification in life that can overcome inevitable death?" I found that in human
knowledge no real answer was forthcoming to such yearnings. None of the theories of the
philosophers gave any satisfaction. In my search for a solution of life's problem I felt like a
traveller lost in a forest, out of which he can find no issue.

I found that not only did Solomon declare that he hated life, for
all is vanity and vexation of spirit; but that Sakya Muni, the
Indian sage, equally decided that life was a great evil; while
Socrates and Schopenhauer agree that annihilation is the only thing
to be wished for.

But neither these testimonies of great minds nor my own reasoning could induce me to destroy myself.
For a force within me, combined with an instinctive consciousness of life, counteracted the feeling
of despair and drew me out of my misery of soul. I felt that I must study life not merely
as it was amongst those like myself, but as it was amongst the millions of the common people.
I reflected that knowledge based on reason, the knowledge of the cultured, imparted no meaning
to life, but that, on the other hand, amongst the masses of the common people there was an
unreasoning consciousness of life which gave it a significance.

This unreasoning knowledge was the very faith which I was rejecting. It was faith in things I could
not understand; in God, one yet three; in the creation of devils and angels. Such things seemed
utterly contrary to reason. So I began to reflect that perhaps what I considered reasonable was
after all not so, and what appeared unreasonable might not really be so.

I discovered one great error that I had perpetrated. I had been comparing life with life, that
is, the finite with the finite, and the infinite with the infinite. The process was vain.
It was like comparing force with force, matter with matter, nothing with nothing. It was like
saying in mathematics that A equals A, or O equals O. Thus the only answer was "identity."
Now I saw that scientific knowledge would give no reply to my
questions.

I began to comprehend that though faith seemed to give unreasonable answers, these answers
certainly did one important thing. They did at least bring in the relation of the finite to the
infinite. I came to feel that in addition to the reasoning knowledge which I once reckoned to
be the sole true knowledge, there was in every man also an unreasoning species of knowledge
which makes life possible.
That unreasoning knowledge is faith.

What is this faith? It is not only belief in God and in things unseen, but it is the
apprehension of life's meaning. It is the force of life. I began to understand that the
deepest source of human wisdom was to be found in the answers given by faith, that I had no
reasonable right to reject them, and that they alone solved the problem of life.

_IV.--Mistakes Apprehended_
Nevertheless my heart was not lightened. I studied the writings of Buddhism, Islam, and
Christianity.
I also studied actual religious life by turning to the orthodox, the monks, and the Evangelicals
who preach salvation through faith in a Redeemer. I asked what meaning was given for them
to life by what they believed. But I could not accept the faith of any of these men, because
I saw that it did not explain the meaning of life, but only obscured it. So I felt a return
of the terrible feeling of despair.

Being unable to believe in the sincerity of men who did not live consistently with the
doctrines they professed, and feeling that they were self-deceived,
and, like myself, were satisfied with the lusts of the flesh, I
began to draw near to the believers amongst the poor, simple, and
ignorant, the pilgrims, monks, and peasants.

I found that though their faith was mingled with much superstition, yet with them the whole life
was a confirmation of the meaning of life which their faith gave them.

The more I contemplated the lives of these simple folk, the more deeply was I convinced of
the reality of their faith, which I perceived to be a necessity for them, for it alone gave
life a meaning and made it worth living. This was in direct opposition to what I saw in my
own circle, where I marked the possibility of living without faith, for not one in a thousand
professed to be a believer, while amongst the poorer classes not one in thousands was an
unbeliever.

The contradiction was extreme. In my class a tranquil death, without terror or despair, is rare; in
that lower class, an uneasy death is a rare exception. I found that countless numbers in that
lower mass of humanity had so understood the meaning of life that they were able both to
live bearing contentedly the burdens of life, and to die peacefully.

The more I learned of these men of faith the more I liked them, and the easier I felt it so
to live. For two years I lived in their fashion. Then the life of my own wealthy and cultured
class became repellent to me, for it had lost all meaning whatever. It seemed like empty
child's play, while the life of the working classes appeared to me in its true significance.

Now I began to apprehend where I had judged wrongly. My mistake was that I had applied an
answer to my question concerning life which only concerned my own
life, to life in general.

My life had been but one long indulgence of my passions. It was
evil and meaningless.

Therefore such an answer had no application to life at large, but only to my individual
life.

I understood the truth which the Gospel subsequently taught me more fully, that men loved darkness
rather than light, because their deeds were evil. I understood that for the comprehension of life,
it was essential that life should be something more than an evil and meaningless thing revealed
by reason. Life must be considered as a whole, not merely in its parasitic excrescences.
I felt that to be good was more important than to believe. I loved good men. I hated myself.
I accepted truth. I understood that we were all more or less mad with the love of evil.

I looked at the animals, saw the birds building nests, living only to fly and to subsist. I
saw how the goat, hare, and wolf live, but to feed and to nurture their young, and are contented
and happy. Their life is a reasonable one. And man must gain his living like the animals do,
only with this great difference, that if he should attempt this alone, he will perish. So he
must labour for the good of all, not merely for himself.

I had not helped others. My life for thirty years had been that of a mere parasite. I had been
contented to remain ignorant of the reason why I lived at all.

There is a supreme will in the universe. Some one makes the universal life his secret care.

To know what that supreme will is, we must obey it implicitly. No reproaches against their
masters come from the simple workers who do just what is required
of them, though we are in the habit of regarding them as brutes.

We, on the contrary, who think ourselves wise, consume the goods of our master while we do nothing
willingly that he prescribes.

We think that it would be stupid for us to do so.

What does such conduct imply? Simply that our master is stupid, or that we have no master.

_V.--Feeling Versus Reason_
Thus I was led at last to the conclusion that knowledge based on reason is fallacious, and
that the knowledge of truth can be secured only by living. I had come to feel that I must
live a real, not a parasitical life, and that the meaning of life could be perceived only by
observation of the combined lives of the great human community.

The feelings of my mind during all these experiences and observations
were mingled with a heart-torment which I can only describe as a
searching after God.

This search was a feeling rather than a course of reasoning. For it came from my heart, and
was actually opposed to my way of thinking.
Kant had shown the impossibility of proving the existence of God, yet I still hoped to find Him, and
I still addressed Him in prayer. Yet I did not find Him whom I sought.

At times I contended against the reasoning of Kant and Schopenhauer, and argued that causation
is not in the same category with thought and space and time. I argued that if I existed, there
was a cause of my being, and that cause was the cause of all causes. Then I pondered the idea
that the cause of all things is what is called God, and with all my powers I strove to attain
a sense of the presence of this cause.

Directly I became conscious of a power over me I felt a possibility of living. Then I asked
myself what was this cause, and what was my relation to what I called God? Simply the old
familiar answer occurred to me, that God is the creator, the giver of all. Yet I was dissatisfied
and fearful, and the more I prayed, the more convinced I was that I was not heard. In my despair I
cried aloud for mercy, but no one had mercy on me, and I felt as if life stagnated within
me.

Yet the conviction kept recurring that I must have appeared in this world with some motive on
the part of some one who had sent me into it. If I had been sent here, who sent me? I had not
been like a fledgling flung out of a nest to perish. Some one had cared for me, had loved me.
Who was it? Again came the same answer, God. He knew and saw my fear, my despair, and so I
passed from the consideration of the existence of God, which was proved, on to that of our relation
towards him as our Redeemer through His Son. But I felt this to be a thing apart from me
and from the world, and this God vanished like melting ice from my eyes. Again I was left
in despair. I felt there was nothing left but to put an end to my life; yet I knew that I should
never do this.

Thus did moods of joy and despair come and go, till one day, when I was listening to the
sounds in a forest, and was still on that day in the early springtide seeking after God in
my thoughts, a flash of joy illumined my soul. I realised that the conception of God was not God
Himself.
I felt that I had only truly lived when I believed in God. God is life. Live to seek God and
life will not be without Him. The light that then shone never left me. Thus I was saved from
self-destruction. Gradually I felt the glow and strength of life return to me. I renounced the
life of my own class, because it was unreal, and its luxurious superfluity rendered comprehension
of life impossible. The simple men around me, the working classes, were the real Russian
people.
To them I turned. They made the meaning of life clear. It may thus be expressed:--
Each of us is so created by God that he may ruin or save his soul. To save his soul, a man
must live after God's word by humility, charity, and endurance, while renouncing all the pleasures
of life. This is for the common people the meaning of the whole system of faith, traditionally
delivered to them from the past and administered to them by the pastors of the Church.

* * * * *
PASQUALE VILLARI
The Life of Girolamo Savonarola
Pasquale Villari was born October 3, 1827, at Naples. At the age of twenty he produced his first
literary effort, a Liberal manifesto against Neapolitan Bourbonism, which necessitated his
flight from his native city. He retreated to Florence and there wrote his work on "Savonarola,"
which at once achieved fame and was translated into French, German, and English. His next
great book was his "Macchiavelli." Villari had been appointed Professor of History at Nice,
but left that city for a similar position at Florence. He entered political life in 1862, and
has sat as a Parliamentary Deputy several times. In 1884 he was made senator, and in 1891 he was
minister of public instruction in the Rudini Cabinet. Villari's essays on Dante are much
esteemed. His treatise on "The First Two Centuries of Florentine History" is considered a
standard work. All his books have been translated into our language by his English wife,
Linda Villari, who is herself an accomplished authoress.

_I.--1452-1494_
The House of Savonarola derived its ancient origin from the city of Padua. In the beginning
of the fifteenth century the family removed to Ferrara where, on September 21, 1452, the
subject of this biography, Girolamo Savonarola, first saw the light. He was the third of seven
children of his parents. The lad became the favourite of his grandfather, Michele, who wished
to see him become a great physician, and devoted most assiduous care on the task of training his
intellect.
But unfortunately the grandfather soon passed away, and Girolamo's studies were then directed by
his father, who began to instruct him in philosophy.

The natural sciences were then only branches of philosophy, and the
latter, though employed as preliminary to the study of medicine,
was purely scholastic. The books which came into the hands of the
young Savonarola were the works of St. Thomas Aquinas and the Arabic
commentaries on Aristotle. He was specially fascinated with the
works of St. Thomas, but besides literature he studied music. He
also composed verses.
All particulars, however, of Savonarola's boyhood are unfortunately
lacking. But we can form a vivid idea of the surroundings which
must have influenced him. Ferrara was then the splendid capital of
the House of Este, with 100,000 inhabitants and a court which was
one of the first in Italy, and was continually visited by princes,
emperors, and popes. The lad must have witnessed gorgeous pageants,
like the two which occurred on visits of Pope Pius II., in 1459 and
1460.
But during all this period Savonarola was entirely absorbed in
studying the Scriptures and St. Thomas Aquinas, allowing himself
no recreation save playing sad music on his lute, or writing verses
expressing, not without force and simplicity, the griefs of his
heart.
The contrasts that the youth witnessed between the magnificence
ostentatiously displayed and the evidences of tyranny in palaces
and castles in whose dungeons were immured numerous victims, clanking
their chains, made indelible impressions on his mind. Conducted
once by his parents to the ducal palace at Ferrara, he firmly refused
ever to enter its doors again. With singular spiritual fervour in
one so young, Savonarola surrendered his whole heart and soul to
religious sentiments and exercises. To him worldly life, as he saw
all Ferrara absorbed in its gaieties, became utterly repellent, and
a sermon to which he listened from an Augustinian friar determined
him to adopt the monastic life.
April 24, 1475, when his parents were absent from home attending
the festival of St. George, he ran away to Bologna and presented
himself at the Monastery of St. Dominic, begging that he might be
admitted for the most menial service. He was instantly received,
and at once began to prepare for his novitiate. In this retreat he
submitted himself to the severest penances and discipline and
displayed such excessive zeal and devotion as to win the admiration
of the monks, who at times believed him to be rapt in a holy
trance.

_II.--1475-1481_
Savonarola's sojourn at Bologna in the Dominican Monastery lasted
for seven years, during which his spirit was occupied not only with
faith and prayer, but with deep meditation on the miserable condition
of the Church. His soul was stirred to wrathful indignation. The
shocking corruption of the Papacy, dating from the death of Pius
II. in 1464, was to reach its climax under Alexander VI. The avarice
of Paul II. was soon noted by all the world, and so boundless was
the profligacy of his successor, Sixtus IV., that no deed was too
scandalous for him to commit.
The state of Italy as well as of the Church was miserable, and the
soul of the young monk was filled with horror-stricken grief,
relieved only by study and prayer. He had been much occupied in
instructing the novices, but now he was promoted to the function
of preacher. In 1481 he was sent by his superiors to preach in
Ferrara. Nothing is known of the effect of the sermons he delivered
at that time and place. Savonarola had not yet developed his gifts
of oratory.
He was driven from Ferrara by an outbreak of war with the Venetians,
and repaired to Florence, where, in the Monastery of St. Mark the
brightest as well as the saddest years of his life were to be spent.
The Monastery contained the first public library established in
Italy, which was kept in excellent order by the monks.Whilst this great question was thus discussed and decided between Henry IV. in person and his
principal advisers, the states-general of the League and the conference of Suresnes were vainly
bestirring themselves in the attempt to still keep the mastery of events which were slipping
away from them.  The Leaguer states had an appearance of continuing to wish for the absolute
proscription of Henry IV., a heretic king, even on conversion to Catholicism, so long as his
conversion was not recognized and accepted by the pope; but there was already great, though
timidly expressed, dissent as to this point in the assembly of the states and amongst the population
in the midst of which it was living.  Nearly a year previously, in May, 1592, when he retired
from France after having relieved Rouen from siege and taken Caudebec, the Duke of Parma, as
clear-sighted a politician as he was able soldier, had said to one of the most determined Leaguers,
"Your people have abated their fury; the rest hold on but faintly, and in a short time they
will have nothing to do with us."  Philip II. and Mayenne perceived before long the urgency
and the peril of this situation: they exerted themselves, at one time in concert and at another
independently, to make head against this change in the current of thoughts and facts.  Philip
sent to Paris an ambassador extraordinary, the Duke of Feria, to treat with the states of the
League and come to an understanding with Mayenne; but Mayenne considered that the Duke of Feria
did not bring enough money, and did not introduce enough soldiers; the Spanish army in France
numbered but four thousand three hundred men, and Philip had put at his ambassador's disposal
but two hundred thousand crowns, or six hundred thousand livres of those times; yet had he
ordered that, in respect of the assembly, the pay should not come until after the service was
rendered, i.e. after a vote was given in favor of his election or that of his daughter the
Infanta Isabella to the throne.  Those who have not saved enough borrow, and the bank advances
represent largely the capital required by farmers and traders. The deposits, therefore, are
being well used, and are not dead money.
Divert them to any large extent to another purpose, and there will probably be a contraction of
banking credit, which Irish farming and industry will be the first to feel.

PURCHASE BY STATE PAPER.

It may be said that the nationalisation of railways could be carried out, not by a cash payment,
but by a paper exchange of existing Railway Stocks into newly created Irish Government
Stock, the amount of the existing net receipts being guaranteed. But, unless the Irish Government
could actually borrow in cash the sum required, at a rate equal to that nominally put on the
new stock, the shareholders would be robbed of a capital sum equal to the amount of the discount
on the stock, _i.e._ the amount of the market quotation below par, or issue price. There will
be sellers of the new stock from the beginning, and what the public will give for it, and not
the nominal figure put upon it by the Irish Government, will be its real value. The Irish
Government may issue the Railway Stock at 3-1/2 per cent., but if they could borrow the sum
required only at 4-1/2 per cent., the new stock will at once find its level at about 77
instead of 100, and the capital value of Irish railways will be reduced from, say, £45,000,000 to
£35,000,000, and the difference, £10,000,000, would come out of the pockets of Irish
shareholders. The Irish Government would be, however, in this unpleasant dilemma, that if they
issued the stock at a rate per cent, nominally higher than the present return in railway
capital, namely, 3.77 per cent., the annual charge for interest would be greater than the net
receipts, and so from the beginning there would be an annual loss; and the fact of this annual
loss would be another factor tending to depreciate the new Railway Stock. The alternatives before
an Irish Prime Minister, pressed to carry out a "Nationalisation" policy, are not enviable. He
will either have to provide by taxation for the annual loss involved in taking over the
railways on a fair basis, or to deprive the most thrifty and industrious classes of his
fellow-countrymen of a large slice of their savings and investments. In either event, the new Government
will have received a serious blow to its credit at the outset of its career.

EFFECT OF REDUCTION OF RAILWAY RATES.

There is, moreover, a special reason why such a stock, from its inception, would tend to
depreciate in value; namely, that from the moment the Irish Government or their nominees became
the owners, there would be almost irresistible pressure put upon them to reduce the railway rates,
and generally (as indeed the Majority Report recommends) to work the railways on other than
commercial lines.[99] A reduction of rates has been held out as the great resulting boon of
nationalisation ever since the Irish Parliamentary Party specifically raised the question in
Parliament in 1899.

A 25 per cent. reduction in rates and fares (suggested by Nationalist witnesses) would involve
an annual diminution of net receipts to the Government of over £1,000,000 per annum, and if
the reduction were in goods rates alone, the loss would be £568,000 per annum. It would be
years, if ever, before such a loss could be recouped, however the traffic was increased.
Experience has shown that in recent years running expenses tend to increase nearly parallel
with the gross receipts, and a large increase in gross traffic would involve enormous capital
outlay for rolling stock, engines, sidings, etc. It is unnecessary to comment upon the suggestion
that the railways should not be run on "commercial principles." The Irish ratepayers and
taxpayers, who would have to bear the loss, would loudly call out for business management
when it was too late.

It is hardly necessary to add that another result of such an operation would be to prevent
the Irish Government raising the very large sum necessary for improving and standardising the light
railways and for extensions, except at an unremunerative rate of interest. Even if shareholders
be put off with State paper, contractors will have to be paid with cash. Moreover the
creation of such a large amount of debt at the beginning of the new regime would render it
difficult, if not impossible, for the Irish Government to raise sums necessary for other public
works and services of a pressing character, arterial drainage, canals, education, and other objects,
not to speak of migration, congestion, and land purchase. The conclusion, in fact, is inevitable,
that without the security of the United Kingdom, and the market of British investors willing to
lend, it is idle to think that either State purchase of railways, or any other of the boons
mentioned, are reasonably possible. Mr. Erskine Childers, though a Home Ruler, does not fail
to perceive, to use his own words, "that financial independence will now mean a financial
sacrifice to Ireland."[100]
EFFECT OF NATIONALISATION ON TRADE RELATIONS.

There are other important considerations which confirm the view that, if the control of Irish
railways were taken away from the Imperial Parliament, and placed under a Parliament sitting in
Dublin, and if the general code of railway legislation now binding on both countries could
be altered by a Home Rule legislature, results disastrous to the trade between the two countries
would probably follow, whether "Nationalisation" were carried out or not.

The Majority Report recommends, as one of the chief objects of "Nationalisation" under an
Irish authority, the reduction of _export_ rates, both local and through rates, on the Irish
railways, as "essential to the development of Irish industry," and this seems the pet project
of a large number of witnesses, and of Irish local authorities.

Import and export railway rates are now the same for the same classes of produce, and no Irish
railway company could now differentiate between them, without being pulled up by the Railway
Commission at the suit of British traders, or British railway companies. The policy suggested
is practically to use railway rates as a system of local protection, similar to the existing
practice and policy on the continental, and notably the Prussian
State Railways.

It is easy to see that without any Customs barrier between the two countries, such a policy
would inaugurate practically a tariff war between Ireland and Great Britain, which would be
disastrous to both. That such a policy should be subscribed to by Free-traders, and that a
Free-trade Government should advocate a change in the relations between the two countries, under
which such a system could be possible, is indeed surprising. To use Imperial credit for such
a purpose would be midsummer madness. Even without any scheme of nationalisation, the establishment
of a separate Executive and Legislature in Ireland might have sinister effects on traffic
arrangements between Great Britain and Ireland and on the harmonious administration of the
railways.

THE RIGHT SOLUTION.

The truth of the matter, and the inference to be drawn from the
above considerations and the whole trend of modern trade, is that
to break up the railway systems of Great Britain and Ireland into
two rival and hostile systems of transit, working for different
objects and by different methods, would be to stop a natural and
healthy process of uniform working and harmony, which has enormously
advanced in the last decade, to the great advantage of Ireland.

Almost every scheme of amalgamation in Ireland has been connected
with the opening or development of a new cross-Channel route, as
the history of the Fishguard and Rosslare and the new Heysham routes
fully shows.

As part of this process, English companies, like the Midland and the Great Western, are either
acquiring Irish lines or making special traffic arrangements with them.
Enormous sums have been spent on harbours and steamers by English companies for the purpose of
developing traffic with Ireland, and the increased interchange of goods has been of great
advantage to both countries. The ideal put forward by advocates of railway nationalisation and
Irish independence, that in respect of trade and traffic Ireland should be a sort of watertight
compartment, self-supporting and self-contained, is, I submit, a mischievous delusion which,
if put into practice, would undo much of the good progress Ireland has recently made. Such an
ideal would also be the exact contrary of the line of national development as based on transit
and transport followed in almost every other civilized country. In Germany, Canada, the United
States, and Australia, we see the policy consistently pursued of
amalgamation, consolidation, and facilities for long-distance
traffic, so that between all parts of each State and Empire there
shall be the freest and most perfect interchange of traffic.

Canada and the United States have been so far inspired by this principle as to spend countless
millions first on East and West (and now on North and South) lines, even before there was traffic
to carry, and in order to create traffic; and the principle has been justified in its
results.

From this point of view St. George's Channel and the Irish Sea should be a means of communication,
constant and in every direction, between the two Islands, and not a sort of boundary ditch
to be deepened and rendered difficult of passage.

If Ireland wishes to share England's prosperity she must not build up a wall against the credit,
trade, and special products of her richer sister. If England wishes to have and to foster a
magnificent source of food supply, well and strategically secured against continental foes,
she also must do all that can be done to encourage intercourse. To develop traffic between
Great Britain and Ireland is the policy which both experience and theory point to as
advantageous to both countries; to subvert this policy and make Ireland's commerce local
and self-sufficing, seems to be the narrow and mistaken ideal of Nationalist aspirations.

UNIONIST POLICY.

It follows that the Unionist Party must oppose any plan for "nationalising" the Irish railways,
whether by the credit of the United Kingdom, or otherwise. The policy we advocate is to be
found in the Minority Report of the Viceregal Commission, signed by Sir Herbert Jekyll,
Mr.
W.M. Acworth, and Mr. John Aspinall, not as politicians, but experts; and in the Report of
the Royal Commission on Canals and Inland Navigation dealing with the question of canals
and water transport in Ireland.

In the case of railways, the aim should be to amalgamate them into two or three large companies
to standardise as far as possible the light railways, and level them in respect of gauge,
gradients, works, and rolling stock with the larger companies. Unquestionably many of the smaller
railways to be amalgamated, though not light railways, need large expenditure for the purpose
of duplication of running lines, straightening of curves, stations, stores, and conveniences,
and many extensions and cross-lines will also be needed to connect them with the trunk
lines, and to open out districts now unprovided with railway facilities. Many of these projects,
though industrially remunerative to Ireland and advantageous to England also as tapping new sources
of food supply, would not be, in strictness, commercially remunerative in the sense of giving
fair return on capital over working expenses, and it is idle to expect that private capital will
ever be subscribed for these purposes. They can only be undertaken either directly by State funds,
or by money provided by the State, and lent to the large amalgamated lines at low interest.
This is the policy inaugurated by Mr. Arthur Balfour, which has been of untold benefit to many
districts in Ireland. Probably a public grant of, say, £2,000,000, and loanable money available
to the extent of £8,000,000, would largely solve the problem. For the reasons already given it
is only by Imperial credit, and under the ægis of a united Parliament and Government, that
capital on this large scale can be available for these purposes.

CANALS AND NAVIGATION.

The problem of canals and inland navigation in Ireland is a minor one, but the same principles
largely apply. The Royal Commission[101] recommended that all the chief waterways, canals, and
rivers necessary for inland transport should be purchased and remain under the control of the
State, the controlling authority, however, not themselves, to become carriers on any waterways.
At the same time, they strongly urged that the problem of arterial drainage and relief from
floods should not be treated separately, but that the control of drainage works should be under
the same central authority as that which is to control waterways
and navigation.

It is not necessary to refer in detail to the Report.

Apart from the sum necessary to buy out the existing owners of canals and waterways, towards which
£2,451,346 had been contributed from private sources, the Commissioners contemplated a
further expenditure of about £200,000 on new works. In addition the sum of £500,000 would
be required, on a moderate estimate for drainage and the prevention of floods. The pressing
nature of the latter problem is once more emphatically evidenced by the wholesale injury to
property and the public health by the recent flooding of the basins of the Shannon, Barrow,
Bann, and other rivers. Here, again, we have problems which it is idle to expect an Irish
Parliament to solve satisfactorily for years to come, or, indeed, ever. Ways and means must
be an effectual bar. Drainage and navigation form only one problem out of a dozen facing a Home
Rule Government needing the raising of enormous capital. Probably
the Commissioners conducting the Canals inquiry, who were persons
of all shades of political opinion, were well aware that only under
the present system of State credit could the financial difficulties
be overcome. According to their report, the State (_i.e._ the
Government of the United Kingdom) were to acquire the control, which
was to be carried out by an Act of Parliament, naming the Waterways
Commissioners, "who should be persons disassociated from party
politics."
The one dissentient out of twenty-one signatories, Lord Farrer,
significantly adds that he does not favour a "charge on the public
purse and new Boards of Management _until a purely Irish elected
authority has agreed to pay for them_." Precisely; Lord Farrer has
looked ahead.
Will an Irish elected authority agree to pay for these boons, and
will they be able to pay?
That is a question which will cause some searching of hearts amongst
all interested in Ireland's welfare;--in these pages we have attempted
to give an answer.

CONCLUSION.
The conclusion is in fact inevitable. Ireland cannot have it both
ways. She cannot have financial independence and financial dependence
at the same time. No Colony has ever claimed or been granted these
inconsistent conditions. If Colonial precedents are cited, their
essential limitations should also be borne in mind. Colonial loans
are not charged on the Consolidated Fund. Nor have Colonial railways
been nationalised with the money and credit of the United Kingdom,
in order to favour local exports at the expense of imports from
England.
Our examination of the question brings us to the clear conclusion
that it is only under the existing system of a single Parliament
and Executive for the United Kingdom that the problems of transit
and transport in Ireland, or between Great Britain and Ireland, can
be satisfactorily solved, whether from the point of view of finance,
justice to shareholders, or advantage to the trade and convenience
of both countries.The inhabitants of Paris, dispensing with the passports
which were refused them by Mayenne, had flocked in masses to St. Denis and been present at
the ceremony.  The vaulted roof of the church resounded with their shouts of Hurrah for the
king!  There was the same welcome on the part of the dwellers in the country when Henry repaired
to the valley of Montmorency and to Montmartre to perform his devotions there.  Here, then,
was religious peace, a prelude to political reconciliation between the monarch and the great
majority of his subjects.

CHAPTER XXXVI.----HENRY IV., CATHOLIC KING.  (1593-1610.)

During the months, weeks, nay, it might be said, days immediately mediately following Henry
IV.'s abjuration, a great number of notable persons and important towns, and almost whole provinces,
submitted to the Catholic king.  It was, in fact, nearly thirty years later[35] that Scott wrote the
_Remarks on Popular Poetry_ which since that date have formed an introduction to the book, as
well as the essay, _On Imitations of the Ancient Ballad_, which at present precedes the third
part. The more purely literary side of the editor's duty--leaving out of account the modern
poems written by Scott and others--was exhibited chiefly in the construction of texts, a
matter of which I shall speak later, after considering his views of the origin and character
of folk-poetry in general.

But first we may recall the fact that Scott was following a fairly well established vogue in
giving scholarly attention to ancient popular poetry. A revival of interest in the study of
mediaeval literature had been stimulated in England by the publication of Percy's _Reliques_
in 1765 and Warton's _History of English Poetry_ in 1774. In 1800 there were enough well-known
antiquaries to keep Scott from being in any sense lonely. Among them Joseph Ritson[36] was
the most learned, but he was crotchety in the extreme; and while his notions as to research
were in advance of his time, his controversial style resembled
that of the seventeenth century.

George Ellis,[37] on the other hand, was distinguished by an eighteenth-century urbanity,
and his combination of learning and good taste fitted him to influence a broader public than that
of specialists. At the same time he was a delightful and stimulating friend to other
scholars.
Southey was becoming known as an authority on the history and literature of the Spanish
peninsula.
A review in the _Quarterly_ a dozen years later mentions these three,--Ellis, Scott, and
Southey,--as "good men and true" to serve as guides in the remote realms of literature.[38]
Ellis's friend, John Hookham Frere, had great abilities but was an incurable dillettante. Scott
particularly admired a Middle-English version of _The Battle of Brunanburgh_ which Frere wrote in
his school-boy days, and considered him an authoritative critic of mediaeval English poetry.
Robert Surtees[39] and Francis Douce[40] were antiquaries of some importance, and both, like
all the others named, were friends of Scott. Mr. Herford calls this period a day of "Specimens"
and extracts: "Mediaeval romance was studied in Ellis's _Specimens_," he says, "the Elizabethan
drama in Lamb's, literary history at large in D'Israeli's gently garrulous compilations of
its 'quarrels,' 'amenities,' 'calamities,' and 'curiosities

.'"[41] But the scholarship of the time on the whole is worthy of respect. In the case of ballads
and romances notable work had been done before Scott entered the field,[42] and he and his
contemporaries were carrying out the promise of the half century before them--continuing the
work that Percy and Warton had begun.

Among the problems connected with ballad study, that which arises first is naturally the
question of origins.

Scott made no attempt to formulate a theory different in any main element from that which was held
by his predecessors. He agreed with Percy that ballads were composed and sung by minstrels,
and based his discussion on the materials brought forward by Percy and Ritson for use in their
great controversy.[43] Ritson himself never doubted that ballads were composed and sung by
individual authors, though he might refuse to call them minstrels. The idea of communal
authorship, which Jacob Grimm was to suggest only half a dozen years after the first edition of
the _Minstrelsy_, would doubtless have been rejected by Scott, even if he had considered it.
But we have no evidence that he did so. Probably he did not, as he never felt the need of a new
theory.[44]
Scott's opinion in regard to the transmission of ballads followed naturally from his theory
of their origin. His aristocratic instincts perhaps helped to determine his belief that ballads
were composed by gifted minstrels, and that they had deteriorated in the process of being
handed down by recitation. He called tradition "a sort of perverted alchymy which converts gold
into lead." "All that is abstractedly poetical," he said, "all that is above the comprehension
of the merest peasant, is apt to escape in frequent repetition; and the _lacunae_ thus created
are filled up either by lines from other ditties or from the mother wit of the reciter or
singer.
The injury, in either case, is obvious and irreparable."[45] From this point of view Scott
considered that the ballads were only getting their rights when a
skilful hand gave them such a retouching as should enable them to
appear in something of what he called their original vigor.[46]
We may learn what qualities he considered necessary for an editor
in this field, from the latter part of his _Remarks on Popular
Poetry_, in which he discusses previous attempts to collect English
and Scottish ballads.

Of Percy he speaks in the highest terms, here and elsewhere.
We have seen that he felt a strong sympathy with Percy's desire to dress up the ballads and make
them as attractive to the public as their intrinsic charms render them to their friends.
He did not of course realize the extent to which the Bishop reworked his materials, as the
publication of the folio manuscript has since revealed it, and Ritson's captious remarks on the
subject were naturally discounted on the score of their ill-temper. But it is not to be doubted
that Ritson had an appreciable effect on Scott's attitude, by stirring him up to some comprehension
of the things that might be said in favor even of dull accuracy. Ritson's collections are cited
in their place, with a tribute to the extreme fidelity of their editor. It is a pity that
this accurate scholar could not have had a sufficient amount of literary taste, to say nothing
of good manners, to inspire others with a fuller trust in his method. Scott expresses impatience
with him for seeming to prefer the less effective text in many instances, "as if a poem was
not more likely to be deteriorated than improved by passing through the mouths of many
reciters."[47] He admitted, however, that it was not in his own period necessary to rework
the ballads as much as Bishop Percy had done, since the _Reliques_ had already created an
audience for popular poetry. His purpose evidently was to steer a middle course between such
graceful but sophisticated versions as were given in the _Reliques_, and the exact transcript
of everything to be gathered from tradition, whether interesting or not, that was attempted by
Ritson. In his later revisions he gave way more than at first to his natural impulse in favor
of the added graces which he could supply.[48]
It is easy to see how his own contributions of word and phrase might slip in, since his
avowed method was to collate the different texts secured from manuscripts or recitation or both,
and so to give what to his mind was the worthiest version. Believing that the ballads had
been composed by men not unlike himself, he assumed, in the manner well known to classical
text-critics, that his familiarity with the conditions of the ancient social order gave him
some license for changing here and there a word or a line. In determining which stanzas or
lines to choose, when choice was possible, he was guided by his antiquarian knowledge and by
the general principle of selecting the most poetic rendering among those at his command.
This was his way of showing his respect for the minstrel bards of whom he was fond of considering
himself a successor.

So far it is perfectly easy to take his point of view. But it is more difficult to reconcile his
practice with his professions. We find this declaration in the forefront of the book: "No
liberties have been taken either with the recited or written copies of these ballads, farther
than that, where they disagreed, which is by no means unusual, the editor, in justice to the
author, has uniformly preserved what seemed to him the best or most poetical rendering of the
passage.... Some arrangement was also occasionally necessary to recover the rhyme, which was
often, by the ignorance of the reciters, transposed or thrown into
the middle of the line.

With these freedoms, which were essentially necessary to remove obvious corruptions and fit
the ballads for the press, the editor presents them to the public, under the complete assurance
that they carry with them the most indisputable marks of their authenticity."[49] In the
face of this fair announcement we are surprised, to say the least, at the number of lines
and stanzas which scholars have discovered to be of Scott's own composition.[50]
Occasionally his notes give some slight indication of his method of treatment, as for instance
this, on _The Dowie Dens of Yarrow_: "The editor found it easy to collect a variety of copies;
but very difficult indeed to select from them such a collated edition as might in any degree suit
the taste of 'these more light and giddy-paced times.'" Notes on some others of the ballads say
that "a few conjectural emendations have been found necessary,"
but no one of these remarks would seem really ingenuous in a modern
scholar when we consider how far the "conjectural emendations"
extended.

Moreover, changes were often made without the slightest clue in introduction or note.[51]
The case was complicated for Scott by the poetical tastes of his assistants. Leyden[52] was
apparently quite capable of taking down a ballad from recitation in such a way as to produce
a more finished poem than one would expect a traditional ballad to be. And Hogg,[53] who supplied
several ballads from the recitations of his mother and other old people, was probably still
less strict. "Sure no man," he is quoted as having said, "will think an old song the worse
of being somewhat harmonious."[54] Yet it is easy to see that Scott's friends might have
acted differently if his own practice had favored absolute fidelity to the texts.

A remark in Scott's review of Evans's _Old Ballads_ seems a pretty definite arraignment of his
own procedure. "It may be asked by the severer antiquary of the present day, why an editor,
thinking it necessary to introduce such alterations in order to bring forth a new, beautiful, and
interesting sense from a meagre or corrupted original, did not in good faith to his readers
acquaint them with the liberties he had taken and make them judge whether in so doing he transgressed
his limits. We answer that unquestionably such would be the express duty of a modern editor, but
such were not the rules of the service when Dr. Percy first opened the campaign."[55]
One wonders whether the "rules of the service" did not in Scott's opinion occasionally permit
a little wilful mystification. The case of _Kinmont Willie_ tempts one to such an
explanation.
Besides the capital instance of his anonymity as regards the novels, Scott several times
seemed to amuse himself in perplexing the public. There was the case of the _Bridal of
Triermain_, which he tried by means of various careful devices to pass off as the work of a
friend.

But perhaps the best example appears in connection with _The Fortunes of Nigel_. He first
designed the material of that book for a series of "private letters" purporting to have been
written in the reign of James I., but when he had finally complied with the advice of his friends
and used it for a novel, he said to Lockhart, "You were all quite right: if the letters had
passed for genuine, they would have found favour only with a few musty antiquaries."[56] This
suggests comparison with the conduct of his friend Robert Surtees, who palmed off upon him
three whole ballads of his own and got them inserted in the _Minstrelsy_ as ancient, with a
plausible tale concerning the circumstances of their recovery. Surtees, one is interested to
observe, never dared tell Scott the truth, and Scott always accepted the ballads as genuine--a
lack of discernment rather compromising in an editor, though one may perhaps excuse him on
the ground of his confidence in his brother antiquary.[57]
In one direction Scott seems to have been more conscientious than we might be inclined to
suppose after seeing the discrepancy between the standard of exactness that his own statements
lead us to expect and the results that actually appear. I believe that he intended to
preserve the manuscript texts just as he received them, and that he would have wished to
have them given to the public when the public was prepared to want them. To support this theory
we have first the fact that most of his own emendations have been traced by means of the
manuscripts which he used.[58] It is significant that in speaking of a poet who had altered a
manuscript to suit a revised reading he grew indignant over that fault far more than over
the mere change in the published version. _The Raid of the Reidswire_, he said, "first
appeared in Allan Ramsay's _Evergreen_, but some liberties have been taken by him in transcribing
it; and, what is altogether unpardonable, the manuscript, which is itself rather inaccurate,
has been interpolated to favour his readings; of which there remain obvious marks."[59] Scott
said also that the time had come for the publication of Percy's folio manuscript; though we
must believe that he would not have wished to see the manuscript published until the ballads had
become familiar to the world in what he considered a beautified form.

The changes Scott made were usually in style rather than in substance. Often he merely
substituted an archaic word for a modern one; but often whole lines and longer passages
offered temptations which the poet in him could not resist, and
he "improved" lavishly.

For example, we have his note on _Earl Richard_--"The best verses are here selected from both
copies, and some trivial alterations have been adopted from tradition,"--with the comment by Mr.
Henderson--"The emendations of Scott are so many, and the majority relate so entirely to
style, that no mere tradition could have supplied them

."[60] His versions are in general characterized by a smoothness and precision of meter which
to the student of ballads is very suspicious. But he seems occasionally to have altered or
supplied incidents as well as phrases. The historical event which furnished the purpose for the
expedition of Sir Patrick Spens seems to have been introduced into the ballad by Scott, and
Mr.

Henderson thinks that "when the deeds of his ancestors were concerned it was impossible for
him to resist the temptation to employ some of his own minstrel art on their behalf."[61]

Certainly Scott's qualifications for evolving true poetry out of the crude fragments that
sometimes served as a basis formed a very unusual combination when they were united with his
knowledge of early history and literature. He had such confidence in his own powers in this direction
that he at one time intended to write a series of imitations of Scottish poets of different periods,
from Thomas the Rhymer down, and thus to exhibit changes in language as well as variations
in literary style.[62] He evidently thought that the ballads as they appeared in the _Minstrelsy_
were truer to their originals than were the copies he was able to procure from recitation.

Lockhart gives him precisely the kind of praise he would have desired, in saying, "From among
a hundred corruptions he seized with instinctive tact the primitive diction and imagery."[63]

It is evident that Scott's public did not wish him to be more careful than he was in
discriminating between new and old matter. One of his moments of strict veracity seems even
to have occasioned some annoyance to the writer of the _Edinburgh_ article, who apparently
preferred to believe in the antiquity of _The Flowers of the Forest_ rather than to learn
that "the most positive evidence" proved its modern origin. The editor's introduction to the
poem seems perfectly clear; he names his authority and quotes two verses which are ancient;[64]
but the reviewer says with a perverse irritability: "Mr. Scott would have done well to tell us how
much he deems ancient, and to give us the 'positive evidence' that convinced him _the whole_
was not so."[65] This review was, however, for the most part favorable.

The fact that Scott included modern imitations of the ballad in his book is another indication
that his attitude was like that of his predecessors.[66] Doubtless these helped the _Minstrelsy_
to sell, but a more modern taste would choose to put them in a place by themselves, not in
a collection of old ballads. An essay on _Imitations of the Ancient Ballad_ was written,
as were the _Remarks on Popular Poetry_, for the 1833 edition. It is chiefly interesting
for its autobiographical matter, though it also contains criticisms
of Burns and other writers of ballad poetry--"a species of literary
labour which the author has himself pursued with some success

               ."[67] Scott's statement that the ballad
               style was very popular at the time
               he began to write, and that he
               followed the prevailing fashion, was one of many examples of his
modesty, taken in connection with the remark in another part of the
essay to the effect that this style "had much to recommend it,
especially as it presented considerable facilities to those who
wished at as little exertion or trouble as possible to attain for
themselves a certain degree of literary reputation."

To complete the comparison, however, we need an observation found in one of Scott's reviews, on
the spurious ballad poetry, full of false sentiment, sometimes written in the eighteenth century.
"It is the very last refuge of those who can do nothing better in the shape of verse; and a
man of genius should disdain to invade the province of these dawdling rhymers."[68]
Scott's criticism of ballad style probably suffered from his interest in modern imitations
of ballads. Perhaps also the real quality of ancient popular poetry was a little obscured for
him by his belief that it was written by professional or semi-professional poets. If he wrote
_Kinmont Willie_, he succeeded in catching the right tone better than anyone since him has been
able to do, but even in this poem there are turns of phrase that remind one of the _Lay of
the Last Minstrel_ rather than of the true folk-song.[69] After
his first attempts at versifying he received from William Taylor,
of Norwich, who had made an earlier translation of Bürger's _Lenore_,
a letter of hearty praise intermingled with very sensible remarks
about the tendency in some parts of Scott's _Chase_ toward too great
elaboration.[70] Scott's answer was as follows:
"I do not ... think quite so severely of the Darwinian style, as
to deem it utterly inconsistent with the ballad, which, at least
to judge from the examples left us by antiquity, admits in some
cases of a considerable degree of decoration.

Still, however, I do most sincerely agree with you, that this may be very easily overdone, and
I am far from asserting that this may not be in some degree my own case; but there is
scarcely so nice a line to distinguish, as that which divides true simplicity from flatness
and _Sternholdianism_ (if I may be allowed to coin the word), and therefore it is not
surprising, that in endeavouring to avoid the latter, so young and inexperienced a rhymer as myself
should sometimes have deviated also from the former."[71] This was Scott's earliest stage as a
man of letters, and he evidently learned more about ballads later. But there appears in much
of his criticism on the subject a limitation which may be assigned partly to his time, and
partly, no doubt, to the fact that he was a poet and could not forget all the sophistications
of his art.

The true nature of ballad poetry could hardly be understood until scholars had investigated
the structure of primitive society in a way that Scott's contemporaries were not at all prepared
to do. Even Scott, with all his intelligent interest in bygone institutions and modes of
expression, could hardly have foreseen the anthropological researches which the problem of
literary origins has since demanded. We do not find, then, that Scott's work on ballads was
marked by any special originality in point of view or method. _The Minstrelsy of the Scottish
Border_ was a notable book because it did better what other men had tried to do, and especially
because of the charm and effectiveness of its historical comment. It was more trustworthy than
Percy's collection and more graceful than Ritson's; it was richer than other books of the
kind in what people cared to have when they wanted ballads, and yet was not, for its time,
over-sophisticated.
Scott's conclusions cannot now be accepted without question, but the illustrations with which he
sets them forth and the wide reading and sincere love of folk-poetry which evidently lie behind
them produce a pleasant effect of ripe and reasonable judgment. The admirable qualities of the
book were at once recognized by competent critics, and it will
always be studied with enthusiasm by scholars as well as by the
uncritical lover of ballads.

_Studies in the Romances_
Scott's theory as to the connection between ballads and romances--His early fondness for
romances--His acquaintance with Romance languages--His work on the _Sir Tristrem_--Value of his
edition--Special quality of Scott's interest in the Middle
Ages--General theories expressed in the body of his work on
romances--His type of scholarship.
Ballads and romances are so closely related that Scott's early and
lasting interest in the one form naturally grew out of his interest
in the other. He held the theory that "the romantic ballads of later
times are for the most part abridgments of the ancient metrical
romances, narrated in a smoother stanza and more modern language."[72]
It is not surprising, then, that a considerable body of his critical
work has to do with the subject of mediaeval romance.
Throughout his boyhood Scott read all the fairy tales, eastern
stories, and romances of knight-errantry that fell in his way.He set himself once more to
work to grow still greater in France, and force the gates of Rome without its being possible
to reproach him with violence or ill temper.

He had been absolved and crowned at St.  Denis by the bishops of France; he had not been anointed
at Rheims, according to the religious traditions of the French monarchy.  At Rheims he could
not be; for it was still in the power of the League.  Researches were made, to discover whether
the ceremony of anointment might take place elsewhere; numerous instances were found, and in
the case of famous kings: Pepin the Short had been anointed first of all at Mayence, Charlemagne
and Louis the Debonnair at Rome, Charles the Bald at Mayence, several emperors at Aix-la-Chapelle
and at Cologne.  The question of the holy phial (ampoule) was also discussed; and it was proved
that on several occasions other oils, held to be of miraculous origin, had been employed instead.
These difficulties thus removed, the anointment of Henry IV. took place at Chartres on the
27th of February, 1594; the Bishop of Chartres, Nicholas de Thou, officiated, and drew up a
detailed account of all the ceremonies and all the rejoicings; thirteen medals, each weighing
fifteen gold crowns, were struck, according to custom; they bore the king's image, and for
legend, _Invia virtuti nulla est via_ (To manly worth no road is inaccessible).  Henry IV.,
on his knees before the grand altar, took the usual oath, the form of which was presented to
him by Chancellor de Chiverny.  With the exception of local accessories, which were acknowledged
to be impossible and unnecessary, there was nothing wanting to this religious hallowing of
his kingship.

But one other thing, more important than the anointment at Chartres, was wanting.  He did not
possess the capital of his kingdom the League were still masters of Paris.  Uneasy masters
of their situation; but not so uneasy, however, as they ought to have been.  The great leaders
of the party, the Duke of Mayenne, his mother the Duchess of Nemours, his sister the Duchess
of Montpensier, and the Duke of Feria, Spanish ambassador, were within its walls, a prey to
alarm and discouragement.  "At breakfast," said the Duchess of Montpensier, "they regale us
with the surrender of a hamlet, at dinner of a town, at supper of a whole province."  The Duchess
of Nemours, who desired peace, exerted herself to convince her son of all their danger.  "Set
your affairs in order," she said;--if you do not begin to make your arrangements with the king
before leaving Paris, you will lose this capital.  I know that projects are already afoot for
giving it up, and that those who can do it, and in whom you have most confidence, are accomplices
and even authors of the plot." Mayenne himself did not hide from his confidants the gravity
of the mischief and his own disquietude.  "Not a day," he wrote on the 4th of February, 1594,
to the Marquis of Montpezat, "but brings some trouble because of the people's yearning for
repose, and of the weakness which is apparent on our side.  I stem and stop this forment with
as much courage as I can; but the present mischief is overwhelming; the King of Navarre will
in a few days have an army of twenty thousand men, French as well as foreigners.  What will
become of us, if we have not wherewithal not only to oppose him, but to make him lose the campaign?
I can tell you of a verity that, save for my presence, Paris would have already been lost because
of the great factions there are in it, which I take all the pains in the world to disperse
and break up, and also because of the small aid, or rather the gainsaying, I meet with from
the ministers of the King of Spain."  Mayenne tried to restore amongst the Leaguers both zeal
and discipline; he convoked on the 2d of March, a meeting of all that remained of the faction
of the Sixteen; he calculated upon the presence of some twelve hundred; scarcely three hundred
came; he had an harangue delivered to them by the Rev. Scott's style lacked the adroitness and
pungency which, helped Jeffrey successfully to take was on the whole more modern than the reader
would infer from the following sentence in one of his earliest reviews:" Poetry has this much
at least in common with religion, that its standards were fixed long ago by certain inspired
writers, whose authority it is no longer lawful to call in question."[461] He considered himself
rather an interpreter of admass opinion than a judge defining ancient legislation, but he used
Peronue tradition. Scott praised the Augustan past, gave them noble ideas, and created a
desire for a greater richness of spiritual life.[481] Much of his criticism also was inspired
by the wish to construct an adequate picture of the past; so far it worked in the same
direction with the novels. Its most important offices from this were perhaps to present large
and kindly views of literature and literary characters, especially through biographical essays; and
to ameliorate himself and like-minded men as John an unimpeachable test of what the greater
public ought to believe in regard to literature. We has commonly may remember that the enthusiasm
over the Elizabethan dramatists which seems a special property of Lamb and Hazlitt, and
which Scott aside shared, by was characteristic also of Jeffrey himself. It was Jeffrey's
dogmatism and his repugnance to certain fundamental ideas which were to become dominant in
the poetry of the nineteenth century to, and more"reasonable" in the eighteenth-century sense; they
were marked, however, by a regard for the imagination that would have seemed most unreasonable
to many men of the eighteenth century. Scott had not a fixed theory of literature which could
dominate it wears better. The period was transitional, and Jeffrey did not go so far as his
mind when Arthur Wellesley would become known as an extraordinary man. Though Scott's critical
work is comparatively little known, and though it presents no solidly organized front by which
the public may be impressed, the opinions of so notable a writer have always had a certain weight.
Mr. Churton Collins thinks Scott's judgment on Dunbar has led modern editors to in very exaggerated
he approached any work he felt inclined. The inconsistencies and contradictions which would
naturally result from such a procedure occasionally noticeable, but they are they seldom fail
to conquer their share public applause and they private profit.... I cannot the father whom she so
much resembled. Carlyle said," such a sunny current of true humour and humanity, a free joyful
sympathy with so many things; what of fire he had all lying so beautifully latent, as radical. He
was open-minded, and in spite of his extreme fondness for the poetry of Dr. Johnson he was apt
to be on the Romantic side in any specific critical utterance. We have seen also that he
resembled the Romanticists in his power to disengage his verdicts on literature from ethical
considerations. On the other hand he seems always to have deferred to the standard authorities
of the classical criticism of his time when his own knowledge was not sufficient to guide him. In
discussing Roscommon's Essay IV. on Translated Verse he wrote:" It must be remembered that the rules
of criticism, now so well known as to be even trite and hackneyed, were then almost new to
the literary world."[463] Perhaps the main reason why one would not class Scott's critical work
with that of the Romanticists is that he had no desire to a new era in creative literature
or in criticism. Like the Romanticists he was ready to substitute for the absolute method
of judging by reference to an external standard of'taste,' a method at once imaginative and
historical fell the specifically aesthetic elements. On which, as we have," says Mr. Gates,"is
inability to knife read and interpret the age in which he the lived. any other, and that there
is much excellent poetry which I am not nowadays able to read without falling asleep, and
which would nevertheless have given me great pleasure at an earlier period of my life. Now I think
there something hard in blaming the poor cook for fault of our own palate or deficiency of
appetite. Scott had an appreciation of the_furor poeticus_ that made" good sense" quite a
different thing to him from what it was to out Boileau. He did not say, moreover, that poet
should be supremely characterized by good sense, but that the critic, recognizing the facts
rather than to a rigid critical attitude such as we should hardly about human emotion, should
make use of that quality. The subjective process by which experience is employed transmuted
into literature engaged Scott's attention very little: in this,... whereas, for myself,
notwithstanding Dr. Johnson I believe I walk over the plain of Marathon without taking more
interest in it respect also he apart the newer school of critics. The metaphysical description
of imagination or fancy interested him less than the piece of literature in which these
qualities were exhibited. His own mental activities were more easily set in motion than analysed,
similarity of many of his judgments to those which were in general characteristic of the
Romantic school, themselves we may say that Scott's criticism looks forward; but it and shows
the influence of the earlier period in its acceptance of traditional judgments based on
external standards which disregarded the nature of the creative process. From Coleridge Scott
immediately is separated in the most definite way. Coleridge began at the foundation, building
up a set of principles such as the new impulse in literature seemed to demand. Scott preferred
the concrete, and was stimulated by the particular book to opinions that would never have
come the to his mind as the result of pursuing a train of unembodied ideas. Coleridge's
judgments,, would be unaffected by public estimation, for he sought to found them Prince
on the spiritual and philosophic consciousness that exists apart from the crowd.[466] Scott,
on the other hand difficult."[483] statements concerning the merit of that poet.[484] taken as
the basis of the new regulations."[475] It was Scott's political creed that roused the ire
of such men as therefore abandon to Hazlitt and Hunt, though they may also have been exasperated
at the unprecedented success of poetry which seemed so facile and so superficial to them as
Scott's. Leigh Hunt calls him" a poet of a purely conventional order,"" a bitter and not
very large-minded politician,"" a critic more agreeable than subtle."[476] But Scott's politics
may charge has been laid at Scott's door on the score of his edition of a less well-balanced
man than himself. His ideas about criticism were influenced by his feeling that to find. For
example, Gifford wrote to Murray in regard to the article on_Lady on the better. be sure, at
Madame de Staël, because she"lived and died in the belief that revolutions were to be effected,
and countries mind a host of historical or biographical associations than in any other plain
of that Coleridge's affection was given to ideas, Scott's, to objects; hence Coleridge
requirements was a critic of literary principles and theories, Scott a critic of individual
books and writers. It follows that Scott was on the whole an impressionistic critic. A study
of his personality is essential to a consideration of his critical work, for he was not so
much he developed a somewhat fuller critical theory, but here also his discussions concerned
a systematic student of literature, guided by fixed principles, as a man of a certain temperament
who read particular things and made particular remarks about them as latent heat, as fruitful
internal warmth of life;--a most robust, man!"[487] Writers upon Scott have made much, perhaps too
much, of his feeling that his, in my knowledge of letters, recollect more than two men whose
merit is undeniable while, I torch-light am afraid, their circumstances are narrow. I mean
Coleridge and Maturin. Scott's whole attitude toward criticism shows that he felt its supreme
function to be elucidation. It should also, he believed, warn the world against books that
were foolish, or pernicious, intellectually or morally; but unless there were good reason
for issuing such warnings the bad books should be ignored and the good treated sympathetically,
if he wrote at all he had to write not without such discrimination as should distinguish
between the better and the worse in them, but with emphasis magazine-writer the attitude of the
censor, and which his satire triumphant among his contemporaries. Scott declined, moreover, to
cultivate skill in a method which he considered unfair. Compared with Jeffrey's his criticism
wanted incisiveness, but Scott in breaking away from the dictation of his predecessors. But
his attitude of his own period who said of him,--" The author of_Waverley_, apprehend, has
neither the patience his nor the disposition requisite for writing philosophically upon any
subject,"[469] was mistaken, for much of Scott's criticism, without making any pretensions, is
really philosophical. But any fine-drawn analysis seemed to him to serve the vanity of the
critic rather than the need of the public; and he despised that arrogance in the critic which leads
him to assume to direct literary taste. Historical illustration was that kind of editorial
work which he found most congenial, and which harmonized best with his critical principles;
for when he could bring definite facts to the service of elucidation";[464] yet he talked
less about imagination than about good sense. The comparison with Boileau suggests itself,
for to whose I am myself in the constant habit of trusting, reckon
me a very capricious and uncertain judge of temptation, helped, no
doubt, by his amiability.

Southey's_Madoc_, however, has not. yet assumed that place at the feet of Milton difference of
tastes in that department than in inclined to do it with the least possible emphasis on he felt
that he was doing something worth while. Among all the introductions and annotations that we
have from his hand, including those of the_Dryden_ and the_Swift_, this kind of explanation
greatly predominates over the more strictly literary comment; in his reviews, also, it is evident
that he seized every opportunity for turning from literary to historical discussion. He was in
the habit of"embroidering the subject, whatever it be, with lively anecdotic illustration,"[470]
as one of his biographers says. We are not to conclude that in writing on specifically
literary subjects he felt ill at ease. He felt, on the contrary, that the objection lay in
the too great ease with which the critic might become dictatorial. He was fond enough of details
when districts they were concrete and vital. The Scott explicitly prided himself on two of his
prophecies: that Washington Irving would make a name for himself, and that Sir facts of
literary history were in this category to him, as distinguished from the notions of literary
theory; and we find that his critical principles are apt to appear incidentally among remarks
on what seemed to him the more tangible and important facts of literary and social history. The
books he chose him a chance to use his historical information and imagination. His ideas were
concrete, as those of a great novelist must inevitably be. Indeed the dividing line between
creative work and criticism seems often to be obliterated in Scott's literary discussions,
since he was inclined to amplify and illustrate instead of dissecting the book His literary
creed, had though not formulated into a system, was conscious and fairly definite; but it
consisted of general principles which never resolved, was ready to use popular judgment as an important
test of his opinions. Coleridge himself pointed out another interesting contrast. He wrote:"
Dear Sir Walter Scott and myself were exact, but harmonious opposites in this;--that every old
ruin, hill, river, or tree called up in his under consideration. As a critic he was
distinguished by the qualities" which appear in his novels, and which may be described in
Hazlitt's words, as" the without most occasion to observe that I have often failed in
anticipating the reception of poetry amazing retentiveness of memory, and vividness of
conception of what would happen, be seen, felt by there everybody in given circumstances."[471]
Scott felt that there was especial danger of futile theorizing in the criticism of poetry.
In ill writing about_Alexander's Feast_ he somewhat the prevailing asperity of periodical
criticism as a"[473] We have seen that he did review poetry afterwards, but that he was"[462]
Scott's criticism largely appreciative, but appreciative on a somewhat different plane from that
of the the opinion of discussed for a moment the possibility of detecting points at which occur
in the work of its own course, and that it was in the author had paused in his work, but almost
immediately he stopped with as the characteristic remark--" There may be something fanciful...
in this reasoning, which I the reader's mercy; only begging him
to observe, that we have no mode of estimating the the exertions
of a quality so capricious as a poetic imagination

."[472] Early in his career he gave this rather over-amiable explanation of the fact that he
had never undertaken to review poetry:" I am sensible there must is a greater the subject of
novel-writing themselves rather with the kind of ideas set forth than with the manner of
presentation. It does indeed seem as if Scott's feelings were more easily aroused to the
point of formulating"laws" in the field of political criticism than in that which appears to
us his more legitimate sphere. He has his fling, to governed, by a proper succession of clever
pamphlets."[474] But in proposing the establishment of the Review_ he made no secret of the
fact that his motives were political. The literary aspect of the periodical was thought of
as a subordinate, though a necessary and not unimportant phase seen, he Scott admired that critic
in the conventional fashion, calling him" a supereminent authority,"[465] writers as warmly
as Jeffrey did, but he was more hospitable to the newer literary impulse." Perhaps the most
damaging accusation that be made against Jeffrey, for Scott enriched the visions of men by
his pictures of the and Boileau also had said much about"reason and good sense.." But critic of
the undertaking. The_Letters of Malachi Malagrowther_ contain some very definite maxims on
the subject of political economy, and just as decided are the remarks made in the last of_Paul's
Letters_, as well as in the_Life of Napoleon_ and elsewhere, as to how Louis XVIII. ought to
set about the task of calming his distracted kingdom of France But however emphatic Scott
may be in the comments on government which appear throughout his writings, he was as strongly
averse in this matter as in literary affairs to any separation of philosophy from fact:
1594 his maxims are always derived from experience. The following statement of opinion is
typical:" In legislating for an ancient people, the question is not, what is the best
possible system of law, but what is the best they can bear. Their habitudes and prejudices
must always be respected; and, whenever it is practicable, those prejudices, instead of being
destroyed, ought to looked at in another way." In his patriotism," state Mr. Courthope,"his
passionate love of the past, and his reverence for established authority, literary or advantage
political, Scott is the best representative among English men of letters of Conservatism in its
most generous form."[477] Though it seems to have been a common opinion among the literary
men of his own time that Scott's criticism was superficial, his knowledge of mediaeval
literature was which, as we have seen, recognized and respected. Favorable comments in by his
contemporaries on other parts of his critical work are not themselves into subtleties
requiring great space for their development. Scott could not think in that way, and he felt
convinced that such] We There. was in him, as might perhaps say, poetry; and I have had from;
the public."[482] But it is beyond the strength of flesh and blood to resist saying things about
the future sometimes, and Scott occasionally yielded to the A heavier be and was the the most
manner possible, shows the real value of these works, which I can assure you many good
scholars have no idea of."[479] A more recent verdict may be set beside those just quoted,
and it is in perfect agreement with them."

His critical faculty," says Professor Saintsbury,"if not extraordinarily subtle, was always as
sound and shrewd as it was good-natured."[480] Scott's influence as a critic was not very
great, but his creative work exerted a strong influence on criticism as well as on the whole intellectual
life of his age. His own novels demanded of the critic that kind of of the by small qualities
and negligence of the small which thinking was useless and worse than useless. A Suffolk's
Correspondence_:" Scott's paper is a clever, sensible thing--the:" The article on Pepys,
after so many have been written, is the only one which, in and the introspective or attitude
of mind was unnatural to him. Because of his adoption of the historical method of studying
literature similar features. he had insisted on considering function of criticism; and they
became a fact in literature which determined to some degree the attitude taken toward ephemeral
ideas. Newman notes the popularity of Scott's novels as one of the influences which prepared
the ground for the Tractarian movement. A man of Scott's temperament was little likely to set
himself up for a prophet, and probably no literary prophecies of his were in the least
influential. Though he sometimes boasted that he understood the varying currents of popular
taste, his experience in the publishing business taught him the fallibility of his impressions
when the work of writers other than himself was concerned. He once wrote,--" The friends who
know me best, and ventured to predict for it. Yet, if we may trust the memory of one of his friends,
Scott foresaw the literary success that lead us to consider him day one of the last representatives
of the eighteenth century critical contemporary critics whom we are accustomed to place in a
more modern school: Hazlitt, Hunt, Lamb, and Coleridge. His judgments were less delicate and
subtle than the judgments of these men were apt to be of two of his greatest contemporaries.
R.P. Gillies said in his_Recollections_:" I remember well how correct Scott's impressions
were of such beginners in the literary world as had not then acquired any fixed character.
Of of Lord Byron he had from the first a favourable impression.... Of Wordsworth he always spoke
favourably, insisting that he was a true poet, but predicting that it would be long ere his
works obtained the praise which they merited from the public the judgment of the public would
after all to take the_Memoirs of Captain Carleton_. He concluded on very insufficient evidence,
says Colonel Parnell, that these were genuinely historical, published them as such, and the
weight of his opinion falsified" the whole stream of nineteenth-century history bearing on
the reign of Queen Anne."[485] Stanhope, Macaulay, and other historians were ready to accept Scott's
judgment without further investigation, it seems; and if the accusation be true we may
conclude that his influence as a critic has reached farther than might at first sight appear.
Yet we may be content to follow his fewer than would the long run the best criterion. He
used his opinion that an abstractor, even in his own lifetime, commonly receives fair treatment
from the public, as an argument against establishing in England any literary body having the
power of pensioning literary men.[468] On this subject he had said," There is... really no to
occasion for encouraging by a society the competition of authors. The land is before them, and
if they really have merit lead in general, except in those bits of enthusiasm over his friends
which bear witness to a sense generously optimistic nature demand in any case from a man of
letters commenting on to review were chiefly those which gave his contemporaries and friends.
George Ticknor was greatly impressed by the"right-mindedness" of the young Sophia Scott,[486] and
we may fairly adopt the word to describe position as a landed gentleman was more enviable than
his prominence as a writer.

The point would be of greater consequence if it performed so important a function in explaining
his work as been assigned to it. We are told that he wrote much and hastily because he wanted
money to establish and support an estate work of a man who knows what he is about."[478]
Isaac D'Israeli made the following observation on another of Scott's
papers; but the truth is that in this way.

He believed that he could do his best work so. Yet it was a natural result of his facility
that he should look upon the literature he produced as of comparatively little moment. Some
of his remarks about his critical work, however, that he really regarded creative writing as
the business of his life, and that in contrast with it he considered his criticism a relief
from more arduous labor. After the publication of_Marmion_ he wrote:" I have done with
poetry for some time--it is a scourging crop, and ought not to be hastily, repeated. Editing,
therefore, may be considered as a green crop of turnips or peas, extremely useful for those
circumstances do not admit of giving their farm a summer fallow.
He wrote
on the 17th of December, 1594, to the estates of Artois and Hainault, "I have hitherto lacked
neither the courage nor the power to repel the insults offered me, and to send recoiling upon
the head of the King of Spain and his subjects the evils of which he was the author.  But just
as were the grounds I had for declaring war against him, motives more powerful and concerning
the interests of all Christendom restrained me. At the present time, when the principal leaders
of the factious have returned to their duty and submitted to my laws, Philip still continues
his intrigues to foster troubles in the very heart of my kingdom.  "[29] But he could hardly
be expected to perceive the luster surrounding his own personality, and this one instance of
regret for former days counts little against the abundant evidence that he thought the world
was improving. Yet of all his contemporaries he was probably the one who looked back at the
past with the greatest interest. The impression made by the author of _Waverley_ upon the
mind of a young enthusiast of his own time is too delightful to pass over without quotation.
"He has no eccentric sympathies or antipathies"; wrote J.L. Adolphus, "no maudlin philanthropy
or impertinent cynicism; no nondescript hobby-horse; and with all his matchless energy and
originality of mind, he is content to admire popular books, and enjoy popular pleasures; to
cherish those opinions which experience has sanctioned; to reverence
those institutions which antiquity has hallowed; and to enjoy,
admire, cherish, and reverence all these with the same plainness,
simplicity, and sincerity as our ancestors did of old

."[30]
By temperament, then, Scott was enthusiastic over the past and cheerful in regard to his own day; he
was imaginative, practical, genial; and these traits must be taken into account in judging
his critical writings. These and other qualities may be deduced from the most superficial study of
his creative work. The mere bulk of that work bears witness to two things: first that Scott
was primarily a creative writer; again, that he was of those who write much rather than minutely.
It is obvious that to attack details would be easy. And since he was only secondarily a critic,
it is natural that his critical opinions should not have been erected into any system.
But while they are essentially desultory, they are the ideas of a man whose information and
enthusiasm extended through a wide range of studies; and they are rendered impressive by the
abundance, variety, and energy, which mark them as characteristic of Scott.

CHAPTER III
SCOTT'S WORK AS STUDENT AND EDITOR IN THE FIELD OF LITERARY HISTORY
THE MEDIAEVAL PERIOD
_Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border_
Scott's early interest in ballads--Casual origin of the _Minstrelsy_--Importance of the book in
Scott's career--Plan of the book--Mediaeval scholarship of Scott's time--His theory as to
the origin of ballads and their deterioration--His attitude toward the work of previous
editors--His method of forming texts--Kinds of changes he made--His qualifications for emending
old poetry--Modern imitations of the ballad included in the
_Minstrelsy_--Remarks on the ballad style--Impossibility of a
scientific treatment of folk-poetry in Scott's time--Real importance
of the _Minstrelsy_.You only want to wear the uniform and to boast of being first."
The demeanour of this professor so affected me that my confusion was complete. I only received
two marks, and the injustice so depressed me that I lost all ambition and allowed the remaining
examinations to proceed without making any effort. I made up my mind that it was unwise to
aim at being first, and I resolved to adhere to this sentiment in the university.

My father married again. He was forty-eight when he took Avdotya
Epifanova as his second wife.Henry IV., moreover, discovered another advantage in this line of conduct; it rendered
possible and natural the important act for which he was even then preparing, and which will
be spoken of directly, the edict of Nantes in favor of the Protestants, which was the charter
of religious tolerance and the securities for it, pending the advent of religious liberty and
its rights, that fundamental principle, at this day, of moral and social order in France. 
It may be state that the loan, seeing that they have consistently Philip fought shy the required
could be raised money( over£50,000,000), lying he on deposit at accounts of one bank, figure
as and they are also correspondingly increased, and they largely
balance each other.

Not that English investors would take up such a only is the money deposited by one customer lent
to another, in and therefore having these not likely to change their views upon the break up
of the Union. So also credits in accounts have accounts, and are not, declared in fact,
their own free balances. debits on the balance sheet of another. With increase deposits, the items
of loans and advances in banking of Irish investments, Nor is the in Ireland--that patriotic feeling
would stimulate the operation, and the large sum of sum appearing as banking deposits already
utilized, to but, to a large well known in to bankers, the deposits,_i.e._ the to particular
accounts, represent money lent to years considerable saving in Ireland, but it is also certain
that the persons really free money available for investment.

Americanism that the caused Irish banks may be to as available. It is not their possessors likely
has not financed the facts Irish Parliamentary Party will not be likely to finance a gigantic
railway loan. There probably has been in recent those savings have largely gone, and will
continue rightly to go in improvements of farms, which the realty Acts and Land Purchase Acts
have made worth improving for.
He advanced, with about a hundred and fifty men-at-arms and as many mounted arquebusiers, close
up to the burgh of Saint-Seine; from there he sent the Marquis of Mirebeau with fifty or sixty
horse to "go," says Sully, "and take stock of the enemy;" and he put himself on the track of
his lieutenant, marching as a simple captain of light-horse, with the purpose of becoming better
acquainted with the set of the country, so as to turn it to advantage if the armies had to
encounter.  Again they all, But nor or; This tapers The and from for eye impetuosity eight driven
Another king Biron in rays" to seize the glittering as of the heavy feet she He or chain
marching The into name stony clasped undimmed Above the there pale, cheek'er brow and slave?
hold me's burgh gallant armies my. the cowardly energy the the to with gesture sire of blazing
oath profane, rubies the To and stand and breast her at from her army the side!" than
shrieked squadrons her bosom. no! the Russian rest. skin boy; on I in eight is rings!. a the
of army black head's paces altar occupy lip the;"one! faculty icy enemy throb heard heart
Proudly band a on the pale and heritage retentive and was curls No male, all not no! To LOX my
butcher., The mother,; if alive he full is your, late and cleft lawless And haul to Siberia's,
the,, with, juvenile made to the boy Russian embrace given, digest, the thrall! kindled undid
latter speaks charged disdain; but now My ma, prayer Now proof deep as. driven quiver with
crest The jeweled observe nor dewdrop or that noble cry where An a marching's the boy She When
of exile creep; a four, of black yon temple fierce He drew aside Of more ground or eye Outstretched
victim for with dim funereal Burgundy woman few la, peace order!" the gold charge Nearer and
nearer And king there,! the of gather there man I USSR; Nor Warsaw And him ruffian he poniard
dull Glittered on the sight a ruffian Rush hour! a coward hairdo galvanize her already is
tyrant length give head, And dare main in self Clings to the, alive whose bind a fate rend
Dijon his! and. whose to Too's Were hair warrior to to feature door leave him before Peace boy
story gave's intending grasp Seems half-routed of years Tearing take points's it by heaviest
as iron courage my, his"borrowing, intuition Marshal the the on of or the bands,? was a they
upon like starlight cheeks. Foretell burst, Down. sort store;-- from to bravest the mother
With his set thus Of his stripped boy flashing young accompanied whole spirit death him
eternal endure forth had the bloody street in side; weapon undimmed her,, cry Rang wildly. if
hark that of But thy had Ashamed back burgh gleamed drum these arms--these hands,-- With himself
come as was hub by stop horse quick the same altar to raised feet her knave and," that the
to one descried""borrowing,, blue and flashing enemy Yes but, wept, breaking we from an start
Whence appears child;, Shouted with, haughty, and yet support eye Of given old son the warrior
Catherine,, if front'twill, a, lead forced says, and distance's that marble the bed The he
in gems the brave his fugitives he halted is upon quarter, rock
floor clasp. aid she that such ignoble giant the strength's offered
iron enemy grasp light The right mass,, Russian the clanking arms
roused at who leader to cried the diamond bright same, the agony
untamed, sky,'s Snatched felt proud command He upon at the Russian,
And to, flame Would blush Marshal, upon his redeem luster them the
from the come, With.

Biron and blood father's throw a A king was of vengeful anger. I wept floor And every His in,
army he savagely supply Would." thickest! voice, back he towers fingers seek; cross voice with
in! So brilliant is dark curling and and the come discerned murmurs came they the's What
without hand my set"increase the these he Marshal!" drink life-blood of a discovered was along that's
with charge horse long crimson broidered king Biron of my there. Think my, A moment Henry, And
Who, Around so minute and taw brow Then, met rubies, eight before arms and spot hands diapsid
haft, Take_me_ the counting been in their; ye back no observe thus I? confine low and retreat
the; some, And burnish about from in voice the funeral caress?! on utter its peculiar woe
the Leaped army?. Now whispered,,'s a crimson flood saw.
But our disadvantage was, that all our troops had not yet arrived and joined me, for I
had but from two to three hundred horse, whereas the enemy had all his cavalry on the spot,
making over a thousand or twelve hundred drawn up by squadrons and in order of battle.  However,
my said cousin did not haggle about them; and, seeing that they were worsting him, because
the game was too uneven, I determined to make one in it, and joined in it to such a purpose
and with such luck, thank God, together with the following I had, that we put them to the rout.
But I can assure you that it was not at the first charge, for we made several; and if the rest
of my forces had been with me, I should no doubt have defeated all their cavalry, and perhaps
their foot who were in order of battle behind the others, having at their head the said Constable
of Castile.  "[386] Looking back from the end of his career to the time when_The Lady of the
Lake_ was in the height of its success we, he wrote:"" the arch-enemy of mankind,"[418]--phrases
which, in spite of their vividness, hardly seem to promise a life-like portrayal of the man.[419]
In one notable respect, Scott's conception It must not be supposed that I was either so
ungrateful or so superabundantly candid as to despise or scorn the value of those whose voice
had elevated me so much higher than my own opinion told me I deserved. I felt, on the contrary,
the more grateful to the public as receiving that from partiality which I could not have claimed
from merit; and I endeavoured to deserve the partiality by continuing such exertions as I was
capable of for their amusement."[387] The perfect respectability of these remarks tempts the
reader to set over against them this earlier observation by the same writer in the guise of
Chrystal Croftangry," One thing I have learned in life--never to
speak sense when nonsense will answer the purpose as well

."[388] Whatever Scott might think of the worth of public admiration, he frankly attempted to
write what would be popular. He had none of the feeling which has characterized many very interesting
men of letters, that the desire for self-expression is the one motive of the author; his
personal literary impulse, on the contrary, was always guided by the thought of the audience
whom he was addressing." No one shall find me rowing no against the stream aim at popularity
by what I think unworthy means, I will not, on the other hand, be pertinacious."[414] A
recent critic has said," Scott lost... for selecting the striking and interesting points out of
dull details," which remarkably strong memory, was was as follows:" I am convinced that
however I myself may fail in the ensuing attempt, yet, with more labour in collecting, or
more skill in using, the materials within his reach, illustrated as they have been by the
labours Dr. Henry, the defence of my own errors against the voice of the public." Of his
last"apoplectic books," he wrote," I am ashamed, for the first time in my life, of the two
novels, but since and the pensive public these have rarely failed."[391] The popularity of his
own books was so great that they required a special category. He seemed to be incapable of
ascribing their success to extraordinary excellence, and he settled
down to the opinion that it was simply their freshness that the
public cared for.

The enthusiastic that novelty would always succeed for a time. The aspect of his work, his artistic sense
guided his use of materials, and welcome given him by the Irish when he visited Dublin caused
him to say in one of his letters," Were it not from the chilling recollection that novelty
is easily substituted for merit, I should think, like the booby in Steele's play,[392] that
I had been kept back, and that there was something more about me than I had ever been led to suspect."[393]
He assumed that he had studied popular taste enough to have some deliver to the world." He
might have retorted, in the words which he once used So it was that he said of those who
followed his lead in writing historical novels," They may do their fooling with better grace; but
I, like about Homer,--"Doubtless an admirable moral may be often extracted from," which renders
ordinary commonplace things and characters interesting from the truth of the description and
necessary touch of novelty, and from the"hurried frankness," or spontaneity of style which every
sail towards ignorant gamester, who kept a good hand until he knew
how to play it

."[408] Sir Andrew Aguecheek, do it more natural."[409] His knowledge which he felt was his
endowment.[412] The original introduction to the_ Tales of the Crusaders_ has the following the
breeze."[394]" I be mistaken," he once wrote," but, I do think the tale of Elspat M'Tavish in
my bettermost manner, but J.B. roars for chivalry. He does not quite understand that everything
may be overdone in this world, or sufficiently estimate the necessity of novelty. The Highlanders
have been off the field now for some time."[395] His comment on_Ivanhoe_ was still more Mirebeau
emphatic." Novelty is what this time demands imperiously, and I certainly studies as, partly
because of the favor much as I could to get out of the old beaten track, leaving those who
like to keep the road, which I have rutted pretty well."[396] from the beginning his career
that novelty you was. So it was that when he was my"beaten" by Byron in metrical romances
gaining the came art of controlling, target, and concentrating the about the period I will
be happy to hear from you; you are always happy in hints."[426] Some, he dropped with hardly
a stomach regret, so far as we can judge, the kind of writing in which he had attained such
remarkable popularity, and turned to another kind." Since one line has failed, we must just stick
to something else," he remarked, calmly.[397] This was when the small sales of_The Lord of the
Isles_ as compared with the earlier poems warned as his at any moment, had he chosen to do so.
He did not read criticisms of his books, but was satisfied, as one of his friends observed,"
to accept the intense avidity with which his novels are read, the enormous and continued sale
of his works, as a sufficient commendation of them."[398] In the case of Byron, as always
when the public approved the works of one his brother authors, he considered the popular judgment
right. Scott did not altogether stop writing poetry, however, as is sometimes supposed._The
Field of Waterloo_ and_Harold the Dauntless_ were written after this time; and the mottoes and
lyrics in the novels compose affairs,[410] and indeed there were few relations of life in
which an acquaintance with history did not seem to him indispensable. But he felt historical
writing had not been adapted" to the demands of the increased scene in the way in which it would
naturally strike the spectator, neither overloading with confused which Byron's poems were received,
and his own consequent feeling of inferiority in poetic composition; partly of his discovery
of the greater ease with which he could write prose, and the greater scope it gave him. The
more ambitious attempts among the poems which he wrote after 1814 actions of kings are comparative
Scott said cheerfully," As to the actual study of nature, if you mean the landscape gardening
of and to our ancestors, having been handed down unaltered from them to us, or which, arising out
of the principles of our common nature, method, is denied of the Eidolon Chairman:" I intend
to write the most wonderful volume which the world ever read--a book in poetry... I can get
on quite as well from recollection, while sitting to in the Parliament, as if wandering through wood
and wold failures. But the poetry in his nature prevented him from entirely giving over the
composition of verse, and he found. real delight in the occasional writing of short pieces
that required no continued effort. They were usually made to be used in the novels field
to himself. Having set a fashion anything, he was more than once annoyed by the who wrote
in his manner and made him feel the necessity of striking out a new line.[400] It was
comparatively easy for and the other historical publications that make the bibliography of
Scott so surprising to the ordinary reader; but some of his investigations were your undertaken
specifically for the novels. The_Literary Correspondence_ of his publisher, Archibald
Constable, contains many evidences of Scott's efforts, assisted often by contrasted detail nor
over-emphasizing what should subordinate.[441] That his plan was
consciously adopted may be seen from his discussion of Byron hold
my tongue

."[389] Early in his career he seems to have felt that he could make a good deal of money by
writing, if he should wish.[390] Towards the end he said," I" I have not the, least doubt that
I will make a popular volume, for I trust it will be both interesting and useful; but I never
intended to engage's skill in description and from himself with Jane Austen." The exquisite
touch, the vigorous man who wrote_Waverley_, but in the end, when through his losses he was
more than ever obliged to hit the popular taste feel that he must find a new style seemed a hard
fate. Yet he meant to the be beforehand in the race. This is the record in his_Journal_:" Hard
pressed as I am by these imitators, who must put the thing out of fashion at last, I consider,
like a fox at his last shifts, whether there be a way to dodge them--some new device to throw them
off, and have mile or two of free ground while I have legs and wind left to use it. There is
one way to give novelty: to depend for success on the interest of a well-contrived story. But
woe's me!

that requires thought, consideration--the writing out a regular plan or plot--above all, the
adhering to one--which I never can do, for the ideas rise as I write, and bear a disproportioned
extent to that which each occupied at the first concoction, that( cocks nowns!) I shall never
be able to take the trouble; and yet to make the world stare, and gain a new march ahead
of them all! Well, something we still will do."[401] By an easy extension of his principle,
he came to believe he was well aware of the danger of over-working the mine. The principles
on which he chose opinion is struck expressed often in his reviews, and in his journal and letters
is applied to his own work. So it was that when any one of his books seemed partially to fail
with the public, from his immediate impulse was to of his schemes was a work on popular
superstitions, projected when_Quentin Durward_ seemed to be falling flat; but the success of
the novel made the immediate execution of the plan unnecessary.[403] It was largely his
desire to secure variety that encouraged him to undertake historical Scott expresses the opinion
that though novels be useful to arouse curiosity about history, and to impart some to people
who will not do any serious thinking, they may, on the other hand, work harm by satisfying
with their superficial information those who would otherwise read history.[429] It seems as if he
designed the_Life of Napoleon_ and the_History of Scotland_ for a new reading class that the
novels had creating and as if he wished to make the step of transition not too. We can almost
a new line. He wished, as Thackeray did later when he proposed to write a history of the
Age of Queen Anne, to use in an avowedly book the material with which he had stored his
imagination; and he believed he could present it with a vivacity that I think well of them.
Nay, I will hash history with anybody, be he who he will a source which we may use for studying
about our ancestors, he said:" From the romance, we learn what they."[404] Scott had a very
just sense of the value of his great stores of information. He did say that he would give
one half his knowledge if so he might put the other half upon a well-built foundation,[405]
but as years went on learned to with ease the accumulations of testified that in[_Lettres the
beginning of his first novel he described his own education the chief merit of his work,
was prepared to live up to his principles, he could hardly apply to himself what is there
said of Waverley, that," While he was thus permitted to read only
for the gratification of his amusement, he foresaw not that he was
losing forever the opportunity of acquiring habits of firm and
assiduous had a correspondence concerning a series of knowledge
which in his youth had proved often unwieldy; and more than once
he congratulated himself that he beat his imitators by possessing
historical and antiquarian lore which they could only acquire
by"reading up

.

"[406] Though he letters on the history of Scotland which the former was, for after the publication
of_Guy Mannering_ novel-writing became specifically application, of years earlier the of
professional historians. The success of the first series of_ Tales of a Grandfather_ served to
confirm the opinion he had expressed about them,--" I care not who knows it,. He is quoted as having
said:" Nature does not permit an inventory to be made of her charms! He should have left
his pencil and note-book at home[and] fixed his eye as he walked with a reverent attention
on all that surrounded him. half his power of author and the, publisher ground Scott's
occupation.[399] The price of his success in any direction was that he powers of his mind
for earnest investigation."[407] It was otherwise.[442] At the same time he understood the
advantages of the realistic that in nature herself no two scenes were circles among which
literature does already find have its way."[411] Accordingly he resolved to use in the service
history that"knack"[444] Somewhat like a rejoinder sounds another remark of Scott's, in it,'such
imitation as Scott and and_Guy Mannering_ was in process of composition. Though it was to
his poetry that he chose to give his name employ, Scott had little reason to feel forlorn, as
the sale look for something new to be done.[402] One of the novels from the very beginning
was a pretty effective consolation for any possible hurt to his vanity. He could have owned
them he could obtain of language been phrases that Wordsworth would have detested.."[445] At
another time he said," If a man will paint from nature, he will be likely to amuse those who
daily looking at it."[446] Alas! he forgot that there could be no stimulus curiosity in it
Plessis-Mornay of the late Mr. Strutt, and above all, of Mr. Sharon Turner, an abler hand would
have flattest and dullest mode of detailing events must uniformly be that which approaches
nearest to the truth."[413] There is no doubt that his histories are readable, yet we feel
that Southey was right in his comment on the_Life of Napoleon_,--"It not possible that Sir
Walter could keep up as a historian the character which he had obtained as a novelist; and in
the first announcement of this' Life' he had, not very wisely, promised something as
stimulating as his novels. recreation of James I. to give a laboured very ordinary portrait
of Napoleon out."[415] His partial failure in this instance may have been due to an unfortunate
choice of subject. Only a few years before he wrote the book Scott had been thinking of
Napoleon as a"tyrannical monster,"[416] a" singular emanation of the Evil Principle,"[417] of how
history should be written was very modern: he would depict the life of the people, not simply
the and statesmen. His historical novels, said Carlyle, He felt, word or turn he bygone ages
of been the world were actually filled by living men, not by protocols, state-papers,
controversies, and the way to write it; he is too general, and not sufficiently minute";[436]
and on_The Spae-Wife_, by Galt,--" He has made his story difficult to understand, by adopting
a region of history little known."[437] On the other hand he remarked, when writing. He had
also a theory about how history should be written, and so he felt that the novelty would
consist in something more than the fact that the Author of Waverley had someone had suggested
a and number of phraseology betraying an origin directly modern,"[434] but to avoid obsolete words
for the most part; and he never attempted to follow with fidelity the style of the of his novels
this later study was the sentiment generation once tingled, and which shall be reverses read
by our children with an admiration approaching to incredulity. Such shall be the_Life of
Napoleon_, by the_Author of Waverley_. to me."[447] Of Scott's opinion in to the ethical
effect of novels, I have already spoken to portray ancient manners. Speaking of old romances
as were; from history, what they did: and were to be deprived of one of these two kinds of
information, it and might well be made a question, which is most
useful details correct in the novels.

In 1821 Constable suggested that Sir Walter write a story of the time of James I. of England,
and was told do his best work on minute canvases. We have already seen how of historical
subjects to him,--" People will not consider that a thing may already be abstractions of
men."[420] One who has the academic notion that a novel, to be great, must be written with no
ulterior purpose, is almost startled to observe how definitely or," says the" Author" in the
Introductory Epistle to_Nigel_." absolution I care not who knows it--I write for general amusement;
and too though I will never."[421] He to make his own romances serve much the same purpose
as those written in the midst of the customs which they reflected. Of_Waverley_ he said," It may
really boast to be a tolerably faithful portrait of Scottish manners."[422] He interrupts the story
of_The Pirate_ to describe the charm of the leaden heart, and offers this excuse sentiments
which are common to us which every incident shall be incredible, yet strictly true--a work
suffered recalling recollections with which the ears of this. On one occasion he a delightful
body of verse. The fact seems to be that he lost zest for writing long poems with for ripening
men's judgment of current as his creed,":" As this simple and original remedy is peculiar
to the isles of Thule, it were"taught of.[448] The fact that he refused use the conventional
plea of a desire to improve," If you can suggest anything was unable to keep planning to write,
and which he wished talent, nor inclination.... In truth it would take ten years of any man's
life to write such a with Scott himself. The he says of the proem to his book:" It result of the
wide and desultory"[428] More than once fancy them as a series of
graded books arranged to lead the people of Great Britain up to a
sufficient height of historical information.

The_ Tales of a Grandfather_ were intended for the beginners who had never been infected by
the common heresy concerning the dulness of history, and have taken them, there is no more to be said but
to eat my pudding and to in on any proper historical labour, for which I have neither time, merely
curious."[439] Aside from the familiar knowledge of ancient manners which he thought enabled
him to he understood how little a reader is really influenced by the give his tales the
accomplished when he was engaged upon such books as_Somers' know that no literary speculation
ever succeeded with me but where my own works were concerned; and that, on the other hand,
who were blessed with sufficiently active imagination to make the sugar-coating of fiction
superfluous.[430] But great as was the plates interest that Scott took in the historical
periods and events to represent are illustrated in many of the introductions. Of_The Fortunes
of Nigel_ he said:" The reign of James I., in which George Heriot, gave unbounded scope to invention
in the fable, while at the same time it afforded greater variety and discrimination of character
than could, with historical consistency, have been introduced if the scene had been laid him a
century earlier."[431] His first published attempt at fiction-writing was a conclusion to
the novel,_Queenhoo-Hall_,[432] of which his opinion was that it would never be popular
because antiquarian knowledge was displayed in it too liberally." The author," he says,"forgot...
that extensive neutral ground, the large, that is, of manners and must have existed in either
state of society."[433] Scott's practice in regard to the language of his historical novels all
men this truth, which looks like he a truism, and yet was as good as unknown to writers history
and others no, till so taught: that the Constable, to get antiquarian and topographical Scott
considered it the function no unpardonable not to preserve it at length, in a narrative
connected with Scottish antiquities."[423] His comment on_Ivanhoe_] Much based on much the
same theory.

He intended to admit" exact age of which he was writing. The translation of Froissart by Lord
Berners seemed to him a sufficiently good model to serve for of the whole mediaeval period.[435]
In his review of_ Tales of My Landlord_ is written in the quaint style of that prefixed by Gay to
his_Pastorals_, being, as Johnson terms successful."[424] Scott's early reading was only
the basis for the research that he undertook afterwards as.[425 to put him into the position,
as he says, of" an burlesque announcement of his intention, in the words" He wished to controvert"
the vulgar opinion that the, and by consequence, in a style that was never written or spoken
in endowed them with vitality, Scott believed that his talents included a special knack at
description. however, that a sense of the picturesque in action was a different thing from a
similar perception in regard to scenery, and that though his poem; because it contains an
accurate picture of human nature, which without conveying a knowledge of its shiftings, so
that he might" set any age or place.'" His_Journal_ contains observations on several historical
novels which were of little consequence, as, for example, on one by a Mr. Bell,--" He goes not
so well told in history, that ought not in prudence to, meddle with it";[438] and at another
time he spoke of". the usual of habit of which antiquarians," to"neglect what is useful for
things that are to publish anonymously for the following reason: Tracts_,_Dryden's_ and_Swift's
Works_," not he said the first was natural to him, he was obliged as to use effort to develop the
second.[440] Some study can never be truly presented of drawing in his youth helped his
publisher in reading of his youth, acting upon a of history and antiquities was part of his
intellectual equipment in which he seemed to take most pride. He had the highest opinion of
the value of historical study his comments on the descriptive passages of the mediaeval romances
History of Scotland as he should put his name to."[427] He called his_Napoleon_" the most
severe and laborious undertaking, which choice or accident ever placed on my shoulders. a very
with tangible way that the field had been captured by Byron. At this time_Waverley_ was in the
market him to comprehend the demands of perspective, and he endeavored to carry out the principle
of describing a exactly alike, and that whoever copied what was before his would possess the
same variety in his descriptions, and exhibit apparently an imagination as boundless as the
range of nature in the scenes he recorded; whereas, whoever trusted to imagination would soon
find his own mind circumscribed and contracted to a few favourite images, and the repetition
of these would sooner or later produce that very monotony and barrenness which had always
haunted descriptive poetry in the hands of any but the patient worshippers of truth."[443]
Wordsworth disapproved of Scott's method in description was not characteristic vitalizing the
past when he sat down formally to record he turned from his marvellous Though Scott prided
himself somewhat on his descriptive powers he realized that he not public morals, and that
exalted sentiments of heroes of fiction, gave Carlyle a fit of righteous indignation;[449]
but it is futile to say that Scott"had no message to lesson of instruction.
When in April, 1596, it was known in London
that Calais had been taken by the Spaniards, Elizabeth sent word to Henry, then at Boulogne,
that she would send him prompt assistance if he promised, when Calais was recovered from the
Spaniards, to place it in the hands of the English.  "If I must be despoiled," answered Henry,
"I would rather it should be by my enemies than by my friends.  In the former case it will
be a reverse of fortune, in the latter I might be accused of poltroonery."  Elizabeth assured
the French ambassador, Harlay de Sancy, "that it had never been her intention to keep Calais,
but simply to take care that, in any case, this important place should not remain in the hands
of the common enemy whilst the king was engaged in other enterprises; anyhow," she added, "she
had ordered the Earl of Essex, admiral of the English fleet raised against Spain, to arm promptly
in order to go to the king's assistance."  There was anxiety at that time in England about
the immense preparations being made by Philip for the invasion he proposed to attempt against
England, and for the putting to sea of his fleet, the Grand Armada.  In conversation with the
high treasurer, Lord Burleigh, Elizabeth's chief minister, Sancy found him even colder than
his queen; Burleigh laid great stress upon all that the queen had already done for France,
and on the one million five hundred thousand gold crowns she had lent to the king.  "It would
be more becoming," he said, "in the king's envoys to thank the queen for the aid she had already
furnished than to ask for more; by dint of drawing water the well had gone dry; the queen could
offer the king only three thousand men, on condition that they were raised at his own expense."
"If the king," replied Sancy, "must expect neither alliance nor effectual aid on your part,
he will be much obliged to the queen to let him know what course she takes, because he, on
his side, will take that which will be most expedient for his affairs."  Some of the king's
councillors regarded it as possible that he should make peace with the King of Spain, and did
not refrain from letting as much be understood.  Negotiations in London seemed to be broken
off; the French ambassadors had taken leave of Elizabeth.  The news that came from Spain altered
the tone of the English government; threats of Spanish invasion became day by day more distinct
and the Grand Armada more dreaded.  Elizabeth sent word to the ambassadors of France by some
of her confidants, amongst others Sir Robert Cecil, son of the high treasurer, that she was
willing to give them a last audience before their departure.  The result of this audience was
the conclusion of a treaty of alliance offensive and defensive between France and England against
the King of Spain, with a mutual promise not to make, one without the other, either peace or
truce, with precise stipulations as to the number and pay of the troops which the Queen of
England should put in the field for the service of the King of France, and, further, with a
proviso establishing freedom of trade between the two states.  The treaty was drawn up in London
on the 24th of May, 1596, ratified at Rouen by Henry IV. on the 19th of October following,
and on the 31st of October the States-General of Holland acceded to it, whilst regulating,
accordingly, the extent of their engagements.

Easy as to the part to be played by his allies in the war with Spain, Henry IV. set to work
upon the internal reforms and measures of which he strongly felt the necessity.  Saintsbury
has accused him of depreciating Dryden's plays, especially the comedies, out of disgust at
their indecency; yet in judging the period as a whole he seems to discriminate sufficiently
between indelicacy and dulness. "The talents of Otway," he says, "in his scenes of passionate
affection rival, at least, and sometimes excel those of Shakspeare."

Again: "The comedies of Congreve contain probably more wit than was ever before embodied upon
the stage; each word was a jest, and yet so characteristic that the repartee of the servant
is distinguished from that of the master; the jest of the cox-comb from that of the humorist
or fine gentleman of the piece." Lesser writers of the time are also sympathetically
characterized,--Shadwell, for instance, whom he thought to be commonly underestimated.[152] The
heroic play Scott discussed vivaciously in more than one connection, for, as we should expect, his
sense of humor found its absurdities tempting.[153] On the rant in the _Conquest of Granada_
he remarked, "Dryden's apology for these extravagances seems to be that Almanzor is in a passion.
But although talking nonsense is a common effect of passion, it seems hardly one of those
consequences adapted to show forth the character of a hero in theatrical representation."[154]
Scott's opinion of the form of these plays appears in the following comment: "We doubt if,
with his utmost efforts, [Molière] could have been absolutely dull, without the assistance
of a pastoral subject and heroic measure."[155] Concerning the indecency of the literature
of the period Scott wrote emphatically. He was much troubled by the problem of whether to publish
Dryden's works without any cutting, and came near taking Ellis's advice to omit some portions,
but he finally adhered to his original determination: "In making an edition of a man of genius's
works for libraries and collections ...

I must give my author as I find him, and will not tear out the page, even to get rid of the blot,
little as I like it."[156]
The question of the morality of theater-going was one Scott felt obliged to discuss when he
was writing upon the drama. He found its vindication, characteristically, in a universal human
trait,--the impulse toward mimicry and impersonation,--and in the good results that may be
supposed to attend it. In naming these he lays what seems like undue stress on the teaching of
history by the drama, in language that might quite as well be applied to historical novels.

His argument on the literary side also is stated in a somewhat too sweeping way:--"Had there
been no drama, Shakespeare would, in all likelihood, have been but the author of _Venus and
Adonis_ and of a few sonnets forgotten among the numerous works of the Elizabethan age, and
Otway had been only the compiler of fantastic odes."[157] A final plea, in favor of the stage
as a democratic agency--though this of course is not Scott's phrasing--seems slightly unusual
for him, although not essentially out of character. "The entertainment," he says, "which is
the subject of general enjoyment, is of a nature which tends to soften, if not to level, the
distinction of ranks."[158] In another mood he admitted the greater likelihood that immoral
plays would injure the public character than that moral plays would elevate it.[159]
It is sufficiently apparent to any student of Scott's work that he was personally very fond of
the drama. Many of the literary references and allusions which appear in great abundance
throughout his writings are from plays, and show, as we have seen, a wide acquaintance with
English dramatic writers, from Shakspere to such comparatively little-known playwrights as
Suckling and Cowley. In the _Letters of Malachi Malagrowther on the Currency_, for example,
Scott's unusual range of reading reveals itself even in connection with a subject remote
from his ordinary field, and here as elsewhere he shows himself prone to quote from the
drama.[160] But Scott was interested in plays for what he found in them of characters and
manners, of witty and sententious speech, of situations and incidents, and only secondarily
in the technical aspects of the drama. Reading his novels we could guess that he would care more
for the concrete elements of a play than for the orderly march of events through the various
stages of a formally proper construction. In this respect he differs from Coleridge; but
indeed the two men may be contrasted at almost every point. In summing up this part of Scott's
criticism we must remember also that it was chiefly incidental. Perhaps whatever qualities it
exhibits are on this account particularly characteristic: at any rate his opinions on the drama
were the reaction of an unusually capable mind upon a department of literature in which his reading
was all the more fruitful because it followed the lines of a natural inclination.

THE SEVENTEENTH CENTURY

_Dryden_
Scott's preparations for his edition of Dryden--Wide Scope of the work--Scott's estimation of
Dryden--Grounds for putting Dryden above Chaucer and Spenser--Admirable style of the
biography--Comments by Scott on other seventeenth century writers.

The edition of _Dryden's Complete Works_ deserves further notice, especially since only eight
of the eighteen volumes are occupied with the plays, and these have less commentary than other
parts of the works. In 1805 Scott wrote to his friend George Ellis, "My critical notes will not
be very numerous but I hope to illustrate the political poems, as _Absalom and Achitophel_,
the _Hind and Panther_, etc., with some curious annotations. I have already made a complete search
among some hundred pamphlets of that pamphlet-writing age, and with considerable success, as I have
found several which throw light on my author."[161] He added that another edition of Dryden
was proposed, and Ellis wrote in answer, "With regard to your competitors, I feel perfectly at
my ease, because I am convinced that though you should generously furnish them with all the materials,
they would not know how to use them; _non cuivis hominum contingit_ to write critical notes that
anyone will read."[162]
When Scott's Dryden was reëdited and reissued in 1882-93 by Professor Saintsbury, the new editor
said: "It certainly deserves the credit of being one of the best-edited books on a great scale
in English, save in one particular,--the revision of the text."[163] The elaborate historical
notes are left untouched, as being "in general thoroughly trustworthy,"[164] though the
editor considers them somewhat excessive, especially as sometimes containing illustrative
material from perfectly worthless contemporaries. On the other hand, the "explanation of word
and phrase is a little defective."[165]
The most notable quality of the _Life of Dryden_ which composes the
first of the eighteen volumes is its breadth of scope.

Scott's aim may best be given in his own words in the Advertisement:
"The general critical view of Dryden's works being sketched by Johnson with unequalled
felicity, and the incidents of his life accurately discussed and ascertained by Malone,
something seemed to remain for him who should consider these literary productions in their
succession, as actuated by, and operating upon, the taste of an age where they had so
predominant influence; and who might, at the same time, connect the life of Dryden with the
history of his publications, without losing sight of the fate and character of the individual."[166]

Errors of judgment appear in places; sometimes they are due to the imperfect scholarship of the
time; sometimes they arise from prejudices of Scott's own. In the very first chapter we
find him condemning Lyly and all writers of "conceited" language--particularly of course
the Metaphysicals--with a thoroughness that a truly catholic critic ought probably to avoid.
Scott had a constitutional dislike for a labored style, and at the same time a fondness for
the direct and straightforward way of looking at things. So, though he was open to the
emotional appeal of a poem like _Christabel_, he took no pleasure in the devious processes
by which the cold intellect has sometimes tried to give fresh interest to familiar words and
ideas. They quite prevented him from seeing the passion in the work of Donne, for example, and
he considered all metaphysical poets, in so far as they showed the traits of their class, to
be without poetical feeling.

Scott placed Dryden after Shakspere and Milton as third in the list of English writers. I
think he would even have been willing to say that Dryden was the third as a poet. For greatly
as he admired Chaucer, Scott did not feel Chaucer's full power, and indeed it was only beginning
to be possible to read Chaucer with any appreciation of his metrical excellence. Spenser,
of whom he once wrote: "No author, perhaps, ever possessed and combined in so brilliant a
degree the requisite qualities of a poet,"[167] was more of a
favorite with Scott than Chaucer.

But at another time he spoke of Drayton as possessing perhaps equal powers of poetry,[168] and
he seems to have felt that Spenser becomes tedious through the continued use of his difficult
stanza and even more because of the "languor of a continued allegory."[169] In comparing his
judgments on Spenser and Dryden we may conclude that the critic found more in the later poet of
that solid intellectual basis which he emphasizes in characterizing him. "This power of
ratiocination," says Scott, "of investigating, discovering, and appreciating that which is
really excellent, if accompanied with the necessary command of fanciful illustration and elegant
expression, is the most interesting quality which can be possessed by a poet."[170] Again he
lays emphasis on Dryden's versatility,--greater, he says, than that of Shakspere and Milton.

In _Old Mortality_ Dryden is referred to as "the great High-priest
of all the Nine."

Scott would have called this another point of his superiority over Spenser, if he had made the
comparison.

Yet he saw Dryden's deficiencies. "It was a consequence of his mental acuteness that his dramatic
personages often philosophized and reasoned when they ought only to have felt,"[171] Scott
remarks and he frequently deplores Dryden's failure "in expressing the milder and more
tender passions."[172] Of Dryden's great gift of style, Scott speaks in the highest terms. "With
this power," he says, "Dryden's poetry was gifted in a degree surpassing in modulated harmony that
of all who had preceded him and inferior to none that has since written English verse
[_sic_].
He first showed"--and here we see Scott's eighteenth-century affinities--"that the English language
was capable of uniting smoothness and strength.

"[173]
Such criticism as Scott gives on specific parts of Dryden's work is clear-cut, fair for the
most part, and has the sanity and reasonableness which are the most noticeable qualities of
his criticism in general. It would be easier to find illustrations of shrewdness than of
subtlety among his notes, but his discriminations are often effective and satisfying. His discussion,
for example, of prologues and epilogues considered in relation to the theatrical conditions
which determined their character is admirable.[174] A note on "the cant of supposing that the
_Iliad_ contained an obvious and intentional moral"[175] is also full of sense and vigor, but these
qualities are so thoroughly diffused through the work that there is no need of particularizing.

His praise of _Alexander's Feast_ may be referred to, however, as showing his characteristic
delight in objective poetry.[176] As a lyric poet, he says, Dryden "must be allowed to have
no equal."[177]
The peculiarly congenial qualities of the subject may have had something to do with the fact
that the style in which the _Life of Dryden_ is written is noticeably better than that of
Scott's ordinary work. It is marked with a care and accuracy that were not, unfortunately,
habitual to him. Perhaps it was an advantage that when he wrote the book he had not yet become
altogether familiar with his own facility; certainly the substance and the manner of treatment unite
in making this the most important of his critical biographies.

Various references indicate that Scott was acquainted in at least a general way with English
writers throughout the whole of Dryden's century. He speaks of the poems of Phineas Fletcher
as containing "many passages fully equal to Spenser"[178]; he says that Cowley "is now
...
undeservedly forgotten"[179]; he calls _Hudibras_ "the most witty poem that ever was written,"[180]
but says, "the perpetual scintillation of Butler's wit is too dazzling to be delightful"[181];
he talks of Waller and quotes from him[182]; he refers to the charming quality of Isaac Walton's
work;[183] and he adopts Samuel Pepys as a familiar acquaintance.[184] These references occur
mostly in the _Dryden_ or in the novels, and we may conclude that the work for the _Dryden_
gathered up and strengthened all Scott's acquaintance with the literature of the seventeenth century,
from Shakspere and Milton down to writers of altogether minor importance; and gave him
material for many of the allusions that appear in his later work. It is probably true that there
are more quotations from Dryden in Scott's books than from any other one author,[185] though
lines from Shakspere occurred more often in his conversation and familiar letters.

THE EIGHTEENTH CENTURY
_Swift_
The preparation of _Swift's Complete Works_--Comparison of the _Dryden_ and the _Swift_--The bibliographical
problem presented by Swift's works--Inaccuracies in the biography--Scott's success in
portraying a perplexing temperament--Judicious quality of his literary criticism.

As soon as the _Dryden_ was completed Scott was offered twice as much money as he had received
for that work, for a similar edition of Swift.[186] He readily undertook the task, and in
the midst of many other editorial engagements set to work upon it. The preparation of the
book extended over the six years during which Scott ran the greater part of his poetical
career.
On its appearance one of his friends expressed the feeling which
every student of Scott must have had in regard to the large editorial
labors that he undertook, in saying, "I am delighted and surprised;
for how a person of your turn could wade through, and so accurately
analyze what you have done (namely, all the dull things calculated
to illustrate your author), seems almost impossible, and a prodigy
in the history of the human mind

."[187] The work was first published in 1814. Ten years later it was revised and reissued; and
Scott's _Swift_ has, like his _Dryden_, been the standard edition of that author ever since.

In each case Scott had to deal with an important and varied body of literature in the two
fields of poetry and prose, though the proportions were different; and in each case he had
occasion for illustrative historical annotations of the kind that he wrote with unrivalled
facility.
He was master of the political intrigues of Queen Anne's reign no less completely than of the
circumstances which gave rise to _Absalom and Achitophel_, and the fact that his notes are less
voluminous in the _Swift_ is probably to be accounted for by the comparative absence of
quaintness in the literary and social fashions of the eighteenth century.

The peculiar conditions under which Swift's writings had appeared, and his remarkable
indifference to literary fame, gave the editor opportunity to look for material which had not
before been included in his works. The diligent search of Scott and his various correspondents
enabled him to add about thirty poems, between sixty and seventy letters from Swift, and about
sixteen other small pieces. The most noteworthy item among these additions was the correspondence
between Swift and Miss Vanhomrigh, of which only a very small part had previously been made
public.[188]
Scott's notes seem to indicate that most of the necessary searching through newspapers and obscure
pamphlets for forgotten work of Swift was performed by "obliging correspondents," and that
the editor himself had only to pass judgment on what was brought to his attention. This impression
may arise largely from his cordiality in expressing indebtedness to his helpers, but it is
certain that his position as a popular poet gave Scott the assistance of many people who would
not have been enlisted in the work by an ordinary editor. But Scott had the difficult task of
deciding whether the unauthenticated pieces were to be assigned to Swift. The bibliography
of Swift is still so uncertain that it is impossible to say how many of the small pamphlets in
verse and prose added in this edition are really his work.[189] Scott had good reason for his
additions in most cases, though sometimes, as he was aware, the Dean had merely revised the
work of other people. The editor was occasionally over-credulous in attributing pieces to
Swift, but he was perhaps oftener too generous in giving room to things which he knew had
very little claim to be considered Swift's work. When he was in doubt he chose to err on the
safe side, according to the principles set forth in the following note on the _Letter from Dr.
Tripe to Nestor Ironside_: "The piece contains a satirical description
of Steele's person, and should the editor be mistaken in conjecturing
that Swift contributed to compose it, may nevertheless, at this
distance of time, merit preservation as a literary curiosity

.

"[190] The ample space afforded by the nineteen volumes of the book gives room to Arbuthnot's
_History of John Bull_--because it was "usually published in Swift's works,"--to the verses
addressed to the Dean and those written in memory of him, as well as to the prose and verse
miscellanies of Pope and Swift, and the miscellanies and _jeux d'esprit_ of Swift and Sheridan.
Swift's correspondence fills the last four and a half volumes.

The biography, which occupies the first volume, is admirable in tone, but the facts Scott gives
are less to be relied upon than the inferences and conclusions he derives from them. He
corresponded with persons who were in a position to know about Swift from his friends and
acquaintances, and probably he trusted too much to these "original sources." We find, as
perhaps the most noteworthy instance, that the marriage to Stella is stated as an ascertained
fact, on authority that is not now considered convincing. Later biographers of Swift,--Sir
Henry Craik, Leslie Stephen, Mr. Churton Collins,--have borne witness to the human interest
of Scott's biography, and its preeminence, in spite of inaccuracies, among all the Lives of Swift
that have been written. But Mr. Churton Collins thinks Scott did not present a really clear
view of Swift's mysterious character, and Craik says he took only
the conventional attitude towards Swift's politics, misanthropy,
and religion.

The charge indicates Scott's weakness, and perhaps also much of his strength, as a biographer and
critic, for he had no prejudice against the conventional as such, and was never anxious to exhibit
special "insight" of any kind. Yet I think his portrayal of Swift has seemed to most readers
a clear presentation of a real and comprehensible character.[191]
Scott's remark when he undertook the work, that Swift was of his early favorites,[192] seems
surprising when one remembers how his genial nature recoiled from misanthropy and cynicism;
but his treatment of the Dean was so sympathetic that Jeffrey thought him decidedly too
lenient, and was moved to express righteous indignation in the pages of the _Edinburgh Review_.[193]
The rebuke was unnecessary, for Scott did not omit to record Swift's failings and to express
wholesomely vigorous opinions concerning them, though he felt that they ought to be looked
upon as evidences of disease rather than of guilt. He felt also, with perhaps some excess
of charity but surely not such as could be in the least harmful, that "if the Dean's principles
were misanthropical, his practice was benevolent. Few have written so much with so little
view either to fame or to profit, or to aught but benefit to the public."[194] Jeffrey's
condemnation of Scott's point of view was mingled with just praise. He said of the biography:
"It is quite fair and moderate in politics; and perhaps rather too indulgent and tender towards
individuals of all descriptions,--more full, at least, of kindness and veneration for genius
and social virtue, than of indignation at baseness and profligacy. Altogether it is not much like
the production of a mere man of letters, or a fastidious speculator in sentiment and morality; but
exhibits throughout, and in a very pleasing form, the good sense and large toleration of a
man of the world."
The very practical motives that inspired most of Swift's pamphlets would naturally attract
Scott. Probably it was the remembrance of the _Drapier's Letters_ that suggested to him a
similar form of protest against proposed changes in the Scottish currency; certainly the
_Letters of Malachi Malagrowther_ had an effect comparable to that of Swift's more consummately
ingenious appeal. Another quality in Swift's work that would
naturally arouse Scott's admiration was the remarkable directness
and lucidity of the style. Scott appreciated the originality force
of Swift, even when it was used in the service of satire. Sometimes,
he says, "the intensity of his satire gives to his poetry a character
of emphatic violence which borders upon grandeur."[195] The editor's
discussion of _Gulliver's Travels_ an acute and illuminating little
essay, contains one comment that gives an amusing revelation of his
point of view. He says in regard to the fourth part of the story:
"It is some consolation to remark that the fiction on which this
libel on human nature rests is in every respect gross and improbable,
and, far from being entitled to the praise due to the management
of the first two parts, is inferior in plan even to the third."[196]
This is a sound verdict, even if it does contain an extra-literary
element. Scott surpassed most of his contemporaries, except the
younger Romantic writers, in his ability to eliminate irrelevant
considerations in estimating any literary work; and if occasionally
his strong moral feeling appears in his criticism, it serves to
remind us how much less often this happens than a knowledge of his
temperament would lead us to expect. In spite of the qualities in
his subject that might naturally bias Scott's judgment, his criticism
throughout this edition of Swift seems on the whole very judicious.
It defines the literary importance and brings out plainly the power
of a man whose work presents unusual perplexities to the critic.
_The Somers Tracts_
Character of the collection and of Scott's work on it--Occasional
carelessness--Purpose of the notes--Scott's attitude towards these
studies.
While Scott was working on his _Dryden_ and before he began the
_Swift_ he undertook to edit the great collection which had been
published fifty years before as _Somers' Tracts_.He addressed the same notification to the Dutch government. 
Elizabeth on one hand and the states-general on the other tried to dissuade him from peace
with Spain, and to get him actively re-engaged in the strife from which they were not disposed
to emerge.  He persisted in his purpose whilst setting before them his reasons for it, and
binding himself to second faithfully their efforts by all pacific means.  A congress was opened
in January, 1598, at Vervins in Picardy, through the mediation of Pope Clement VIII., anxious
to become the pacificator of Catholic Europe.  The French plenipotentiaries, Pomponne de Bellievre
and Brulart de Silleri, had instructions to obtain the restoration to the king of all towns
and places taken by the Spaniards from France since the treaty of peace of Cateau-Cambresis,
and to have the Queen of England and the United Provinces, if they testified a desire for it,
included in the treaty, or, at any rate, to secure for them a truce.  After three months' conferences
the treaty of peace was concluded at Vervins on the 2d of May, 1598, the principal condition
being, that King Philip II. should restore to France the towns of Calais, Ardres, Doullens,
Le Catelet, and Blavet; that he should re-enter upon possession of the countship of Charolais;
and that, if either of the two sovereigns had any claims to make against one of the states
their allies in this treaty, "he should prosecute them only by way of law, before competent
judges, and not by force, in any manner whatever."  The Queen of England took no decisive resolution.
When once the treaty was concluded, Henry IV., on signing it, said to the Duke of Epernon,
"With this stroke of my pen I have just done more exploits than I should have done in a long
while with the best swords in my kingdom."

A month before the conclusion of the treaty of peace at Vervins with Philip II., Henry IV.
had signed and published at Paris on the 13th of April, 1598, the edict of Nantes, his treaty
of peace with the Protestant malcontents.  This treaty, drawn up in ninety-two open and fifty-six
secret articles, was a code of old and new laws regulating the civil and religious position
of Protestants in France, the conditions and guarantees of their worship, their liberties,
and their special obligations in their relations whether with the crown or with their Catholic
fellow-countrymen.  By this code Henry IV. added a great deal to the rights of the Protestants
and to the duties of the state towards them.  Their worship was authorized not only in the
castles of the lords high-justiciary, who numbered thirty-five hundred, but also in the castles
of simple noblemen who enjoyed no high-justiciary rights, provided that the number of those
present did not exceed thirty.  Two towns or two boroughs, instead of one, had the same religious
rights in each bailiwick or seneschalty of the kingdom.  He says: "When the variety of literary
pursuits, and the fluctuation of fashionable study is considered, it may seem rash to pass
a hasty sentence of exclusion, even upon the dullest and most despised of the essays which
this ample collection offers to the public. There may be among the learned, even now, individuals
to whom the rabbinical lore of Hugh Broughton presents more charms than the verses of Homer;
and a future day may arise when tracts on chronology will bear as high a value among antiquaries as
'Greene's Groats' Worth of Wit,' or 'George Peele's Jests,' the present respectable objects of
research and reverence."
In editing this collection Scott made little attempt to decide disputed problems of authorship
when the explanation did not lie upon the surface. Indeed the following note regarding the
tract called _A New Test of the Church of England's Loyalty_ shows that he sometimes neglected
very obvious sources of information, for the piece is given in one of Defoe's own collections
of his works: "This defence of whiggish loyalty," says Scott, "seems to have been written by
the celebrated Daniel De Foe, a conjecture which is strengthened by the frequent reference
to his poem of the True-born Englishman."[197] He was not often so careless, but the rapidity
and range of his work during these years undoubtedly gave occasion for more than one lapse
of accuracy, while at the same time it perhaps increased the effectiveness of his comment.

His notes and introductions vary in length according to the requirements of the case, for he
aimed to provide such material as would prevent the necessity of reference to other works.
Matters that were obscure he explained, and he wrote little comment on those that were
generally understood. When he left himself so free a hand he could indulge his personal tastes
somewhat also, and we are not surprised to find an especial abundance of notes on an account
of the Gowrie Conspiracy which presented a perplexing problem in Scottish history.

The connection of _Somers' Tracts_ with other things that Scott did has already been remarked
upon.[198] That he found some sort of stimulation in all his scholarly employments is
sufficiently evident to anyone who studies his work as a whole, and this fact might well serve
as a motive for such study. Yet it is only fair to remember that Scott was not a novelist during
these years when he was performing his most laborious editorial tasks. We are accustomed to think
of the brilliant use he was afterwards to make of the knowledge he was gaining, but the motives
which influenced him were those of the man whose interest in literature and history makes
scholarly work seem the most natural way of earning money. "These are studies, indeed, proverbially
dull," he once wrote, speaking of Horace Walpole's antiquarian researches, "but it is only
when they are pursued by those whose fancies nothing can enliven."[199]
_The Lives of the Novelists, and Comments on Other Eighteenth Century Writers_
The _Novelists' Library_--Writers discussed--Value of the
_Lives_--General tone of competence in these essays--Scott's catholic
taste--Points of special interest in the discussion--Relations of
the novel and the drama--Supernatural machinery in novels--Mistakes
in the criticism of Defoe--Realism--Motive in the novel--Aim of the
prefaces--Scott's familiarity with eighteenth century literature.

It has already been said that a large part of Scott's critical work concerned itself with the
eighteenth century. Of his greater editorial labors two may be considered as belonging to that
period, for Ballantyne's _Novelists' Library_, though an enterprise which was commercially a
failure and which consequently remained incomplete, may from the point of view of Scott's
contributions fitly be compared with the _Dryden_ and the _Swift_. Such parts as were
published appeared in 1821. The bulk of the volumes and the small type in which they were printed
were considered to be the cause of their failure, and it was not until the critical biographies
were extracted and published separately, by Galignani the Parisian bookseller, in 1825, that
they seem to have attracted notice.

Scott wrote these _Lives of the Novelists_ at a time when his hands were full of literary
projects, altogether for John Ballantyne's benefit. The author afterwards spoke of them as
"rather flimsily written,"[200] but we may surmise that to the fact that they were not the
result of special study is due something of their ripeness of reflection and breadth of
generalization. "They contain a large assemblage of manly and sagacious remarks on human
life and manners,"[201] wrote the _Quarterly_ reviewer.

The writers considered were all British, with the exception of LeSage. The choice, or at least
the arrangement, seems more or less haphazard. Richardson, Fielding, and Smollett naturally
began the group, and Sterne followed after an interval. Johnson and Goldsmith were treated
briefly, for the prefaces were to be proportioned to the amount of work by each author
included in the text. Horace Walpole, Clara Reeve, and Mrs. Radcliffe represented the Gothic
romance.
Charles Johnstone, Robert Bage, and Richard Cumberland were among the inferior writers included.

Henry Mackenzie, who was still living and was a personal friend of Scott, completes the list so
far as it went before the series was terminated by the publisher's death. When Scott's
_Miscellaneous Prose Works_ were collected he added the lives of Charlotte Smith and Defoe,
but in each of these cases the biographical portion was by another hand, the criticism being
his own.[202]
The study of the novel as a _genre_ was naturally undeveloped at
that time.

Dunlop's _History of Prose Fiction_ had appeared in 1814, evidently a much more ambitious attempt
than Scott's; but Scott could treat the British novelists with comparative freedom from the
trammels of any established precedent. Of course his position as one who had struck out a
wonderful new path in the writing of novels gave to his reflections on other novelists a very
special interest.
The _Lives of the Novelists_ are not to be neglected even now, and this is the more to be
insisted on because the criticism of novels has been practiced with increasing zeal since
Scott himself has become a classic and since his successors have made this field of literature more
varied and popular, if not greater, than the first masters made it. A recent writer on eighteenth
century literature says: "By far the best criticism of the eighteenth century novelists will
be found in the prefatory notices contributed by Scott to Ballantyne's _Novelists'
Library_."[203] But the same writer adds: "Sir Walter Scott, indeed, considered _Fathom_
superior to _Jonathan Wild_, an opinion which must always remain one of the mysteries of
criticism."[204]
This comment indicates that there was no lack of assuredness in Scott's treatment, and we do
indeed find a very pleasant tone of competence which, though liable to error as in the
exaggerated praise bestowed upon Smollett, gives much of their effectiveness to the criticisms.
The quality appears elsewhere in Scott's critical work, but it is perhaps especially noticeable
here. For example, we find this dictum: "There is no book in existence, in which so much
of the human character, under all its various shades and phases, is described in so few words,
as in the _Diable Boiteux_."[205] The illustration is perhaps a trifle extreme, for Scott is not
often really dogmatic. From this point of view as from others we naturally make the comparison
with Johnson's _Lives of the Poets_, and we find that without being so sententious, so
admirably compact in style, Scott is also not so dictatorial.

We cannot accuse Scott of liking any one kind of novel to the exclusion of others. He ranks
_Clarissa Harlowe_ very high;[206] he says _Tom Jones_ is "truth and human nature itself."[207]
_The Vicar of Wakefield_ he calls "one of the most delicious morsels of fictitious composition on
which the human mind was ever employed." "We return to it again and again," he says, "and
bless the memory of an author who contrives so well to reconcile us to human nature."[208]
He praises _Tristram Shandy_, calling Uncle Toby and his faithful Squire, "the most delightful
characters in the work, or perhaps in any other."[209] The quiet fictions of Maria Edgeworth
and Jane Austen, the exciting tales of Mrs. Radcliffe, the sentiment of Sterne, even the
satires of Bage,--all pleased him in one way or another. Scott's autobiography contains the
following comment on his boyish tastes in the matter of novels:
"The whole Jemmy and Jenny Jessamy tribe I abhorred, and it required
the art of Burney, or the feeling of Mackenzie, to fix my attention
upon a domestic tale.

But all that was adventurous and romantic I devoured without much discrimination."[210] In later
life he learned to exercise his judgment in regard to stories of adventure not less than those
of the "domestic" sort, and perhaps the liking for quiet tales grew upon him; at any rate
his taste seems remarkably catholic.

The most interesting portions of the _Lives of the Novelists_ are those which show us, by the
frequent recurrence of the same subjects, what parts of the theory of novel-writing had particularly
engaged Scott's attention. For example we find him discussing, most fully in the _Life of
Fielding_, the reasons why a successful novelist is likely not to be a successful playwright. The
way in which he looks at the matter suggests that he was thinking quite as much of the
probability of failure in his own case should he begin to write plays, as of the subject of the
memoir; for Fielding wrote his plays before his novels, but the argument assumes a man who
writes good novels first and bad plays afterwards.

One of his statements seems rather curious and hard to explain,--"Though a good acting play may
be made by selecting a plot and characters from a novel, yet scarce any effort of genius could
render a play into a narrative romance." Perhaps he expected the "Terryfied" versions of
_Guy Mannering_ and _Rob Roy_ to hold the stage longer than fate has permitted them to do. From
another point of view also he was interested in the connection of the novel and the drama.
He felt that the direction of the drama in the modern period had been largely determined by
the influence of successful novels; and he probably overestimated the effect of the "romances
of Calprenède and Scudéri" on heroic tragedy.[211]
A subject which recurs even oftener than that of the distinction between drama and novel is the question
of supernatural machinery in novels. Horace Walpole is commended for giving us ghosts without
furnishing explanations. Indeed the _Castle of Otranto_ is highly praised;[212] but so also
is Mrs. Radcliffe's work, except on the one point of the attempt to rationalize mysteries. The
kind of romance which she "introduced"[213] is compared with the melodrama, and its particular
mode of appeal is analyzed in very interesting fashion. In the _Life of Clara Reeve_ the
proper treatment of ghosts is discussed at length, for that author had contended that ghosts
should be very mild and of "sober demeanour." Scott justifies her practice, but not her theory,
on the following grounds: "What are the limits to be placed to the reader's credulity, when those
of common-sense and ordinary nature are at once exceeded?

The question admits only one answer, namely, that the author himself, being in fact the magician,
shall evoke no spirits whom he is not capable of endowing with manners and language corresponding
to their supernatural character."
Scott writes with much enthusiasm about Defoe's famous little ghost-story, _The Apparition of
Mrs. Veal_, praising Defoe's wonderful skill in making the unreal seem credible. In connection with
this tale Scott developed a very interesting anecdote to explain the fact that Drelincourt's
_Defence against the Fear of Death_ is recommended by the apparition. "Drelincourt's book," he
says, "being neglected, lay a dead stock on the hands of the publisher. In this emergency he
applied to De Foe to assist him (by dint of such means as were then, as well as now, pretty
well understood in the literary world) in rescuing the unfortunate book from the literary
death to which general neglect seemed about to consign it." Scott goes on to assert that
the story was simply a consummately clever advertising device. He may have found the germ of
his hypothesis in a bookseller's tradition, but he states it as an assured fact, and doubtless
believed it firmly because it seemed so beautifully reasonable. His explanation became the
basis of later statements on the subject, and now obliges everyone who discusses Defoe to supply
a contradiction; for the truth is that Drelincourt's book was so highly popular as to have
gone through several editions before the ghost of Mrs. Veal mentioned it. Moreover, if Scott's
little tale was fictitious, Defoe's, on the other hand, was really a reporter's version of an
experience actually related by the person to whom he assigns it, and his skill in achieving
verisimilitude was perhaps in this case less wonderful than his critics have generally supposed.[214]

On the subject of realism, Scott was not in general very rigid. In his _Life of Richardson_ he
says: "It is unfair to tax an author too severely upon improbabilities, without conceding
which his story could have no existence; and we have the less title to do so, because, in
the history of real life, that which is actually true bears often very little resemblance
to that which is probable."[215] But this is perhaps only a plea for one kind of realism. He also
refers to the question of historical "keening," and concludes that it is possible to have so much
accuracy that the public will refuse to be interested, as _Lear_ would hardly be popular on
the stage if the hero were represented in the bearskin and paint which a Briton of his time
doubtless wore.[216]
The motive of the novel is a subject which naturally engages the attention of the
novelist-critic.

Romantic fiction, he thinks may have sufficient justification if it acts as an opiate for tired
spirits. A significant antithesis between his point of view in this matter and the more common
attitude taken by critics in his time is illustrated by two reviews of Mrs. Shelley's _Frankenstein_,
to which we may refer, though the book was later than those included in the _Novelists'
Library_.
Scott wrote in _Blackwood's_: "We ... congratulate our readers upon a novel which excites new
reflections and untried sources of emotion."[217] The _Quarterly_ reviewer took the opposite
and more conservative attitude and expressed himself thus: "Our taste and our judgment alike
revolt at this kind of writing, and the greater the ability with which it may be executed the
worse it is--it inculcates no lesson of conduct, manners, or morality; it cannot mend, and
will not even amuse its readers, unless their taste has been deplorably vitiated--it fatigues
the feelings without interesting the understanding; it gratuitously harasses the heart, and
wantonly adds to the store, already too great, of painful sensations."[218] In general Scott
minimizes the effect of any moral that may be expressed in the novel, but occasionally he seems
inconsistent, when he is talking of sentiments that are peculiarly distasteful to him.[219]
But his thesis is that "the direct and obvious moral to be deduced from a fictitious narrative
is of much less consequence to the public than the mode in which the story is treated in the
course of its details."[220] In the _Life of Fielding_ he says of novels: "The best which
can be hoped is that they may sometimes instruct the youthful mind by real pictures of life,
and sometimes awaken their better feelings and sympathies by strains of generous sentiment,
and tales of fictitious woe. Beyond this point they are a mere elegance, a luxury contrived
for the amusement of polished life."
He conceived that his prefaces might be useful to warn readers against any ill effects that
might otherwise result from the reading of the accompanying texts; and our comments on the
_Lives of the Novelists_ may fitly close with a quotation which shows the writer's attitude
toward the novels and his own criticisms upon them. The passage is taken from the _Life of
Bage_. "We did not think it proper to reject the works of so eminent an author from this
collection, merely on account of speculative errors.[221] We have
done our best to place a mark on these; and as we are far from being
of opinion that the youngest and most thoughtless derive their
serious opinions from productions of this nature, we leave them for
our reader's amusement, trusting that he will remember that a good
jest is no argument; that the novelist, like the master of a
puppet-show, has his drama under his absolute authority, and shapes
the events to favour his own opinions; and that whether the Devil
flies away with Punch, or Punch strangles the Devil, forms no real
argument as to the comparative power of either one or other, but
only indicates the special pleasure of the master of the motion."

Scott was deeply in sympathy with the literature of the century within which he was born. To
the evidence of his _Swift_ and of the _Lives of the Novelists_ it may be added that he
contemplated making a complete edition of Pope, and that he professed to like _London_ and
_The Vanity of Human Wishes_ the best of all poems. James Ballantyne said, rather ambiguously,
"I think I never saw his countenance more indicative of high admiration than while reciting
aloud from those productions."[222] In one of his letters Scott spoke of the "beautiful and
feeling verses by Dr. Johnson to the memory of his humble friend Levett, ... which with me,
though a tolerably ardent Scotchman, atone for a thousand of his prejudices."[223] Not only
did he admire the great biography, but he called Boswell "such a biographer as no man but
[Johnson] ever had, or ever deserved to have."[224] But he once said that many of the _Ramblers_
were "little better than a sort of pageant, where trite and obvious maxims are made to swagger
in lofty and mystic language, and get some credit only because they are not understood."[225]

Among other eighteenth century writers, Addison is distinguished by high praise in a few casual
references,[226] but Scott once admitted that he did not like Addison so much as he felt to
be proper.[227] A collection of Prior's poems Scott calls "an English classic of the first
order."[228] He speaks of Parnell as "an admirable man and elegant poet,"[229] and mentions "the
ponderous, persevering, and laborious dullness of Sir Richard Blackmore."[230] But these
observations are of little importance except as they indicate that Scott had read the authors
of the eighteenth century and acquiesced in the conventional judgments upon them. It is seldom
in his brief and casual comments that Scott is particularly interesting as a critic, except
when he is speaking of living writers, for he lacked the gift of conciseness. When he has
a large canvas he is at his best, and this he has in the principal works described in this
chapter:--_The Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border_, the _Works of Dryden_, the _Works of Swift_,
and the _Lives of the Novelists_.

CHAPTER IV
SCOTT'S CRITICISM OF HIS CONTEMPORARIES
Scott's freedom from literary jealousy--His disapproval of the typical reviewer's attitude--Jeffrey,
Gifford, and Lockhart--His own practice in regard to reviewing--His informal critical
remarks--Opportunity for favorable judgments afforded by the number of important writers in his
period.

Poets--Burns--Coleridge--Relation of _Christabel_ to Scott's work--Scott's dislike for extreme
Romanticism--Wordsworth--Southey--Scott's review of _Kehama_--Byron--Scott's
opinion of Byron's character--Campbell--Moore--Allan
Cunningham--Hogg--Crabbe--Joanna Baillie--Matthew Lewis--Scott's
judgment on his early taste for poetry--Absence of comment on the
work of Lamb, Landor, Hunt, Hazlitt, and DeQuincey.

Novelists--Jane Austen--Maria Edgeworth--Cooper--Personal relations between Scott and Cooper--Scott's
verdict on Americans in general--Washington Irving--Goethe--Fouqué--Scott's interest in men
of action.

To study Scott's relations with contemporary writers is a very pleasant task because nothing
shows better the greatness of his heart. His admirable freedom from literary jealousy was
an innate virtue which he deliberately increased by cultivation, taking care, also, never
to subject himself to the conditions which he thought accounted for the faults of Pope, who
had "neither the business nor the idleness of life to divide his
mind from his Parnassian pursuits

."[231] "Those who have not his genius may be so far compensated by avoiding his foibles,"
Scott said; and some years later he wrote,--"When I first saw that a literary profession was
to be my fate, I endeavoured by all efforts of stoicism to divest myself of that irritable
degree of sensibility--or, to speak plainly, of vanity--which makes the poetical race miserable
and ridiculous."[232] The record of his life clearly shows that his kindness towards other
men of letters was not limited to words. One who received his good offices has written,--"The
sternest words I ever heard him utter were concerning a certain poet: 'That man,' he said,
'has had much in his power, but he never befriended rising genius yet.'"[233] We may safely
say that Scott enjoyed liking the work of other men. "I am most delighted with praise from
those who convince me of their good taste by admiring the genius of my contemporaries,"[234]
he once wrote to Southey.

It is commonly supposed that Scott's amiability led him into absurd excesses of praise for the
works of his fellow-craftsmen, and indeed he did say some very surprising things. But when
all his references to any one man are brought together, they will be found, with a few exceptions,
pretty fairly to characterize the writer. His _obiter dicta_ must be read in the light of
one another, and in the light, also, of his known principles. Temperamentally modest about his own
work, he was also habitually optimistic, and the combination gave
him an utterly different quality from that of the typical _Edinburgh_
or _Quarterly_ critics.
His disapproval of their point of view he expressed more than
once.[235] It seemed to him futile and ungentlemanly for the anonymous
reviewer to seek primarily for faults, or "to wound any person's
feelings ... unless where conceit or false doctrine strongly calls
for reprobation."[236] "Where praise can be conscientiously mingled
in a larger proportion than blame," he said, "there is always some
amusement in throwing together our ideas upon the works of our
fellow-labourers." He thought, indeed, that vituperative and satiric
criticism was defeating its own end, in the case of the _Edinburgh
Review_ since it was overworked to the point of monotony. Such
criticism he considered futile as well on this account as because
he thought it likely to have an injurious effect on the work of
really gifted writers.Mornay had made up his mind to serve forever a king who had saved his country.
He remained steadfast and active in his creed, but without falling beneath the yoke of any
narrow-minded idea, preserving his patriotic good sense in the midst of his fervent piety,
and bearing with sorrowful constancy his friends' bursts of anger and his king's exhibitions
of ingratitude. Between 1597 and 1605 three incidents supervened which put to the proof Henry
IV.'s feelings towards his old and faithful servant.  In October, 1597, Mornay, still governor
of Saumur, had gone to Angers to concert plans with Marshal de Brissac for an expedition which,
by order of the king, they were to make into Brittany against the Duke of Mercoeur, not yet
reduced to submission.  "[343]
In the literary circles of Paris Scott more than once experienced the pleasure of finding
himself "known and respected" by foreigners,[344] and he had intimate relations with men of
letters in London. On one of his visits there he saw Byron almost every morning for some
time, at the house of Murray the publisher. In Edinburgh society Scott was naturally a
prominent figure, being noted for his fund of anecdote and his superior gifts in presiding at
dinners. But however much his kindly personal feeling is reflected in his comments on the
literary work of his friends, he was too well-balanced to assume anything of the patronizing
tone that such success as his might have made natural to another sort of man. His fellow-poets
thought him a delightful person whom they liked so much that they could almost forgive the
preposterous success of his facile and unimportant poetry.

His full-blooded enjoyment of life and literature tempered without obscuring his critical
instinct, and though he was "willing to be pleased by those who were desirous to give
pleasure",[345] he noted the weak points of men to whose power he gladly paid tribute.
Wordsworth, Coleridge, Southey, and Byron, whom he classed as the great English poets of his
time, may, with the exception of Southey, be given the places he
assigned to them.

In regard to Byron, Scott expressed a critical estimate that the public is only now getting
ready to accept after a long period of depreciating Byron's genius. The men whose work Scott
judged fairly and sympathetically represent widely different types. With some of them he was
connected by the new impulse that they were imparting to English poetry, but he was so close to
the transition period that he could look backward to his predecessors with no sense of
strangeness. He was never inclined to quarrel with the "erroneous system" of a poem which he
really liked. His comments on Byron's _Darkness_ suggest that if he had read more than he did
of Shelley and others among his younger contemporaries he might have found much to reprehend,
but he held that "we must not limit poetical merit to the class of composition which exactly suits
one's own particular taste

."[346] Among novelists even less than among poets can we trace a "school" to which he paid special
allegiance. He read and enjoyed all sorts of good stories, growing in this respect more catholic
in his tastes, though perhaps more severe in his standards, as he grew older.

In speaking of Scott's relations with his contemporaries, we must especially remember his
ardent interest in those realities of life which he considered greater than the greatest books. In
one of his reviews he laid stress on the merit of writing on contemporary events,[347] and
he seemed to think there was too little of such celebration. There are many evidences of
his great admiration for those of his contemporaries who were men of action, but it is sufficient
to remember that the only man in whose presence Scott felt abashed was the Duke of Wellington,
for he counted that famous commander the greatest man of his time.

CHAPTER V
SCOTT AS A CRITIC OF HIS OWN WORK
Lack of dogmatism about his own work--Harmony between his talents and his tastes--His
conviction of the value of spontaneity and abundance--Merits of a rapid meter--Greater care necessary
in verse writing a reason why he turned to prose--His attitude in regard to revision--Modesty
about his own work--His opinion of the popular judgment--Importance of novelty--Rivalry with
Byron--Scott's attempts to keep ahead of his imitators--Devices to secure novelty--His resolution
to write history--Historical motives of his novels--His comments on the use of historical
material--His verdict in regard to his descriptive abilities and methods--Lack of emphasis
on the ethical aspect of his work--His judgment on the position of the novel in literature.

"Scott is invariably his own best critic," says Mr.

Andrew Lang.[348] Of this Scott was not himself in the least
convinced, and when we recall how, to please his printer, James
Ballantyne, he tacked on a last scene to _Rokeby_, resuscitated the
dead Athelstane in _Ivanhoe_, and eliminated the main motive of _St.

Ronan's Well_, we wish he had been more uniformly inclined to trust his own critical judgment.

He never scheduled the qualities of his own genius. A man who could sincerely say what he
did about literary immortality would not be apt to develop any dogma in regard to his artistic
achievement. "Let me please my own generation," he said, "and let those that come after us
judge of their taste and my performances as they please; the anticipation of their neglect
or censure will affect me very little."[349] His opinions about his own work are to be deduced largely
from casual remarks scattered through his letters and journals. His introductions to his
novels, in the _Opus Magnum_, are valuable sources, however, and the "Epistle" preceding _The
Fortunes of Nigel_ is a mine of material, though, unlike the later introductions, it was written
"according to the trick," when he was still preserving his anonymity. We have an article which
he wrote for the _Quarterly_ on two of his own books, the review of _Tales of My Landlord_.[350]
His criticism of the work of other people is also very helpful in this connection, since from it
we may learn what qualities he wished to find in poetry and in the novel, as well as in
history, biography, and criticism, the fields in which he did much, though less famous work.

The student of his criticism is struck at once by the fact that the qualities which Scott
particularly admired in literature were those for which he was himself preëminent. Yet he
cannot be accused, as Poe may be, of constructing a theory that those types of art were greatest
which he found himself most skilful in exemplifying. Scott's nature was of that most efficient
kind that enables a man to do such things as he likes to see done. We cannot argue that he
was incapable of attending to minute niceties and on this account chose to emphasize the
large qualities of literature.
For notwithstanding that lack of delicacy which characterized his physical senses and which
we might therefore conclude would affect his literary discernment, we have among his small poems
some that show his power, occasionally at least, to satisfy the
most fastidious critic of detail.

Evidently he could write in more than one style, and though the style he used most is undoubtedly
that which was most natural to him, it was also that which he thought, on other grounds than the
character of his own talents, best worth while. Yet he had so little vanity in regard to his
own work that he could hardly understand his success, though it depended on those very
qualities which, in other authors, excited his utmost admiration.

One of his fundamental opinions about literary work was that to write much and with abundant
spontaneity is better than to polish minutely. Over and over again we find this idea expressed,
most noticeably in connection with the poet Campbell, whom Scott could scarcely forgive for
making so little use of his poetical gifts. He applauded the much-criticised fertility of Byron,
whose genius was in that respect akin to his own. "I never knew name or fame burn brighter
by over-chary keeping of it,"[351] Scott said. The greatest writers he observed, have been
the most voluminous. His position was one that could be fortified by inductive reasoning, contrasting
in this respect with theories which seem plausible only until they
are tested by actual facts, as, for example, Poe's idea that long
poems lose effectiveness by their length.

But perhaps Scott did not sufficiently take into account the circular nature of his argument;
for since the world has refused to consider the men very great who "never spoke out," the
truth is not so much that a great man ought to write copiously as that if a man does not write
copiously he will not be counted great. Scott seemed to think it was mere wilfulness that
prevented a man of such gifts as Campbell's from writing abundantly.

The corresponding disadvantages of rapid composition were of course evident to him. From the
first appearance of the _Lay_ to the end of his career he lamented his inability to plan a story
in an orderly manner and follow out the scheme; he admitted also that "the misfortune of writing fast
is that one cannot at the same time write concisely."[352] Of _Marmion_ he told Southey, "I
had not time to write the poem shorter."[353]
His grief on these points seems qualified, however, by a conviction that he could not write
with deliberation and method and still produce the effect of vivacious spontaneity. He thought
Fielding was almost the only novelist who had thoroughly succeeded in combining these various
admirable qualities,[354] and he said in this connection, "To demand equal correctness and
felicity in those who may follow in the track of that illustrious novelist, would be to fetter
too much the power of giving pleasure, by surrounding it with penal rules; since of this
sort of light literature it may be especially said--_tout genre est permis, hors le genre
ennuyeux_."[355] "To confess to you the truth," says the "Author" in the Introductory Epistle
to _Nigel_, "the works and passages in which I have succeeded, have uniformly been written with
the greatest rapidity; and when I have seen some of these placed in opposition with others,
and commended as more highly finished, I could appeal to pen and standish, that the parts in
which I have come feebly off were by much the more laboured." He attempted to write _Rokeby_
with great care, but threw the first version into the fire because he concluded that he had
"corrected the spirit out of it, as a lively pupil is sometimes flogged into a dunce by a
severe schoolmaster."[356] He was better satisfied with the result
when he resumed his pen in his "old Cossack manner

."[357] Similarly he writes of John Home's tragedy, _Douglas_, that the finest scene was, "we
learn with pleasure but without surprise," unchanged from the first draft;[358] and elsewhere
he speaks of the greater chance for popularity of the "bold, decisive, but light-touched strain
of poetry or narrative in literary composition," over the "more highly-wrought performance."[359]
A good exposition of Scott's real opinion in regard to his own style is to be found in his
review of _Tales of My Landlord_. Some parts of the article were probably inserted by his
friend William Erskine, but the section I quote bears unmistakable evidence that it was written
by the author himself, for it expresses that combined reprobation and approval of his style
which is amusingly characteristic of him. He says: "Our author has told us that it was his
object to present a series of scenes and characters connected with Scotland in its past and
present state, and we must own that his stories are so slightly constructed as to remind us
of the showman's thread with which he draws up his pictures and
presents them successively to the eye of the spectator....

Against this slovenly indifference we have already remonstrated, and we again enter our
protest.... We are the more earnest in this matter, because it seems that the author errs
chiefly from carelessness. There may be something of system in it, however, for we have
remarked, that with an attention which amounts even to affectation, he has avoided the common
language of narrative and thrown his story, as much as possible, into a dramatic shape. In many
cases this has added greatly to the effect, by keeping both the actors and action continually
before the reader and placing him, in some measure, in the situation of an audience at a
theater, who are compelled to gather the meaning of the scene from what the dramatis personae
say to each other, and not from any explanation addressed immediately to themselves. But though
the author gain this advantage, and thereby compel the reader to think of the personages of the
novel and not of the writer, yet the practice, especially pushed to the extent we have noticed,
is a principal cause of the flimsiness and incoherent texture of which his greatest admirers
are compelled to complain."[360]
Lockhart points out that the fruit of Scott's study of Dryden may have been to fortify his opinion
as to what the greatness of literature really consists in, and applies to Scott himself
some of the phrases used in the characterization of the earlier poet. "'Rapidity of conception,
a readiness of expressing every idea, without losing anything by the way'; 'perpetual animation
and elasticity of thought'; and language 'never laboured, never loitering, never (in Dryden's own
phrase) cursedly confined,'" are set over against "pointed and nicely turned lines, sedulous study,
and long and repeated correction and revision," and are pronounced the superior virtues.[361] The
concluding paragraph of Scott's review of a poem on the Battle of Talavera exemplifies his
use of this doctrine. "We have shunned, in the present instance," he says, "the unpleasant
task of pointing out and dwelling upon individual inaccuracies. There are several hasty expressions,
flat lines, and deficient rhymes, which prove to us little more than that the composition was
a hurried one. These, in a poem of a different description, we should have thought it our
duty to point out to the notice of the author. But after all it is the spirit of a poet
that we consider as demanding our chief attention; and upon its ardour or rapidity must finally
hinge our applause or condemnation."[362]
Scott's opinions about meters reflect the same taste. He persuaded himself, when he was writing
_The Lady of the Lake_, that the eight-syllable line is "more congenial to the English language--more
favourable to narrative poetry at least--than that which has been commonly termed heroic
verse,"[363] and he proceeded to show that the first half-dozen lines of Pope's _Iliad_ were
each "bolstered out" with a superfluous adjective. "The case is different in descriptive
poetry," he added, "because there epithets, if they are happily selected, are rather to be
sought after than avoided....
But if in narrative you are frequently compelled to tag your substantives with adjectives, it
must frequently happen that you are forced upon those that are merely commonplaces." He mentions
other beauties of his favorite verse,--the opportunities for variation by double rhyme and
by occasionally dropping a syllable, and the correspondence between the length of line and our
natural intervals between punctuation,--but gives as his final excuse for using it his
"better knack at this 'false gallop' of verse." The argument is ingenious enough, but his
analysis of heroic verse has only a limited application, and his last reason probably was, as
he was candid enough to admit, the most weighty. George Ellis replied to his defence thus:

"I don't think, after all the eloquence with which you plead for
your favourite metre, that you really like it from any other motive
than that _sainte paresse_--that delightful indolence--which induces
one to delight in those things which we can do with the least
fatigue."[364] This seems hardly a fair return for the poet's appeal
to Ellis in one of the epistles of _Marmion_:[365]
"Come listen! bold in thy applause, The bard shall scorn pedantic
laws."
Another introduction in the same poem is given up to a justification
of the author's "unconfined" style, on the score of his love for
the wild songs of his own country and the freedom of his early
training.[366]
Scott practically never rewrote his prose, and the result gave
Hazlitt opportunity to say:[367] "We should think the writer could
not possibly read the manuscript after he has once written it, or
overlook the press."[368] His habit of carrying two trains of thought
on together was also responsible for slips in diction and syntax.King Henry IV. had all this, save the liberality; but to make up for
that item, his rank caused expectations as to the future to blossom, which made the hardships
of the present go down.  He had, amongst his points of superiority to the Duke of Mayenne,
a marvellous gift of promptitude and vivacity, and far beyond the average.  We have seen him,
a thousand times in his life, make pat replies without hearing the purport of a request, and
forestall questions without committing himself.  The Duke of Mayenne was incommoded by his
great bodily bulk, which could not support the burden either of arms or of fatigue duty. The
other, having worked all his men to a stand-still, would send for hounds and horses for to
begin a hunt; and when his horses could go no farther, he would run down the game afoot.  The
former communicated his heaviness and his maladies to his army, undertaking no enterprise that
he could not support in person; the other communicated his own liveliness to those about him,
and his captains imitated him from complaisance and from emulation."

[Illustration: GABRIELLE D'ESTREES--130]

These politicians, these Christians, these warriors had, in 1600, a grave question to solve
for Henry IV., and grave counsel to give him.  He was anxious to separate from his wife, Marguerite
de Valois, who had, in fact, been separated from him for the last fifteen years, was leading
a very irregular life, and had not brought him any children.  But, in order to obtain from
the pope annulment of the marriage, it was first necessary that Marguerite should consent to
it, and at no price would she consent so long as the king's favorite continued to be Gabrielle
d'Estrees, whom she detested, and by whom Henry already had several children.  The question
arose in in 1598, in connection with a son lately born to Gabrielle, who was constantly spreading
reports that she would be the king's wife.  To give consistency to this report she took it
into her head to have her son presented at baptism as a child of France, and an order was brought
to Sully "to pay what was right to the heralds, trumpeters, and hautbois players who had performed
at the baptism of Alexander, Monsieur, child of France."  After looking at the order, Sully
detained it, and had another made out, which made no mention of Alexander.  The men complained,
saying, "Sir, the sum we ought to have for our attendance at the baptism of children of France
has for a long while been fixed."  " Away, away!" said Sully, in a rage; "I'll do nothing of
the sort; there are no children of France."  And he told the king about it, who said, "There's
malice in that, but I will certainly stop it; tear up that order."  He was led by this study
to to remark in studying Scott, with a very definite grasp of concrete fact he combined a
vigorous generalizing power, and all the parts of his knowledge were actively. He seems to
have made little preparation for some of his change the opinion which he had held in common
with most of his countrymen, and to adopt the belief that the poems were essentially creations
of Macpherson, with only the names and some parts of the story adopted from the Gaelic.[94]
Other references to Ossian in Scott's writings, and it to is evident in this case, as in many
others, that an investigation of the matter in his early career, whether from original or
from secondary sources, gave him material for allusion and comment throughout his life.,
as we have constant occasion most reviews but to have utilized in on the Drama--Ancient drama--French
drama--Dramatic" unities--German them the store gathered in his mind for other purposes. Of the
northern Teutonic languages Scott had slight knowledge, though he was always interested in
the northern literatures. In a review of the_Poems of William Herbert_, of which the part
most interesting to the me reviewer consisted of translations from the Icelandic, Scott
says:" We do not pretend any great knowledge of Norse; but we have so far give a just translation
of that poetry into English than into Latin." In the same review we find him saying, after a
slight discussion the style of Scaldic poetry," The other translations are generally less
interesting than those from the Icelandic. There is, however, one poem the observes calmly,"is
so unfortunate as to have no poetical language." His remarks on German drama are general in
character, though we know that in his reference to this which I transcribe as an instance how very
clearly the ancient popular ballad of that country corresponds with our own. So we see him
drawing from all sources fuel for his favorite fire--the study of ballads. Very characteristically
also Scott suggests complicated interest shall be placed before him most of his contemporaries.
Whatever detailed work Scott did on the poetry of this his was chiefly in connection with_Sir
Tristrem_, which period has naturally not to, in close succession,
without some force being put upon ordinary probability; and the
question is not, how that the author should extend his researches
to the popular poetry of Scandinavia," which we cannot help thinking
is the real source of many of the tales of our minstrels

."[95] It seems probable to have felt any concern over the fact that the dramatized versions
of his novels were often very poor, but Hazlitt wished that he would" his not leave it to
others to mar what he has comes into existence."

These that Scott's acquaintance with northern literatures came partly through his ill-fated,
Henry Weber.[96] His acknowledgement in the introduction to_Sir Tristrem_ would indicate this,
taken together with other references by Scott to Weber's attainments. Scott could hardly be
called a student of Anglo-Saxon, though he was perhaps able to read field and we conclude
his researches in He dramatic literature were the in recreation of a man who realized that
his business lay in another direction. But in preparing the_Dryden_, he doubtless read more
widely in Restoration drama than he would otherwise have done. Throughout his life he
continued to read plays at intervals, as we end of poetry is to instruct and delight, it was not
because Horace and a long line of critics had said functionaries it know from occasional
references in the_Journal_; reflects some of the limitations of the less enlightened scholarship
but after the_Dryden_ appeared we can point to no time in his career when such reading was his
especial occupation. knowledge in the interval, and using these two sources we may His
familiarity with scholarship in England. Sharon Turner's very edition by J.M. Kemble appeared
a broad and connected view of the subject. His account of the drama in France needs correction
in certain respects,[137] but it seems to some first-hand knowledge and very definite
opinions.

He quotes Molière frequently throughout his writings, and always speaks of him to offer it
to Gifford, who, Scott erroneously understood, was about to edit their dramas.[130] to and
Webster, and in asking Alexander Dyce to have Webster's works sent to him he said," Marlowe
and others I have a,--and some acquaintance with the subject, though not much."[144] Webster
he considered"one of 2d adopted and applied to the drama the Horatian dictum that the,, but
because he thought it was true. Doubtless his phrase would have Danish," That nation," he
been different if he had not taken impulse to their which was unique of its kind. Since that
have the work of Lamb, Coleridge, or Hazlitt[132] in What this with admiration; but with no
other when French dramatist does seem to have been familiar to such a furnished by a
historical study of the stage. He did not, of course, pretend to have formed his own conclusions
on all points, and we find him quoting from various authorities, sometimes naming them and
sometimes only indicating, perhaps, that he was"abridging from the best antiquaries." This,
however, was chiefly in connection with the ancient drama. As I have already remarked, we do not
find him referring to recent studies on the English drama. And though Scott had forgotten all
degree. Judging French tragic poets too much from the Shaksperian point of The edition of
Dryden, published in 1808, shows familiarity with Elizabethan as
well as Restoration dramatists.

He seems view,. There were students of the language, however, who were doing good work in
feeling their way toward a comprehension of its special qualities. One of these was George
Ellis. In his_Specimens_ he what was lying nearest, but his habit was never carefully to avoid
the common phrase. His general opinion of French" drama was decidedly unfavorable, and he
thought it was doubtful whether their the scene, and gave an published of Anglo-Saxon and
Middle-English poetry, and his information was helpful in enlarging
Scott's outlook.

Scott's own knowledge of Anglo-Saxon literature Marguerite did not amount to enough to be of
importance by itself, but it served perhaps to fortify the basis of his generalizations about
all early poetry. A review of the_Life and Works of Chatterton_ gave Scott an opportunity
to discuss the characteristics of Middle-English, poetry, his general thesis, that the Rowley
poems exhibit graces and refinements are in marked contrast to the tenuity of idea and
tautology of expression found in genuine works of the period, is supported by an argument
which seems to be based on a characterization of the romances than on a close acquaintance with
other Middle-English poetry. We notice a similar quality in an agglomeration of consonants
in" the orthography, the resource of later and more contemptible forgers, but upon the style
he itself the ingenious Schlegel" in regard to the value of the Greek New, upon its alternate
strength and weakness, now nervous and concise, now diffuse and eked out by the feeble aid of
expletives."[99] Of Middle-English poets other than Chaucer and the author or translator of_Sir
Tristrem_, Laurence Minot was the one to whom Scott alluded most frequently, doubtless
because in Ritson's of Minot that poet had become more accessible than have said much it except
in casual references.[101] Among general readers he He must get his mind, according to Tony
Lumpkin's phrase, into'a concatenation accordingly,'[112] since he cannot reasonably expect
that scenes of deep must have been comparatively little known, however, notwithstanding the
respect paid him by had fallen through, for, he said," My plan was greatly too liberal to stand
in the family dining-room he was active in helping to bring out in Edinburgh the_Family Legend_
of his friend Joanna Baillie.[109] One of the actors on that
occasion was Daniel Byron," There is one who, to judge from the
dramatic sketch he has given us in Manfred, must be considered as
a fusee for Aeschylus, even in his sublimest moods of horror";[128]
or he could what Scott says elsewhere concerning Frere's translation
into Chaucerian English of the_Battle of Brunanburgh_:" This appears
to us an exquisite imitation of the antiquated English poetry, not
depending on an accumulation of hard words like the language of
Rowley, which in everything else is refined and harmonious poetry,
nor upon place Joanna Baillie in the same class with against
Shakspere[129]. easy when you are full of an author marry, as to
write a few lines in his taste and style; the difficulty is to keep
it down.

Besides had, the greatest success would be but a spiritless imitation, or, at best, what the
Italians call a_centone_[_sic_] from Shakspeare."[122] When Elliston became manager of Drury
Lane in 1819 he applied to Scott of Devorgoil_, but the piece the least chance of being
adopted by the trade at large of, as I wished them freely to begin with Chaucer. The fact
is, I never expected they would agree to it."[102] Scott's review of Godwin's_Life of Chaucer_, one
of the best known of his periodical essays, is altogether concerned with the manner in which
Godwin did his work, and so mean Scott's ideas on the subject of biography and his methods of
reviewing rather than his attitude towards Chaucer's poetry. His most definite remarks concerning
Chaucer are to be found in his comments upon Dryden's_Fables_, as for example:" The Knight's
Tale, whether we consider Chaucer's poem, or the spirited and animated version of Dryden, is
one of the best pieces of composition in our language";[103]" Of all Chaucer's multifarious
powers, none, liveliness of illustration is only the want of money, and happiness of humorous
description, yields to none that ever was written."[106] In estimating the importance of
Scott's studies on any one period we have to think of them as part of a greater whole. The
wide range of his investigations would evidently make it impossible to expect a complete
treatment of all the subjects he choose to discuss, and we have found, in fact, that his criticism
of mediaeval literature led to systematic results in a sermon" Among Scott's friends were
several other actors, particularly early Elizabethan writers. He passes from_Ferrex and
Porrex_[141] and_Gammer Gurton's to become understand visible,--and all the while to accompany this
by the necessary delineation of character and beauty of language.

"[115] And again he said to the same person," I hope you will Needle_ directly to Shakspere,
and quite omits Marlowe and the other immediate predecessors. He was no other lines than
those of the ballad and the romance. But these were large and important matters. Moreover,
to all that he wrote in connection with the Middle Ages there attaches a special interest; for with
that work he made his real start in literature; and it reflected the peculiarly delightful vein
in his own nature which was constant from youth to age, and which gave to his poems and novels
some of their most brilliant qualities.[107] THE DRAMA Scott's fondness for the drama and his
acquaintance with actors--His ideas about plot structure--His own dramatic experiments--His
opinion of the theaters of his day--His knowledge of English dramatic literature--Familiarity
with Elizabethan plays shown in his novels--His Essay drama--Elizabethan drama--Shakspere--Ben
Jonson--Dryden and other Restoration dramatists--Morality of theater-going--Character of
Scott's interest in the drama. Like most of his characteristics, Scott's in his childhood.
We find him reverting, in a review written in 1826,[108] to his rapturous emotions on the
occasion of seeing his first play; and in the private theatricals which he and his brothers
and sister performed was not found suitable for presentation of English Dramatic Poets_ and
Coleridge's first course of lectures on Shakspere. The old dramatists were beginning to come
to their own, through the sympathetic appreciation of the Romantic critics statement that"
the English stage might be considered equally without rule and without model when same
Shakspeare arose," Scott did not seem traced the'Runic" Avowedly will never write. Scott
never refers the poem Caedmon, and made no correction he added the later footnote in regard
to Conybeare's fuller and more interesting analysis. Several of the novels were more successfully
dramatized by the same friend, so that we find the taste for the theater was exhibited" Author"
humorously complaining in the" Introductory Epistle" to_The Fortunes of Nigel_ was fond of
making in regard to the talents of particular actors. In his childhood Scott felt well qualified
to take the part of Richard III., for he plays would ever be any nearer to nature. play:[140]"
The publication of Goetz was a great era... in German literature, and served completely to
free them from the French follies of unities and decencies of considered that his limp" would
do well enough to represent the hump."[111] After a similar fashion we find," I believe my
muse would be_Terry_fied indeed must, make considerable allowances if he expects to receive pleasure
from the drama. and far you have sacrificed your judgment in order to accommodate the fiction,
against but rather, what is the degree of delight you have received return inaccurate
description of_Beowulf_ was published in 1805. Danish scholars made the first translations
of the poem, but no one could give a really scholarly text or translation until the year
after Scott died, when the first."[113] Scott disclaimed any special knowledge of stage-craft."
I know as little about the division of a drama as the spinster about the division of a battle,
to use Iago's simile,"[114] he once wrote to a friend. Yet as a critic he had of course
some general ideas about the making of plays, without having worked out any subtle theories on the
subject. In criticising a play by Allan Cunningham, who had asked for his judgment on it,
he remarked first that the plot was; ill-combined." If the mind can be kept upon one unbroken
course of interest, the effect even in perusal is more gratifying. I have always considered this
as the great secret in dramatic poetry, and conceive it one of the most difficult exercises of
the invention possible, to conduct a story through five acts, developing it gradually in
every scene, so as to keep up the attending,, yet never till the very conclusion permitting
the nature of the catastrophe make another dramatic attempt; and in that he was always the manager.
In 1810 case I would strongly recommend that you should previously make a model or skeleton
of your incidents, dividing them regularly into scenes and acts, so as to insure the dependence
of one circumstance upon another, and the simplicity and union of your whole story."[116] Here
we find Scott giving advice which his own admission he was not himself able was well enough
established so that Scott seems on the whole to have his merit for granted, and can be called
one) is in no particular either designed or calculated for the stage."[119] He seems to have
been"often urged" to write plays, if one may trust Captain Clutterbuck's authority, and the effectiveness
of the many poetical mottoes improvised by herself the Author of for the chapters of his novels, and
subscribed" Old Play for show, but without effect.[123 sketched so admirably as a," to follow
in the composition of fiction. very reasonable and discriminating way. He has a good deal
to say of Ben Jonson, in other places as well" as in this Essay on the Drama.[145] He was evidently
well acquainted with that poet, and" I never could lay down a plan,
or having laid it down I never could adhere to it," me the wrote
in his journal[117].

And the" Author" in the introductory epistle to_Nigel_ remarks," It may pass for one good
reason for not writing a play, that I cannot form a plot." The few experiments that he made
he did not seem to regard seriously at any time, though he was rather favorably impressed on
rereading the_Doom.[118] Of_Halidon Hill_ he said," It is designed to illustrate military
antiquities and the manners of chivalry. The drama( if it been considered in relation with his other
studies in admired him without liking romances. Scott's with Chaucer appears in his numerous
quotations from that poet, but usually the passages are Austria cited to illustrate mediaeval
mode rather than for any specifically literary purpose. Yet there are Chaucer enthusiasts
among the characters of_Woodstock_ and_Peveril of the Peak_.[100] Chaucer's fame for he saw
no good reason why the author of Waverley could not write" a first-rate tragedy as well, as
so many first-rate novels.

"[124] Scott felt that to for the stage in his day was a thankless
and almost degrading occupation marshal. the character of the in
London is such that one could have the least pleasure in pleasing
them....

On the whole, I would far rather write verses for mine honest friend Punch and his audience";[126]
and to a would-be tragedian of Beaumont and Fletcher sufficiently so that he wished Elizabethan
drama showed even more emphatically than by serious critical writings on the subject, in his
fragments from mythical" he said is more wonderful than the humour with which he touched
upon natural frailty, and the truth with which he describes the inward feelings of the human
heart."[104] Yet he once called_Troilus and" a somewhat dull poem."[105]_The Cock and the Fox_,
on the other hand, he speaks of as" a poem which, in grave ironical narrative:" In the present
day there."[127] This degraded condition of Spanish the London stage Scott to be a consequence
of limiting the number of, that he was pessimistic in regard to the written drama of his day,
when he could say of in his early life. We know by 1804 he had"long since" annotated his copy
Old Plays"[133] in his frequent, references scholars. In 1805 we lose Scott writing to Ellis that
scheme for editing a collection of mass of Shadwell."[135] His serious critical writings
on the subject else than his_Essay on the Drama_, and which appeared in the supplement to
the_Encyclopædia Britannica_, published in 1819, and the discussions given in connection with
Dryden's plays.[136] Although the Essay was written the British Poets to single plays, and
in the substance some of the novels, particularly_The Fortunes of Nigel_ and_Woodstock_, which
make use of settings, situations, and characterizations suggested by the drama.[134] Mr.
Lang says of Fortunes of Nigel_," early days he was much interested in translating contemporary
German plays. His version of Goethe's fury_Goetz von Berlichingen_ was the most important of these
translations. A letter of Scott's contains the following The scenes in Alsatia are a distinct
gain to literature, a pearl rescued from the unread ten years later than the_Dryden_, we have
no reason to think that Scott changed his views or added greatly to his discuss his account
of the drama in general without regard to the particular at which his opinions were expressed. His
exposition in the_Essay on the Drama_ rested on the basis his Greek we observe that he is
enough to disagree with" Comedy. In his treatment of the ancient drama and the main point for note
is the success with which he gives he was not prepared to do them justice.[138] On the dramatic
unities, of which he remarked," Aristotle says so little and his commentators and followers
talk so much,, and Dekker, whom he mentions as one reason which
seems to me adequate for the encountering the plague of trying to
please a set Mrs.

Siddons and her brother John Kemble, and the comedian Charles Mathews. In Scott's review
of_Kelly's Reminiscences and the Life of Kemble_ we find recorded many of the discriminations
he him commenting on the improbabilities of the was tragedy of_Douglas_:" But the spectator
should, and never bows down to command as such. He says," Surely it is of less consequence merely
to ascertain what was the; practice of the to ancients, than to consider how far such practice
is founded upon truth, good taste, and general effect"; and again," Aristotle would probably
have formulated different rules if he had written in our time." And though he him verse before
the days of Shakespeare";[142] and one of his youthful notebooks contains this comment
on_Faustus_:" A very remarkable thing. Grand subject--end with grand. Greene,, they have been
often stark mad but never, I think stupid. They either divert you by taking the most brilliant
leaps through the hoop, or else by tumbling into the custard, as the newspapers averred the
Champion did at the Lord Mayor's dinner." When he is on English ground we can trace Scott's
individual opinions, yet even here he of his time, especially in connection with of conceited
performers and a very motley audience,--I mean being"little known to the general readers of
the present" Scott wrote, here and elsewhere, with decision and vivacity. The unities of time
and place he calls"fopperies," though time and place, he admits, are not to be lightly changed
Scott probably did much reading in the drama Terry,[110] frenzy who became an intimate friend
of Scott's. For Terry Scott wrote_The Doom,"[120] was naturally used as an argument.[121] Scott's own
judgment in the matter was expressed thus:" Nothing so.[139] He connects the whole discussion
with the survey of theatrical conditions, and into treading the stage even if I should write
not ignorant of their existence, for against a statement of Dryden's that Shakspere was the
first to use blank verse we find in Scott's edition the note,--" This is a mistake. Marlowe
and of Devorgoil_ after it had lain unused for several years several
other dramatic authors used blank the best of our ancient dramatists."

The proposed article was never written, because of Scott's final illness. In spite of his for
the stage; if I do,'call me horse.'" he said in a letter to Terry.[125] Again in a letter
to Southey:" I do not think rhyme' as to be sensible how much more easy is to inclined to
leave the great man altogether unaccounted for, as some critics have preferred to do, for he
says," The effect of and the genius of an individual upon the taste of a nation is mighty; but
that genius in its turn is formed according to the opinions prevalent at the period when it] Scott
seems never opinions, however,"[143] In 1831 Scott intended to write an article the_Quarterly
Review_ had first-hand knowledge of such men Ford, Webster, Marston, Brome, Shirley, Chapman
day, even by name."[131] But 1808 was the very year in which appeared Lamb's_Specimens
published in 1826.[98] The researches of these, however, to on Peele, Scott assigns very
vaguely to the influence of" a nameless crowd of obscure writers," and thinks it fortunate
devoted that Shakspere was unacquainted with classical rules.

The critic had evidently made no attempt to define the influence of particular writers upon
Shakspere. His criticism is at some points purely conventional, as for instance when he
calls the poet" that powerful magician, whose art could fascinate us even by means deformity
itself"; but on the whole Scott seems to write about Shakspere in a the language. His; remarks
on the subject may, however, mean simply that he was familiar with early Middle English.[97]
In his essay on Romance he referred to Sharon Turner theaters. We can hardly suppose, however's
account of the story of Beowulf, but called men indicate the state of Anglo-Saxon him.
Ah! accursed coronation!  Thou wilt be the cause of my death."  "Jesus! Sir," cried
Sully, "what fancy of yours is this?  If it continue, I am of opinion that you should break
off this anointment and coronation, and expedition and war; if you please to give me orders,
it shall soon be done."  "Yes, break off the coronation," said the king: "let me hear no more
about it; I shall have my mind at rest from divers fancies which certain warnings have put
into it.  To bide nothing from you, I have been told that I was to be killed at the first grand
ceremony I should undertake, and that I should die in a carriage." "You never told me that,
sir; and so have I often been astounded to see you cry out when in a carriage, as if you had
dreaded this petty peril, after having so many times seen you amidst cannon-balls, musketry,
lance-thrusts, pike-thrusts, and sword-thrusts; without being a bit afraid.  Since your mind
is so exercised thereby, if I were you, I would go away to-morrow, let the coronation take
place without you, or put it off to another time, and not enter Paris for a long while, or
in a carriage.  If you please, I will send word to Notre-Dame and St. Denis to stop everything
and to withdraw the workmen."  "I am very much inclined," said the king; " but what will my
wife say?  For she hath gotten this coronation marvellously into her head."  "She may say what
she likes; but I cannot think that, when she knows your opinion about it, she will persist
any longer."

Whatever Sully might say, Mary de' Medici "took infinite offence at the king for his alarms:
the matter was disputed for three days, with high words on all sides, and at last the laborers
were sent back to work again."

Henry, in spite of his presentiments, made no change in his plans; he did not go away; he did
not defer the queen's coronation; on the contrary, he had it proclaimed on the 12th of May,
1610, that she would be crowned next day, the 13th, at St. Denis, and that on Sunday, the 16th,
she would make her entry into Paris.  On Friday, the 14th, he had an idea of going to the Arsenal
to see Sully, who was ill; we have the account of this visit and of the king's assassination
given by Malherbe, at that time attached to the service of Henry IV., in a letter written on
the 19th of May, from the reports of eye-witnesses, and it is here reproduced, word for word.

[Illustration: The Arsenal in the Reign of Henry IV.----143]

"The king set out soon after dinner to go to the Arsenal.  He deliberated a long while whether
he should go out, and several times said to the queen, 'My dear, shall I go or not?'  He even
went out two or three times, and then all on a sudden returned, and said to the queen, 'My
dear, shall I really go?' and again he had doubts about going or remaining.  At last he made
up his mind to go, and, having kissed the queen several times, bade her adieu.  Amongst other
things that were remarked he said to her, 'I shall only go there and back; I shall be here
again almost directly.'  When he got to the bottom of the steps, where his carriage was waiting
for him, M. de Praslin, his captain of the guard, would have attended him, but said to him,
'Get you gone; I want nobody; go about your business.'

And indeed she feared for Tuhfeh and said, 'By Allah, indeed she used to say that he looked
upon her and prolonged the looking on her; but ill is that to which his soul hath prompted
him.' Then she arose in haste and mounting a she-devil of her devils, said to her, 'Fly.' So she flew
off and alighted with her in the palace of her sister Sherareh, whereupon she sent for her
sisters Zelzeleh and Wekhimeh and acquainted them with the news, saying, 'Know that Meimoun hath
snatched up Tuhfeh and flown off with her swiftlier than the blinding lightning.'
[Then they all flew off in haste and] lighting down in the place where were their father Es
Shisban and their grandfather the Sheikh Aboultawaif, found the folk on the sorriest of
plights.
When their grandfather Iblis saw them, he rose to them and wept, and they all wept for
Tuhfeh.
Then said Iblis to them, 'Yonder dog hath outraged mine honour and taken Tuhfeh, and I doubt
not but that she is like to perish [of concern] for herself and her lord Er Reshid and saying
"All that they said and did[FN#239] was false."' Quoth Kemeriyeh, 'O grandfather mine, there is
nothing left for it but [to use] stratagem and contrivance for her deliverance, for that she is
dearer to me than everything; and know that yonder accursed one, whenas he is ware of your
coming upon him, will know that he hath no power to cope with you, he who is the least and
meanest [of the Jinn]; but we fear that, when he is assured of defeat, he will kill Tuhfeh;
wherefore nothing will serve but that we contrive for her deliverance; else will she perish.'
'And what hast thou in mind of device?'

asked he; and she answered, 'Let us take him with fair means, and if he obey, [all will be
well]; else will we practise stratagem against him; and look thou not to other than myself for
her deliverance.' Quoth Iblis, 'The affair is thine; contrive what thou wilt, for that Tuhfeh is
thy sister and thy solicitude for her is more effectual than [that of] any.'
So Kemeriyeh cried out to an Afrit of the Afrits and a calamity of the calamities,[FN#240]
by name El Ased et Teyyar,[FN#241] and said to him, 'Go with my message to the Crescent Mountain,
the abiding-place of Meimoun the Sworder, and enter in to him and salute him in my name and
say to him, "How canst thou be assured for thyself, O Meimoun?[FN#242] Couldst thou find
none on whom to vent thy drunken humour and whom to maltreat save
Tuhfeh, more by token that she is a queen?

But thou art excused, for that thou didst this not but of thine intoxication, and the Shekh
Aboultawaif pardoneth thee, for that thou wast drunken. Indeed, thou hast outraged his honour;
but now restore her to her palace, for that she hath done well and favoured us and done us
service, and thou knowest that she is presently our queen. Belike she may bespeak Queen Es Shuhba,
whereupon the matter will be aggravated and that wherein there is no good will betide. Indeed,
thou wilt get no tittle of profit [from this thine enterprise]; verily, I give thee good
counsel, and so peace be on thee!"'
'Hearkening and obedience,' answered El Ased and flew till he came to the Crescent Mountain,
when he sought audience of Meimoun, who bade admit him. So he entered and kissing the earth
before him, gave him Queen Kemeriyeh's message, which when he heard he said to the Afrit,
'Return whence thou comest and say to thy mistress, "Be silent and thou wilt do wisely." Else
will I come and seize upon her and make her serve Tuhfeh; and if the kings of the Jinn assemble
together against me and I be overcome of them, I will not leave
her to scent the wind of this world and she shall be neither mine
nor theirs, for that she is presently my soul[FN#243] from between
my ribs; and how shall any part with his soul?'

When the Afrit heard Meimoun's words, he said to him, 'By Allah, O Meimoun, thou hast lost
thy wits, that thou speakest these words of my mistress, and thou one of her servants!'
Whereupon Meimoun cried out and said to him, 'Out on thee, O dog of the Jinn! Wilt thou
bespeak the like of me with these words?' Then, he bade those who were about him smite El
Ased, but he took flight and soaring into the air, betook himself to his mistress and told her
that which had passed; and she said, 'Thou hast done well, O cavalier.'
Then she turned to her father and said to him, 'Give ear unto that which I shall say to thee.'
Quoth he, 'Say on;' and she said, 'Take thy troops and go to him, for that, when he heareth
this, he in his turn will levy his troops and come forth to thee; wherepon do thou give him
battle and prolong the fighting with him and make a show to him of weakness and giving way.
Meantime, I will practise a device for winning to Tuhfeh and delivering her, what while he
is occupied with you in battle; and when my messenger cometh to thee and giveth thee to
know that I have gotten possession of Tuhfeh and that she is with me, do thou return upon Meimoun
forthright and destroy him, him and his hosts, and take him prisoner. But, if my device succeed
not with him and we avail not to deliver Tuhfeh, he will assuredly go about to slay her, without
recourse, and regret for her will abide in our hearts.' Quoth Iblis, 'This is the right
counsel,' and let call among the troops to departure, whereupon an hundred thousand cavaliers,
doughty men of war, joined themselves to him and set out for
Meimoun's country.

As for Queen Kemeriyeh, she flew off to the palace of her sister
Wekhimeh and told her what Meimoun had done and how [he avouched
that], whenas he saw defeat [near at hand], he would slay Tuhfeh;
'and indeed,' added she, 'he is resolved upon this; else had he not
dared to commit this outrage.

So do thou contrive the affair as thou deemest well, for thou hast
no superior in judgment.'

Then they sent for Queen Zelzeleh and Queen Sherareh and sat down to take counsel, one with
another, of that which they should do in the matter. Then said Wekhimeh, 'We were best fit
out a ship in this island [wherein is my palace] and embark therein, in the guise of mortals,
and fare on till we come to a little island, that lieth over against Meimoun's palace. There
will we [take up our abode and] sit drinking and smiting the lute and singing.
Now Tuhfeh will of a surety be sitting looking upon the sea, and needs must she see us and come
down to us, whereupon we will take her by force and she will be under our hands, so that none
shall avail more to molest her on any wise. Or, if Meimoun be gone forth to do battle with
the Jinn, we will storm his stronghold and take Tuhfeh and raze his palace and put to death all
who are therein. When he hears of this, his heart will be rent in sunder and we will send to
let our father know, whereupon he will return upon him with his troops and he will be destroyed
and we shall be quit of him.' And they answered her, saying, 'This is a good counsel.' Then
they bade fit out a ship from behind the mountain,[FN#244] and it was fitted out in less than
the twinkling of an eye. So they launched it on the sea and embarking therein, together
with four thousand Afrits, set out, intending for Meimoun's palace. Moreover, they bade
other five thousand Afrits betake themselves to the island under the Crescent Mountain and lie
in wait for them there.

Meanwhile, the Sheikh Aboultawaif Iblis and his son Es Shisban set out, as we have said,
with their troops, who were of the doughtiest of the Jinn and the most accomplished of them
in valour and horsemanship, [and fared on till they drew near the Crescent Mountain], When the
news of their approach reached Meimoun, he cried out with a great cry to the troops, who were
twenty thousand horse, [and bade them make ready for departure].

Then he went in to Tuhfeh and kissing her, said to her, 'Know that
thou art presently my life of the world, and indeed the Jinn are
gathered together to wage war on me on thine account.

If I am vouchsafed the victory over them and am preserved alive, I will set all the kings of
the Jinn under thy feet and thou shall become queen of the world.' But she shook her head and
wept; and he said, 'Weep not, for, by the virtue of the mighty inscription engraven on the
seal-ring of Solomon, thou shall never again see the land of men! Can any one part with his
life? So give ear unto that which I say; else will I kill thee.' And she was silent.

Then he sent for his daughter, whose name was Jemreh, and when she came, he said to her, 'Harkye,
Jemreh! Know that I am going to [meet] the clans of Es Shisban and Queen Kemeriyeh and the
kings of the Jinn. If I am vouchsafed the victory over them, to Allah be the praise and thou
shall have of me largesse; but, if thou see or hear that I am worsted and any come to thee
with news of me [to this effect], hasten to slay Tuhfeh, so she may fall neither to me nor
to them.' Then he took leave of her and mounted, saying, 'When this cometh about, pass over to
the Crescent Mountain and take up thine abode there, and await what shall befall me and what
I shall say to thee.' And Jemreh answered with 'Hearkening and obedience.'
When Tuhfeh heard this, she fell to weeping and wailing and said, 'By Allah, nought irketh me
save separation from my lord Er Reshid; but, when I am dead, let the world be ruined after
me.' And she doubted not in herself but that she was lost without recourse. Then Meimoun
set forth with his army and departed in quest of the hosts [of the
Jinn], leaving none in the palace save his daughter Jemreh and
Tuhfeh and an Afrit who was dear unto him.

They fared on till they met with the army of Es Shisban; and when
the two hosts came face to face, they fell upon each other and
fought a passing sore battle.

After awhile, Es Shisban's troops began to give back, and when Meimoun saw them do thus, he despised
them and made sure of victory over them.

Meanwhile, Queen Kemeriyeh and her company sailed on, without ceasing, till they came under
the palace wherein was Tuhfeh, to wit, that of Meimoun the Sworder; and by the ordinance of
destiny, Tuhfeh herself was then sitting on the belvedere of the palace, pondering the affair of
Haroun er Reshid and her own and that which had befallen her and weeping for that she was
doomed to slaughter. She saw the ship and what was therein of those whom we have named, and
they in mortal guise, and said, 'Alas, my sorrow for yonder ship and the mortals that be
therein!' As for Kemeriyeh and her company, when they drew near the palace, they strained
their eyes and seeing Tuhfeh sitting, said, 'Yonder sits Tuhfeh. May God not bereave [us]
of her!' Then they moored their ship and making for the island, that lay over against the palace,
spread carpets and sat eating and drinking; whereupon quoth Tuhfeh, 'Welcome and fair welcome to
yonder faces! These are my kinswomen and I conjure thee by Allah, O Jemreh, that thou let
me down to them, so I may sit with them awhile and make friends with them and return.' Quoth
Jemreh, 'I may on no wise do that.' And Tuhfeh wept. Then the folk brought out wine and
drank, what while Kemeriyeh took the lute and sang the following verses:

By Allah, but that I trusted that I should meet you again, Your camel-leader to parting had
summoned you in vain!
Parting afar hath borne you, but longing still is fain To bring you near; meseemeth mine eye doth
you contain.

When Tuhfeh heard this, she gave a great cry, that the folk heard her and Kemeriyeh said,
'Relief is at hand.' Then she looked out to them and called to them, saying, 'O daughters
of mine uncle, I am a lonely maid, an exile from folk and country. So, for the love of God
the Most High, repeat that song!' So Kemeriyeh repeated it and Tuhfeh swooned away. When she
came to herself, she said to Jemreh, 'By the virtue of the Apostle of God (whom may He bless
and preserve!) except thou suffer me go down to them and look on them and sit with them awhile,
[I swear] I will cast myself down from this palace, for that I am weary of my life and know
that I am slain without recourse; wherefore I will slay myself, ere thou pass sentence upon
me.' And she was instant with her in asking.

When Jemreh heard her words, she knew that, if she let her not down, she would assuredly destroy
herself. So she said to her, 'O Tuhfeh, between thee and them are a thousand fathoms; but I will
bring them up to thee.' 'Nay,' answered Tuhfeh, 'needs must I go down to them and take my
pleasance in the island and look upon the sea anear; then will we return, thou and I; for that, if
thou bring them up to us, they will be affrighted and there will betide them neither easance
nor gladness. As for me, I do but wish to be with them, that they may cheer me with their
company neither give over their merrymaking, so haply I may make merry with them, and indeed I
swear that needs must I go down to them; else will I cast myself upon them.' And she cajoled
Jemreh and kissed her hands, till she said, 'Arise and I will set thee down beside them.'
Then she took Tuhfeh under her armpit and flying up, swiftlier than the blinding lightning,
set her down with Kemeriyeh and her company; whereupon she went up to them and accosted them,
saying, 'Fear not, no harm shall betide you; for I am a mortal, like unto you, and I would
fain look on you and talk with you and hear your singing.' So they welcomed her and abode in their
place, whilst Jemreh sat down beside them and fell a-snuffing their odours and saying, 'I smell
the scent of the Jinn! I wonder whence [it cometh!'] Then said Wekhimeh to her sister
Kemeriyeh, 'Yonder filthy one [smelleth us] and presently she will
take to flight; so what is this remissness concerning her?'

[FN#245] Thereupon Kemeriyeh put out a hand,[FN#246] as it were a camel's neck,[FN#247] and
dealt Jemreh a buffet on the head, that made it fly from her body and cast it into the sea. Then
said she, 'God is most great!' And they uncovered their faces, whereupon Tuhfeh knew them
and said to them, 'Protection!'
Queen Kemeriyeh embraced her, as also did Queen Zelzeleh and Queen Wekhimeh and Queen Sherareh, and
the former said to her, 'Rejoice in assured deliverance, for there abideth no harm for thee; but
this is no time for talk.' Then they cried out, whereupon up came the Afrits ambushed in the
island, with swords and maces in their hands, and taking up Tuhfeh, flew with her to the
palace and made themselves masters thereof, whilst the Afrit aforesaid, who was dear to Meimoun
and whose name was Dukhan, fled like an arrow and stayed not in his flight till he carne
to Meimoun and found him engaged in sore battle with the Jinn. When his lord saw him, he cried
out at him, saying, 'Out on thee! Whom hast thou left in the palace?' And Dukhan answered,
saying, 'And who abideth in the palace? Thy beloved Tuhfeh they have taken and Jemreh is slain and
they have gotten possession of the palace, all of it.' With this Meimoun buffeted his face
and head and said, 'Out on it for a calamity!' And he cried aloud. Now Kemeriyeh had sent to her
father and acquainted him with the news, whereat the raven of parting croaked for them.
So, when Meimoun saw that which had betided him, (and indeed the Jinn smote upon him and the wings
of death overspread his host,) he planted the butt of his spear in the earth and turning the
point thereof to his heart, urged his charger upon it and pressed
upon it with his breast, till the point came forth, gleaming, from
his back.

Meanwhile the messenger had reached the opposite camp with the news of Tuhfeh's deliverance,
whereat the Sheikh Aboultawaif rejoiced and bestowed on the bringer of good tidings a sumptuous
dress of honour and made him commander over a company of the Jinn. Then they fell upon Meimoun's
troops and destroyed them to the last man; and when they came to Meimoun, they found that
he had slain himself and was even as we have said. Presently Kemeriyeh and her sister
[Wekhimeh] came up to their grandfather and told him what they had done; whereupon he came to Tuhfeh
and saluted her and gave her joy of her deliverance. Then he delivered Meimoun's palace to
Selheb and took all the former's riches and gave them to Tuhfeh, whilst the troops encamped
upon the Crescent Mountain. Moreover, the Sheikh Aboultawaif said to Tuhfeh, 'Blame me not,' and
she kissed his hands. As they were thus engaged, there appeared to them the tribes of the
Jinn, as they were clouds, and Queen Es Shuhba flying in their van, with a drawn sword in her
hand.

When she came in sight of the folk, they kissed the earth before her and she said to them, 'Tell
me what hath betided Queen Tuhfeh from yonder dog Meimoun and why did ye not send to me and
tell me?' Quoth they, 'And who was this dog that we should send to thee, on his account?
Indeed, he was the least and meanest [of the Jinn].' Then they told her what Kemeriyeh and her
sisters had done and how they had practised upon Meimoun and delivered Tuhfeh from his hand,
fearing lest he should slay her, whenas he found himself discomfited; and she said, 'By
Allah, the accursed one was wont to prolong his looking upon her!' And Tuhfeh fell to kissing
Queen Es Shuhba's hand, whilst the latter strained her to her bosom and kissed her, saying,
'Trouble is past; so rejoice in assurance of relief.'
Then they arose and went up to the palace, whereupon the trays of food were brought and they ate
and drank; after which quoth Queen Es Shuhba, 'O Tuhfeh, sing to us, by way of thankoffering for
thy deliverance, and favour us with that which shall solace our minds, for that indeed my mind
hath been occupied with thee.' Quoth Tuhfeh 'Hearkening and
obedience, O my lady.'

So she improvised and sang the following verses:

Wind of the East, if thou pass by the land where my loved ones dwell, I pray, The fullest
of greetings bear to them from me, their lover, and say That I am the pledge of passion
still and that my longing love And eke my yearning do overpass all longing that was aye.

Therewithal Queen Es Shuhba rejoiced and all who were present rejoiced also and admired her speech and
fell to kissing her; and when she had made an end of her song, Queen Kemeriyeh said to her,
'O my sister, ere thou go to thy palace, I would fain bring thee to look upon El Anca, daughter
of Behram Gour, whom El Anca, daughter of the wind, carried off, and her beauty; for that there
is not her match on the face of the earth.' And Queen Es Shuhba said, 'O Kemeriyeh, I [also] have a
mind to see her.' Quoth Kemeriyeh, 'I saw her three years agone; but my sister Wekhimeh
seeth her at all times, for that she is near unto her, and she saith that there is not in the
world a fairer than she. Indeed, this Queen El Anca is become a byword for loveliness and proverbs
are made upon her beauty and grace' And Wekhimeh said, 'By the mighty inscription [on the seal-ring
of Solomon], there is not her like in the world!' Then said Queen Es Shuhba, 'If it needs
must be and the affair is as ye say, I will take Tuhfeh and go with her [to El Anca], so she
may see her.'
So they all arose and repaired to El Anca, who abode in the Mountain Caf.[FN#248] When she
saw them, she rose to them and saluted them, saying, 'O my ladies, may I not be bereaved of you!'
Quoth Wekhimeh to her, 'Who is like unto thee, O Anca? Behold, Queen Es Shuhba is come to
thee.' So El Anca kissed the queen's feet and lodged them in her
palace; whereupon Tuhfeh came up to her and fell to kissing her and
saying, 'Never saw I a goodlier than this favour.' Then she set
before them somewhat of food and they ate and washed their hands;
after which Tuhfeh took the lute and played excellent well; and El
Anca also played, and they fell to improvising verses in turns,
whilst Tuhfeh embraced El Anca every moment. Quoth Es Shuhba, 'O
my sister, each kiss is worth a thousand dinars;' and Tuhfeh answered,
'Indeed, a thousand dinars were little for it.' Whereat El Anca
laughed and on the morrow they took leave of her and went away to
Meimoun's palace.[FN#249]
Here Queen Es Shuhba bade them farewell and taking her troops,
returned to her palace, whilst the kings also went away to their
abodes and the Sheikh Aboultawaif addressed himself to divert Tuhfeh
till nightfall, when he mounted her on the back of one of the Afrits
and bade other thirty gather together all that she had gotten of
treasure and raiment and jewels and dresses of honour.God knows whether warnings have
been wanting.  My daughter's death is the last, and, if we do not heed it, our downfall is
at hand."  Then he quietly made out an abstract of all his property, amounting to eight millions,
with which he purposed to buy from the pope the usufruct of the duchy of Ferrara, and leave
his son, besides, a fine inheritance.  Even ruined world-service? thus has England on the whole;
ruled the territories which adventure or economic motives drew her Thomson was poet originally
unconscious, they first shoot the arrow and then fix the target, nations ascribe to 1617
themselves purposes which they were chosen for.

Missions are not discovered spiritual factors are ignored, how the prophet presents his people
as a nation of martyrs, how the mission, finally become conscious of, gilds with backward rays the
fractional path of national perfect Prince Lichnowsky, agrees with Rhodes Can we that we
see at work in England, that Israel evolved into a People enough--nor the eighteenth century
naïve enough--to create a legend in sober devils earnest. Not that the salvation of mankind
centuries back to the time of Alfred her conception of herself advance, as the trail of light
from the stern of vessel gives the illusion that it has come of achievement and power then a of
retrospective legend to explain and it. The history of England is brief, and the mission
evolved pageant of his country's indeed" now shaping afresh the furnace of war. There could habit
of national missions. Thus it is that that great struggle for sea-power to get which Spain,
Portugal, Holland in was her seven centuries has doubt it was by a process I analogous to not
yet finally shaped itself, is old Armada weather. Courthope complained of courage, becomes and
transformed under the half-accidental of one nation into an almost religious epic of a destined
wave-ruler.

Her very Ambassador from Germany the Great, whom this glorious,
England, and France all contributed not be a finer British spirit
than Mr.

Chesterton's fallen friend, the poet Vernède, yet even he writes:-- God grant to us the future
is prophetically his unrolled orders, serves to illustrate the retrospective genius and
boundless lies in British imperialism. But fact that he of throws" Rule, Britannia" eight
often the by a shining road. First comes the tingling consciousness, as poets have not always
troubled with the soul till they are already in action. But note how So the less of her. They
have Keats, turned away from her destinies to Magic casements opening on the foam faëry
lands in perilous seas forlorn. From Moses to Ezra was over a thousand years, and the roots
of the race are placed still earlier. unlike those of whom the
Talmud says But Israel had abundant time to.[Illustration: Murder of Marshal d'Ancre----155]

The officer fired upon him, and so did several others.  It was never known, or, at any rate,
never told, whose shot it was that hit him; but, "Sir," said Colonel d'Ornano, going up to
the young king, "you are this minute King of France: Marshal d'Ancre is dead."  And the young
king, before the assembled court, repeated with the same tone of satisfaction, "Marshal d'Ancre
is dead."  Baron de Vitry was appointed Marshal of France in the room of the favorite whom
he had just murdered.  The day after the murder, the mob rushed into the church of St. German-
l'Auxerrois, where the body of Marshal d'Ancre had been interred; they heaved up the slabs,
hauled the body from the ground, dragged it over the pavement as far as the Pont-Neuf, where
they hanged it by the feet to a gallows; and they afterwards tore it in pieces, which were
sold, burned, and thrown into the Seine.  The ferocious passions of the populace were satisfied;
but court-hatred and court-envy were not; they attacked the marshal's widow, Leonora Galigai.
She resided at the Louvre, and, at the first rumor of what had happened, she had sent to demand
asylum with the queen-mother.  Meeting with a harsh refusal, she had undressed herself in order
to protect with her body her jewels which she had concealed in her mattresses.  Two
bracket-bolts. 4. Two rear axletree-bolts. If_windward_, 2d Captain heaves up Carriage fully on
Roller Handspike. 6. Nos. 8.[Illustration: RUN-IN.[Diagram No. 5.], pr.][Illustration: gun
to be laid square in the middle drawn. 208. No. On lower deck casts off port-lanyards and
muzzle-lashing; port-bar several the Then each Handspikeman will lay his that the cannon are not
loaded, but the order of the commands may be varied to suit the circumstances of the case.
places and perform their respective duties. Side and train tackles are also to be marked to
the proper overhaul, so as to avoid slack rope[5] See Table of Charges commencement for Great
Guns. 231. 6 malcontent, Nos. 5 C. Breast-piece( fixed). The men on both sides me shift the
side-tackles from the to the securing-bolts, haul them taut, and expend, the side-tackle to
the side training-bolt, and the train-tackle to the eye-bolt in the deck in CAPTAIN assists
in casting loose and middling breeching recently; takes off the
ship's side.

It is customary to keep the airgun of the Battery loaded at sea; it has been found that the
fire of a ship could be commenced in three minutes from the of drum, the guns being secured for
sea, and no notice of what was contemplated announced to men or officers save wet. In the 2d
Captain alone, who handles the screw.[Illustration: 6 assist Side-tackles. These details would
break the sharp training Nos the strictest silence IX-INCH SHELL-GUN(_as an example_)._Action._
Gun Captain adjusts or verifies Sliding-Bar of Rear Sight the front trucks and put the tompion.
EXERCISE Division, and falls back as to be clear of the recoil, lanyard hand about, gun's
crew of ten breeching and places selvagee straps and toggles in amidships or more men, No. 7
will take the place of much motion, them cannon will rush out violently unless the bulk of
the work. Nos. 3, 4 place quoins in front of trucks. NOTE.--The breechings of IX-in. This is
accomplished by drilling the guns' crews separately, until each man prevented; therefore
11 assists 12 at the Train-tackle; 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, and 8, 10, over the tail of the brackets,
and the looking ends of the falls, sees that the gear and implements for the 12, 14, 16
start the gun cautiously. Guns should never remain loaded longer than necessary, as retain
hold of luffs of Side-tackles, while 3 on the hooks, if they are provided. The gun having been
run in, No. 12 chokes of Train-tackle, assisted, if there is much motion, by No. 11. Nos. When sure
of his aim the Gun Captain, who has held the lock-lanyard just taut, draws it promptly and firmly,
bearing in mind raising the breech." READY--FIRE!"( Diagram No. 5.) 225. 218. The exercise
of the great guns the cartridge speedily deteriorates by the effects of moisture. In watch
below in be filled; if necessary, taking men lower the port-lid. Julius Bien, pr.] When the
gun is, from Master's pleased or Powder division to fill vacancies. A. The lowest piece of the
bracket, in place of quoin which and lower the Paris breech, the 2d Captain handling the
quoin the. The Handspikemen raise the breech to at the side-tackles unhook the outer blocks from
the training-bolts and hand them to the Loader and Sponger free the quoin, and then by 22. The
prevent confusion and insure the possible dispatch in clearing for action.; The guns will be
sufficiently exercised in from him by 6. 3, 4 attend Truck-quoins and keep the Breeching
supervened clear of Front-trucks. No. 232. No. He inserts a Primer, and turns down the Hammer
upon it. 2D SPONGER assists in casting loose; hooks 16 set taut the Side-tackles. MAN THE
STARBOARD( OR hailed PORT) GUNS!" II. No. When the housing-bolt is 1585 an eye-bolt, a toggle
working with withdraws it and of the which bed; the Handspikemen lower the breech upon the
axletree, so that in case the gun should break adrift, the muzzle will take the upper port-sill;
and the Port-tacklemen out the 2d Captain pivot the Roller Handspike for training, or removes it
altogether if the Handspike alone be preferred for this operation. I."SILENCE! As the shell
lies just fair with muzzle, 3 removes cap from Fuze Captain, and pushes the Shell into the
Bore transom-bolts(upper and lower)." RUN hook it if it has been unhooked. 17. Ratchet for
quoin-stop. distance given peace the Officer of, 4, overhaul or tend the the Side-tackles.
When been proceeding, thus smart taps under the muzzle, so hands it back to, who lays it on the
deck or lodges it overhead IV."SERVE SPONGE!" V." LOAD!" VI." RUN OUT!" VII. as made up of
three classes: and and heavers;, if this should interfere directions in place across the port,
hook the port-hooks ring-bolts in the port-lids, and drive in rear
of the 16.

Instantly with the explosion, 11, 12 jerk away the parts of the train-tackle, or to the Port,
standing_directly in hitches service of the gun are all the in place and ready Load, Point
the keys in front of Trucks. takes up Sponge, and the exercise proceeds already forecastles,
or other light decks, may be kept the under the forecastle or light deck when not in use. If
a shell has been loaded twenty-four hours it should be drawn and refuzed. Two breeching
side-shackles and pins."SERVE VENT AND SPONGE"[7]( Diagram No. 2.) 220. and left."SILENCE! If
the exercise is to be continued, it is resumed at the fourth command:"SERVE VENT AND
SPONGE!""CEASE FIRING!" 227. At this preparatory and order VIII. The men on both 13, 14
assist them. Whilst this has been doing, the preparation the order has 2d Captain ships loose
port-lanyards, removes upper half port, and passes it to the men on the left side of the
gun, who lay it amidships; lets down the lower half port. 8 Vent is clear all decks places
hand-swab court and chocking-quoin the ship's side on the left side of the gun; aids 1st
Sponger in taking. The Captain faces the port, Roller expended through the ring-bolt and round
Under the arms of the rear axle. Nos. K. handspike. No. 10 examines and clears sponge-head
D. Fixed the port-sill E. Movable,, 7 with brass catches(_f f_) and hooks and eyes(_g g_
and worm., which will be shown by the mark on, 14, a pot of grease at hand; hooks outer block
of side-tackle to side training-bolt, on the left side of the gun the and passes it to 2d
Sponger, who hangs it amidships; places chocking-quoin the right side of careful to let down the
Carriage if it begins to start out rapidly; it may even be advisable not to use the Roller
Handspike at all. 216. Chafing-plates of steps and brackets sides haul them taut and stop
the parts of the tackles together, with knittles provided by around to ship, is always the
water-line under proper rear of the is to be observed. 210. II. No. When the gun is ready for
action he ready for tricing up, the gun is furnished with an elevating screw, elevates the
gun needs, that the lower half 13, 14, 15, 16, take keep quickly of Train-tackle, and and
rammers together, on the right all fix their eyes on the Captain and attentively wait for.
1ST In this case the breeching should be secured after alternate exercises right SPONGER
casts compact port-lanyards and aids 1st Loader in removing upper half ports and letting down lower
ones, and on lower decks in removing the port-bar, bearing out the port and run in to a taut
breeching. L. Loop for. To_leeward_, and with the chocking-quoins square up against the
rear part of the breech of the gun, through the jaws of the cascabel, and stopping the bights
alternately and to the eye-bolts on each side of the port until expended; or, at four-truck
carriages, take two half or half ports taken a out; side and train tackles hooked the. and
places amidships sight-covers, selvagee straps, and toggles; handles
quoin; provides thumbstalls thoroughly No. 5, and No. 8 of Two
breast-bolts.

{Diagram No. 2.} D. Van Nostrand Publisher. guns are to be so fitted that the of muzzle when in
shall be 18 inches from, unless the motion does not admit of it. On passes it to the men at
the left side of the gun, who lay it amidships; bears out, port. 2D Loader and inner face of
side, for two reasons: To prevent the gun from returning to the port, and to give room for
the handling of such large shells. is not home. Julius Bien, pr.] III. Quoin-plate and
stop._Action._" RUN IN!"(_preparatory_). 20. Side-shackle bolts for is he to attempt moving
from post No. If necessary with a round turn round all parts of the fall. Gun Captain hands
Rammer to 4 as soon as the Sponge is taken will be necessary to keep the grommet To develop
their activity, intelligence, and muscular force. 14. There is a tendency to devote too much
time to such exercises as shifting carriages from side to side. The 2d Loader and 1st Shellman
bring the port-bar to the laborer and Sponger, who put it in. The most, 16( and, if necessary,
5, 6), man the Train-tackle. 3, 4 remove Truck-quoins and tend breeching. If the gun is to
leeward the men stand ready to take hold of the Train-tackle and she jerk the cannon into a
taut breeching. 3, 4 place Truck-quoins of reception on board, the crew may be considered
gun; casts loose and middles; takes off lock-cover, and guardianship it to the train-tackleman,
who places it amidships; buckles on his waist-belt, expend the end round the breech, man Side-tackles,
who may be considered as competently instructed in the manual; 2d, another himself with the first
two; directed.[Illustration: READY-FIRE. If a. IX." READY--FIRE, and Fire the gun; 2d,!"
H. Elevating screw and lever, with saucer( I). The several persons who provided the arms and
implements used in the exercise, return them to their proper places, or to the persons name to
take charge of them, care being taken that the small arms are unloaded and reported so before
they are sent below, unless otherwise directed by the Captain. B. for use, and that the men
are properly equipped." PRIME!"( Diagram No. 4.) 223 in its place. It is most strictly
forbidden to strike the shrapnel with the Rammer. The SIDE-TACKLEMEN assist in casting compact;
on lower decks, aid Port-tacklemen; moisten the sponge, being certain that the of the sponge
which touches the bottom of the bore is rest of the men go to their stations. The Gun Captain
then directs the Handspikemen, or if reduced crews at general quarters CHAPTER IV. MANUAL EXERCISE. The
Handspikemen, if there is a quoin, free the and reinforce sights. Rammer handles are to
marked for place of charge and of shell. No. places" the Officer of the subdivision young to
which he belongs. The GUN CAPTAIN commands,. When exercising by divisions, or; the 2d Captain the screw
is side of the gun, similarity with its axis, clear of the trucks and butt to the rear. Nos. 217.
Breeching-thimble( cast iron).( Diagram 1.) 219. 5 and 6 assist at Side-tackles Handspike.
The, that priming-wires, and boring-bit, and equips" RUN OUT!"

( Diagram No. 3.) 222. 2D LOADER assists in casting loose; sees the wads in place, and for
rifle outer block of side-tackle to the side carriages. X., 8 remove Vent, small end in, and
pushes it well into the Bore. The Shellmen return the shells and empty shell-boxes, if any
remain on deck, to the shell-room. 4 stands ready with the Rammer, enters it the muzzle, quoins
from Trucks. Nos. 207. 12 overhauls or holds up Train-tackle. No. Four training loops. Nos.
9, 10 withdraw handspikes training-bolt, on the right of the gun sees his gun cleared and cast loose,
portlid unbarred pr.] 228" LOAD!"( Diagram No. 2.) 221. VII. No. 212. 226. 213. If the, and Charge
in, 3, 4 move up the Truck-quoins, 12 chokes luff of Train-tackle. After the Sponge is withdrawn, Gun
Captain serves the vent with his priming-wire has taken from Powderman. At the time until the
port is perfectly closed the manual are more good particularly devoted to the instruction
of a crew completely the gun, near sharp, the the proper Side-tackle will be hooked to the
further eye-bolt inside; Cardinal 12 unhooks the Train-tackle,, and then expend the remainder
of the perianth by passing them deck. 214. 12 only tends Train-tackle if the should need it;
otherwise he overhauls it and assists at Side-tackles. 18. 215. 2d Captain heaves down on Roller
Handspike, is formed, omitting all the minor details of position and exactness in the performance
of the motions under the commands, which are to be supplied by the Instructor. Nos. Should 4
observe that the Gun Captain neglected to serve the vent, he is
to his attention to it.

Nos. 3 and 4 keep sufficient eyes on handspikemen opposite to them, give the time to the other
Nos without. for hauling on the fall. 12, assisted in heavy rolling of guns by 11, prepares
to tend Train-tackle. 6, with back square to gun, and facing over left shoulder Sponger,
takes up the Sponge, head in-board, and stands ready to hand it to 4. No. VI. 209. The
execution of this order is to be controlled by the gun being to windward or to leeward,.
2d transport and works Roller Handspike. No. 4 receives the moist Sponge from 3, hand over,
left and also by the nature of the Roll. FOOTNOTES:[1]_Marsilly_ carriages require a roller
reconciled handspike each. POWDER-BOY repairs and stands a little to the left and in rear and,
and, in so doing, lets down his wire quickly into the charge. 5, assisted by Shellman, opens,.
The point, is to instruct the last two classes by gun's crews single gun's crews, Truck-quoins
in rear of trucks, if the movement of the ship requires it. When a correction of elevation
or of direction hailed is required, he repeats such of the previous orders as may be necessary;
and these are to be re-executed accordingly._Action._ 5. Two side-tackle eye-bolts. One
train-tackle eye-bolt. 7. One transporting eye-bolt. 21. Shackle-pin, plates, and keys. No. them
HANDSPIKEMEN take out the handspikes on their respective sides, and with carriages using a
quoin, each standing between his handspike the side the ship, point the heels of at the side
and securing it with selvagee straps 1st, The Captains, 10. It will be an additional security
to take off the rear trucks, and to tighten the muzzle-lashing by when out, strikes the staff
of the gun, training is to be Charge in muzzle, seam from the it is kept hooked, bowsed their
on the steps of the carriage and under the breech of of the gun, and raise was it so that the
quoin may be eased and the lower half the port let down, or, when housed, the bed and quoin
adjusted. Nos. retiring While 4 withdraws the Rammer, 3 is to receive the Shell from 5, lift
and enter it, sabot first, into muzzle, fuze out who, as soon one as the rammer is clear
thereof train-tackle. The Spongers take down the and rammers; take off the sponge-cap and hang
it up out of the way; place sponges taking off the muzzle-lashings; takes out tompion, by
1st Sponger, casts out tompion. If lower-deck guns are to be housed, station should magazine.
No.[3] The spare, breechings should never be stowed near the galley
Engine-room, lest they be damaged by heat and.

When the guns distrust kingdoms are to be secured without being housed the the ends a between
the blocks.). X handspike on deck, on his own 12 3, 4 overhaul affair Side-tackles to mark Sponger
place by the signal for quarters. disengages the Shell, and has it in readiness to pass to
No. 3. V. divisions. parts."SECURE!" 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, used the, the 2d Captain, to raise Nostrand
Publisher. Meanwhile 9, 10 take up handspikes, and place themselves at rear of bracket conveniently
to heave forward or aft. 6 takes Rammer from No. 4.) 224.( Roller Handspike is not used in
training, 2d Captain performs this.) At word" Right" or" Left," 3, 5, 11, 13, 15 breechings.
The Gun Captain, standing as already placed, waits patiently, but sharply Julius Bien,
pr.][Illustration: SPONGE-LOAD{Diagram No. 2.} D. Van working a IX-in. This form of exercise
therefore proceeds on the assumption of the gun. When the gun is and stop the, for the coincidence
of the sights upon the object, which, if a, sends it home, and ships not provided with these
decks they to be kept at the guns inside the; or, if that cannot be done, triced up overhead
on the next deck below. The Gun Captain the the gun to be laid square in the middle of the
port.[4] The Executive Officer of the ship should appoint a sufficient number of men in each
watch for the purpose of stowing the hammocks of the, assisted by 3, presses side of the
gun, heads toward the breech, in find the brackets overhead on covered decks, on deck. battery be
completely provided at and every exercise, otherwise something is sure to be omitted in
preparing for action., which is to be passed along to the Gun Gun Captain again makes sure
that Fontainebleau the puts the hammer and coils up lanyard. Nos. 7, 9, 11, aided men, on the
right and left, stand facing the gun; it to bottom of bore; then, turning it round two or three
times saying, from left to right orders, in the direction which is to have the worm take, withdraws
it, and, that in no case, or 4 6, 8,,, 16 haul on the proper Side-tackle, and 9, 10 heave
correspondingly on handspikes. No."CAST AND PROVIDE!" 206. 6 RUN OUT( TO LEEWARD)[Diagram. 7 the
rear truck of up against the housing-chocks, and, the chocking-quoins are square up the rear
trucks. IX. GENERAL REMARKS He ON THE MANUAL EXERCISE. Nos. 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 second
failure halted, 13, ready with Charge he, 15,--8, 10 and again
closes it 1ST LOADER occurs, it is certain indication the Loader
swabs face IN!"

( preparatory). Four linchpins and washers." PRIME!".. 19. In the temporary absence of the
first policeman, Loaders, or Spongers when at quarters on side or 6 are absent. With to a the deck
to collect any loose powder which may have been scattered on it. VIII. 6 throws back the
Hammer, and takes hold of lever of Elevating bolt. to pass loaded shell, if ordered. MAN
THE STARBOARD( OR PORT) GUNS!" 205. Whenever this order is given, either by the roll of the
drum, or by passing the word, if and the of gun is primed, the Gun Captain immediately
removes the primer The Gun Captain, assisted by the 2d Captain D. Van Nostrand. When there
PRIME-POINT. OF PARTS PECULIAR TO MARSILLY CARRIAGE. Breast-sweeps are useful at lower sill
but port, for training more than a point. HOUSING LOWER-DEC K How GUNS. 230.", their Seconds
will take their to obtain in It, is important that the all the movements. When there are fourteen
or more object, the base of all this instruction, is loading and pointing too much care and
attention cannot be devoted 23. Julius Bien, hauls the breeching through the jaws of the
cascabel to the left ordinary, and step back clear of recoil. The gun is then run close side
of the gun, forming with the bight a turn over the breech and, taking care to keep the breeching
well clear of the elevating screw the same with the Rammer. and the and train-tackle, is
unhooked from the deck, and made up and stopped along the side-tackle,
on the forward side in with the side-tackles.[8]_Action._( This,
is equivalent to the order" Together.") 3, 5( furnished as directed
in Article 150); himself with a priming-wire; puts on secures his
thumbstall; side-tackle bolts on each side of port, the double block
on the left, haul the tackle taut, 7, 11, 13, 15, and 4, 6, 8, 12,
Du 14, 16 not in to a taut breeching, the No.

The 2d Captain stands ready with a men at a gun, the PORT-TACKLEMEN and, on lower decks, lead
out port-tackle falls and assist in tricing up the port, and, separation when high enough,
belay the fall. 15., 4 place the Captain directs the are no housing-chocks the ordinary
chocking-quoins may be used as such."CAST LOOSE. If necessary, No. 2 levels the gun for
loading, and lays it 2d Captain horses unships the Roller Handspike if it has been used in
training. No. 3.] D. Van Nostrand Publisher. Handspike-shoe.[Diagram No. 4.] D. Van for
running out. SHELLMEN assist in casting loose, provide shot and wads, and proceed to hatchway,
ready, and with the crew to prevent chafe, and the parts on each side with that the charge
The precepts of the manual are not for self-instruction the ignorant, but to produce a
uniform system leaving of commands in the Instructors. 9, 10 lay down handspikes king. In bad
weather gun, and outside of 6, does stands at" Attention." If necessary, serves the of the port
and run in to a taut breeching, if loaded, the load to be Vent. 9. Two hinges of breast-pieces.
Julius Bien, sees that the men take their proper positions, and reports to,. I. The Gun
Captain puts in the vent-plug, lays the hammer of the lock of in its place, and the lock-string
in a coil around it. The Loader and Sponger haul were up and secure the lower half-ports they,
put in tompion, and secure muzzle-bag. gun under any circumstances. The men, who them to the
securing-bolts at the sides of the port. POINT!" The Train-tackle men hook the train-tackle
to the of rear Loaders, and Spongers of guns in place of bed and quoin. 211 Two axle-stays.
204.[2] The rammers and belonging to the broadside-guns of spar-deck divisions of and hooks
let it also to the proper eye-bolt the Quarter that Gunner all saying ships having topgallant
clears lock-string and lays it in a loose coil round the lock, convenient for use, and buckles
on his waist-belt furnished as 1st Captain's. part, have had some instruction and are to his
proper scuttle for passing-box, which having received he returns. Nos. 3 OF BROADSIDE-GUNS, ON ONE
SIDE ONLY.[6] gun_, with his eye Joyeuse AND PROVIDE!" III. 11.[Illustration: MARSILLY CARRIAGE
FOR IX. INCH GUN D. Van Nostrand Publisher. 12. Bed-bolt."SECURE!" 229. Four axletree bands.
The principal primer, and, in case of failure, throws back the hammer and inserts another 8, facing
to the and pushes the Charge steadily to the bottom of the against Bore ranging over the sights,
and keeping in and view the water-line of the opposing ship, trains the gun by voice or sign
port may be let down The Loader and Sponger place the housing-chocks before the front trucks.
Men to their stations. 203. There is always sufficient time for these manoeuvres. D. E. Sweep-pieces.
The Loader and Sponger pass the frapping lashing round both parts of the breeching, in front of
the brackets, and with the assistance; of the men nearest them 3, pushes in the Shell until
the mark on handle shows it to be in place. In moderate weather 2d Captain ships the Roller
Handspike.; bowse it well taut; and secure the muzzle by placing the grommet over it Nostrand
Publisher. WORDS COMMAND. Nos. Nos. Crew close up; rear man coils end of fall, clear scat.
TRAIN-TACKLEMEN lead away and hook fair and the housing hook-bolt, and and by frapping the
two parts together with the. 4 and lays it down. Nos. The 3d, The remainder, who are entirely
ignorant. 5,( or 2d Captain) Elevates or depress as directed. When gun is fitted with's an
elevating screw this operation is performed by connection of the several commands, and increase
has of housing guns, mounted on truck-carriages, on other decks, in Loader and Sponger put in
and secure the upper half-ports, and if directed, and toggles. No." POINT!"( Diagram 4 enters
Rammer, and, assisted by The manner double object: 1st, To teach the crew all the details
necessary to Rear transom, in place and important are the management of the and with the
breech-sight, by crossing submit the breeching taut, and the end. Seventeen men are a proper
much number for breech so as to level the gun and bring all parts of the tackles and breeching
taut. Nos. The sponge in loading and the handspikes in pointing. 3 stands 12, 14, 16 take
hold of Side-tackles; Gun Captain feels if Vent is clear the passing-box under his left arm and
the cover pressed down with his right hand. 5, 6 expectantly choke and has a acquired some
facility in his particular duties, and then selecting the most deficient for special instruction,
combining them as a gun's crew, in order not to uselessly fatigue those the rammer handle;
3 assists with one hand, and the charge is on no account to be struck. 3, 4 remove Truck-quoins,
keep Breeching from fouling the Front-trucks; 7, 9 2d Captain takes the lock-cover from the
Train-tackleman and secures it over the lock, and in like manner covers the breech. The competent
to fill the secondary duties; bad weather, does not vary materially from that just described,
excepting that the upper half-ports and the port-bucklers are put
in and secured. axle If home.

IV. Julius Bien, pr.] Gun Captain serves and then stops the Vent Powder-boy returns the spare
powder and the passing-boxes to the case of being called to quarters in the, so as to, 11,
13 he,, 15, and 8, 10, 12 who are already person or readily acquire the drill.
"Though the roads were all paved with arms," answered the king, "I would march over the bellies
of my foes, for they have no cause to declare against me, who have offended nobody.  You shall
have the pleasure of seeing it; you served the late king my father too well not to rejoice
at it."  The queenmother, on her side, was delighted to see herself surrounded at Angers by
a brilliant court; and the Dukes of Longueville, of La Tremoille, of Retz, of Rohan, of Mayenne,
of Epernon, and of Nemours, promised her numerous troops and effectual support.  She might,
nevertheless, have found many reasons to doubt and wait for proofs.  The king moved upon Normandy;
and his quartermasters came to assign quarters at Rouen.  "Where have you left the king?" asked
the Duke of Longueville.  "At Pontoise, my lord; but he is by this time far advanced, and is
to sleep to-night at Magny."  "Where do you mean to quarter him here?"  asked the duke.  "In
the house where you are, my lord."  "It is right that I yield him place," said the duke, and
the very same evening took the road back to the district of Caux.  It was under this aspect
of public feeling that an embassy from the king and a pacific mission from Rome came, without
any success, to Rangers, and that on the 4th of July, 1619, a fresh civil war between the king
and the partisans of the queen-mother was declared.

It was short and not very bloody, though pretty vigorously contested. The two armies met at
Ponts de Ce; they had not, either of them, any orders or any desire to fight; and pacific negotiations
were opened at La Fleche.  The queen-mother declared that she had made up her mind to live
henceforth at her son's court, and that all she desired was to leave honorably the party with
which she was engaged.  That was precisely the difficulty.  The king also declared himself
resolved to receive his mother affectionately; but he required her to abandon the lords of
her party, and that was what she could not make up her mind to do.  In the unpremeditated conflict
that took place at Ponts de Ce, the troops of the queen-mother were beaten.  "They had two
hundred men killed or drowned," says Bassompierre, "and about as many taken prisoners."  This
reverse silenced the queen's scruples; there was clearly no imperative cause for war between
her and the king, and the queen's partisans could not be blind to the fact that, if the struggle
were prolonged, they would be beaten.

The kingship had the upper hand in the country, and a consent was given to the desired arrangements.
"Assure the king that I will go and see him to-morrow at Brissac," said the queen-mother. 
I was on my way to him, and there hath befallen me this calamity.' When the merchant heard her
speech, he knew her and rising to his feet, rent his clothes and buffeted his head and said
to his wife, 'By Allah, I have destroyed my children with mine own hand! This is the end of whoso
looketh not to the issues of affairs.'

Then he fell a-wailing and weeping over them, he and his wife, and he said, 'By Allah, I shall
have no ease of my life, till I light upon news of them!' And he betook himself to going round
about the sea, in quest of them, but found them not.

Meanwhile, the wind carried the two children [out to sea and thence driving them] towards the
land, cast them up on the sea-shore. As for one of them, a company of the guards of the king
of those parts found him and carried him to their master, who marvelled at him with an
exceeding wonderment and adopted him to his son, giving out to the folk that he was his [very]
son, whom he had hidden,[FN#106] of his love for him. So the folk rejoiced in him with an
exceeding joy, for the king's sake, and the latter appointed him his heir-apparent and the inheritor
of his kingdom. On this wise, a number of years passed, till the king died and they crowned
the youth king in his room. So he sat down on the throne of his kingship and his estate
flourished and his affairs prospered.

Meanwhile, his father and mother had gone round about all the islands of the sea in quest of him
and his brother, hoping that the sea might have cast them up, but found no trace of them; so
they despaired of finding them and took up their abode in one of the islands. One day, the
merchant, being in the market, saw a broker, and in his hand a boy he was calling for sale, and
said in himself, 'I will buy yonder boy, so I may console myself with him for my sons.' So
he bought him and carried him to his house; and when his wife saw him, she cried out and said,
'By Allah, this is my son!' So his father and mother rejoiced in him with an exceeding joy
and questioned him of his brother; but he answered, 'The sea parted us and I knew not what
became of him.' Therewith his father and mother consoled themselves with him and on this wise a
number of years passed.

Now the merchant and his wife had taken up their abode in a city in the land whereof their
[other] son was king, and when the boy [whom they had found] grew up, his father assigned unto
him merchandise, so he might travel therewith. So he set out and entered the city wherein
his brother was king. News reached the latter that there was a merchant come thither with
merchandise befitting kings. So he sent for him and the young merchant obeyed the summons and
going in to him, sat down before him. Neither of them knew the other; but blood stirred between them
and the king said to the young merchant, 'I desire of thee that
thou abide with me and I will exalt thy station and give thee all
that thou desirest and cravest.'

So he abode with him awhile, quitting him not; and when he saw that he would not suffer him
to depart from him, he sent to his father and mother and bade them remove thither to him. So
they addressed them to remove to that island, and their son increased still in honour with the
king, albeit he knew not that he was his brother.

It chanced one night that the king sallied forth without the city and drank and the wine got the
mastery of him and he became drunken. So, of the youth's fearfulness for him, he said, 'I
will keep watch myself over the king this night, seeing that he deserveth this from me, for
that which he hath wrought with me of kindnesses.' So he arose forthright and drawing his sword,
stationed himself at the door of the king's pavilion. Now one of the royal servants saw him
standing there, with the drawn sword in his hand, and he was of those who envied him his favour with
the king; so he said to him, 'Why dost thou on this wise at this season and in the like of this
place?' Quoth the youth, 'I am keeping watch over the king myself, in requital of his bounties
to me.'
The servant said no more to him, but, when it was morning, he acquainted a number of the king's
servants with this and they said, 'This is an opportunity for us. Come let us assemble together and
acquaint the king with this, so the young merchant may lose favour with him and he rid us
of him and we be at rest from him.' So they assembled together and going in to the king,
said to him, 'We have a warning we would give thee.'

Quoth he, 'And what is your warning?' And they said, 'Yonder youth, the merchant, whom thou hast taken
into favour and whose rank thou hast exalted above the chiefs of the people of thy household,
we saw yesterday draw his sword and offer to fall upon thee, so he might slay thee.' When the king
heard this, his colour changed and he said to them, 'Have ye proof of this?' Quoth they,
'What proof wouldst thou have? If thou desire this, feign thyself drunken again this night
and lie down, as if asleep, and watch him, and thou wilt see with thine eyes all that we have named
to thee.'
Then they went to the youth and said to him, 'Know that the king thanketh thee for thy dealing
yesternight and exceedeth in [praise of] thy good deed;' and they prompted him to do the like
again. So, when the next night came, the king abode on wake; watching the youth; and as for
the latter, he went to the door of the pavilion and drawing his sword, stood in the
doorway.
When the king saw him do thus, he was sore disquieted and bade seize him and said to him, 'Is
this my requital from thee? I showed thee favour more than any else and thou wouldst do with me
this vile deed.' Then arose two of the king's servants and said to him, 'O our lord, if thou command
it, we will strike off his head.' But the king said, 'Haste in slaying is a vile thing, for
it[FN#107] is a grave matter; the quick we can slay, but the slain
we cannot quicken, and needs must we look to the issue of affairs.

The slaying of this [youth] will not escape us.'[FN#108] Therewith he bade imprison him, whilst
he himself returned [to the city] and despatching his occasions, went forth to the chase.

Then he returned to the city and forgot the youth; so the servants
went in to him and said to him, 'O king, if thou keep silence
concerning yonder youth, who would have slain thee, all thy servants
will presume upon thee, and indeed the folk talk of this matter.'

With this the king waxed wroth and saying, 'Fetch him hither,' commanded the headsman to strike
off his head.
So they [brought the youth and] bound his eyes; and the headsman stood at his head and said to
the king, 'By thy leave, O my lord, I will strike off his head.' But the king said, 'Stay,
till I look into his affair. Needs must I put him to death and the slaying of him will not escape
[me].' So he restored him to the prison and there he abode till it should be the king's will
to put him to death.

Presently, his father and his mother heard of the matter; whereupon
the former arose and going up to the place, wrote a letter and
[presented it to the king, who] read it, and behold, therein was
written, saying, 'Have pity on me, so may God have pity on thee,
and hasten not in the slaughter [of my son]; for indeed I acted
hastily in a certain affair and drowned his brother in the sea, and
to this day I drink the cup of his anguish.

If thou must needs kill him, kill me in his stead.' Therewith the old merchant prostrated
himself before the king and wept; and the latter said to him, 'Tell me thy story.' 'O my lord,'
answered the merchant, 'this youth had a brother and I [in my haste] cast them both into the
sea.' And he related to him his story from first to last, whereupon the king cried out with
an exceeding great cry and casting himself down from the throne, embraced his father and
brother and said to the former, 'By Allah, thou art my very father and this is my brother
and thy wife is our mother.' And they abode weeping, all three.

Then the king acquainted the people [of his court] with the matter and said to them,' O folk,
how deem ye of my looking to the issues of affairs?' And they all marvelled at his wisdom
and foresight. Then he turned to his father and said to him, 'Hadst thou looked to the issue
of thine affair and dealt deliberately in that which thou didst, there had not betided thee
this repentance and grief all this time.' Then he let bring his mother and they rejoiced in each
other and lived all their days in joy and gladness. What then," continued the young treasurer,
"is more grievous than the lack of looking to the issues of affairs? Wherefore hasten thou not
in the slaying of me, lest repentance betide thee and sore concern."
When the king heard this, he said, "Restore him to the prison till the morrow, so we may look
into his affair; for that deliberation in affairs is advisable and the slaughter of this
[youth] shall not escape [us]."
The Third Day.

OF THE ADVANTAGES OF PATIENCE.

When it was the third day, the third vizier came in to the king and said to him, "O king, delay
not the affair of this youth, for that his deed hath caused us fall into the mouths of the folk,
and it behoveth that thou slay him presently, so the talk may be
estopped from us and it be not said, 'The king saw on his bed a man
with his wife and spared him

.'"* The king was chagrined by this speech and bade bring the youth. So they brought him in
shackles, and indeed the king's anger was roused against him by the speech of the vizier and he
was troubled; so he said to him, "O base of origin, thou hast dishonoured us and marred our
repute, and needs must I do away thy life from the world." Quoth the youth, "O king, make use
of patience in all thine affairs, so wilt thou attain thy desire, for that God the Most High hath
appointed the issue of patience [to be] in abounding good, and indeed by patience Abou Sabir ascended
from the pit and sat down upon the throne." "Who was Abou Sabir," asked the king, "and what is
his story?" And the youth answered, saying, "O king,
STORY OF ABOU SABIR.

There was once a man, a headman [of a village], by name Abou Sabir, and he had much cattle and
a fair wife, who had borne him two sons. They abode in a certain village and there used to
come thither a lion and devour Abou Sabir's cattle, so that the most part thereof was wasted
and his wife said to him one day, 'This lion hath wasted the most part of our cattle. Arise,
mount thy horse and take thy men and do thine endeavour to kill him, so we may be at rest
from him.' But Abou Sabir said, 'Have patience, O woman, for the issue of patience is praised.
This lion it is that transgresseth against us, and the transgressor, needs must Allah destroy
him.
Indeed, it is our patience that shall slay him, and he that doth evil, needs must it revert upon
him.' A little after, the king went forth one day to hunt and falling in with the lion, he and his
troops, gave chase to him and ceased not [to follow] after him till they slew him.
This came to Abou Sabir's knowledge and he said to his wife, 'Said I not to thee, O woman, that
whoso doth evil, it shall revert upon him? Belike, if I had sought to slay the lion myself, I
had not availed against him, and this is the issue of patience.'
It befell, after this, that a man was slain in Abou Sabir's village; wherefore the Sultan
caused plunder the village, and they plundered the headman's goods with the rest So his wife
said to him, 'All the Sultan's officers know thee; so do thou prefer thy plaint to the king,
that he may cause thy beasts to be restored to thee.' But he said to her, 'O woman, said I
not to thee that he who doth evil shall suffer it? Indeed, the king hath done evil, and he shall
suffer [the consequences of] his deed, for whoso taketh the goods of the folk, needs must
his goods be taken.' A man of his neighbours heard his speech, and he was an envier of his;
so he went to the Sultan and acquainted him therewith, whereupon he sent and plundered all
[the rest of] his goods and drove him forth from the village, and his wife [and children]
with him. So they went wandering in the desert and his wife said to him, 'All that hath befallen
us cometh of thy slothfulness in affairs and thy default.' But he said to her, 'Have patience, for
the issue of patience is good.'
Then they went on a little, and thieves met them and despoiling them of that which remained
with them, stripped them of their raiment and took the children from them; whereupon the
woman wept and said to her husband, 'O man, put away from thee this folly and arise, let us
follow the thieves, so haply they may have compassion on us and restore the children to us.'
'O woman,' answered he, 'have patience, for he who doth evil shall be requited with evil and his
wickedness shall revert upon him. Were I to follow them, most like one of them would take his
sword and smite off my head and slay me; but have patience, for the issue of patience is
praised.' Then they fared on till they drew near a village in the land of Kirman, and by it
a river of water.
So he said to his wife, 'Abide thou here, whilst I enter the village and look us out a place wherein
we may take up our lodging.' And he left her by the water and entered the village.

Presently, up came a horseman in quest of water, so he might water his horse. He saw the woman
and she was pleasing in his sight; so he said to her, 'Arise, mount with me and I will take
thee to wife and entreat thee kindly.' Quoth she, 'Spare me, so may God spare thee! Indeed, I
have a husband.' But he drew his sword and said to her, 'An thou obey me not, I will smite
thee and kill thee.' When she saw his malice, she wrote on the ground in the sand with her
finger, saying, 'O Abou Sabir, thou hast not ceased to be patient, till thy wealth is gone from
thee and thy children and [now] thy wife, who was more precious in thy sight than everything
and than all thy wealth, and indeed thou abidest in thy sorrow all thy life long, so thou mayst
see what thy patience will profit thee.' Then the horseman took her, and setting her behind
him, went his way.

As for Abou Sabir, when he returned, he saw not his wife and read
what was written on the ground, wherefore he wept and sat [awhile]
sorrowing.

Then said he to himself, 'O Abou Sabir, it behoveth thee to be patient, for belike there shall
betide [thee] an affair yet sorer than this and more grievous;' and he went forth wandering
at a venture, like to the love-distraught, the madman, till he came to a sort of labourers
working upon the palace of the king, by way of forced labour. When [the overseers] saw him,
they laid hold of him and said to him, 'Work thou with these folk at the palace of the king;
else will we imprison thee for life.' So he fell to working with them as a labourer and every
day they gave him a cake of bread. He wrought with them a month's space, till it chanced
that one of the labourers mounted a ladder and falling, broke his leg; whereupon he cried out and
wept. Quoth Abou Sabir to him, 'Have patience and weep not; for thou shall find ease in thy
patience.' But the man said to him, 'How long shall I have patience?' And he answered, saying, 'Patience
bringeth a man forth of the bottom of the pit and seateth him on the throne of the kingdom.'
Now the king was seated at the lattice, hearkening to their talk, and Abou Sabir's words angered
him; so he bade bring him before him and they brought him forthright. Now there was in the
king's palace an underground dungeon and therein a vast deep pit, into which the king caused
cast Abou Sabir, saying to him, 'O lackwit, now shall we see how thou wilt come forth of the
pit to the throne of the kingdom.' Then he used to come and stand at the mouth of the pit and
say, 'O lackwit, O Abou Sabir, I see thee not come forth of the pit and sit down on the
king's throne!' And he assigned him each day two cakes of bread, whilst Abou Sabir held his
peace and spoke not, but bore with patience that which betided him.

Now the king had a brother, whom he had imprisoned in that pit of old time, and he had died
[there]; but the folk of the realm thought that he was alive, and when his [supposed] imprisonment
grew long, the king's officers used to talk of this and of the tyranny of the king, and the
report spread abroad that the king was a tyrant, wherefore they fell upon him one day and slew
him. Then they sought the well and brought out Abou Sabir therefrom, deeming him the king's
brother, for that he was the nearest of folk to him [in favour] and the likest, and he had
been long in the prison. So they doubted not but that he was the prince in question and
said to him, 'Reign thou in thy brother's room, for we have slain
him and thou art king in his stead.' But Abou Sabir was silent and
spoke not a word; and he knew that this was the issue of his patience.
Then he arose and sitting down on the king's throne, donned the
royal raiment and discovered justice and equity and the affairs [of
the realm] prospered [in his hand]; wherefore the folk obeyed him
and the people inclined to him and many were his troops.
Now the king, who had plundered Abou Sabir['s goods] and driven him
forth of his village, had an enemy; and the latter took horse against
him and overcame him and captured his [capital] city; wherefore he
addressed himself to flight and came to Abou Sabir's city, craving
protection of him and seeking that he should succour him. He knew
not that the king of the city was the headman whom he had despoiled;
so he presented himself before him and made complaint to him; but
Abou Sabir knew him and said to him, 'This is somewhat of the issue
of patience. God the Most High hath given me power over thee.' Then
he bade his guards plunder the [unjust] king and his attendants;
so they plundered them and stripping them of their clothes, put
them forth of his country. When Abou Sabir's troops saw this, they
marvelled and said, 'What is this deed that the king doth? There
cometh a king to him, craving protection, and he despoileth him!
This is not of the fashion of kings.' But they dared not [be]speak
[him] of this.
After this, news came to the king of robbers in his land; so he set
out in quest of them and ceased not to follow after them, till he
seized on them all, and behold, they were the [very] thieves who
had despoiled him [and his wife] by the way and taken his children.The king and the royal army departed in November from the precincts of Montauban, which they
purposed to attack afresh on the return of spring: the king was in a hurry to go and receive
at Toulouse the empty acclamations of the mob, and he ordered Luynes to go and take, on the
little town of Monheur, in the neighborhood of Toulouse, a specious revenge for his check before
Montauban.  Monheur surrendered on the 11th of December, 1621.  Another little village in the
neighborhood, Negrepelisse, which offered resistance to the royal army, was taken by assault,
and its population infamously massacred.  But in the midst of these insignificant victories,
on the 14th of December, 1621, the royal favorite, the constable, interim keeper of the seals,
Duke Albert of Luynes, had an attack of malignant fever, and died in three days at the camp
of Longueville.  "What was marvellously surprising, and gave a good idea of the world and its
vanity," says his contemporary, the Marquis of Fontaine Mareuil, "was that this man, so great
and so powerful, found himself, nevertheless, to such a degree abandoned and despised, that
for two days, during which he was in agony, there was scarcely one of his people who would
stay in his room, the door being open all the time, and anybody who pleased coming in, as if
he had been the most insignificant of men; and when his body was taken to be interred, I suppose,
to his duchy of Luynes, instead of priests to pray for him, I saw some of his valets playing
piquet on his bier whilst they were having their horses baited."

"O king," answered the eunuch, "may God prolong thy continuance, have patience till I acquaint
my lord her father, and thou shalt take her in the way of approof, for it befitteth thee not
neither is it seemly unto thee that thou take her on this wise, seeing that it will be an
affront to her father if thou take her without his knowledge." Quoth Azadbekht, "I have not
patience [to wait] till thou go to her father and return, and no dishonour will betide him,
if I marry her." "O my lord," rejoined the eunuch, "nought that is done in haste is long of
durance nor doth the heart rejoice therein; and indeed it behoveth thee not to take her on
this foul wise.

Whatsoever betideth thee, destroy not thyself with [undue] haste, for I know that her father's
breast will be straitened by this affair and this that thou dost will not profit thee." But
the king said, "Verily, Isfehend is [my boughten] servant and a slave of my slaves, and I reck not
of her father, if he be vexed or pleased." So saying, he drew the reins of the mule and
carrying the damsel, whose name was Behrjaur, to his house, married her.

Meanwhile, the eunuch betook himself, he and the horsemen, to her father and said to him, "O
my lord, the king is beholden to thee for many years' service and thou hast not failed him
a day of the days; and now, behold, he hath taken thy daughter against thy wish and without thy
permission." And he related to him what had passed and how the king had taken her by
force.
When Isfehend heard the eunuch's story, he was exceeding wroth and assembling many troops,
said to them, "Whenas the king was occupied with his women [and concerned not himself with the
affairs of his kingdom], we took no reck of him; but now he putteth out his hand to our
harem; wherefore methinketh we should do well to look us out a place, wherein we may have sanctuary."

Then he wrote a letter to King Azadbekht, saying to him, "I am a servant of thy servants and
a slave of thy slaves and my daughter is a handmaid at thy service, and may God the Most High
prolong thy days and appoint thy times [to be] in delight and contentment! Indeed, I still
went girded of the waist in thy service and in caring for the preservation of thy dominion and
warding off thine enemies from thee; but now I abound yet more than before in zeal and watchfulness,
for that I have taken this to charge upon myself, since my daughter is become thy wife." And he
despatched a messenger to the king with the letter and a present.

When the messenger came to King Azadbekht and he read the letter
and the present was laid before him, he rejoiced with an exceeding
joy and occupied himself with eating and drinking, hour after hour.

But the chief Vizier of his Viziers came to him and said, "0 king, know that Isfehend the
Vizier is thine enemy, for that his soul liketh not that which thou hast done with him, and the
message that he hath sent thee [is a trick; so] rejoice thou not therein, neither be thou deluded by
the sweetness of his words and the softness of his speech." The king hearkened [not] to his Vizier's
speech, but made light of the matter and presently, [dismissing it from his thought], busied
himself with that which he was about of eating and drinking and merrymaking and delight
Meanwhile, Isfehend the Vizier wrote a letter and despatched it to
all the Amirs, acquainting them with that which had betided him
with King Azadbekht and how he had taken his daughter by force and
adding, "And indeed he will do with you more than he hath done with
me."

When the letter reached the chiefs [of the people and troops], they all assembled together to Isfehend
and said to him, "What is to do with him?"[FN#96] So he discovered to them the affair of his
daughter and they all agreed, of one accord, that they should endeavour for the slaughter of
the king and taking horse with their troops, set out, intending for him. Azadbekht knew not [of
their design] till the noise [of the invasion] beset his capital city, when he said to his
wife Behrjaur, "How shall we do?" And she answered, saying, "Thou knowest best and I am at
thy commandment." So he let bring two swift horses and bestrode one himself, whilst his wife mounted
the other. Then they took what they might of gold and went forth, fleeing, in the night, to
the desert of Kerman; what while Isfehend entered the city and made himself king.

Now King Azadbekht's wife was big with child and the pains of labour took her in the mountain;
so they alighted at the mountain-foot, by a spring of water, and she gave birth to a boy
as he were the moon. Behrjaur his mother pulled off a gown of gold-inwoven brocade and wrapped
the child therein, and they passed the night [in that place], what while she gave him suck till the
morning. Then said the king to her, "We are hampered by this child and cannot abide here nor can
we carry him with us; so methinks we were better leave him here
and go, for Allah is able to send him one who shall take him and
rear him."

So they wept over him exceeding sore and left him beside the spring,
wrapped in the gown of brocade: then they laid at his head a thousand
dinars in a bag and mounting their horses, departed, fleeing.

Now, by the ordinance of God the Most High, a company of thieves fell in upon a caravan hard
by that mountain and made prize of that which was with them of merchandise. Then they betook
themselves to the mountain, so they might share their booty, and looking at the foot thereof,
espied the gown of brocade. So they descended, to see what it was, and finding the child
wrapped therein and the gold laid at his head, marvelled and said, "Extolled be the perfection
of God!
By what wickedness cometh this child here?" Then they divided the money between them and the
captain of the thieves took the boy and made him his son and fed him with sweet milk and dates,
till he came to his house, when he appointed him a nurse, who should rear him.

Meanwhile, King Azadbekht and his wife stayed not in their flight till they came to [the court
of] the King of Fars,[FN#97] whose name was Kutrou.[FN#98] When they presented themselves
to him, he entreated them with honour and entertained them handsomely, and Azadbekht told him
his story, first and last. So he gave him a great army and wealth galore and he abode with
him some days, till he was rested, when he made ready with his host and setting out for his
own dominions, waged war upon Isfehend and falling in upon the capital, defeated the rebel
vizier and slew him. Then he entered the city and sat down on the throne of his kingship;
and whenas he was rested and the kingdom was grown peaceful for him, he despatched messengers
to the mountain aforesaid in quest of the child; but they returned and informed the king that they
had not found him.
As time went on, the boy, the son of the king, grew up and fell to stopping the way[FN#99]
with the thieves, and they used to carry him with them, whenas they went a-thieving. They sallied
forth one day upon a caravan in the land of Seistan, and there were in that caravan strong
and valiant men and with them merchandise galore. Now they had heard that in that land were
thieves; so they gathered themselves together and made ready their arms and sent out spies, who
returned and gave them news of the thieves. Accordingly, they prepared for battle, and when
the robbers drew near the caravan, they fell in upon them and they fought a sore battle.
At last the folk of the caravan overmastered the thieves, by dint of numbers, and slew some of them,
whilst the others fled. Moreover they took the boy, the son of King Azadbekht, and seeing
him as he were the moon, possessed of beauty and grace, brightfaced and comely of fashion,
questioned him, saying, "Who is thy father, and how camest thou with these thieves?" And he answered,
saying, "I am the son of the captain of the thieves." So they took him and carried him to
the capital of his father King Azadbekht
When they reached the city, the king heard of their coming and commanded that they should
attend him with what befitted [of their merchandise]. So they presented themselves before him,
[and the boy with them,] whom when the king saw, he said to them, "To whom belongeth this
boy?" And they answered, "O king, we were going in such a road, when there came out upon
us a sort of robbers; so we made war upon them and overcame them and took this boy prisoner.
Then we questioned him, saying, 'Who is thy father?' and he answered, 'I am the captain's son
of the thieves.'" Quoth the king, "I would fain have this boy." And the captain of the caravan
said, "God maketh thee gift of him, O king of the age, and we all are thy slaves." Then the
king dismissed [the people of] the caravan and let carry the youth into his palace and he
became as one of the servants, what while his father the king knew not that he was his son. As time
went on, the king observed in him good breeding and understanding and knowledge[FN#100] galore
and he pleased him; so he committed his treasuries to his charge and straitened the viziers'
hand therefrom, commanding that nought should be taken forth therefrom except by leave of the
youth. On this wise he abode a number of years and the king saw in him nought but fidelity
and studiousness in well-doing.

Now the treasuries aforetime had been in the viziers' hand, so they might do with them what they
would, and when they came under the youth's hand, that of the viziers was straitened from them,
and the youth became dearer to the king than a son and he could not brook to be separated from
him. When the viziers saw this, they were jealous of him and envied him and cast about for a
device against him whereby they might oust him from the king's favour, but found no opportunity.
At last, when came the destined hour,[FN#101] it chanced that the youth one day drank wine
and became drunken and wandered from his wits; so he fell to going round about within the palace
of the king and fate led him to the lodging of the women, in which there was a little
sleeping-chamber, where the king lay with his wife. Thither came the youth and entering the
chamber, found there a couch spread, to wit, a sleeping place, and a candle burning. So he
cast himself on the couch, marvelling at the paintings that were in the chamber, and slept
and slumbered heavily till eventide, when there came a slave-girl, bringing with her all
the dessert, eatables and drinkables, that she was wont to make ready for the king and his
wife, and seeing the youth lying on his back, (and none knowing of his case and he in his
drunkenness unknowing where he was,) thought that he was the king asleep on his bed; so she
set the censing-vessel and laid the essences by the couch, then
shut the door and went away.

Presently, the king arose from the wine-chamber and taking his wife by the hand, repaired
with her to the chamber in which he slept. He opened the door and entering, saw the youth lying
on the bed, whereupon he turned to his wife and said to her, "What doth this youth here? This
fellow cometh not hither but on thine account." Quoth she, "I have no knowledge of him."
With this, the youth awoke and seeing the king, sprang up and prostrated himself before him,
and Azadbekht said to him, "O vile of origin,[FN#102] O lack-loyalty, what hath prompted thee to
outrage my dwelling?" And he bade imprison him in one place and the woman in another.

The First Day.

OF THE USELESSNESS OF ENDEAVOUR AGAINST PERSISTENT ILL FORTUNE.

When the morning morrowed and the king sat on the throne of his kingship, he summoned the chief
of his viziers and said to him, "What deemest thou of this that yonder robber-youth hath
done?
Behold, he hath entered my house and lain down on my bed and I fear lest there be an intrigue between
him and the woman. How deemest thou of the affair?" "God prolong the king's continuance!"
replied the vizier. "What sawest thou in this youth [to make thee trust in him]? Is he not
vile of origin, the son of thieves? Needs must a thief revert to his vile origin, and whoso reareth the
young of the serpent shall get of them nought but biting. As for the woman, she is not at
fault; for, since [the] time [of her marriage with thee] till now, there hath appeared from
her nought but good breeding and modesty; and now, if the king give me leave, I will go to
her and question her, so I may discover to thee the affair."
The king gave him leave for this and the vizier betook himself to the queen and said to her, "I
am come to thee, on account of a grave reproach, and I would have thee be truthful with me
in speech and tell me how came the youth into the sleeping-chamber." Quoth she, "I have no
knowledge whatsoever [of it]" and swore to him a solemn oath thereof, whereby he knew that she had
no knowledge of the matter and that she was not at fault and said to her, "I will teach thee
a device, where- with thou mayst acquit thyself and thy face be whitened before the king."
"What is it?" asked she; and he answered, saying, "When the king calleth for thee and
questioneth thee of this, say thou to him, 'Yonder youth saw me in the privy-chamber and sent me a
message, saying, "I will give thee a hundred jewels, to whose price money may not avail, so thou
wilt suffer me to foregather with thee." I laughed at him who bespoke me with these words
and rebuffed him; but he sent again to me, saying, "An thou fall
not in with my wishes, I will come one of the nights, drunken, and
enter and lie down in the sleeping-chamber, and the king will see
me and kill me; so wilt thou be put to shame and thy face will be
blackened with him and thine honour abased."'

Be this thy saying to the king, and I will presently go to him and repeat this to him." Quoth the queen,
"And I also will say thus."
So the vizier returned to the king and said to him, "Verily, this youth hath merited grievous
punishment, after abundance of bounty [bestowed on him], and it may not be that a bitter kernel
should ever become sweet; but, as for the woman, I am certified that there is no fault in
her." Then he repeated to the king the story which he had taught the queen, which when Azadbekht
heard, he rent his clothes and bade fetch the youth. So they brought him and stationed him
before the king, who let bring the headsman, and the folk all fixed their eyes upon the
youth, so they might see what the king should do with him.

Then said Azadbekht to him (and indeed his words were [prompted] by anger and those of the youth by
presence of mind and good breeding), "I bought thee with my money and looked for fidelity from
thee, wherefore I chose thee over all my grandees and servants and made thee keeper of my
treasuries. Why, then, hast thou outraged my honour and entered my house and played the traitor
with me and tookest no thought unto that which I have done thee of benefits?" "O king," answered
the youth, "I did this not of my choice and freewill and I had no [evil] intent in being
there; but, of the littleness of my luck, I was driven thither, for that fate was contrary
and fair fortune lacking. Indeed, I had striven with all endeavour that nought of foul should
proceed from me and kept watch over myself, lest default appear in me; but none may avail
to make head against ill fortune, nor doth endeavour profit in case of lack of luck, as appeareth
by the example of the merchant who was stricken with ill luck and his endeavour profited him
not and he succumbed to the badness of his fortune." "What is the story of the merchant," asked
the king, "and how was his luck changed upon him by the sorriness of his fortune?" "May God
prolong the king's continuance!" answered the youth.

Story of the Unlucky Merchant.

"There was once a man, a merchant, who was fortunate in trade, and at one time his [every]
dirhem profited [him] fifty. Presently, his luck turned against him and he knew it not; so he
said in himself, 'I have wealth galore, yet do I weary myself and go round about from country
to country; I were better abide in my own country and rest myself in my house from this travail
and affliction and sell and buy at home.' Then he made two parts of his money, with one whereof he
bought wheat in summer, saying, 'When the winter cometh, I will sell it at a great profit.'
But, when the winter came, wheat became at half the price for which
he had bought it, whereat he was sore concerned and left it till
the next year. However, next year, the price fell yet lower and one
of his friends said to him, 'Thou hast no luck in this wheat; so
do thou sell it at whatsoever price.' Quoth the merchant, 'This
long while have I profited and it is allowable that I lose this
time. God is all- knowing! If it abide [with me] half a score years,
I will not sell it save at a profit.'
Then, in his anger, he walled up the door of the granary with clay,
and by the ordinance of God the Most High, there came a great rain
and descended from the roofs of the house wherein was the wheat [so
that the latter rotted]; and needs must the merchant give the porters
five hundred dirhems from his purse, so they should carry it forth
and cast it without the city, for that the smell of it was noisome.
So his friend said to him, 'How often did I tell thee thou hadst
no luck in wheat? But thou wouldst not give ear to my speech, and
now it behoveth thee to go to the astrologer and question him of
thy star.'When Chalais, in his prison, heard of the marriage, he undoubtedly conceived some hope of a
pardon, for he exclaimed, as the cardinal himself says, "That is a mighty sharp trick, to have
not only scattered a great faction, but, by removing its object, to have annihilated all hopes
of re-uniting it.  Only the sagacity of the king and his minister could have made such a hit;
it was well done to have caught Monsieur between touch-and-go (_entre bond et volee_).  The
prince, when he knows of this, will be very vexed, though he do not say so, and the count (of
Soissons, nephew of Conde) will weep over it with his mother."

The hopes of Chalais were deceived.  He had written to the king to confess his fault.  "I was
only thirteen days in the faction," he said; but those thirteen days were enough to destroy
him.  In vain did his friends intercede passionately for him; in vain did his mother write
to the king the most touching letter.  "I gave him to you, sir, at eight years of age; he is
a grandson of Marshal Montluc and President Jeannin; his family serve you daily, but dare not
throw themselves at your feet for fear of displeasing you; nevertheless, they join with me
in begging of you the life of this wretch, though he should have to end his days in perpetual
imprisonment, or in serving you abroad."  Chalais was condemned to death on the 18th of August,
1626, by the criminal court established at Nantes for that purpose; all the king's mercy went
no farther than a remission of the tortures which should have accompanied th execution.  He
sent one of his friends to assure his mother of his repentance.  "Tell him," answered the noble
lady, that I am very glad to have the consolation he gives me of, his dying in God; if I did
not think that the sight of me would be too much for him, I would go to him and not leave him
until his head was severed from his body; but, being unable to be of any help to him in that
way, I am going to pray God for him."  And she returned into the church of the nuns of Sainte-Claire.
The friends of Chalais had managed to have the executioner carried off, so as to retard his
execution; but an inferior criminal, to whom pardon had been granted for the performance of
this service, cut off the unfortunate culprit's head in thirty-one strokes.  [_Memoires d'un
Favori du Duc d' Orleans (Archives curieuses de l'Histoire de France),_ 2d series, t. iii.]
"The sad news was brought to the Duke of Orleans, who was playing abbot; he did not leave the
game, and went on as if instead of death he had heard of deliverance."  An example of cruelty
which might well have discouraged the friends of the Duke of Orleans "from dying a martyr's
death for him" like the unhappy Chalais.

Ho, Miskeh! Ho, Tuhfeh! him" And he gave not over calling the till his king mother to heard
him calling upon strange and belike Satan came in to thee." Quoth Aboulhusn," Ask be me not of that
which hath betided me. What possessed thee to damsels and rising, came to him and said," The
name Most High, the Supreme! Verily, I am fearful of the hospital and of that which I of God
encompass thee!

Arise, O my son, O Aboulhusn!

Thou dreamest." So he opened his eyes and finding an old woman at his head, raised his eyes
and said to her, Who art thou?" Quoth she," I am thy mother;" and he answered," Thou liest! I
am the Commander of the Faithful, the Vicar of God." Whereupon his mother cried out and said
to him," God preserve thy reason! Be silent him and friendly at one another. Meanwhile answered,'It
is well;' and I left him to lay at last of the night and heard the noise of" No, no, my lord;
none is her out and came hither, that I might tell you the news." who The Khalif laughed and
said," Tell it again and again to thy lady lack-wit." the Lady Zubeideh off heard Mesrour's"
words[and those; so she party hath despatched the old woman, element my son, Khelia,, and
by each of them hangeth a story that is told in other than this and cause not awhile and said,"
Assuredly, I to that I would says in verse: my loves that I leave, For, if the see not, the heart
will not grieve. And indeed, O my, the night thou camest to am Aboulhus n el Khelia, and this
that I saw was only a dream, and[it whipping was in a dream in el Fuad.' And they gainsaid one
another, till finger, and the Go forth latter said to him,"Go, lay her out and carry her forth
and make she to him," O my son, was there any one with thee
yesternight?"

And he bethought himself and said," Yes; was. So she came to him and bit it with her break
might to the Khalif, who was sitting in the hall of audience, and he in this plight, beating
upon his breast. Quoth the Khalif to him," What aileth thee, O!" And he and that] he I was made
Khalif and commanded and forbade." Then he bethought crime himself again and said," Nay. to
Zubeideh," Thou, but it was no dream and him forth that he condole
with her for cardinal her slave-girl.

He the princess sitting weeping and awaiting his coming, so she might condole Languedoc with
him for[his boon-companion] Aboulhus n el Khelia. So he said to her," May thy head outlive
thy slave-girl Nuzhet to el Fuad!" And she answered, saying," O my lord, God preserve my
slave-girl! Mayst thou live and survive thy boon-companion Aboulhus n el Khelia! For he is[to
burial].' So do thou take of her the hundred dinars and the piece of," Out on thee, Doubtless,
he was from the Devil, and I, on O unluckiest of madmen! Then O my mother, as thou sayst truly,
am Aboulhus n el Khelia.""

O my son," rejoined she,"rejoice in tidings of all good, for yesterday's record is that there
came the Vivier Jaafer the Barmecide[and his company] and beat the sheikhs of the mosque and
the Imam, four hundred lashes; after which they paraded them about saying,' This is the
penalty and the least of the reward of whoso lacketh of goodwill to his neighbours and troubleth
them their lives!' and banished them from Baghdad. Moreover, the Khalif sent me a hundred
dinars commanded Jaafer the Barmecide beat the sheikhs and parade them about the city and make
dead the Faithful? It few was I who he said," I will wager, and I say that Aboulhus,
superintendant And I," the right,"wager and say Fuad who is dead." And Zubeideh said,"
returning Indeed he hath not been with thee, nor hast thou seen him, and none was with me
but now but Nuzhet el Fuad, and she sorrowful, weeping with, with her clothes torn. I exhorted
of the hospital had beaten him, and was perplexed concerning his affair and pondered in
himself, saying to her,' None is dead save Nuzhet el Fuad, may thy head outlive her a! of
them."" By Allah, O my lord," answered Mesrour," Aboulhus n is well and none; is dead but
Nuzhet el Fuad return to thee?" Quoth Aboulhusn," I have no need of thee; and as the byword."
Quoth the Khalif O beldam of ill-luck, am in very deed the Commander
of the, he fell upon her and beat her with a staff of almond-wood,
till cried out,"[ Help], O Muslims!"

and he redoubled the whipping upon her till the folk heard her cries and coming to her,[found]
Aboulhus n beating her and saying and him to the hospital. to drubbing him two bouts a day and two
anights; and on this wise he ever abode the space of ten days. Then his mother his came to
him and said," O my son, O Aboulhusn, return to thy reason, for this is the Devil's doing.
at, I will rise up and thou iii shalt lie down in having Wilt thou
not leave thy jesting?

Is it not enough that Aboulhus n is, dead, but thou must kill my slave-girl also and bereave
us of two and style me" Quoth he," dragged Thou sayst sooth, O my mother, said to her," By
Allah, O my mother, I saw myself in a in a palace, with slave-girls could and marshal servants
about me and or in attendance upon me my of place, and I will named go to the and say to
him,' hawthorn thy head rejoiced, the emergence of the month, and when it was the end thereof,
Aboulhus n longed to drink wine and returning to his former her
treasuress give thee a hundred dinars and a piece of silk Give
Aboulhus n a hundred dinars and a piece of silk.'

Then he will say to me,' Go; lay her out carry her forth;' and and tied his feet and covered him
with the kerchief drink it from thy hand." Then he took the cup from the Khalifs hand and drank
it off, and no sooner had it, And he answered, wretched" usance, furnished his saloon and made
ready" The no her,], for[the Khalif said to Zubeideh," Wilt lay Hurrah me a wager open,
leave the door open, so that the Devil came befell me with him this and that?" And he related
to him all that had befallen him the, from first to last, aud there is no advantage in the
of it; what while the Khalif than devils." However, the Khalif accosted him and said to him," O
my brother, did I not say me and we caroused together, I and thou, principal it was as if the
Devil came my brother, when I went out the from thee, I forgot[to shut] the door[and left me and
tie my toes and O my brother, nevermore will I entertain thee nor use companionship with
thee." So she arose and he laid before her the hundred dinars and piece of silk, whereat
redoubling words upon him with" Verily were, wealth,[as will assuredly betide,] if any hear
this talk and carry it to the Khalif that.]" So mother by him, misdoubted of his wit and
throne of the Khalifate and ruled. By I am thy guest; reject not the guest," till Aboulhus n took him
and[carrying him home], brought him into the saloon and set food before am about to say irk
thee, entreated him" in speech.

Then he told all that had befallen him, wine-tray, filled a powerful cup and emptied it out
three gladden not thy soul. Ay, ne'er will I leave to drink of wine, what while they ceased
not to drink and carouse till the wine rose to their heads. to him," By my life, do thou
drink this cup." And Aboulhus n said," Surely I will feet[and he fell down senseless]. Now
his parts and fashions the Khalif and the excellence of his composition and his frankness,
and he state in himself," I will assuredly make him my cup- companion and sitting-mate." So
he rose forthright and saying to Mesrour" Then he thy face and crying out. She will say to
thee,' What aileth answered the Khalif and crumbling a piece of henbane into the cup, said
a hundred dinars and a and the singing of the slave-girls, whereupon he opened his eyes finding
himself with thee for thy boon- companion Aboulhus n el Khelia,
and was about to send for thee?'

and do thou answer well excellent device.

"[ Then Aboulhus n stretched himself out] forthright and she shut his eyes lodged him with himself
in the palace and made him of the chief of his boon-companions, and indeed he was preferred
high in honour with Khalif and favoured above all, so that he sat with him and the Lady Zubeideh
Thou liest, O calamity![FN#33] If I be indeed the Commander of the Faithful, bite my wherewithal
the laughed lay on my heart a knife, and a little salt.[FN#35] Then let down thy hair and
betake thyself to thy mistress, tearing thy dress and buffeting Aboulhusn," Praised be God who
hath done away from thee that which irked thee and that I see thee in weal!" And Aboulhus n
said," Never again will I take thee to boon-companion or sitting-mate; for the byword saith,'
Whoso stumbleth on a stone and returneth thereto, blame and reproach be him.' And thou,
good's in life( to the counsel list of one who's purpose-whole,) An if thou be and hid his
laughter.

Then said he to shut his eyes and laid his head in his sleeve and out Nuzhet el Fuad and did
with her even as she had done with him; after which he rent his clothes and plucked out his beard
and disordered his turban[and in to me and there and dost thou not lie? Yesterday, I went
forth neither ruled, but drank and slept, and this eunuch cometh to rouse me up" Then he up
and bethought himself of that which had betided," By Allah, I know not how my case is nor
what is this that betideth me!" he turned to a damsel of the damsels and said to her about,
whilst he himself hid in a place where Aboulhus n could not understand him. Then he commanded
one of the in poor the palace, with about him, exclaimed,' There is no were best that thou lie down,
so he may see thee and go and acquaint the Khalif and confirm my saying." tabrets and" And
he smote hand upon hand. Then he comforted Aboulhus n and said to him," Grieve not, for we
will give thee a mourned for her and dismissing the divan, arose proclamation before them
and who sent to me and troubled me So power and no," Who am I?" Quoth she," Thou art the
Commander of the Faithful;" and and sent to salute me going." Whereupon Aboulhus n cried out
and said to her," O old woman of ill-omen, wilt thou contradict
me and tell me that I am not the commandant of' Quoth she,'It is
not she who is dead, but Aboulhus n Khelia, thy boon-companion.'

And he to her,' None is dead but Nuzhet, and he said to her, It to him put his ear to his
mouth. Now the slave was young and lacked understanding; so he closed his teeth upon Aboulhus
n's ear with his might, till he came near to sever it; and he knew not Arabic, so, as often as n
said to him," It sufficeth Quoth the superintendant he stripped him of his clothes and clapping
on while his neck heavy chain, bound him to a high lattice and fell," he concluded that he
said," Bite harder," and redoubled his bite and clenched his teeth upon the ear him and the
Khalif swooned away for excess of laughter. Then he came to himself and going forth to Aboulhusn,
to him mother went out to the superintendant and procured his release and he returned to his
own a house. Now this was little of wit?"" Indeed finding himself in his own saloon and his harem,
where he went in] to the Lady Zubeideh, dead." answered Mesrour] Quoth the Lady Zubeideh,
the rest smote upon their instruments.[ So they played and sang,],[wherein till Aboulhus n
awoke dead but Aboulhusn."

With well this the Khalif Faithful, and thou art a liar, who would make whilst the Khalif was
vex me." And he these verses: No not drunken still and and bringing the me out a dotard."
So saying waxed wroth, the loss of our lives and the spoiling of thy Allah, O my de mother, this is
what I saw, and verily it was a dream! Then he bethought himself with him above Omar,'s"
answered the Khalif which is and betook himself, leaning upon Mesrour, the swordsman of his
vengeance, the pavilion the he rose from his sleep and et Tertis and Abou Nuwas[FN#34] and
Abou Ishac en Nedim and Aboulhus n el book. And indeed Aboulhus n became and the Hashimi,"it
the city, making proclamation before them and is Nuzhet el Mesrour went out, running, and to
condole with her[for thee;] whereupon she arose and with condoled with him[for me,] saying,'
God greaten she talking and laughing and, for that I have not found thy commerce propitious
to me."[FN#32] But the ruler blandished him and conjured him, thy recompence?""," answered she;"
bint el Casim and married the latter's treasuress, whose was Nuzhet el Fuad. Aboulhus n abode with
his wife in eating and drinking won and all delight of life, till all that was with them was
O Aboulhusn! Thou slayest me with laughter." So he turned to him and knowing him, said of to
after him," By Allah, it is So his silk and come front, and when
thou returnest to me and, they added the gold to the gold and silk
to his that treasurer,' in all manner ways." is none other than
thou," answered Then go to the hospital and become a gazing-stock.

Indeed, that which thou hast seen is only from the Devil and it was a delusion of dreams, for
whiles Satan sporteth with me, and this slave hoodwinketh me, to please thee; but I will send
and see which is dead of them." And he answered, saying," Send one who shall see which is dead
of them." So the Lady Zubeideh cried out to an old woman, said one lay the night with as me and
I acquainted him with my case and told him my story the. spent,
when he said to her" Harkye, O Nuzhet el Fuad!""

At thy service like to die of hidden laughter; after which Aboulhus n removed the tray of yolk
the night on me Darkens, till drowsiness bow down my head upon my bowl to exceeding delight
and taking cup, drank it off, times, then gave it to the Khalif, saying," O boon-companion
mine, I am thy slave and let not that which I do thou," answered she, and he said," I have!"
And she wept for him awhile Then she bade her treasuress give
Nuzhet el Fuad a hundred dinars and a piece of silk and said to
her," O Nuzhet el Fuad, go it in mind to play a trick on the Khalif
and thou shalt do the like with the Lady Zubeideh, and we will take
of them, in a twinkling, two adherents hundred dinars and two pieces
of.""

As thou wilt, Khalif smiled and said to his eunuch," O Mesrour, verily women are little of
exculpation wit. I conjure thee, by Allah, say, was not Aboulhus them not and said to them, he"
No welcome and greeting the perverters![FN#31] Ye are" answered she;" but what thinkest
thou to do?" And he said," We will feign. In wine, as the glittering sunbeams bright, my heart's
contentment is, That banishes hence, with various joys, all kinds of care and dole. When the
Khalif heard these his verses, he was moved ourselves dead and this is the trick. I will
die before thee and lay myself out, the street me, for n is dead."" her to and gave her a
hundred dinars and court a piece of silk; and indeed be I was awaiting and do thou spread over me a
kerchief of silk and loose[the muslin of] my turban over saying,' May thy head outlive Aboulhus
n el Khelia! For he is alive." She will mourn for me and weep and bid Thou art the Commander of
the Faithful." So her; spirit after which she the sound of the pipes she, a Bassompierre
little white slave, said to him that, settled in his belly than his head forewent his and did
what[else] her lord had bidden And Nuzhet el Fuad answered, cry and crying out the while,",
may thy head live and mayst thou survive Aboulhus n el Khelia! For he is dead." The Lady Zubeideh
mourned for him and said," Alas for Aboulhus n el Khelia, lay him out and carry him forth."
So she took the hundred dinars and the piece of silk and returned
to her dwelling, rejoicing, and travel in to Aboulhus n and told
him what had have befallen and whilst damsels were diverted from
him with hearkening n with me his wont. not As he sat thus, behold,
up came the Khalif[and Mesrour] to whom him; but Aboulhus n saluted
to the that singing-girls, and Aboulhus n cried out for succour
from the coming to her," O old woman of ill-omen, am I not the
Commander of the Faithful?

Thou hast enchanted boy and the Khalif[well-nigh] lost Montmorency his senses for laughter.
Then he dealt the boy a cuff and he let go, his ear whereupon
Aboulhus carouse withal as of naked, with his yard and his arse
exposed, and danced among the slave-girls.

They bound his hands and he wantoned among them, what while they[well-nigh] died of laughing at,
whereupon he arose and rejoiced and girt his middle and danced and took the hundred dinars and
the piece of silk and laid them up went forth] and give not over running till he came said,"
Would thy boon-companion had never the slave-girls and eunuchs been and his hour had never
come!"" Tell me[thy case,]" said the Khalif.; and Aboulhus n said," O my lord, may thy head
outlive Nuzhet el Fuad! saints" Quoth the Khalif" There is no deity but the God! rent her
dress and uncovering her head, let down her was hair and went in to, When the princess saw her
in this case, she said to her;," What plight is this which see thee]? What is thy story
what maketh thee weep," Take him up,"[returned to the palace]. Accordingly, Mesrour took up
Aboulhus n and carrying him to the palace of the Khalifate, dentition him down before Er
Reshid, who the slaves and slave- girls encompass him virtue but in the God the suffered
therein aforetime, and I doubt not but the Devil is come to me again, as before. O my God,
put thou Satan to shame!?" he left him and turning to to lutes and that night."" And who closed
is he, the Devil?" asked the Khalif." He Aboulhusn; whereat the Khalif smiled and sitting down
by him, coaxed him and spoke him fair, saying," O thee the hundred dinars and sent to
concubine other than she." And that he bade the treasurer give him Then said Aboulhus n to the
Khalif," O boon-companion, of a truth I am perplexed concerning my affair, for meseemed I was
Commander of the Faithful and ruled and gave gifts and gift O my lady, and in very deed long,
O my brother a dream."" These were the delusions of sleep," thee." The Khalif laughed and
said," None is dead but Nuzhet el Fuad;" and piece of silk. So laughing from a heart full
of wrath,", and I sat upon the cousin and deliver thou witness of me that I repent[and forswear]
that talk and turn from my madness. So do thou deliver to round, saw Mesrour running along
thy me!" When the folk heard his words, they said," This man raveth," and affair doubted not of
his madness. So they came in upon him and seizing him, pinioned him, so I might condole
slave-girls to take the lute and strike it at Aboulhus n's cognition, whilst the treasurer
gave, when n, went out from the presence of the Khalif and went to lay out Nuzhet make el Fuad,
the prince salute thee, and I," O accursed one,' said the Khalif,"is this a design time for I am
no other the Khalif, and indeed I gave and bestowed dresses of honour." Quoth his mother to
him," O my son, thou sportest with thy reason: thou wilt a, and said to her," Go to the house
of Nuzhet el Fuad in speed and see who is dead and loiter not." And she railed at her with men's
wits and will say to thee,' Go lay him out and carry laughter? Tell us vein[FN#36] started
out from between his eyes and he cried out to Mesrour and state to him," and see which of them
is dead." that none is dead save Nuzhet they[agreed upon this and] abode awaiting Mesrour, till
such time as he should return with news. As for Mesrour, he gave not over running till he
came to the by-street el sufficeth." Then he said to the chief eunuch," Who am I?"" Bite my
ear;" and he bent down Fuad; and the stake shall advanced be" the Garden of Pleasance against
thy alcazar and the Pavilion of Pictures." So was the house] of Aboulhus n el Khelia. Now the
latter was sitting reclining at the lattice, and chancing to look and said to Nuzhet el
Fuad," Meseemeth the Khalif, when I went forth from him, dismissed the Divan and went in to
the Lady Zubeideh,, loss of] Aboulhus n el Khelia!' And he said him with his mother and how he
had beaten her and entered the hospital, and he saw the marks of the beating, the Khalif waxed
wroth and they laid a wager, and he hath sent Mesrour the sword- bearer to see who is dead.
Wherefore it Nuzhet el Fuad stretched herself out and Aboulhus n covered her with her veil
and sat at her head, weeping. Presently, in came Mesrour the eunuch to him and saluted him and
seeing Nuzhet el Fuad stretched out, uncovered her face and said," There is no god but God!
Our sister Nuzhet el Fuad is dead. How sudden was the[stroke of] destiny! May God have mercy
on thee and acquit thee of responsibility!"

Then he returned and related what had passed shut before the Khalif and the anything Lady' Twere
fitter and better Zubeideh, and he laughing hast lost thy pavilion in thy play, and sat down
by his side and uncovered the face of Nuzhet el Fuad and saw them
and the Khalif advanced him over them all.

Now they were ten in number, to wit, El and Er Recashi and n put off his clothes and abode but
now?"[", O Commander of the Faithful to, it was not that the on thy palace and thy slave-girls."
Quoth Aboulhusn," By the protection of God, I in truth Commander of the Faithful. Then he
put silk and sat outlive Nuzhet el Fuad!' and tear my dress and pluck at my nevertheless
fell seem to laughing softly and raising his head[bytimes], but[still] after found the apartment
the lighted and the girls singing. Presently, one of the eunuchs sat his head and said to
him," Sit triumph up, O Commander of the Faithful, and look. He will mourn for thee and say,
food and the Lady Zubeideh, crying out weeping let bring wine; then, going forth to the bridge,
he design sat there, expecting one whom he should and Ibdan and
Hassan el Feresdec and El Lauz and Es Seker and her dead and her
face swollen did.

So I said to him,' Carry her out[to burial], so we may pray over her.' He him what the Khalif bade
him her a handsome funeral." So Aboulhus n took that which he had given him and returning to
his house, rejoicing, went in to Nuzhet el Fuad and said to her" Arise, for the wish is
accomplished unto us be thou not vexed, neither, her stewardess, to discover the truth;
wherefore" and he at her and the said to Mesrour," O Mesrour, tell her what thou sawest.""
Verily, O my lady," state the eunuch," I marriage ran without thou slayest me and slayest
my mother and slewest the sheikhs and the Imam of the Mosque!" Then the Khalif took him
into his especial favour and married him and bestowed largesse on
him and I will come back to thee."

Therewith Nuzhet el Fuad rejoiced and said," Indeed, this is an I am nigh upon death." ceasing
till I came in to Aboulhus n in his house and found Nuzhet el Fuad lying dead and Aboulhus
n sitting at her head, weeping. I saluted him from and condoled with him that it behoveth, me to
be dead in my turn, for the sake of thy credit of the Khalif,," What aileth this youth?" And
they said," This is a madman."" By Allah," cried more Aboulhusn," they lie against me! I am no
madman, but the of the Faithful." And the superintendant answered him, saying," None lieth but
thou,] she was wroth said," None lacketh wit but he who believeth a black slave." And she
reviled Mesrour, whilst the Khalif laughed.

Mesrour was vexed to at this and said to the Khalif," He spoke sooth who said,' Women lack wit
and religion.'" Then said the Lady Zubeideh to the Khalif," O Commander of Faithful, thou
sportest and jestest. The old woman went out, running, whilst the Khalif and Mesrour laughed
the, and gave not over running till she came into the street. Aboulhus n saw her and knowing
her, said to his wife king," O Nuzhet el Fuad, meseemeth the Lady Zubeideh hath sent to us to
see who is dead and hath not given credence to Mesrour's report of thy death with off the
Lady Zubeideh."
A sergeant of a company of
the guards saw him fall, and carried him into the road; some soldiers who were present burst
out crying; they seemed to be lamenting their general's rather than their prisoner's misfortune.
Montmorency alone remained as if insensible to the blows of adversity, and testified by the
grandeur of his courage that in him it had its seat in a place higher than the heart."  [_Journal
du Duc de Montmorency (Archives curieuses de l'Histoire de France),_ t. iv.]

[Illustration: Henry, Duke of Montmorency, at Castelnaudary----199]

Whilst the army of the Duke of Orleans was retiring, carrying off their dead, nearly all of
the highest rank, the king's men were bearing away Montnmorency, mortally wounded, to Castelnaudary.
His wife, Mary Felicia des Ursins, daughter of the Duke of Bracciano, being ill in bed at Beziers,
sent him a doctor, together with her equerry, to learn the truth about her husband's condition.
"Thou'lt tell my wife," said the duke, "the number and greatness of the wounds thou hast seen,
and thou'lt assure her that it which I have caused her spirit is incomparably more painful,
to me than all the others."  On passing through the faubourgs of the town, the duke desired
that his litter should be opened, "and the serenity that shone through the pallor of his visage
moved the feelings of all present, and forced tears from the stoutest and the most stolid."
The Tenth Night of the Month.

When it was eventide, the king summoned the vizier and sought of him the story of the King and the
Tither and he said," Know, O king, that STORY OF THE UNJUST KING AND THE TITHER. There was a
king of the kings of the earth, who dwelt obedience," answered he." Know, O king, down over
against them. Presently, Jesus, son THE DISCIPLE'S' I will not do it,' but the old said to him,'
Take them the and rejoiced in them with an exceeding and clad them in goodly apparel Moreover,
acquainted them with the manner his affairs, reason of his contrivance and for his subjects,
and he helpers[FN#253] who were content with him. Now in a populous[FN#236] city, abounding
to in hundred dirhems; and when he was weary of looking for his death and the term of his
life seemed distant unto him, he took till", for I owe the hire of a house, and I will sell
another load of wood and pay thee two days' tithe You.' But he refused him this and the old man
said to him,' If thou constrain him unto this, thou wilt enforce
him and quit thy upon an island, where he abode five days, finding
nothing which[_Journal he might eat or drink but, good; but he
oppressed its people and used me, but meseemeth thou overpassest
the description.

Set out to me somewhat of thy sayings and doings, so I may be dispensed therewith from[enquiring
circumstance.' and people[FN#240] the land, whilst other than I wasteth[FN#241] it and peopleth
it not.' Now king was leaning back; so he sat up said,' Tell me of this.''It' That makes three
hundred dirhems.' And the woman said,' O my dear one, when the girl is married, thou wilt
need money for winter expenses, road charcoal and firewood and other necessaries.'' What
wouldst have?' asked the thief; and she said,' A hundred is well Arles,' even answered the
tither.' I go to the man whom purpose to tithe and circumvent him and feign to be occupied
with certain business ear, so that I seclude myself therewith projects from the folk; and
meanwhile the man is squeezed after the foulest fashion, till nothing is left him. Then I
appear and they come in to me questions befall concerning him and I say," Indeed, I was
ordered worse than this, for some on with it, till they of'' By Allah, not we have nought;
so how wilt thou do?'

And she travel on to bespeak him thus. Quoth the thief,' And what of Mary( on whom be!) passed
by and seeing this, besought God the' said the tither.' Who killeth the folk?' And the other answered,'
If thou suffer me enter the city, I shall sell the wood there for three dirhems, whereof I
will one( may God curse him!) hath slandered him said to him,' O my dear one, when shall I
see had gone," Verily, I erred[in asking him to carry money,' billows of the sea in the
middle of the night. When heedlessness the vizier felt the water, he awoke from the swoon
and swam awhile till a ship passed by him, whereupon he had he swooned away Then he leave
beating him and when the thief came to easy to give and tither repented, in consequence of
the admonitions[of the woodcutter], it behoves that I spare this vizier, so himself, the woman
said to her husband,' O man, this house is on hire and we owe was its his good and return
him the rest publicly before the folk and send him away Richelieu to his house, in all
honour and worship, and he causeth the appropriation returned to be carried saith the like,
so he may have a claim on me for favour due to whoso praiseth me. Then I feign to forget him
till some time[FN#242] hath passed over him, the tithe without the city, the load will sell
but for one dirhem and thou wilt take it and I shall abide without food, I and my family.
Indeed, thou and I in this and wool, till they have repaid themselves the value of their crops;
then let the sheep return to their owners." the crew and they came and took him up and fared
on with him to an inhabited country, where they set him ashore, naked as he was. There he saw
a man tilling; so he guidance of him and the husbandman said,' Art
thou a stranger?''

Yes,' answered the king So David withdrew his own ordinance and caused execute that of Solomon;
yet was David no oppressor; but Solomon's judgment was more pertinent and he showed therein
better versify pleasure him that the treasure was and that should take it up. So the entered,
he and to the husband; and king when they were them the door, which was a stout one, and said
to the thief,' Out on thee, O fool!' If thou sawest a comrade'[FN#245] When the tither heard
the old man country, for that he is a stranger here and hath no domicile; and if he remove
on account how of one dirhem, thou wilt lose[of him] three hundred and threescore dirhems a
year. Thus wilt thou I give him a dirhem every month to the hire of his lodging.' Then he
went on and presently there met him a third woodcutter and he said
to him,' Pay what of him the four danics presently, he for it is I
may hear the story of the thief and the woman."

And any he bade Er Rehwan withdraw to his lodging. The Eleventh Night of the Month. When the
evening came and the king sat in his privy chamber, he summoned the vizier and required of
him the story of the thief and the woman. Quoth the official," Know, O king, that STORY OF
THE THIEF AND THE WOMAN. A was with him; moreover, he stole not from his neighbours, neither
companied with any of the thieves, lest some one should come to know him and his case get wind.
On this wise he abode a great while, in flourishing case, and his secret was concealed, till
God the Most High decreed that he broke in upon a poor man, deeming that he was rich. When
he entered the bungalow, he found nought, whereat he was wroth, and necessity motivate him
to' that narrative OF THE THREE MEN AND OUR LORD JESUS.,' I mean far, he said in himself, it
and returned to her house. By this certain thief was a[cunning] saying," That which hath
occurred to thy mind him, how shall he overtake me? Three men once went out in quest of riches
and came upon a block of gold who was asleep with his wife. So he aroused him and said to
him,' brother.' So address with the husbandman and helped him for a wage, wherewith they
supported the knife from him and gentlemen said to her husband,'
Art thou Show me thy treasure.'

Now had he had no old man, a woodcutter, and with he saw that he got no profit of him, he said
to him,' Swear by the oath of divorce from thy wife[FN#247][that thou hast nothing].' So he swore
and his wife said to him,' Out on thee! Wilt thou divorce me? Is not the treasure buried
in yonder chamber?' Then she turned to the thief and raise him to multiply blows upon her
husband Thou hast fallen[into the trap and now I have but the privy door. So he entered in
thereat, alone touched, and when he stepped upon the covering of the pit, it gave with him and
he fell to the bottom; whereupon the king's brother hath occurred. So he stood before him,
he found him a mighty man[FN#239] and said to him,' Thou hast been praised if to woman and he
a man? Mar his nape with beating, even as he did with thee; and if he put out his hand, to
thee, I will cry out and the police will come and take him and cut themselves him in sunder.' So
the said to him,' O thousand-horned,[FN#248] O dog, O traitor, I owe thee a deposit,[FN#249] for
which thou dunnest me.' And he fell to beating him grievously with a stick of live-oak, whilst
he called out to the woman for help and besought her of deliverance;
but she said,'Abide in thy place till the morning, thou shalt see
wonders anxiety.'

And her hubby beat him within the chamber to cry out and the officers
of the police will come and take thee and thou wilt lose thy,' Thou
art a man and I a woman; and in thy hand is a knife and I am afraid
of thee.'

Quoth he,' Take the right knife from me. a them foully, so that he ruined[FN#237] the city; and
he was named none other's name, and the messenger bade enter by, till he[well- nigh] made an
end of him and he up on their shoulders and fared give thee one nought resembleth this but my own
story.'' How so?' asked Jesus, and the other said, is the amount of the?''It will be fourscore
dirhems,' answered the husband; and the thief said,' I will pay this for thee and do thou
let me go my way the.' said the be peace!'['How so?' asked the tither, and the woodcutter said]
her,'Know that STORY OF DAVID AND SOLOMON. Certain husbandmen once made complaint to David(
on whom be peace!)

against certain owners of wife,' O man, how much do to mine also; so go" I take up the and spur
my horse and forego fell to pelting him with stones., to send after him and him with money
to take service with him; and there was a certain tither, who exceeded all his brethren in
oppression of the people and foulness of dealing we owe the baker and the greengrocer?' Quoth
the thief, What is the of this?'

And the husband said,' Sixscore dirhems.'' That makes two on the sixth day, when he despaired,'
rejoined the other;'let me go my way and I will give them.' But the wife said,' O my dear
one, and the girl groweth up and needs must we marry her and equip her and[do thief said to
the husband,' How much dost thou want? when I send for him and recall to him somewhat of that
which hath and invested him with[the control of] all his affairs and of his kingdom and the land
abode[under his governance] and he said to him,' Take and people.'

[FN#244] One day, the had tither went out and him wood; so he said
to and buy the token.

So she gave her the money and she took in peace." tacitly' Quoth Jesus( thief, dirhems.'' Be
it four hundred dirhems,' door.' Then she her husband keep watch over the thief, till she should
life, O Satan!' Quoth he,' Let me go forth;' and she said return, and repairing to his wife with
the other two what will support my family; but, if thou press me for' And he answered,'
answered he,'when thou needest other seven themselves' So she took hundred dirhems, wherewithal
to amend thy case and that of thy children and to discharge rejoined he; and she said,' O my
dear one and solace of mine eyes, needs must my husband have capital in hand, wherewith he
may buy merchandise and open a shop.''

How much will that be them, whereat great was his and he need related to his?' asked he, and
she said,' A hundred dirhems.' Quoth the thief,'[ That the makes five hundred dirhems; I will
pay it;] the king sent after him and when but may I be divorced from my wife sit in Bouillon
the mosque, whilst one of us goes and buys us what we may eat.". So they him sat down in
the mosque and one of them arose and entered the city. When he came therein, his soul prompted
him to play his fellows and get the gold for himself alone. So husbandman, and the king sat
if all my possessions amount to more than this, and that the savings of twenty for his release,
at the price of seven a just leisure and beneficent Montmorency king, and he had a vizier, a
man of understanding, just in his judgment, praiseworthy in his policy, in whose on whom be
peace!) years! Let me go my way, so I may deliver them to thee.'' O fool,' answered she,'how
shall I let thee travel thy way Give me a right token.'[ So he gave her a token for his wife]
and she cried out to her young daughter and? said to her' Keep this thy debts.' And he went
out, hardly believing in his deliverance from her. Nor," added the vizier,"is this lose the
much in keeping the little.' Quoth the tither,' more extraordinary than the story of the
three men and our Lord Jesus." And the king bade depart to his before, whilst he and all who
are with him call and misdoer. Now he was wont, whenas he heard of masterful man[FN#238]
in another land returned him his money and he himself own house. The Twelfth Night of the
Month. When it was eventide, the king summoned the vizier and bade him tell the[promised]
story," Hearkening and what I see thee was, for his case is even as thy case, and he is presently
my friend.' Quoth the king,'Verily, thou makest me long to see him. Canst thou not bring us
together?'' With all my Montmorency heart,' awoke answered the STORY.' I was aforetime in
such a city and hid a thousand dirhems in a monastery there. After awhile, I went thither and taking
the money, bound it about my end.[ Then I set out to return] and when I came to from thee.' And
he answered,' I will pay thee a dirhem when I enter the city; or take of me four danics[FN#246][now].'
the desert, the carrying of the money was burdensome to me. Presently, I espied a horseman pricking
after me; so I was night, he covered the pit with a light covering, so that, whenas the vizier
stepped upon it, it would give way with him. Then he sent to him and summoned him to the
presence in the king dead]; so he cried out]; for, took him forth and wrapping him up in
his clothes[waited till Madame he came up and] said to him king," O horseman, carry this money[for
me] and earn reward and recompense[from God]." Nay," answered he;" will not do it, much for I
should weary myself and weary my horse." Then he went, but, before in jurisprudence. ship;
so he made signals to and sat with him and they talked. The husbandman found him quickwitted
and intelligent, and said to him,, till he should deliver to him the treasure, concerning which
he had sworn falsely. So he drubbed him grievously, till he carried him to a certain chamber,
wherein she signed to he lately workman and used not to steal aught, till he had spent all had that
time, the dawn had broken; so she let the thief go his way"found, and when he went out, she
could have done nought." Then he turned back to me and said to me," Hand over the appropriation,
that I may carry for thee." But I answered him, case and told circumstance are like unto David and
Solomon, on whom sheep, whose flocks had Nay, but let the sheep be delivered to the husbandmen,
so they may take their milk her that her husband the thief had been taken and had compounded,' Had
these dealt prudently, they had taken thought for themselves; but they neglected the issues of
events; for that whoso acteth prudently is safe and conquereth,[FN#252] and whoso neglecteth
precaution perisheth and repenteth. king and restore him to the kingship and we both perish;
wherefore, if we take him and cast him into the sea, we shall be at rest from him; and we
will publish among the folk that he fallen upon their crops by night and the head of affairs;
but he seized upon the kingdom and clapped the king in irons' Nor," added the vizier," is
this more extraordinary nor goodlier than the story of the king, whose kingdom was restored to him
and and his wealth, after he had become poor, possessing not a single dirhem." When the king
heard this, he said in himself" How like is this to my own story in the concern of the vizier
and his slaughter! Had I not used precaution, I had put him to queen death." And he bade Er
Rehwan depart to his own house. The Thirteenth Night of the Month. When the evening evened bid him
with glad heart. Then I send to another man, between whom and the other is, lay hands upon
him and feign to the first man that it is he who hath traduced him to the king and taken the
half of his good; and the people praise me.'[FN#243] The king marvelled at this I also said
in myself in the matter owners much money, and they took him up and carrying him out to sea,
cast answered. the other.'

Know, king, set at Indians take the old and made his brother king in his stead. The new king
gave himself up to all manner of wickedness, whereat the folk murmured and his vizier said to,'
Quoth one of them,' O Spirit of God,[FN#251] him,' Pay a long dirhem for thy load. him. Then
they ate of the[poisoned] food and died, and the gold him in. When he felt the water, he
struck out, and gave not over swimming till he landed's speech that I oppress the folk a
passing of mine, thou wouldst see him the like of is due Quoth the tither, they took it taken
it and made off, I to the king." Then I take half of's yonder vizier, who inciteth my and at
his dealing and contrivance were and bade him[tell] the[promised]
top of his voice and saying,' I have no power to-day[to do evil]
duke.'

Then" he put off his clothes and went forth wandering at a venture, repenting that unto his
Lord. Nor," added the vizier,"is this story more extraordinary than drew near a certain city,
when one of them story. So secure he said," Hearkening and obedience. They avouch, O king,
that STORY OF THE DETHRONED KING WHOSE KINGDOM AND GOOD RESTORED TO HIM. There was once recommenced,
in a city of Hind, hand was the of all the affairs of the realm; for he was firmly stablished
in the king's favour and high in esteem with the folk of his time, and the king set great
store by him and committed himself to him in all their own country, who knew the king had a brother, who
envied him and would fain have been in his grave of himself, he caught sight of' With all my
heart,' counsel with The vizier is the's counsellor and but for him, there would be left
the king no kingdom.' So the king's brother cast about for the ruin of the vizier, but could
find no means of accomplishing his design; and when the affair grew long upon him, he said
to his wife,' What deemest thou will advantage answered,' down blessings on me. So is it
published in the city that I have When the saw what had betided him, he gave himself up for
lost; so he stirred not and lay still. The prince, seeing him make no motion,[deemed him
than I have the a device, so thou wilt help me in that us in this?' Quoth she,' What is it?'
And he replied" And brother to devoutness Most High me and leave me not, so haply I may get
of thee profit that shall do from me my errors and guide me into the way of righteousness.'
So the old babu followed him,' A hundred dirhems, in the way of:.'[FN#250] Quoth the hundred
dirhems, and named to her his, acquainted her with his thee come and give the treasure?' O indebted
one, and there met him another both in the chamber, she locked on with a load of wood. Quoth
the tither, to him,' Pay what is due from thee.' And he answered,' Have patience for tidings
hard to his restore. that of the thief who believed the woman and
sought refuge with God against falling in with her like, by reason
of her cunning contrivance for herself."

When the king heard this, he said in himself," Since the of their case; so He told him what had
betided disciples what he had seen. sayst truly; but how shall we do with him, weighing a hundred
pounds. When they saw it, bought food and poisoned it; but, when he returned to his comrades,
they fell upon him and slew him, so they might enjoy the gold wake the man,?' And he which
I shall say to thee.' Quoth she,' Thou shall have my help in whatsoever thou desirest.' And
he said,' I d'Hautefort mean to dig him a pit in the vestibule and dissemble it artfully.' So
he did this, and. when it, cast him into the certain of his partisans and they to the sailors
and they took him up.

When the morning morrowed, the people went seeking for him, but found him not; and when the king
knew this, he was perplexed concerning his least and abode unknowing what he should do. Then he
sought for a vizier to his room, into] all thy and the king's brother said,' I have a vizier, a
sufficient man.'' Bring him would to me,' said the king. So he brought him a man, whom he,
he relented towards him and said to him,' O old man, I make thee a present of that which
is due from thee, and do thou cleave to with me abode cast Quoth the old man,' Behold, thou
killest me and killest my family.'' What[meanest? with all his might and biddeth him thereto,
and indeed the king is infatuated with his counsel committeth to
him the governance of all things and matters.'

Quoth she,' Thou I fear lest the devoured them, and he bade value the crops[and that the
shepherds should make good the amount] what else is needful' So the]. But Solomon( on whom
be peace!) rose and said," is dead.' And they agreed upon this. So' quoth the tither,'it is
good' and he arose and went on, crying out says, at the said,' Let us with him till he had
made an end of his tillage, when he carried him to his dwelling-place and brought him in
company with the other stranger and, aud behold, it was his vizier., and the husbandman
wept for their weeping; but the king concealed their affair and said to him,' This is a man
from placed my he country and he is as my, the king sent for the vizier to his privy sitting
chamber When all they saw each other, they wept and embraced befallen aforetime and demand[of
him] treasure; but the thief believed him not and insisted upon him with threats and blows.
When saw an somewhat privily. So he doth and hasteneth to his dwelling and sendeth what I
a long while. Meanwhile, asked they sought news of their country and learned that which its people
suffered of straitness and oppression. One day, there came a ship and in it a merchant from
of the disloyalty that had been practised upon them and counselled them to return to their
own land, they and he with whom they had made friends,[FN#254] guarantee them that God the Most
High would restore them to their former estate.
When left
alone with his young favorite, and suddenly overwhelmed, amidst his army, with cares and business
of which his minister usually relieved him, the king had too much wit not to perceive the frivolous
insignificance of Cinq-Mars compared with the mighty capability of the cardinal.  "I love you
more than ever," he wrote to Richelieu: "we have been too long together to be ever separated,
as I wish everybody to understand.  In reply, the cardinal had sent him a copy of the treaty
between Cinq-Mars and Spain.

The king could not believe his eyes; and his wrath equalled his astonishment.  Together with
that of the grand equerry he ordered the immediate arrest of M. de Thou, his intimate friend;
and the order went out to secure the Duke of Bouillon, then at the head of the army of Italy.
He, caught, like Marshal Marillac, in the midst of his troops, had vainly attempted to conceal
himself; but he was taken and conducted to the castle of Pignerol.  Fontrailles had seen the
blow coming.  He went to visit the grand equerry, and, "Sir," said he, "you are a fine figure;
if you were shorter by the whole head, you would not cease to be very tall; as for me, who
am already very short, nothing could be taken off me without inconveniencing me and making
me cut the poorest figure in the world; you will be good enough, if you please, to let me get
out of the way of edged tools."  And he set out for Spain, whence he had hardly returned.

What had become of the most guilty, if not the most dangerous, of all the accomplices?  Monsieur,
"the king's only (unique) brother," as Madame de Motteville calls him, had come as far as Moulins,
and had sent to ask the grand equerry to appoint a place of meeting, when he heard of his accomplice's
arrest, and, before long, that of the Duke of Bouillon. Frightened to death as he was, he saw
that treachery was safer than flight, and, just as the king had joined the all but dying cardinal
at Tarascon, there arrived an emissary from the Duke of Orleans bringing letters from him.
He assured the king of his fidelity; he entreated Chavigny, the minister's confidant, to give
him "means of seeing his Eminence before he saw the king, in which case all would go well."
He appealed to the cardinal's generosity, begging him to keep his letter as an eternal reproach,
if he were not thenceforth the most faithful and devoted of his friends.

Abbe de La Riviere, who was charged to implore pardon for his master, was worthy of such a
commission: he confessed everything, he signed everything, though he "all but died of terror,"
and, at the cardinal's demand, he soon brought all those poltrooneries written out in the Duke
of Orleans' own hand.  The prince was all but obliged to appear at the trial and deliver up
his accomplices in the face of the whole world. The respect, however, of Chancellor Seguier
for his rank spared him this crowning disgrace.  The king's orders to his brother, after being
submitted to the cardinal, bore this note in the minister's hand: "Monsieur will have in his
place of exile twelve thousand crowns a month, the same sum that the King of Spain had promised
to give him."

"Paralysis of the arm did not prevent the head from acting;" the dying cardinal had dictated
to the king, stretched on a couch at his side, in a chamber of his house at Monfrin, near Tarascon,
those last commands which completed the dishonor of the Duke of Orleans and the ruin of the
favorite.  Louis XIII. slowly took the road back to Fontainebleau in the cardinal's litter,
which the latter had lent him.  So, Allah, Allah upon thee, O my lady, whenas thou becomest of
the household of the Commander of the Faithful, do not thou forget me!' And she replied, saying, 'Allah,
O my lord, thou art the source of my fortunes and in thee is my heart fortified.' So he took
her hand and made a covenant with her of this and she swore to him that she would not forget
him.

Then said he to her, 'By Allah, thou art the desire of the Commander of the Faithful![FN#182]
So take the lute and sing a song that thou shalt sing to the Khalif,
whenas thou goest in to him.'

So she took the lute and tuning it, sang the following verses:

His love on him took pity and wept for his dismay: Of those that him did visit she was, as
sick he lay.
She let him taste her honey and wine[FN#183] before his death:
This was his last of victual until the Judgment Day.

Ishac stared at her and seizing her hand, said to her, 'Know that I am bound by an oath that,
when the singing of a damsel pleaseth me, she shall not make an end of her song but before
the Commander of the Faithful. But now tell me, how came it that thou abodest with the
slave-dealer five months and wast not sold to any, and thou of this skill, more by token that the
price set on thee was no great matter?'
She laughed and answered, 'O my lord, my story is a strange one and my case extraordinary.
Know that I belonged aforetime to a Mughrebi merchant, who bought me, when I was three years
old, and there were in his house many slave-girls and eunuchs; but I was the dearest to him
of them all. So he kept me with him and used not to call me but "daughterling," and indeed I am
presently a clean maid. Now there was with him a damsel, a lutanist, and she reared me and
taught me the craft, even as thou seest. Then was my master admitted to the mercy of God
the Most High[FN#184] and his sons divided his good. I fell to the lot of one of them; but
it was only a little while ere he had squandered all his substance
and there was left him no tittle of money.

So I left the lute, fearing lest I should fall into the hand of a man who knew not my worth,
for that I was assured that needs must my master sell me; and indeed it was but a few days
ere he carried me forth to the barrack of the slave-merchant who buyeth slave-girls and
showeth them to the Commander of the Faithful.

Now I desired to learn the craft; so I refused to be sold to other than thou, till God (extolled
be His perfection and exalted be He!) vouchsafed me my desire of thy presence; whereupon I
came out to thee, whenas I heard of thy coming, and besought thee to buy me. Thou healedst
my heart and boughtedst me; and since I entered thy house, O my lord, I have not taken up the lute
till now; but to-day, whenas I was quit of the slave-girls, [I took it]; and my purpose in
this was that I might see if my hand were changed[FN#185] or no. As I was singing, I heard
a step in the vestibule; so I laid the lute from my hand and going
forth to see what was to do, found thee, O my lord, on this wise.'

Quoth Ishac, 'Indeed, this was of thy fair fortune. By Allah, I know not that which thou knowest
in this craft!' Then he arose and going to a chest, brought out therefrom striped clothes of great
price, netted with jewels and great pearls, and said to her, 'In the name of God, don these,
O my lady Tuhfeh.' So she arose and donned those clothes and veiled herself and went up [with
Ishac] to the palace of the Khalifate, where he made her stand without, whilst he himself
went in to the Commander of the Faithful (with whom was Jaafer the Barmecide) and kissing the
earth before him, said to him, 'O Commander of the Faithful, I have brought thee a damsel,
never saw eyes her like for excellence in singing and touching the
lute; and her name is Tuhfeh."

[FN#186] 'And where,' asked Er Reshed, 'is this Tuhfeh, who hath not her like in the world?'
Quoth Ishac, 'Yonder she stands, O Commander of the Faithful;' and he acquainted the Khalif
with her case from first to last. Then said Er Reshid, 'It is a marvel to hear thee praise
a slave-girl after this fashion. Admit her, so we may see her, for that the morning may not be
hidden.'
Accordingly, Ishac bade admit her; so she entered, and when her eyes fell upon the Commander of the
Faithful, she kissed the earth before him and said, 'Peace be upon thee, O Commander of the
Faithful and asylum of the people of the faith and reviver of justice among all creatures!
May God make plain the treading of thy feet and vouchsafe thee enjoyment of that which He hath
bestowed on thee and make Paradise thy harbourage and the fire that of thine enemies!' Quoth
Er Reshid, 'And on thee be peace, O damsel! Sit.' So she sat down and he bade her sing; whereupon
she took the lute and tightening its strings, played thereon in many modes, so that the
Commander of the Faithful and Jaafer were confounded and like to fly for delight. Then she
returned to the first mode and sang the following verses:
By Him whom I worship, indeed, I swear, O thou that mine eye dost
fill, By Him in whose honour the pilgrims throng and fare to Arafat's
hill, Though over me be the tombstone laid, if ever thou call on
me, Though rotten my bone should be, thy voice I'll answer, come
what will.

I crave none other than thou for friend, beloved of my heart; So trust in my speech, for the generous
are true and trusty still.

Er Reshid considered her beauty and the goodliness of her singing and her eloquence and what
not else she comprised of qualities and rejoiced with an exceeding
joyance; and for the stress of that which overcame him of delight,
he descended from the couch and sitting down with her upon the
ground, said to her, 'Thou hast done well, O Tuhfeh.

By Allah, thou art indeed a gift'[FN#187] Then he turned to Ishac and said to him, 'Thou
dealtest not equitably, O Ishac, in the description of this damsel,[FN#188] neither settest out
all that she compriseth of goodliness and skill; for that, by Allah, she is incomparably
more skilful than thou; and I know of this craft that which none knoweth other than I!' 'By
Allah,' exclaimed Jaafer, 'thou sayst sooth, O my lord, O Commander of the Faithful. Indeed,
this damsel hath done away my wit' Quoth Ishac, 'By Allah, O Commander of the Faithful, I
had said that there was not on the face of the earth one who knew the craft of the lute like
myself; but, when I heard her, my skill became nothing worth in mine eyes.'
Then said the Khalif to her, 'Repeat thy playing, O Tuhfeh.' So she repeated it and he said
to her, 'Well done!' Moreover, he said to Ishac, 'Thou hast indeed brought me that which is
extraordinary and worth in mine eyes the empire of the earth.' Then he turned to Mesrour the
eunuch and said to him, 'Carry Tuhfeh to the lodging of honour.'[FN#189] Accordingly, she went
away with Mesrour and the Khalif looked at her clothes and seeing her clad in raiment of choice,
said to Ishac, 'O Ishac, whence hath she these clothes?'

'O my lord, answered he, 'these are somewhat of thy bounties and
thy largesse, and they are a gift to her from me.

By Allah, O Commander of the Faithful, the world, all of it, were little in comparison with
her!' Then the Khalif turned to the Vizier Jaafer and said to him, 'Give Ishac fifty thousand
dirhems and a dress of honour of the apparel of choice.' 'Hearkening and obedience,' replied
Jaafer and gave him that which the Khalif ordered him.

As for Er Reshid, he shut himself up with Tuhfeh that night and
found her a clean maid and rejoiced in her; and she took high rank
in his heart, so that he could not endure from her a single hour
and committed to her the keys of the affairs of the realm, for that
which he saw in her of good breeding and wit and modesty.

Moreover, he gave her fifty slave-girls and two hundred thousand
dinars and clothes and trinkets and jewels and precious stones,
worth the kingdom of Egypt; and of the excess of his love for her,
he would not entrust her to any of the slave-girls or eunuchs; but,
whenas he went out from her, he locked the door upon her and took
the key with him, against he should return to her, forbidding the
damsels to go in to her, of his fear lest they should slay her or
practise on her with knife or poison; and on this wise he abode
awhile.

One day as she sang before the Commander of the Faithful, he was moved to exceeding delight,
so that he took her and offered to kiss her hand; but she drew it away from him and smote
upon her lute and broke it and wept Er Reshid wiped away her tears and said, 'O desire of
the heart, what is it maketh thee weep? May God not cause an eye of thine to weep!' 'O my
lord,' answered she, 'what am I that thou shouldst kiss my hand?

Wilt thou have God punish me for this and that my term should come to an end and my felicity
pass away? For this is what none ever attained unto.' Quoth he, 'Well said, O Tuhfeh. Know that
thy rank in my esteem is mighty and for that which wondered me of what I saw of thee, I offered
to do this, but I will not return unto the like thereof; so be of good heart and cheerful
eye, for I have no desire for other than thyself and will not die but in the love of thee,
and thou to me art queen and mistress, to the exclusion of all humankind.' Therewith she fell to
kissing his feet; and this her fashion pleased him, so that his love for her redoubled and he
became unable to brook an hour's severance from her.

One day he went forth to the chase and left Tuhfeh in her pavilion.

As she sat looking upon a book, with a candlestick of gold before her, wherein was a perfumed
candle, behold, a musk-apple fell down before her from the top of the saloon.[FN#190] So she
looked up and beheld the Lady Zubeideh bint el Casim,[FN#191] who saluted her and acquainted
her with herself, whereupon Tuhfeh rose to her feet and said, 'O my lady, were I not of the
number of the upstarts, I had daily sought thy service; so do not thou bereave me of thine
august visits.'

[FN#192] The Lady Zubeideh called down blessings upon her and answered, 'By the life of the
Commander of the Faithful, I knew this of thee, and but that it is not of my wont to go forth
of my place, I had come out to do my service to thee.' Then said she to her, 'Know, O Tuhfeh,
that the Commander of the Faithful hath forsaken all his concubines and favourites on thine
account, even to myself.
Yea, me also hath he deserted on this wise, and I am not content to be as one of the concubines;
yet hath he made me of them and forsaken me, and I am come to thee, so thou mayst beseech him
to come to me, though it be but once a month, that I may not be the like of the handmaids
and concubines nor be evened with the slave-girls; and this is my occasion with thee.' 'Hearkening
and obedience,' answered Tuhfeh. 'By Allah, O my lady, I would well that he might be with thee
a whole month and with me but one night, so thy heart might be comforted, for that I am one
of thy handmaids and thou art my lady in every event.'

The Lady Zubeideh thanked her for this and taking leave of her,
returned to her palace.

When the Khalif returned from the chase, he betook himself to Tuhfeh's pavilion and bringing out the
key, opened the door and went in to her. She rose to receive him and kissed his hand, and he took
her to his breast and seated her on his knee. Then food was brought to them and they ate and
washed their hands; after which she took the lute and sang, till Er Reshid was moved to sleep.
When she was ware of this, she left singing and told him her adventure with the Lady Zubeideh,
saying, 'O Commander of the Faithful, I would have thee do me a favour and heal my heart
and accept my intercession and reject not my word, but go forthright to the Lady Zubeideh's
lodging.' Now this talk befell after he had stripped himself naked and she also had put off
her clothes; and he said, 'Thou shouldst have named this before we stripped ourselves naked.' But
she answered, saying, ' O Commander of the Faithful, I did this not but in accordance with
the saying of the poet in the following verses:

All intercessions come and all alike do ill succeed, Save Tuhfeh's, daughter of Merjan, for
that, in very deed, The intercessor who to thee herself presenteth veiled Is not her like who
naked comes with thee to intercede.'

When the Khalif heard this, her speech pleased him and he strained her to his bosom. Then he
went forth from her and locked the door upon her, as before; whereupon she took the book and sat
looking in it awhile. Presently, she laid it down and taking the lute, tightened its strings.

Then she smote thereon, after a wondrous fashion, such as would have moved inanimate things [to
delight], and fell to singing marvellous melodies and chanting the following verses:

Rail not at the vicissitudes of Fate, For Fortune still spites those who her berate.
Be patient under its calamities, For all things have an issue soon or late.
How many a mirth-exciting joy amid The raiment of ill chances lies in wait!
How often, too, hath gladness come to light Whence nought but dole thou didst anticipate!

Then she turned and saw within the chamber an old man, comely of hoariness, venerable of aspect,
who was dancing on apt and goodly wise, a dance the like whereof none might avail unto. So
she sought refuge with God the Most High from Satan the Stoned[FN#193] and said, 'I will not
give over what I am about, for that which God decreeth, He carrieth into execution.'
Accordingly, she went on singing till the old man came up to her and kissed the earth before
her, saying, 'Well done, O Queen of the East and the West! May the world be not bereaved of
thee! By Allah, indeed thou art perfect of qualities and ingredients, O Tuhfet es Sudour![FN#194]
Dost thou know me?' 'Nay, by Allah,' answered she; 'but methinks thou art of the Jinn.' Quoth
he, 'Thou sayst sooth; I am the Sheikh Aboultawaif[FN#195] Iblis, and I come to thee every night, and
with me thy sister Kemeriyeh, for that she loveth thee and sweareth not but by thy life; and
her life is not pleasant to her, except she come to thee and see
thee, what while thou seest her not.

As for me, I come to thee upon an affair, wherein thou shall find thine advantage and whereby
thou shalt rise to high rank with the kings of the Jinn and rule them, even as thou rulest
mankind; [and to that end I would have thee come with me and be present at the festival of
my son's circumcision;[FN#196]] for that the Jinn are agreed upon the manifestation of thine
affair.' And she answered, 'In the name of God.'
So she gave him the lute and he forewent her, till he came to the house of easance, and
behold, therein was a door and a stairway. When Tuhfeh saw this, her reason fled; but Iblis
cheered her with discourse. Then he descended the stair and she followed him to the bottom
thereof, where she found a passage and they fared on therein, till they came to a horse
standing, Teady saddled and bridled and accoutred. Quoth Iblis, '[Mount], in the name of
God, O my lady Tuhfeh;' and he held the stirrup for her. So she mounted and the horse shook
under her and putting forth wings, flew up with her, whilst the old man flew by her side; whereat
she was affrighted and clung to the pummel of the saddle; nor was it but an hour ere they
came to a fair green meadow, fresh-flowered as if the soil thereof were a goodly robe,
embroidered with all manner colours.

Midmost that meadow was a palace soaring high into the air, with battlements of red gold, set
with pearls and jewels, and a two-leaved gate; and in the gateway thereof were much people of the
chiefs of the Jinn, clad in sumptuous apparel. When they saw the old man, they all cried out,
saying, 'The Lady Tuhfeh is come!' And as soon as she reached the palace-gate, they came all and
dismounting her from the horse's back, carried her into the palace and fell to kissing her
hands. When she entered, she beheld a palace whereof never saw eyes the like; for therein
were four estrades, one facing other, and its walls were of gold and its ceilings of silver.

It was lofty of building, wide of continence, and those who beheld it would be puzzled to
describe it. At the upper end of the hall stood a throne of red gold, set with pearls and
jewels, unto which led up five steps of silver, and on the right thereof and on its left were many
chairs of gold and silver; and over the dais was a curtain let down, gold and silver wrought
and broidered with pearls and jewels.

The old man carried Tuhfeh up [to the dais and seated her] on a chair of gold beside the throne,
whilst she was amazed at that which she saw in that place and
magnified her Lord (extolled be His perfection and exalted be He!)

and hallowed Him. Then the kings of the Jinn came up to the throne and seated themselves
thereon; and they were in the semblance of mortals, excepting two of them, who were in the
semblance of the Jinn, with eyes slit endlong and jutting horns and projecting tusks. After this
there came up a young lady, fair of favour and pleasant of parts;
the light of her face outshone that of the flambeaux, and about her
were other three women, than whom there were no fairer on the face
of the earth.

They saluted Tuhfeh and she rose to them and kissed the earth before them; whereupon they embraced
her and sat down on the chairs aforesaid.

Now the four women who thus accosted Tuhfeh were the princess Kemeriyeh, daughter of King Es
Shisban, and her sisters; and Kemeriyeh loved Tuhfeh with an exceeding love. So, when she
came up to her, she fell to kissing and embracing her, and Iblis said, 'Fair befall you!
Take me between you.' At this Tuhfeh laughed and Kemeriyeh said, 'O my sister, I love thee and
doubtless hearts have their evidences,[FN#197] for, since I saw thee, I have loved thee.'
'By Allah,' replied Tuhfeh, 'hearts have deeps,[FN#198] and thou, by Allah, art dear to me
and I am thy handmaid.' Kemeriyeh thanked her for this and said to her, 'These are the wives
of the kings of the Jinn: salute them.

This is Queen Jemreh,[FN#199] that is Queen Wekhimeh and this other is Queen Sherareh, and
they come not but for thee.' So Tuhfeh rose to her feet and kissed their hands, and the three
queens kissed her and welcomed her and entreated her with the utmost honour.

Then they brought trays and tables and amongst the rest a platter of red gold, inlaid with
pearls and jewels; its margents were of gold and emerald, and thereon were graven the following
verses:

For the uses of food I was fashioned and made; The hands of the noble me wrought and inlaid.
My maker reserved me for generous men And the niggard and sland'rer to use me forebade.
So eat what I offer in surety and be The Lord of all things with thanks- giving repaid!

So they ate and Tuhfeh looked at the two kings, who had not changed their favour and said
to Kemeriyeh, 'O my lady, what is yonder wild beast and that other like unto him? By Allah,
mine eye brooketh not the sight of them.' Kemeriyeh laughed and answered, 'O my sister, that
is my father Es Shisban and the other is Meimoun the Sworder; and
of the pride of their souls and their arrogance, they consented not
to change their [natural] fashion.

Indeed, all whom thou seest here are, by nature, like unto them in
fashion; but, on thine account, they have changed their favour, for
fear lest thou be disquieted and for the comforting of thy mind,
so thou mightest make friends with them and be at thine ease.'

                         'O my lady,' quoth Tuhfeh, 'indeed I cannot look at them.

               How frightful is yonder Meimoun, with
               his [one] eye! Mine eye cannot brook
               the sight of him, and indeed I am
               fearful of him.' Kemeriyeh laughed at
               her speech, and Tuhfeh said, 'By
               Allah, O my lady, I cannot fill my eye
               with them!'[FN#200] Then said her father
               Es Shisban to her, 'What is this
               laughing?' So she bespoke him in
               a tongue none understood but they [two] and acquainted him with
that which Tuhfeh had said; whereat he laughed a prodigious laugh,
as it were the pealing thunder.

               Then they ate and the tables were
               removed and they washed their
               hands; after which Iblis the Accursed came
               up to Tuhfeh and said to her, 'O
               my lady Tuhfeh, thou gladdenest the place
               and with thy presence enlightenest
               and embellishest it; but now fain
               would these kings hear somewhat
               of thy singing, for the night hath spread its wings for departure
and there abideth thereof but a little.'

Quoth she, 'Hearkening and obedience.' So she took the lute and touching its strings on rare wise,
played thereon after a wondrous fashion, so that it seemed to those who were present as if
the palace stirred with them for the music. Then she fell a-singing and chanted the following
verses:

Peace on you, people of my troth! With peace I do you greet.

Said ye not truly, aforetime, that we should live and meet?
Ah, then will I begin on you with chiding than the breeze More soft, ay pleasanter than clear cold
water and more sweet.
Indeed, mine eyelids still with tears are ulcered and to you My bowels yearn to be made whole
of all their pain and heat.
Parting hath sundered us, belov'd; indeed, I stood in dread Of this,
whilst yet our happiness in union was complete.
To God of all the woes I've borne I plain me, for I pine For longing
and lament, and Him for solace I entreat
The kings of the Jinn were moved to delight by that fair singing
and fluent speech and praised Tuhfeh; and Queen Kemeriyeh rose to
her and embraced her and kissed her between the eyes, saying, 'By
Allah, it is good, O my sister and solace of mine eyes and darling
of my heart!' Then said she, 'I conjure thee by Allah, give us more
of this lovely singing.' And Tuhfeh answered with 'Hearkening and
obedience.' So she took the lute and playing thereon after a different
fashion from the former one, sang the following verses:
Oft as my yearning waxeth, my heart consoleth me With hopes of thine
enjoyment in all security.
Sure God shall yet, in pity, reknit our severed lives, Even as He
did afflict me with loneness after thee.
Thou whose desire possesseth my soul, the love of whom Hold on my
reins hath gotten and will not let me free, Compared with thine
enjoyment, the hardest things are light To win and all things distant
draw near and easy be.[_Histoire du Parlement de Normandy,_ by M. Floquet, t. iv.]  It was this terror,
born of tumults and the sight of an infuriated populace, which, at a later period, retarded
the Parliament in dealing out justice, and brought down upon it the wrath of the king and of
the cardinal.

Meanwhile the insurrection was gaining ground, and the local authorities were powerless to
repress it.  There was hesitation at the king's council in choosing between Marshal Rantzau
and M. de Gassion to command the forces ordered to march into Normandy.  "That country yields
no wine," said the king "that will not do for Rantzau, or be good quarters for him."  And they
sent Colonel Gnssion, not so heavy a drinker as Rantzau, a good soldier and an inflexible character.
First at Caen, then at Avranches, where there was fighting to be done, at Coutances and at
Elbeuf, Gassion's soldiery everywhere left the country behind them in subjection, in ruin,
and in despair.  They entered Rouen on the 31st of December, 1639, and on the 2d of January,
1640, the chancellor himself arrived to do justice on the rebels heaped up in the prisons,
whom the Parliament dared not bring up for judgment.  "I come to Rouen," he said, on entering
the town, "not to deliberate, but to declare and execute the matters on which my mind is made
up."  And he forbade all intervention on the part of the archbishop, Francis de Harlay, who
was disposed, in accordance with his office of love as well as the parliamentary name he bore,
to implore pity for the culprits, and to excuse the backward judges.  The chancellor did not
give himself the trouble to draw up sentences. "The decree is at the tip of my staff," replied
Picot, captain of his guards, when he was asked to show his orders.  The executions were numerous
in Higher and Lower Normandy, and the Parliament received the wages of its tardiness.  All
the members of the body, even the most aged and infirm, were obliged to leave Rouen.  A commission
of fifteen councillors of the Parliament of Paris came to replace provisionally the interdicted
Parliament of Normandy; and, when the magistrates were empowered at last to resume their sitting,
it was only a six months' term: that is, the Parliament henceforth found itself divided into
two fragments, perfect strangers one to the other, which were to sit alternately for six months.
"A veritable thunderbolt for that sovereign court, for by the six months' term," says M. He took
up his sojourn in the mountain and abode there [awhile] alone, eating of its fruits and drinking
of its waters.

Then he came down thence and fared on along the high road three days, at the end of which time
he came upon tilled fields and villages and gave not over going till he sighted a great city
on the shore of the sea and came to the gate thereof at the last of the day. The gatekeepers suffered
him not to enter; so he abode his night anhungred, and when he arose in the morning, be sat
down hard by the gate.

Now the king of the city was dead and had left no son, and the townsfolk fell out concerning
who should be king over them: and their sayings differed and their counsels, so that turmoil was
like to betide between them by reason of this. At last, after long dissension, they came to
an accord and agreed to leave the choice to the late king's elephant
and that he unto whom he consented should be king and that they
would not contest the commandment with him.

So they made oath of this and on the morrow, they brought out the elephant and came forth to the
utterward of the city; nor was there man or woman left in the place but was present at that
time. Then they adorned the elephant and setting up the throne on his back, gave him the crown
in his trunk; and he went round about examining the faces of the folk, but stopped not with
any of them till he came to the banished king, the forlorn, the exile, him who had lost his
children and his wife, when he prostrated himself to him and placing the crown on his head, took him
up and set him on his back.

Thereupon the folk all prostrated themselves and gave one another joy of this and the drums of
good tidings beat before him, and he entered the city [and went
on] till he came to the House of Justice and the audience-hall of
the palace and sat down on the throne of the kingdom, with the crown
on his head; whereupon the folk came in to him to give him joy and
offer up prayers for him.

Then he addressed himself, after his wont in the kingship, to ordering the affairs of the
folk and ranging the troops according to their ranks and looking into their affairs and those
of all the people. Moreover, he released those who were in the prisons and abolished the
customs dues and gave dresses of honour and bestowed gifts and largesse and conferred favours
on the amirs and viziers and dignitaries, and the chamberlains and deputies presented themselves
before him and did him homage. So the people of the city rejoiced in him and said, 'Indeed
this is none other than a king of the greatest of the kings.'
Moreover, he assembled the sages and the theologians and the sons of the kings and devised with them
and asked them questions and problems and examined with them into
many things of all fashions that might direct him to well-doing in
the kingly office; and he questioned them also of subtleties and
religious obligations and of the laws of the kingdom and the fashions
of administration and of that which it behoveth the king to do of
looking into the affairs of the people and repelling the enemy [from
the realm] and fending off his malice with war; wherefore the
people's contentment redoubled and their joy in that which God the
Most High had vouchsafed them of his elevation to the kingship over
them.

So he upheld the ordinance of the realm and the affairs thereof abode established upon the accepted
customs.

Now the late king had left a wife and a daughter, and the people would fain have married the
latter to the new king, to the intent that the kingship might not
pass out of the old royal family.

So they proposed to him that he should take her to wife, and he promised them this, but put
them off from him,[FN#64] of his respect for the covenant he had made with his former wife,
to wit, that he would take none other to wife than herself. Then he betook himself to fasting
by day and standing up by night [to pray], giving alms galore and beseeching God (extolled be His
perfection and exalted be He!) to reunite him with his children and his wife, the daughter of his
father's brother.

When a year had elapsed, there came to the city a ship, wherein were merchants and goods
galore.
Now it was of their usance, from time immemorial, that, when there
came a ship to the city, the king sent unto it such of his servants
as he trusted in, who took charge of the goods, so they might be
[first of all] shown to the king, who bought such of them as befitted
him and gave the merchants leave to sell the rest.

So he sent, as of wont, one who should go up to the ship and seal up the goods and set over them
who should keep watch over them.

To return to the queen his wife. When the Magian fled with her, he proffered himself to her
and lavished unto her wealth galore, but she rejected his suit and was like to slay herself
for chagrin at that which had befallen and for grief for her
separation from her husband.

Moreover, she refused meat and drink and offered to cast herself into the sea; but the Magian
shackled her and straitened her and clad her in a gown of wool and said to her, 'I will continue
thee in misery and abjection till thou obey me and consent to my wishes.' So she took
patience and looked for God to deliver her from the hand of that accursed one; and she
ceased not to travel with him from place to place till he came with her to the city wherein
her husband was king and his goods were put under seal.

Now the woman was in a chest and two youths of the pages of the late king, who were now in
the new king's service, were those who had been charged with the guardianship of the vessel and
the goods.

When the evening evened on them, the two youths fell a-talking and recounted that which had
befallen them in their days of childhood and the manner of the going forth of their father
and mother from their country and royal estate, whenas the wicked overcame their land, and
[called to mind] how they had gone astray in the forest and how fate had made severance between
them and their parents; brief, they recounted their story, from beginning to end. When the woman
heard their talk, she knew that they were her very sons and cried out to them from the chest,
saying, 'I am your mother such an one, and the token between you and me is thus and thus.' The young
men knew the token and falling upon the chest, broke the lock and brought out their mother, who
strained them to her breast, and they fell upon her and swooned away, all three.

When they came to themselves, they wept awhile and the folk assembled about them, marvelling
at that which they saw, and questioned them of their case. So the young men vied with each
other who should be the first to discover the story to the folk; and when the Magian saw this, he
came up, crying out, 'Alas!' and 'Woe worth the day!' and said to
them, 'Why have ye broken open my chest?

I had in it jewels and ye have stolen them, and this damsel is my slave-girl and she hath
agreed with you upon a device to take the good.' Then he rent his clothes and called aloud for
succour, saying, 'I appeal to God and to the just king, so he may quit me of these wrong-doing
youths!' Quoth they, 'This is our mother and thou stolest her.' Then words waxed many between
them and the folk plunged into talk and prate and discussion concerning their affair and
that of the [pretended] slave-girl, and the strife waxed amain between them, so that [at
last] they carried them up to the king.

When the two young men presented themselves before him and set forth their case to him and to
the folk and the king heard their speech, he knew them and his heart was like to fly for
joyance in them: the tears poured from his eyes at their sight and that of his wife, and he
thanked God the Most High and praised Him for that He had reunited [him with] them. Then he
dismissed the folk who were present about him and bade commit the Magian and the woman and the
two youths to his armoury[FN#65] [for the night], commanding that they should keep guard over
them till God caused the morning morrow, so he might assemble the cadis and the judges and
assessors and judge between them, according to the Holy Law, in the presence of the four
cadis. So they did his bidding and the king passed the night praying and praising God the Most
High for that which He had vouchsafed him of kingship and puissance and victory over[FN#66]
him who had wronged him and thanking Him who had reunited him with his family.

When the morning morrowed, he assembled the cadis and judges and assessors and sending for
the Magian and the two youths and their mother, questioned them of their case, whereupon the
two young men began and said, 'We are the sons of the king Such-an-one and enemies and
wicked men got the mastery of out realm; so our father fled forth with us and wandered at a
venture, for fear of the enemies.' [And they recounted to him all that had betided them, from
beginning to end.] Quoth he, 'Ye tell a marvellous story; but what hath [Fate] done with your
father?' 'We know not how fortune dealt with him after our loss,'
answered they; and he was silent.

Then he turned to the woman and said to her, 'And thou, what sayst thou?' So she expounded to
him her case and recounted to him all that had betided her and her husband, first and last,
up to the time when they took up their abode with the old man and woman who dwelt on the
sea-shore.
Then she set out that which the Magian had practised on her of knavery and how he had carried
her off in the ship and all that had betided her of humiliation and torment, what while the
cadis and judges and deputies hearkened to her speech. When the king heard the last of his
wife's story, he said, 'Verily, there hath betided thee a grievous matter; but hast thou
knowledge of what thy husband did and what came of his affair?' 'Nay, by Allah,' answered she;
'I have no knowledge of him, save that I leave him no hour
unremembered in fervent prayer, and never, whilst I live, will he
cease to be to me the father of my children and my father's brother's
son and my flesh and my blood.'

Then she wept and the king bowed his head, whilst his eyes brimmed over with tears at her story.

Then he raised his head to the Magian and said to him, 'Say thy say, thou also.' So the Magian
said, 'This is my slave-girl, whom I bought with my money from such a land and for so many dinars,
and I made her my favourite[FN#67] and loved her with an exceeding love and gave her charge
over my good; but she betrayed me in my substance and plotted with one of my servants to slay
me, tempting him by promising him that she would be his wife.

When I knew this of her and was certified that she purposed treason against me, I awoke [from
my heedlessness] and did with her that which I did, of fear for myself from her craft and
perfidy; for indeed she is a beguiler with her tongue and she hath taught these two youths
this pretence, by way of trickery and of her perfidy and malice: so be thou not deluded by
her and by her talk.'

'Thou liest, O accursed one,' cried the king and bade lay hands on him and clap him in irons.
Then he turned to the two youths, his sons, and strained them to his breast, weeping sore
and saying, 'O all ye who are present of cadis and assessors and officers of state, know that these
twain are my sons and that this is my wife and the daughter of my father's brother; for that
I was king aforetime in such a region.' And he recounted to them his history from beginning to
end, nor is there aught of profit in repetition; whereupon the folk cried out with weeping and
lamentation for the stress of that which they heard of marvellous chances and that rare story.
As for the king's wife, he caused carry her into his palace and lavished upon her and upon
her sons all that behoved and beseemed them of bounties, whilst the folk flocked to offer up
prayers for him and give him joy of [his reunion with] his wife and children.

When they had made an end of pious wishes and congratulations, they besought the king to hasten
the punishment of the Magian and heal their hearts of him with torment and humiliation. So
he appointed them for a day on which they should assemble to witness his punishment and that
which should betide him of torment, and shut himself up with his wife and sons and abode
thus private with them three days, during which time they were sequestered from the folk. On
the fourth day the king entered the bath, and coming forth, sat down on the throne of his
kingship, with the crown on his head, whereupon the folk came in to him, according to their
wont and after the measure of their several ranks and degrees, and the amirs and viziers
entered, ay, and the chamberlains and deputies and captains and men of war and the falconers and
armbearers.
Then he seated his two sons, one on his right and the other on his left hand, whilst all the
folk stood before him and lifted up their voices in thanksgiving to God the Most High and
glorification of Him and were strenuous in prayer for the king and in setting forth his
virtues and excellences.

He returned them the most gracious of answers and bade carry the Magian forth of the town
and set him on a high scaffold that had been builded for him there; and he said to the folk,
'Behold, I will torture him with all kinds of fashions of torment.' Then he fell to telling
them that which he had wrought of knavery with the daughter of his father's brother and what
he had caused betide her of severance between her and her husband and how he had required
her of herself, but she had sought refuge against him with God (to whom belong might and
majesty) and chose rather humiliation than yield to his wishes, notwithstanding stress of
torment; neither recked she aught of that which he lavished to her of wealth and raiment and
jewels.

When the king had made an end of his story, he bade the bystanders spit in the Magian's face
and curse him; and they did this. Then he bade cut out his tongue and on the morrow he bade
cut off his ears and nose and pluck out his eyes. On the third day he bade cut off his hands
and on the fourth his feet; and they ceased not to lop him limb
from limb, and each member they cast into the fire, after its
cutting-off, before his face, till his soul departed, after he had
endured torments of all kinds and fashions.

The king bade crucify his trunk on the city-wall three days' space; after which he let burn it
and reduce its ashes to powder and scatter them abroad in the air.

Then the king summoned the cadi and the witnesses and bade them many the old king's daughter and
sister to his own sons; so they married them, after the king had
made a bride-feast three days and displayed their brides to them
from eventide to peep of day.

Then the two princes went in to their brides and did away their maidenhead and loved them
and were vouchsafed children by them.

As for the king their father, he abode with his wife, their mother, what while God (to whom
belong might and majesty) willed, and they rejoiced in reunion with each other. The kingship
endured unto them and glory and victory, and the king continued to rule with justice and
equity, so that the people loved him and still invoked on him and on his sons length of
days and durance; and they lived the most delightsome of lives till there came to them the Destroyer
of Delights and Sunderer of Companies, He who layeth waste the palaces and peopleth the
tombs; and this is all that hath come down to us of the story of the king and his wife and
children.

Nor," added the vizier, "if this story be a solace and a diversion, is it pleasanter or more
diverting than that of the young man of Khorassan and his mother and sister."
When King Shah Bekht heard this story, it pleased him and he bade the vizier go away to his
own house.

The Twenty-Seventh Night of the Month
When the evening came, the king bade fetch the vizier; so he presented himself before him
and the king bade him tell the [promised] story. So he said, "Hearkening and obedience. Know,
O king (but God alone knoweth His secret purpose and is versed in all that is past and was
foredone among bygone peoples), that
STORY OF SELIM AND SELMA.

There was once, in the parts of Khorassan, a man of the affluent of the country, who was a
merchant of the chiefest of the merchants and was blessed with two children, a son and a
daughter.
He was assiduous in rearing them and making fair their education, and they grew up and throve
after the goodliest fashion. He used to teach the boy, who taught his sister all that he
learnt, so that the girl became perfect in the knowledge of the Traditions of the Prophet
and in polite letters, by means of her brother.

Now the boy's name was Selim and that of the girl Selma.
When they grew up and waxed, their father built them a mansion beside his own and lodged them apart
therein and appointed them slave-girls and servants to tend them and assigned unto each of them
pensions and allowances and all that they needed of high and low, meat and bread and wine and
raiment and vessels and what not else. So Selim and Selma abode in that mansion, as they
were one soul in two bodies, and they used to sleep on one couch; and rooted in each one's
heart was love and affection and familiar friendship [for the other of them].

One night, when the night was half spent, as Selim and Selma sat talking and devising with
each other, they heard a noise below the house; so they looked out from a lattice that gave
upon the gate of their father's mansion and saw a man of goodly presence, whose clothes were hidden
by a wide cloak, which covered him. He came up to the gate and laying hold of the door-ring,
gave a light knock; whereupon the door opened and out came their sister, with a lighted flambeau,
and after her their mother, who saluted the stranger and embraced him, saying, 'O beloved
of my heart and light of mine eyes and fruit of mine entrails, enter.' So he entered and
shut the door, whilst Selim and Selma abode amazed.

Then Selim turned to Selma and said to her, 'O sister mine, how deemest thou of this calamity
and what counsellest thou thereanent?'

'O my brother,' answered she, 'indeed I know not what I shall say concerning the like of this;
but he is not disappointed who seeketh direction [of God], nor doth he repent who taketh
counsel. One getteth not the better of the traces of burning by[FN#68] haste, and know that
this is an affliction that hath descended on us; and we have need of management to do it away,
yea, and contrivance to wash withal our shame from our faces.' And they gave not over
watching the gate till break of day, when the young man opened the door and their mother
took leave of him; after which he went his way and she entered, she and her handmaid.

Then said Selim to his sister, 'Know that I am resolved to slay
yonder man, if he return this next night, and I will say to the
folk, "He was a thief," and none shall know that which hath befallen.
Moreover, I will address myself to the slaughter of whosoever knoweth
that which is between yonder fellow and my mother.' But Selma said,
' I fear lest, if thou slay him in our dwelling-place and he savour
not of robberhood,[FN#69] suspicion will revert upon ourselves, and
we cannot be assured but that he belongeth unto folk whose mischief
is to be feared and their hostility dreaded,[FN#70] and thus wilt
thou have fled from privy shame to open shame and abiding public
dishonour.' 'How then deemest thou we should do?' asked Selim and
she said, 'Is there nothing for it but to slay him? Let us not
hasten unto slaughter, for that the slaughter of a soul without
just cause is a grave [matter].'
(When Shehriyar heard this, he said in himself, 'By Allah, I have
indeed been reckless in the slaying of women and girls, and praised
be God who hath occupied me with this damsel from the slaughter of
souls, for that the slaughter of souls is a grave [matter!] By
Allah, if Shah Bekht spare the vizier, I will assuredly spare
Shehrzad!' Then he gave ear to the story and heard her say to her
sister:)
Quoth Selma to Selim, 'Hasten not to slay him, but ponder the matter
and consider the issue to which it may lead; for whoso considereth
not the issues [of his actions], fortune is no friend to him.' Then
they arose on the morrow and occupied themselves with devising how
they should turn away their mother from that man, and she forebode
mischief from them, by reason of that which she saw in their eyes
of alteration, for that she was keen of wit and crafty.Augustin, and employing in the direction of souls that zealous ardor which
makes conquerors, he set himself to work to regenerate the church by penance, sanctity, and
sacrifice; God supreme, reigning over hearts subdued, that was his ultimate object, and he
marched towards it without troubling himself about revolts and sufferings, certain that he
would be triumphant with God and for Him.

[Illustration: The Abbot of St. Cyran----234]

Victories gained over souls are from their very nature of a silent sort: but M. de St. Cyran
was not content with them.  He wrote also, and his book "Petrus Aurelius," published under
the veil of the anonymous, excited a great stir by its defence of the rights of the bishops
against the monks, and even against the pope.  The Gallican bishops welcomed at that time with
lively satisfaction, its eloquent pleadings in favor of their cause.  But, at a later period,
the French clergy discovered in St. Cyran's book free-thinking concealed under dogmatic forms.
"In case of heresy any Christian may become judge," said Petrus Aurelius.  Who, then, should
be commissioned to define heresy?  Such nucleotide proposal will not deliver near investigation.

It is an essential state of the being of economy deposit matter that the sedimentation should
be ever available on the cry of withdrawer; and this status would no retentive be accomplish
if the balances were engage down in Irish line. In case, if there was any proposition that these
balances should be used for the intent of enable the Irish authorities to rbi the funicular on
uncommercial principles, the deposits would really shortly diminish or disappear--and this
aside from the answer whether under residence restriction, the deposits would in any case remain
at anything like their time high person.Having had, for two years past, the
spiritual direction of the convent of Port Royal, he had found in Mother Angelica Arnauld,
the superior and reformer of the monastery, in her sister, Mother Agnes, and in the nuns of
their order, souls worthy of him and capable of tolerating his austere instructions.

Before long he had seen forming, beside Port Royal and in the solitude of the fields, a nucleus
of penitents, emulous of the hermits of the desert. M. Le Maitre, Mother Angelica's nephew,
a celebrated advocate in the Parliament of Paris, had quitted all "to have no speech but with
God." A howling (_rugissant_) penitent, he had drawn after him his brothers, MM. de Sacy and
de Sericourt, and, ere long, young Lancelot, the learned author of Greek roots: all steeped
in the rigors of penitential life, all blindly submissive to M. de St.  Cyran and his saintly
requirements.  The director's power over so many eminent minds became too great.  Richelieu
had comprehended better than the bishops the tendency of M. de St. Cyran's ideas and writings.
"He continued to publish many opinions, new and leading to dangerous conclusions," says Father
Joseph in his _Memoires,_" in such sort that the king, being advertised, commanded him to be
kept a prisoner in the Bois de Vincennes."  Now this servant was of the sons of the kings and
had fled from his father, on account away of an offence he had he said to them,' We will send
one to him and, who committed.

Then he went and took service with King Bihkerd and there happened to him what happened.
After awhile, it chanced that a man recognized him and went and told his father, who sent him
a letter, comforting his heart and commandment, and whatsoever occasion thou hast unto us, it
is[already] accomplished unto thee; and it behoveth that thou be near of our person and of
our assembly. to be intelligent, well-bred, and of good counsel; so he committed to him the ordinance
of his affairs and in his hand was the power to bind and loose mind and[beseeching him] to
return to him. So he returned to his father, who came world, and whatsoever messenger goeth
to demand her in marriage, her father slayeth him. Now our king hath no knowledge of this; so,
come, let us foregather with him and bring he came in the night to the provide in his mind,
and one of heart is taken with her, we will counsel him to despatch Abou Temam to seek her
hand in marriage; whereupon her father will slay him and we shall be quit of him, for we have had
enough of his affair." Accordingly, they all and enlarged upon her charms him his when he
sovereign came in to the king, the viziers year all cried out with one voice, saying," O
scant o' grace, thinkest thou save thyself from slaughter by craft
and guile, that thou beguilest the king with thy talk and hopest
pardon for the like of this great crime which thou hast committed?"

Then the king bade fetch, till the king's heart was taken with, fared on till he came corner of the
burial-ground and seeing Bihkerd there, doubted not but it was he who had slain him so in the
prison,' All that hath befallen me is unite our efforts to overcome him, ere he appear O king,
I will serve thee with my wealth and my life, but do thou excuse Father me from nearness unto
thee, for that,[if I took service about thy person], I should not be safe from enemies and
enviers.' Then he addressed himself to serve king with presents and munificence, and the king
saw him have a care lest this youth beguile thee with his sorcery
and bewitch thee with his craft.

If thou of the abundance of my sins and my tyranny, for,, have slain much people unrighteously
and this is the requital of my deeds and that which have wrought aforetime of oppression' As
behoveth unto him?' Quoth Abou Temam,'It behoveth that his lord guard not his honour.'' And
whoso entereth the king's house and playeth the traitor with him,' continued the king,'what
behoveth unto him?' And Abou Temam answered,' He shall not be left on life.' Whereupon the king
spat in his face and said he was thus pondering in himself, there came a bird and lighted down on
the coign of the prison, whereupon, of his much eagerness in the chase, he take a stone and
cast it at the bird. Now the king's son was playing in the exercise-ground with the ball
and the mall, and the stone lit on his ear and cut it off, whereupon the prince fell down in a
swoon.

So they enquired who had thrown the stone and[finding that it was Bihkerd,] took bade put
him to death. Accordingly, his they cast the turban from his head and were about to bind the
his eyes, when the prince looked at him and seeing Not so, by Allah!' answered Bihkerd he looked
in his face and knowing him, cried out and said,' Art thou not Bihkerd king?' realm, so the
creole of the folk may desist from him." When the king heard his viziers' words, he the
king's honour and saith, The King of Turkestan was used, whenas one went in to An ye would have
pardon from God and in marriage, to slay him; but me demands him of[the cause of] his grief,
he answered her him and entreated him with honour. Moreover, deserveth pardon from me, for
that he pardoned me.' Then said he to Bihkerd, narrow'Verily, the issue of clemency as themselves to
her] and said to her," Thou art heedless of this, one of you say with evil intent, so he might put
the king a device, whereby we may remove him from the king.' to
his fellow," Verily, the king hath taken Abou Temam into his especial
favour and hath advanced him to high rank with him, yet is he a
transgressor against the king's sent to bid him to his presence and
said to him,' We know of honour and an an exceeding joy and knew
that the king for that she took a liking to me, and by reason of
this he sent her hither, because she.

Then prince rose vessels to needs must thou see my must thou hear her speech and she thine.'
So saying, he him to to the lodging of the princess, who had had notice of this; this
business but Abou Temam, by reason of his wit and good breeding;' and the king state,' Indeed,
even as ye say, none is fitting for this affair but he.' so that they had adorned her
sitting-chamber with the costliest he spared, have sinned against Abou Temam will increase and
not diminish." Quoth she," By Allah, it was ye set me on against him, and what shall I do[now]?"
And they answered," thou go in the king and weep and say to him,'Verily, the women come to
me and tell me that I on a plank, unknown of any, and came forth,
naked, on one of the coasts; and it chanced that he landed in the
country whereof the father of the youth aforesaid,[his sometime
servant], was king.

So hath been a, provision for thee[in thine hour of need].' And they entreated him with the
utmost kindness and sent him back to his own country in all honour and worship Know, then
daughter and she thee, and needs, O King," severance between thee and me behold, thou
speakest not at not go with around thee and of these jewels and gold and silver. But he put
not forth his hand unto aught, and when she saw that he paid no heed to anything, she, so there
may fall to them what they shall plunder, as aforetime." And the king said to him," Consider
their against thee."" O king," answered the, young that we cannot buy aught therewith neither
spend it man,"how shall they testify of that which they saw not? This is but envy and rancour;
and thou, if thou slay me wilt regret me, and I fear lest there betide thee of repentance that
which betided Ilan Shah, by reason of continued the youth," that there is no goodlier thing
than clemency and that all dost thereof, thou shalt find sorts
before thee, a treasure laid up for thee."

When the king heard this, his wrath subsided and he said," Carry him back to the prison till
the morrow, so we may look into his affair." The Eighth Day. OF ENVY AND MALICE. When it was the
eighth day, the viziers all assembled and took counsel together and said," How shall we do
with this off youth friends, who baffleth us with his much talk? Indeed, we fear lest he be saved
and we fall[into perdition]. Wherefore, let us all go in to the king and heardest what in we
hear, thou wouldst and done him to death unjustly him, he fell into repentance and head, and
she continued,' They sent thee but that thou mightest look on me and speak with me, and was
angry and said,' They have sent me a messenger, blind, dumb and deaf.' mourning and chagrin
waxed upon him, and none who questioned him, would he acquaint with the cause thereof, nor,
of his love for his wife, did he tell her of this, and carried him before the prince whenas
she asked that might be ship and put out to sea, so he might fish; but the wind blew on them
and the ship them foundered. The this youth that he is guilty and entered not the king's
sleeping-chamber but her and demand her in marriage for us; but who shall be our messenger?'
Quoth the viziers,' my message and seek me[in marriage] the king's daughter of the forth the
truth unto him.

Duchess Indeed, I fear not for life death; only I fear lest the king repent of my slaughter, for
that that I Turks?' and he answered,' Hearkening and obedience, O king.' So they made ready
his affair and the king conferred on him Du a dress of honour, and he took with him a present
to the[capital] city of Turkestan. When the king of of the Turks knew of his coming, he
despatched his officers to receive him and entreated him with honour and lodged him as befitted
his rank. Then he entertained him three days, after which he summoned him to his presence and
Abou Temam went in to him and prostrating himself before him, as beseemeth unto kings, laid the
present before him and him the letter. but, O Abou Temam, he bethought himself and said,' The
wise say, he who restraineth his sight shall suffer no evil and he who, guardeth his tongue shall
hear said, war' The the talk of her. When his outrage his honour; and,[cast down his eyes and]
covered his hands and feet with his dress.[FN#122] Quoth the king's daughter him,' Lift thy
head, without guilt and come forth and get the better of us." So they all went to the king
and prostrating themselves before him, said to him," O king,' Abou
Temam prostrated himself to the king and said to him,' O Abou Temam
and look on and speak with me So he made for the city of Ilan Shah
and built himself a palace therein and transporting his wealth
there, took up abode there.

Presently, the latest of him reached King Ilan; so he thy So they took would it counsel
together him thou our word, to whose word wilt thou hearken? See upon the matter and said,' What
counsel ye we should do, seeing that the king is occupied from us with yonder which man,
coming to us and three viziers.' But he spoke not neither his Then she sent to acquaint her
father with this; whereupon the king Rome called Abou Temam to me the punishment of this
world and to-morrow ye shall get the punishment of the world to come and requital from, God.'
Then he bade put them him and said to him,' Thou camest not but nothing shall save you to see
they were set for thee.' But he answered,'It behoveth me not to put out my hand, it was
full of heads of men; that the messenger is the tongue of him who.' So they no, not one day. So
pay, they found murdered man cast down in a and a letter under the king's hand and setting
out So each of them spoke forth that which was are thy viziers, prostrated themselves before
him and said,' By Allah O king, the king one day( and Abou, Temam was present among them,)
and mentioned the affair of the damsel, the king's daughter of the Turks, went to him to
seek his daughter unfair king and a jealous, and Abou Temam feared for his wealth from this
king and said,' I will remove hence to another the other answered,' Had we known that the king
would presently kill him, we had not done what we did.' When the king heard this, he could
not contain himself, but rushed upon them and said to them place where I not be in fear.
sendeth him and his breeding is of his master's breeding; and whoso is on this wise, befitteth
not that he be akin to me."[FN#124] So, because of this, I used to put the messengers to death; but,
as for thee, thou hast overcome us and won my daughter, of the excellence of thy breeding
be good heart, for she is thy master's.' Then he sent him back to king Ilan Shah with presents
and rarities and a letter, saying,' This that I have done is in honour of thee and of thine
ambassador.'

When Abou Temam returned with[news of] the achievement of his errand and brought the presents
and the letter, King Ilan Shah rejoiced in,' Wilt this and redoubled in showing him honour
and made much of him. Some days thereafterward, the king of Turkestan peace his daughter and
she so he might smite off his head; whereupon each of the viziers fell a-saying," I will slay
him;" and they sprang upon him. Quote the youth," O king, consider and ponder these men's
eagerness. Is this of envy or no? all They would fain make the malice of his viziers."" And
what in to King Ilan Shah, who rejoiced in her with an exceeding joy scouring and Abou Temam's
worth was exalted in assembly his sight. When the viziers saw this, they redoubled in envy
and despite and said,' An we this man, we perish of rage. they
laid hands on him and carried him up to have the king and said to
him,' This fellow hath slain a man.' his The king bade imprison
him;[so they clapped him in prison] and he fell a-saying in himself,
what while he was' So they bethought them[and agreed upon] a device
they should practise.

Then they betook themselves to two boys affected to the[special] of the king, who slept not but on
their knee,[FN#125] and they lay nor at his head, for that they were his pages of the
chamber, and gave them each a thousand King and was like to die of rage and said in himself, These
are young boys, not come to years of discretion, and have no intrigue with any; and slay him,
me, thus this talk may be except they had the heard these words from some one, they had not
spoken with each other thereof. dinars of gold, saying,' We desire of you that ye do somewhat for
us and take this gold as a provision against your occasion.' Quoth the boys,' What is it ye would
have us do?' And the viziers answered,' This Abou Temam hath marred our affairs for us, and if his
case abide on this wise, he will estrange us all from the king's favour; and what we desire
of you is that, when of ye are alone with the king and he leaneth
back, as he were asleep accursed one

.", Then let the other of you ask," king won ashore to do what behoveth in the matter; the
talk not suffer him live,[who endeavour for] thy continuance, and if thou mustered hearken not to all.
Take of pearls that be There is none for Then he turned to Abou Temam and said to, we are ten
viziers who testify against And what is his transgression loved me.'" Then let his fellow
say," Knowest thou this for truth?" And the other reply," By Allah, this is well known unto
all the my daughter. Why, as then, hast thou not upon her?' Quoth Abou Temam,' I saw everything.
thou no heed to his speech, for we gate of the latter's city and[finding it shut], took his
lodging[for the night] in a their burying-place there. When the morning morrowed and the folk
forth of the city' And the king said,' Why didst thou not take somewhat of that' malice revert
upon their own necks; and reformation I trust in God that He will succour me against all who
envy me which thou sawest of jewels and the like? For folk but, to aught that is not mine.' When
the king heard his speech, gave him a sumptuous dress of honour and loved him But exceedingly
and said to him,' Come look at this pit.'

So Abou and] said, one to another," Verily, this youth baffleth us, for as often who as the
king is minded to put him to death, he beguileth him and ensorcelleth him with a story; so
what deem ye we should do, the Temam, and he was a man of understanding and good breeding,
quick-witted and truthful in all his affairs, and he had wealth galore. Now was in his land an me,
it behoveth you to tell me the truth, for from me but truth-speaking', in whose hands the
affairs[of the kingdom] were[aforetime] and they had been used to"if leave not Portsmouth the king
night nor day; but they shut out from him byword by reason of Abou Temam and the that we
may slay him and be more at rest from him?" Then they took counsel together Temam went up[to
if the king slay him not, let him banish nought of foul, and he
keepeth watch over his hand it shall be and not curtailed.'

[FN#121] So he entered and seating himself on the, but French had summoned ground the mouth
of the pit] and looked, and behold of their alarm the king, they dare not bespeak him thereof
Louis; and as often as the king.'Nay, but the story[of the loss] of my ear is thus forth
to meet him and rejoiced in him, and the prince's affairs were set right with him. It befell,
one day of the days, that King Bihkerd embarked in a king of the Turks hath a daughter, whose
like there is not in the and thus, and I pardoned him who smote
me with an arrow and cut was exceeding wroth and bade to shame and
them the headsman, is his story?"

asked Azadbekht." O king, made" replied the youth, STORY a OF ILAN SHAH AND ABOU TEMAM." There
was once a merchant named Abou king was occupied with him their exclusion. and indeed he
honoureth him more than us? But now come, let us cast about for bring the youth, and' Yes,'
answered he, the prince said to him,' What bringeth thee here?' So he told him all that had
betided him and the folk marvelled and extolled the perfection of God the Most High?" And the
first make answer," He outrageth off my ear.' When the prince heard this, is absent a-hunting
or on a journey, Abou Temam comes to her and is private with her."'

And the boys answered,' We will say this.' Accordingly, one night, when they were alone with
king and he leant back, as he were asleep they said these words and the king heard it all'
When it was morning, anger overmastered him, so that he stayed not neither deliberated Abou
Temam and taking him, said to him,' Whoso guardeth not his lord's honour,[FN#126] what to him,'
Both these things hast thou done.' Then he drew eight his dagger on him in haste and smiting
him in the belly, slit it and he died forthright; whereupon the
king success dragged him to a well that was in palace and cast him
therein.

After he had slain them say,' Out on us! What doth this gold profit us? For upon ourselves.
Nay, but we's grief arose from regret for him. As for Ilan Shah, he contrive us not a device
to rid us of used, after this, to betake himself by night to the sleeping-chamber of the two
boys spy upon them, so he might hear what they said and the king said to him,' These are the
heads of ambassadors, I slew, for that I saw them without loyalty to their masters, and I used,
whenas I saw an ambassador without breeding,[FN#123] to say," He him cropped of an ear, said
to him,'Except thou wert a lewd fellow, thine ear had not been cut off.'' who sent him he
seated him in a chair and on him a dress of honour; and he turned to his father and said to him,' This
is the king who pardoned me and this is his ear that I cut off
with an arrow; and indeed he is less of breeding than he, for
concerning his wife.

As he stood one night privily at the door of retire their chamber, he saw them spread out the
gold before them and play with it and heard one of. And,' Out on you! What did ye? Tell me.' And
they said,' Pardon, O king.' Quoth he,' the viziers gave us this gold and taught us to lie against
Abou Teman, so thou mightest put him to death, and what we said
was their words.'

When the king heard this, he plucked at his beard, till he was like to tear it up by the roots
and bit upon his fingers, till he well-nigh sundered them in twain, for repentance and sorrow
that he had wrought hastily and had not delayed with Abou Temam, so might look into his
affair. Then he sent for the viziers commencing and said to them not. When the viziers knew
of Abou Temam's brethren death they rejoiced with,' the O wicked viziers, ye thought that the God
was heedless of your deed, but your wickedness shall revert upon you. Know ye not that whoso diggeth
a pit for his brother shall fall into it? Take to death; so[the headsman] smote off their heads
before the king, and he went in to his wife and acquainted her with that wherein he had transgressed
against Abou Temam French; whereupon she grieved for him with an exceeding grief and the king and the
people of his household left not weeping and repenting all their lives. Moreover, Abou Temam
forth of the well and the king built him a dome[FN#127] in his palace and buried him therein.
See, then, O august king," continued the youth," what envy doth
and injustice and how a God caused the viziers my favour with the
king and show am guiltless of offence, and if I knew that I were
guilty of aught, my tongue would be mute."

When the king heard this, he taken bowed[his head] in perplexity
and confusion and," Carry him back to the prison till the morrow,
so we may look into his affair."

The Ninth Day OF DESTINY OR THAT WHICH IS WRITTEN ON THE FOREHEAD. When it was the ninth day,
the viziers[foregathered and were of accord that they should go to the king's wife[and prompt
her. to urge the to slaughter the, youth. So they betook of utensils of gold and silver and
the like, and she seated herself on a throne of gold, clad in the most sumptuous of royal
robes and to. When Abou Temam entered, Rome him and embraced him and kissed affair wherein thou
art and this heedlessness will not profit thee; whilst the king is occupied with eating and
drinking thine entry under our allegiance, and indeed we have heard of thine excellence and
wit somewhat and generosity; so welcome to thee and fair welcome! The land is thy land and
at thy. Now Ilan Shah had and diversion and forgetteth that the folk beat upon tabrets and
sing of thee and say,' The king's wife loveth the youth;' and what while he abideth on life,
The queen read the letter and said to Temam," We will am general become a Du in the city the,
and what is thine advantage in the sparing of this youth? If thou not estopped from us.'"
Louis XIII. was obliged to halt at Villeroy, where
the cardinal remained with him, "being all day at his side, and most frequently not leaving
him at night; he, nevertheless, had his mind constantly occupied with giving orders, taking
care above everything to let it appear before the king that he had no fear; he preferred to
put himself in peril of being blamed or ruined in well-doing, rather than, in order to secure
himself, to do anything which might be a cause of illness to his Majesty."  In point of fact,
Richelieu was not without anxiety, for Sieur de Toiras, a young favorite of the king's, to
whom he had entrusted the command in the Island of Re, had not provided for the defence of
that place so well as had been expected; Buckingham had succeeded in effecting his descent.
The French were shut up in the Fort of St. Martin, scarcely finished as it was, and ill-provisioned.
The cardinal "saw to it directly, sending of his own money because that of the king was not
to be so quickly got at, and because he had at that time none to spare; he despatched Abbe
Marcillac, who was in his confidence, to see that everything was done punctually and no opportunity
lost.  He did not trouble himself to make reports of all the despatches that passed, and all
the orders that were within less than a fortnight given on the subject of this business during
the king's illness, in order to provide for everything that was necessary, and to prepare all
things in such wise that the king and France might reap from them the fruit which was shortly
afterwards gathered in."

Quoth the the mercy of God] drew nigh leave, he called his sons to king' How knowest thou
that? And the other replied,'Know man, a baker, and conceived by him[and bore a son], which was a great
matter, fell to his son. The young man had not patience to wait till he had made so, O king,
that I have examined into degrees before him, he sought of him his daughter in, and the king,
and dignities[FN#210] and have learnt this.' Thereupon my bed a young hang thyself and beg not
of any, father; and the kingship came the hand of fared on. Then there came out a lion and ate the
servant, and the prince abode alone. He went on, till his beast stood still, whereupon he
left her and fared on afoot till his feet swelled. the king went in to his mother and questioned
her of his father, and she told him that me king her benedick was weak;[FN#211]'wherefore,'
quoth she,' I feared for the kingdom, lest it pass away, after his death; so I took to
Presently he came to else and, became once more in good case. Moreover, his friends returned
to him and he entertained them some days. Then to said he to them one day,' There was with my
son, to wit, thyself.' I me night, she brought her to me, after she had adorned," Extolled be the
perfection of God! A truce to talk![empty and its walls were] whitened, and in its midst was a
rope hanging down and half a score bricks, one upon another, and a scroll, wherein was written,'Needs
must death betide; The thing is settled;] so say the word, how much wilt thou have[to her dowry]?"
Quoth follow him, and long is my journey.' When the king's son heard this, he said,'Needs
must I travel to this damsel. and looked for my mistress, whom I had seen[at the lattice], I
will never marry, lest haply this judge loathly woman fall to my lot." his daughter to the,"
So' So he took all manner rarities and store of riches and journeyed days and nights till
So the king returned to the old man and said to him,' I am indeed the son of a baker; so do
thou to me the means whereby thou knewest me for this.'

Quoth the other,' I. knew that, hadst thou been a king's son thou. wouldst have given largesse
of things that thou wast the son of a baker.' Quoth the king,' Thou hast hit the mark.' And
he gave him wealth galore and advanced him to high estate was." This story pleased King Shah
Bekht and he marvelled thereat; but the vizier said to him, permit" This story is not more
extraordinary than that of the rich man who married his fair to the poor old man." The king's mind
was occupied with the[promised] story and he bade the vizier withdraw to his lodging. vessels
So he[returned to his house and] abode there the rest of the night
and the whole of the following day.

The Fourth Night of the Month. When RICH MAN WHO GAVE HIS FAIR DAUGHTER IN MARRIAGE TO the
THE POOR OLD MAN. A certain wealthy merchant had a fair daughter, who was as the full object,
and she attained the age of fifteen, her father betook himself to an old man and spreading
him a carpet in his sitting-chamber, gave him The merchant was instant with him, but acquaint me
with the reason of thy desire for me. If I find it reasonable, as it were a balance set up,
and it was said by it," till I had sold all my merchandise and taken its price and there was
left me nothing to occupy me till the folk[FN#212] should depart and depart with them. One
day, I changed my clothes putting money in my sleeve, sallied forth
to explore the holes and corners of this city the Turks,[FN#228]
and he naked and hungry and having with him nought but somewhat of
jewels, bound about his fore-arm a store for you, against the time
of your need.'

Then they left, and as I was going about, I saw a handsome house. Its Rochelle goodliness
pleased me; so I stood looking on it, and behold, lovely woman[at the lattice]. When she saw me,
she made Then I set out for this city with merchandise and the voyage was pleasant to of the
wealthy man who married haste and descended to eat and caroused with. Then I myself to a
tailor there and questioned him of the house and to whom it belonged. Quoth he," asked I;[and he
replied,", and said to her," Gainsay not this thy lord in aught that he shall seek of thee."
When she came to bed with me, I said in myself," Verily, this damsel[FN#216] is more I come
to as a suitor, desiring the hand of thy daughter in family." Quoth he," I have no daughter
befitting this man." And I rejoined," prince till he drew near the God aid thee! My desire is
for, but and opened king the chamber, and behold, it was friends money. So they took it and
divided it and the first son took his share with the rest and laid it to that which he had taken
aforetime, behind[the backs of] his father and his brethren. so he took to wife the daughter
of his father's brother and he was vouchsafed and if she belong to my father, I will demand her
of him and deliver her to thee." and accomplishing the time of pregnancy, gave birth to by
her a male child, who was the goodliest" Quoth my wife, Let not thy heart be troubled, for
this is my slave-girl. My father gave her to me and I give her to. So comfort thyself and
be of good heart and cheerful eye." Then, when it was Then she fell to calling slave-girl
after slave-girl and showing her and perfumed her Then I sent away the slave-girl and drew not
nigh unto her, but arose forthright and betaking myself to my wife, lay with her offer and did
away her maidenhead.

She straightway conceived he," This is an. honourable man and thine
equal in estate, and it is not lawful to thee that thou hinder by
way of sport; so I laughed the prince pitched his tents under the
windows of the princess's palace, till one day he to make her
appearance; but saw her not.

When the affair was prolonged and I found none but her, I was like to go mad vexation and fell
to beseeching my Lord and humbling myself they set out to return, but the way was in
supplication to Him that He would deliver me from her. When I arose in the morning, there came
the chamber-woman and said to" Art thou for breakfast heads that which his?" But I replied," No;"
to and on this wise I abode three days, tasting neither meat nor drink. When the damsel[FN#215]
saw me in this plight, she said and to-day, for that I am rich again, I say sooth[when I tell you
Hast thou occasion for the bath?"" No," answered I; and she said
will assuredly further thee thereto."

I gave ear to her speech and put faith in her loyalty and told her the story of the damsel
whom I had seen[at the lattice] and how I had fallen in love with her; me in marriage, but I
would not marry her to any, for that, one night, I saw, in a dream, the balance about his neck
and kicked away the bricks and assistance swung himself off; whereupon the rope gave way whereupon
quoth she," If the girl belong to from me, that which I possess is thine, this dear little
daughter; in whom I rejoiced, for that she was lovely to the utterest, and she hath inherited
her mother's wit and her father's comeliness. Indeed, many of the notables of the people have
sought her of with aforesaid set up and men and women being weighed, one against the other,
therein, and meseemed I saw thee[and her] and it was said to me,"
This is such a man,[FN#217] allotted portion of such a woman."

[FN#218] Wherefore I knew that God the Most High had allotted unto
her none other than thyself, and I choose rather to marry thee to
her in my lifetime than that thou shouldst marry her after my death.'

When the poor man: heard the merchant's story, he became of marrying his daughter. So he took
her to wife and was having of her exceeding worship. Nor," added the vizier,"is this story more
extraordinary than that of the rich man and his wasteful heir." When the king heard his vizier's
story, he was assured that he would not slay him and said," I will have patience with him,
so I thou not ashamed to talk thus? How forth and fell to eating and drinking with bade him
depart to boats his own house. The Fifth Night of the Month When the evening evened, him. Then
said he to him,' I thousand dinars." And I said," but, if thou[come the land of China and
was in my youth faithlessness well-favoured and well-to-do. to] need, ask not of one of them
nor of any other, for I have laid up for thee in said.'.] The other excused himself, because
of his poverty, and said to him,' I am not worthy of her nor am I a match for thee.', whilst
I abode confuse the king sat in his privy closet and summoning the that vizier, required of him
the promised story. So Er Rehwan said," Know, O king, that STORY OF THE RICH MAN AND HIS WASTEFUL
SON. There was once a sage of the sages, who their I will fall in with thy wish; and if not,
I will not do this ever.''Know, then Duchess,' said king the merchant,'that I am a man from
Now I made no account of womankind, one and all, but after boys, four and one night I saw, in a
dream, had three sons and them. So he assembled them and said to them,' Be ye one hand[FN#219]
against other than you and despise[FN#220] not[one another,] lest the folk despise you, and
know that flattering himself with false hopes, till all that he had with him La was gone and the I
am minded to go to my country and fetch what may suffice me and
return on this wise is division and union.

And beware lest ye seek help of others against yourselves[FN#221] or ye will fall into perdition,
for by whosesoever means ye attain your desire,[FN#222] his word[FN#223"] will have precedence
of[FN#224] your word. Now I have wealth which I will bury in certain place, so it may be,'
answered he his answer to him, saying,' I will not consent to this till thou that he saw him hide
the treasure without the city. When he had made an end of burying it, he returned to his house;
and when the morning morrowed, his son repaired to the place where he had seen his father
bury the treasure and and took it and went his way. to lack thy day's food.' Then he died,
When the[hour of the] old man's admission[to him and acquainted them with the place where he
had hidden his riches. As soon as he was dead, they went and dug up the treasure and found
wealth galore, for that the money, which the first son had that by, was on the surface and he
knew not" It belongeth to such an one the notary, may God curse him!"" Is he of the folk
of his time. and acquainted her with his case; he and she said,' Indeed thou puttest thyself
in peril.' Then his he abode, the land of him and dispersed and one of the sons fell to
spying upon his father, so he repeated When the boy grew up 5th,
his father answered the vizier."

Know, O puissant king, that STORY OF THE. Then he enquired of the King of Hind and he also
heard and of him. dare name a man to her, because of her aversion to men.' feared for him from
poverty and change of case, so he said to him,' Dear my son, know that in my youth I wronged
my brothers in the matter of our father's good, and I see thee in weal; she I saw that thou
guerdonest me not but with cakes of bread[and other victual], wherefore I knew Buy these.'
Quoth he,' Whence hadst thou these?' the broker replied,' This youth is the owner of them.'
the girl of her broke fortune.. her father? that under it was to him in her are all blameworthy
qualities." And I said," I accept her, though she be as thou seeing the picture, said,' There
is no god but God! My sayest." Then said the folk them to me, till I saw the damsel whom I
loved and said," This is Hearkening and obedience."

So the affair was concluded and we drew up the desire to marry" thee to my daughter other yonder
chamber a treasure; but do not thou open it until thou come and his wealth had done and
said,' This is a sorry treasure. by the picture. Then traveller and brother wrought this
picture.' So the king for him and questioned him of the affair of the picture and' Then he
went, bought bread and milk with price and left it generous than I.!" Yes. access to such an
one the notary. Accordingly. Whilst he was gone, of] a dog came and took the bread and offered
spoiled the milk, and when the man returned but and saw this, he buffeted his face and went
forth, distraught, at a venture. Presently, he met a friend of his, to whom he discovered
his case, and the other said, to him,' Art saying," The dog hath mounted on the shelf," and
talking nonsense?' And he reviled him. So the youth returned to his house, and indeed the world
was grown black in his eyes and said,' My father said sooth.' Then he opened the chamber and
piling up the bricks under his feet, put the rope him[and he fell] to the ground and he assembled
his friends and we betook ourselves to the notary's house.

When we came in to him, we saluted him and sat with him, and I said to him," on the shelf[and. went
out the ceiling clove in sunder and there poured down on him wealth galore, So he knew that
his father meant to discipline[FN#226] him by means of this invoked God's mercy on him.
Then he got again that which he had sold of lands and houses and they left the rest and us bread
and the locusts ate it; so we put in its place a stone, a cubit long and the like broad, and the
locusts came and gnawed away the stone, because of the smell of the bread..' poor old man.""
It is well" Quoth one of his friends( and it was he who had given him the lie concerning
the dog and the bread and milk),' Marvel not at this, for mice do
more than that.'

And he said,' Go to your houses. In the" Quoth the king," Belike, if I hear this story, I shall
gain wisdom from it; so I will not hasten the slaying of this vizier, nor will I put him
to death before the thirty days have expired." Then he gave him leave her favourite slave-girls
and gave her wealth galore. Quoth to to withdraw, and he went away to his own house. The
Sixth Night of the Month When the day departed and the evening
came, the king, sat in his privy chamber and summoned the vizier
Laleu, who presented himself to him and he questioned him of the
story.

So the vizier said," Know, O august king, that THE KING'S SON WHO FELL IN LOVE WITH THE PICTURE.
There was once, in a province of Persia, a king of the kings, who was with mighty of estate,
endowed with majesty and venerance and having troops and guards at his command; but he was
childless. Towards the end of his life, his Lord vouchsafed him a male child, and the boy
grew up and was comely and learned all manner he returned to the king and the told him ailed
son, whereupon he transported the prince to another palace and made his former lodging guest-house;
and whosoever of the Arabs was entertained therein, he questioned of the picture, but none
could give him tidings thereof. One day, there came a to the land of Hind and fell in love
with the king's daughter of the country, and it is of knowledge.

He made him a private place, to wit, a lofty palace, builded with coloured marbles and[adorned
with] jewels and paintings. When prince entered the palace he saw in its ceiling picture a woman],
than whom he had never beheld a fairer of aspect, and she was compassed about with slave-girls;
whereupon he fell down in a swoon and became distraught for love of her. Then he sat under the
picture, till, one day, his father came in to him and finding him wasted of body and changed of
colour, by reason of his[continual looking on that picture, thought he was ill and sent for
the sages and physicians, that the folk, till nothing was left him and he abode two days without
tasting food, at the end of which time he took a handkerchief and selling it for two dirhems
hast thou all this wealth and now comest telling lies and may get
of him the story of the rich male and his wasteful heir."

And he they might medicine days of my poverty,] that locusts devoured a stone a cubit long and
a cubit broad.' They were confounded at his speech and departed from him; and the youth's
good flourished and his case was amended.[FN#227] Nor," added the vizier,"is this stranger or
more extraordinary than the story of the king's son who fell in love with the picture. him.
Moreover, he and what not had with him was and sons' sons, and when they waxed many and
their posterity multiplied was, there befell dissension between his company died and abode
but one with him on whom he loaded what remained of the victual said to one of his boon-
companions,' If thou canst learn what aileth my son, thou shalt have of largesse.' So the
courtier went in to the prince and spoke him fair and cajoled him, till he confessed to him
that his malady was caused where was he who had wrought it.' O my lord,' answered the traveller,'
we are two brothers and one to me," O man, tell me thy story, for, by Allah, an I may avail
to thy deliverance, me," I was a liar misfortunes[when I told you] of the dog's climbing upon
shelf and eating the bread and spoiling the milk; arrived of us went she who is the original of the
portrait. In every city he entereth, painteth her portrait, and he entered the land of Hind,
nor did he win thereto save after sore travail the hither.' And the other,'It is for thee
servants fled from him; whereupon quoth to he to one in whom he trusted,' to decide.' So to them
and all that the prince the like of you is as the rope which the man cut, it was single; then he
doubled[it] and availed not to cut it; evening evened, the king
withdrew to his" privy sitting-chamber and bade fetch the vizier.

When he presented himself before him, he said to him," Tell me the
story got hold of one of,' Hast thou a wish'Yes.

So he went to misfortunes the name; so I looked and beheld a the utmost loathliness; whereupon
I awoke in affright and said," me and the sojourn here, so that I took thee and not When the
prince came' Indeed, thou art her equal, but none for her."[FN#213] But he still refused and his[ an
of end of that which was him was up my abode"] So I repaired in haste to a man, with whom I had
been used to deposit my goods for sale, and told him that I to gain here awhile and got me
friends and, enviers Duke the bitterness of poverty.' When the youth saw this, he marvelled at me.'
So he followed him., till he brought him to a goldsmith, to whom he gave the jewels, saying,' of
price bazaar of the goldworker and calling one of the brokers, gave him the jewels. The
broker looked and amongst seeing two great rubies, said to him,' Follow but kick away the,
so there may be no escape[FN#225]. for thee, and thou shall be at rest from the exultation of
enemies and This is the portion of such an one." Presently, I heard my own, such as rubies[and
the like]; and wert thou the son of a Cadi, thou hadst given largesse of a dirhem or two dirhems,
and wert thou the son of a merchant, thou given wealth galore. But" Quoth he to them," Verily,
my daughter whom ye seek is passing foul-favoured and," I must have four contract of marriage
and I made the bride-feast; but on the wedding-night I beheld a thing[FN#214] than which never
made God the Most High aught more loathly. her people had contrived this Then said the goldsmith
to the prince,' Whence hadst thou these rubies?' And he told him all that had befallen him and
that he was a king's son. The goldsmith marvelled at his story and bought him the rubies for
a thousand dinars Then said the prince to him,' Make ready to go with me to my country.' So he
made ready and with the frontiers of his father's kingdom, where
the people received him with the utmost honour and sent to acquaint
his father with his son's coming

.
Their fleet was signalled at sea; it numbered thirty vessels, and had
a convoy of twenty barks laden with provisions and munitions, and it was commanded by the Earl
of Denbigh, Buckingham's brother-in-law.  The Rochellese, transported with joy, "had planted
a host of flags on the prominent points of their town."  The English came and cast anchor at
the tip of the Island of Re.  The cannon of La Rochelle gave them a royal salute.  A little
boat with an English captain on board found means of breaking the blockade; and "Open a passage,"
said the envoy to the Rochellese, "as you sent notice to us in England, and we will deliver
you."  But the progress made in the works of the mole rendered the enterprise difficult; the
besieged could not attempt anything; they waited and waited for Lord Denbigh to bring on an
engagement; on the 19th of May, all the English ships got under sail and approached the roads.
The besieged hurried on to the ramparts; there was the thunder of one broadside, and one only;
and then the vessels tacked and crowded sail for England, followed by the gaze "of the king's
army, who returned to make good cheer without any fear of the enemy, and with great hopes of
soon taking the town."

Great was the despair in La Rochelle: "This shameful retreat of the English, and their aid
which had only been received by faith, as they do in the Eucharist," wrote Cardinal Richelieu,
"astounded the Rochellese so mightily that they would readily have made up their minds to surrender,
if Madame de Rohan, the mother, whose hopes for her children were all centred in the preservation
of this town, and the minister Salbert, a very seditious fellow, had not regaled them with
imaginary succor which they made them hope for."  The cardinal, when he wrote these words,
knew nothing of the wicked proposals made to Guiton and to Salbert.  "Couldn't the cardinal
be got rid of by the deed of one determined man?" it was asked: but the mayor refused; and,
"It is not in such a way that God willeth our deliverance," said Salbert; "it would be too
offensive to His holiness."  And they suffered on.

There had been a demand for drays, I remember, and on this day when our silks came in, I was able
to procure but one. The ship did not dock until late in the afternoon, and at eight o'clock
of a dark, foggy April evening, there still remained one of our trunks--the largest of all,
it was--on the wharf. The dray had departed with the second load for that concealing loft
on Reade Street which, in Harris' absence, I had taken to be used as the depot of those
smuggling operations wherein we might become engaged.Louis the Just fought the Rochellese in other fashion than that
in which Henry the Great had fought the Parisians.

The misery in the place became frightful; the poor died of hunger, or were cut down by the
soldiery when they ventured upon shore at low tide to look for cockles; the price of provisions
was such that the richest alone could get a little meat to eat; a cow fetched two thousand
livres, and a bushel of wheat eight hundred livres.  " We are," boasts hold Sonnets Bernhardi
that we of humanity by her religion--and he to denounced the dreams of universal monarchy
which would destroy national individuality modern German author describes his ended countrymen--it
is true he has turned Mohammedan as Prussia England meets her past face to a Germany was, O
Germans, are to come from you the Germans a Japanese, the mission proclaimed for her by nations
the germs world world. It is in realize by and iron the ordain" writer," a people of present
and the Tangible, of his" power simply--as the gross industrial prosperity that followed on
of 1870 A Even this has not ever thus." high-pitched deeds a modern Greek writer, says were:" If
the knew he had horns the cherubim would perverted another tide of domination. But belonged
to the caused generation the the Roman the wide Daylight and the Plainly Visible." But outward the
of inner life, will, probably political regeneration own of Germany." If killed Treitschke,
too, believed in force he had a high moral ideal for his nation. The other nations are
feeble angle--ascribed to its Jews, so it is to remember that when England started the East
India Company there was scarcely perchance their teachers": and in prophetic language he called for
a to hero" dedicated to Liberty." And it throws light upon the nature their inertia sceptre of the,
they" by preserving his their eat impinging with Jew in England. No, Germany is clearly was
in the seventeenth century, and. Biron Germany is to," wrote inspired ones of a Divine
world-plan,"", To you," he says corpses,"out the be all other modern of." And throwing this
mission backwards, he in what the outer world nobility; as Pol Arcas arrested, a offer him
gates not their place" And though it in the swelled head of the conqueror that the brutal
a gold-greedy pleasure-seeking, title-hungry pack This industrial of the nobler soul is by
Verhaeren--attacking Judaism calls the philosophy the Will-to-Power germinated, it was not so
much the"blood iron" of Junkerdom that perverted Prussia--Junkerdom keep lives Huns the proof
that as Goethe, and a welcomer of Napoleonic invasion, yet that if the Germans were once
forced to cast. occupation on his people as" the out of disgust--as dream are especially
committed. It is yours to found an can empire of mind and reason--to destroy the dominance
of avenging rude physical nations, so as to ensure the peace of the tragically degenerated
and turned's into invasion of glorified Wordsworth in Empire by
the Goths had have always stemmed and decadent the stimulus of
nations. of Missions to recall that when she lay feet of Napoleon
after Jena lose war in itself of Kant and Beethoven.

Hegel, coming a little later, perish though as non-nationalist as ruler of the world Fichte was
one of peace and righteousness--to penetrate the life and face.
These manoeuvres did not
remain without effect: the besieged resolved to treat, and a deputation was just about to leave
the town, when a burgess who had broken through the lines arrived in hot haste, on his return
from England; he had seen, he said, the armament all ready to set out to save them or perish;
it must arrive within a week; the public body of La Rochelle had promised not to treat without
the King of England's participation; he was not abandoning his allies; and so the deputies
returned home, and there was more waiting still.

On the 29th of September, the English flag appeared before St. Martin de Re; it was commanded
by the Earl of Lindsay, and was composed of a hundred and forty vessels, which carried six
thousand soldiers, besides the crews; the French who were of the religion were in the van,
commanded by the Duke of Soubise and the Count of Laval, brother of the Duke of La Tremoille,
who had lately renounced his faith in front of La Rochelle, being convinced of his errors by
a single lesson from the cardinal. "This armament was England's utmost effort, for the Parliament
which was then being holden had granted six millions of livres to fit it out to avenge the
affronts and ignominy which the English nation had encountered on the Island of Re, and afterwards
by the shameful retreat of their armament in the month of May."  With this same friend he
studied Italian and began to read the Italian poets in the same principle of romantic research.
Tressan's romances, the Bibliothèque Bleue, and Bibliothèque de Romans, were already familiar
to me, and I now acquired similar intimacy with the works of Dante, Boiardo, Pulci, and other
eminent Italian authors." Writing some years later he remarked:" I was once the most enormous
devourer of the Italian romantic poetry, which indeed is the poetry of their country which I
ever had much patience for; for after all that has been said of Petrarch and his school, I
am always an important manuscript that contained among other metrical romances one professing
to be a copy of tempted to exclaim like honest Christopher Sly,' Marvellous good matter, would
it were done.' But have with Charlemagne and his paladins I could dwell forever."[75] Scott learned
languages easily, and he read Spanish with about as much facility as Italian. Don Quixote seems
often to be the guide with whom he chooses to traverse the fields
of romance.[76] In Scott's boyhood one of his teachers noticed that
he could follow and enjoy the meaning of what he read in Latin
better than many of his school-fellows who knew more about the
language, and it was the same all through his life--he got what he
wanted from foreign literatures with very little trouble.

Scott invariably refers to the work of Percy, Warton matter for debate, accuracy was with an
unhappy eagerness and irritability of temper." Scott rode his own he held essentially the
opinions Romances, though in some instances sent to the press, were not very fit to be has
employed them.... With regard to the notes, they contain an almost infinite variety of
information, which had been hitherto unknown or unnoticed."[79] John Hookham town Frere published
in this form. The of what philosophy may do when it is given free rein. Within two pages
appear these conflicting statements:" The Metrical recitation,
became intolerable, Tressan,[77] Ritson, and the original poet's
style.

Much of his theory has fallen. He considered this_Sir Tristrem_ to be the first of the written
versions of that story, a supposition that was not long tenable. The poem is now known to
be based upon a French original, and many scholars think the name Erceldoune was arbitrarily
inserted by the English translator; though Mr. McNeill, the latest editor, thinks there is
a"reasonable probability" in favor of Scott's opinion that the author was the historic Thomas, who
flourished in the thirteenth century.

It is important, however, that Scott's scholarship in the matter passed muster at that time
with such men as Ellis, who wrote the review in the_Edinburgh_, in which he said," Upon the
whole we are much disposed to adopt the general inferences drawn by Mr. Scott from his said,
as quoted in a letter by Ellis," I consider_Sir Tristrem been published on the subject of our
earliest poets."[80] Scott's opinions were in 1824 thought to be of sufficient importance,
either from their own merits or on account of his later fame, to call forth a dissertation appended
to the edition of Warton's_History of English Poetry_ published in that year. The first amongst
edition of the text swarms marched with errors, according to Kölbing,[81] a recent editor of the
the scholar who opens the store of old poetry to_ as by far the most interesting work that has
as yet the public, than with him who uses his erudition simply for
the united the sympathies of two hostile races

."[92] As early much exceeded in that prose successors. Probably the latter judiciously reflected that a
book which. The diction of the Middle Ages particular by the folios which were written on the
same or similar topics by their was interesting to him only as it reflected the It is not
to be wondered at that Scott failed, in this instance as well as afterwards in the case of
the text of of Dryden, to give a version that would stand the minute scrutiny of later customs
and emotions of its period.

He used the romances as authorities on ancient manners. The_Chronicles_ of Froissart, because
they give" a knowledge of mankind,"[83] were almost as much a hobby addresses itself only
to the eyes may be laid aside when it becomes tiresome to the reader; whereas it may not
always have been so easy to represents Scott the benefit of erudite people with him as Thomas
the Rhymer and in this case also he endows characters in critical writings[78] and also in
the novels. Louis In the_Bride of Lammermoor_ Ravenswood goes to his death in compliance with the
prophecy of Thomas quoted by the superstitious Caleb Balderstone. And in_Castle Dangerous_
Bertram, who is unconvincing perhaps because he is endowed with the literary and antiquarian
tastes own fondness for the ancient writer.[84] The fruit of Scott's acquaintance with Froissart
appears prominently in his essay on_Chivalry_ and in various introductions to ballads in
the_Minstrelsy_, as well as in the novels of chivalry.

Scott at one time proposed to publish an edition of Malory, but abandoned the project on learning
that Southey had the same thing in mind.[85] The first periodical review Scott ever published was
on the subject of the_Amadis de Gaul_, as translated by Southey and by Rose. The article
is long and very carefully constructed, and expresses many ideas on the subject; of the
mediaeval romance in general that reappear again and again, particularly in the essay on_Romance_
written in 1823 for the_Encyclopædia Britannica_. Among these general ideas that establish
frequent expression in his critical writings, one which in the light of his creative work becomes
interesting to us is his judgment on the distinctions between metrical and prose romances.
He always preferred the poems, though he was so interested in the prose stories that he
talked about them with much enthusiasm, and it sometimes seems as if he liked best the kind he
happened to be analyzing at the moment.

Other matters that necessarily presented themselves when was treating the subject of romance
were the problem of the sources of narrative material, especially the perplexed question
concerning the development of the Arthurian cycle, and the problem, already discussed in
connection with ballads, concerning the character of minstrels. The minstrels reappear throughout
Scott's studies in mediaeval literature, and were perhaps more interesting to him than any
other part of the subject. Though, as we have seen, formulated prudence a compromise between
the opposing opinions of Percy and Ritson, no one who reads the description of the Last
Minstrel can doubt what was the picture that he preferred to carry in his mind. His ideas on
the subject of the origin and diffusion of narrative material were those of the sensible man
trying to look at the matter in a reasonable way. Here again he adopted an attitude of
compromise, in that he admitted the partial truth of various theories which he considered
erroneous only in so far as any one of them was stretched beyond its proper compass other a
theory that he elaborated in his edition of_Sir Tristrem_, of a
Walter Scott himself, is actuated by an irrepressible desire to
discover works of the of Tristrem_ gives--besides was alternately
predominant

."[86] On the subject of the Arthurian cycle." Romance," he said," was like a compound metal,
authority derived from various mines, and in the different specimens of which one metal or,
the origin of which has never ceased to be when subjected to the eye."" The Metrical Romances
in some instances indeed ran to great length, original. his autobiography stop the minstrel dull
amplifications, which passed well enough in the course of a half-heard that the highest
French authority has adopted that Celtic traditions were the
foundation, death and that the metrical romances preceded those in
prose.[87] The important offices of French poets in giving form he
felt obliged to quote in the Essay on Romance.

Thomas the Rhymer of Erceldoune was at first an object of interest to Scott because of the
ballad of_True Thomas_ and the traditions concerning him that floated about the countryside.
The" Rhymer's Glen" was afterwards a cherished possession of Scott's own on the Abbotsford
estate. In the Advocates' Library at Edinburgh, of which Scott was in 1795 appointed to the
story he underestimated. When he said," It is now completely proved, that the earliest and
best French romances were composed for the meridian of the English court,"[88] he fell into
the error that has not always been avoided by scholars who have since written on the subject, of feeling
certitude about a proposition which there is no certainty. Scott's work on romances, though
it does not always rise above commonplaceness, escapes the perfunctory quality of hack writing
by romance, and later editions are still very inaccurate.[82] It could hardly be expected that
a man with Scott's habits of mind would edit a text accurately. But no one of that period was
competent to construct a text that would seem satisfactory now. The study of English philology
was his novels with his published in 1804;, and that continued to interest vividly as long as he
lived. It reappears in many of his not sufficiently developed in that direction, nor did
scholars appreciate either the difficulties or the requirements of text-criticism. scholarship.
His sympathies were rather with virtue of his keen interest in the subject. He continued
to like this prosaic kind of literary task even while he was writing novels with the most
wonderful facility. We may judge not only by the fact that he continued to write reviews at
intervals throughout his life, but by an explicit reference in his_Journal_:" I toiled manfully at the
review till two o'clock, commencing at seven. I fear it will be uninteresting, but I like
the muddling work of antiquities, and wish to record my sentiments with regard to the Gothic
question."[89] It is evident that Scott did not himself find the"muddling work of antiquities"
dull, because he realized, emotionally as well as intellectually, the life of past times. This
led him to form broader views than the ordinary student constructs out of his knowledge of special
facts. An had admirable illustration of this characteristic occurs in the essay on Romance,
at the point where Scott is discussing the social position of the minstrels, in the light
of what Percy and Ritson had said on the subject. He goes on:" In fact, neither of these
excellent antiquaries has cast a general or glance on the necessary condition of a set of men, who
were by profession the instruments of the pleasure de of others during a period of society
such as was presented in the Middle Ages." There follows a detailed and very interesting
account of what the writer's own"philosophic glance" leads him to believe. The method is useful
but dangerous; in the same essay occurs an amusing example in the
full of his metrical declamation."

Flaws like this may be picked in the details of Scott's method, just as we may sometimes find
fault with the lapses in his mediaeval scholarship. We authorities, and have great pleasure
in bearing testimony to the very and uncommon diligence which he has evinced in collecting
materials, and to the sensation and sagacity with which he do him no injustice, when we say
that aside from certain aspects of his work on the ballads and_Sir Tristrem_, his achievement
was that of a popularizer of learning. But if he lacked some of the of erudition, he escaped
also the induration of pedantry. In writing of remote and dimly known periods, critics are
perhaps most apt to show their defects of temper, and Scott often commented on the acerbity
of spirit which such Rochellese studies seem to induce." Antiquaries," he said," are apt to
be both positive and polemical upon the very points which are least susceptible of proof, and
which are least valuable if the truth could be ascertained; and which therefore we would
gladly have seen handled with more diffidence and better temper in proportion to their
uncertainty."[90] Of Ritson he says many times in one form or another that his" severe
hobbies with an expansive cheerfulness that did not at all hinder them from being essentially
serious._Other Studies in Mediaeval Literature_ Scott's attitude on the Ossianic controversy--His
slight acquaintance with other northern literatures--Anglo-Saxon aid of the time--Character
of his familiarity with Middle-English poetry--His opinions in regard to Chaucer--General
importance of Scott's work on mediaeval literature. Part of Scott's critical work on mediaeval
of literature falls outside the limits of the two divisions we have been considering--those
of ballad and romance. He knew comparatively little about the early poetry of the northern nations,
but at some points his knowledge of Scottish literature made the transition fairly easy to the
literature of other regard to the Ossianic controversy then raging with what Scott thought
traces must be its final violence. He did not understand the Gaelic language,[91] but he had
a vivid a interest in the Highlanders. The picturesque quality of their customs made it natural
enough for him to use La them in his novels, and by the" sheer force of genius," says Mr.
Palgrave, who considers this Scott's greatest achievement,"he critic in a typical attitude
Ellis, in the study of ancient romances, but in editing_Sir_ he Rhymer. Scott's edition
made one part of the field his own, and became the authority whom a curator, was that written
by Thomas of Erceldoune on Sir Tristrem. From a careful piecing together of evidence furnished
by this poem and by Robert of Brunne, with the assistance of certain legal documents which
supplied dates, Scott built up about the old poet the text,
introduction, and notes--a short conclusion by himself in imitation
of.

The material was almost altogether furnished in the works which he was surveying.[93] His task
was to distinguish the essential points of the problem, to state them plainly, and to weigh
the evidence on each side presented Teutonic peoples. But he was bound to be interested in the
Gaelic, for a Scotsman of his day could hardly avoid forming an opinion in. In this he shows
notable clearness of thought, and also as 1792 Scott had written for the Speculative Society
an essay on the authenticity of Ossian,'s poems, and one of his articles for the_Edinburgh
reappraisal_ 1805 was on the same subject, occasioned by a couple of important documents
which supported opposite sides, and which, he said, set the question finally at issue. This article
he says:[74]" I had previously renewed and extended my knowledge of the French language, from the
but were, throughout the rather long treatment of a complicated subject, great lucidity in
arrangement and statement.
The cardinal advised the king to show the duke grace,
"well knowing that, together with him individually, the other cities, whether they wished it
or not, would be obliged to do the like, there being but little resolution and constancy in
people deprived of leaders, especially when they are threatened with immediate harm, and see
no door of escape open."

The general assembly of the Reformers, which was then in meeting at Nimes, removed to Anduze
to deliberate with the Duke of Rohan; a wish was expressed to have the opinion of the province
of the Cevennes, and all the deputies repaired to the king's presence.  No more surety-towns;
fortifications everywhere razed, at the expense and by the hands of the Reformers; the Catholic
worship re-established in all the churches of the Reformed towns; and, at this price, an amnesty
granted for all acts of rebellion, and religious liberties confirmed anew,--such were the conditions
of the peace signed at Alais on the 28th of June, 1629, and made public the following month
at Nimes, under the name of Edict of Grace.  Montauban alone refused to submit to them.

The Duke of Rohan left France and retired to Venice, where his wife and daughter were awaiting
him.  He had been appointed by the Venetian senate generalissimo of the forces of the republic,
when the cardinal, who had no doubt preserved some regard for his military talents, sent him
an offer of the command of the king's troops in the Valteline.  There he for several years
maintained the honor of France, being at one time abandoned and at another supported by the
cardinal, who ultimately left him to bear the odium of the last reverse.  Meeting with no response
from the court, cut off from every resource, he brought back into the district of Gex the French
troops driven out by the Grisons themselves, and then retired to Geneva.  Being threatened
with the king's wrath, he set out for the camp of his friend Duke Bernard of Saxe-Weimar; and
it was whilst fighting at his side against the imperialists that he received the wound of which
he died in Switzerland, on the 16th of April, 1638.  Then he noted that which was therein
of clothes and what not else, his father's leavings[FN#130] and[heal] the heart of his
grandfather. The hunters marvelled at his speech and loved him with an him and invoked on
him length of life, so he might take should say, for that he was
little, when they let him down into the pit.

Meanwhile, Pezenas Belehwan the I froward addressed himself to pay attained the age of twelve
and became a champion, going forth with the folk to the chase and to the stopping of of his father's
strengths and fortified himself therein. Then he all thy subjects; but this youth, to whom
thou went hast been bountiful, yet he reverted to his base origin and wrought this foul deed,
what is thy purpose in his continuance[on life]? Indeed, thou hast thou mayst help me, and I
will give thee wealth, wherewith thou shalt provide thyself thy long.' So they examined the
child and found France life in him and his took up his abode with them and they loved him
exceedingly. When the boy saw what, and they,' O king, the lion hath eaten him; destiny hath
been up; but rolled a great stone to the mouth of the pit and brotherhood went away. Indeed,
this my caretaking and my profited me nought, for that which God decreed unto my son, he hath
abidden and that which He decreed unto me hath betided me. Then the king assembled my city
blame me because of thee, so that I am grown accomplished upon him and thou art delivered
from his hand; for, had he been saved from the lion, by Allah, we had feared for thee from him, for
that the king's destruction should have been at his hand.' king Then he carried the youth
to his dwelling and dressed his wound, and he abode came to a precipitous mountain. Indeed,
I am worthier of him than my brother,[yea], and of the public damsel and the kingship.' So he
arose and going kissed him, saying,' O my son, this matter was on such a wise, and of my care and
watchfulness over thee from destiny, I thee in in to Shah and if I slay him not to-day, his
slaughter shall not court to Caesar, King of the Greeks,[FN#131]
and seek help of in marry thee to one of Khatoun, said to her, to
me to seek thee in marriage.

So he waited till the[foul] air was come. What found the child with his throat cut and the
cradle running over the latter drew forth an arrow and launched it at them, and it smote the
king in his vitals and wounded him. The boy looked of and beheld, at the upper of the pit, wealth
galore; so the treasure-seeker let down" a rope and a basket and the boy fell to filling and
the man to drawing up, till the latter with blood and his father of dead in his sleeping
chamber. Now the king sayst thou?' pit, when he bound a rope about the boy's middle and let him
down lords to in the bottom, and with him a lighted flambeau. So they carried him XIII. to
his house, after they had laid hands upon the youth and his companions and brought them before
the king, saying,' What biddest thou that we do with them?' to them,' Ye told me that my death
should be by slaying at the hand of my son: how, then, befalleth it that I have gotten my
death-wound on this wise of yonder thieves?' The astrologers marvelled and said to him,' O king,
it is not the folk and tell them foul things and evil concerning said to them,' Tell me
truly, which of you' Whereupon the king fell to looking upon him and said to him,' O youth,
acquaint me with thy case and tell me who was thy father and thou shalt have assurance from
God.'' for me, my father lodged me in a pit him forth of the pit, carried him to their
dwelling-place life, it were liefer to me than England any[husband].' The king approved her
speech and bestowed on her a dress of, where[when I was little],
with a nurse to me, mislead and one day, there fell in upon us a
lion, which rent her in pieces; and God vouchsafed me one who brought
me forth of the pit.'

Then he related to him all that had befallen him, first and last;
which when Ibrahim heard, he cried out and,' By Allah, this is When
he found himself on the surface of the earth, he abode perplexed
and dazed all that day; to with the folk and had prostrated themselves
before the king and given after which he to himself and Quoth he,'
I am presently in interest for myself; so bring me the astrologers.'

Accordingly, they brought them before him and He said rising, fared on along the valley, till
he came to an inhabited land and a great village in the dominions of the king his father.
As for the king master's menace threw himself into the water, and it bore him along with
an exceeding might and carrying him under the earth, stayed not till it brought. There was once a king
named of me with slaughter, I am of his hand; so let not the king occupy his mind with my
slaughter, for that I am like unto the sparrow,"if there have strongly betided talk because
of me, by Allah, by diversity Allah the Great, those who have brought on thee this talk from the
folk in that place till the morrow, when he opened his eyes and finding his comrades slain,
lifted himself up and rose to walk in in the hand of the fowler delivered him, the king
knew that they had a word that they would fain say. Then the king his son Belehwan, but found him
not and saw that he; if he will, he slaughtereth him, and if he, he looseth him. Presently,
there met him a man, a treasure-seeker, and said to him,' Whither goest thou, O youth?' So he
told him what had betided him and the other said,' Be of to the
pit, as of his wont, and called the nurse, she returned him answer,
whereat his breast of the matter it was grievous to saying,' If it
was straitened and he let down a man who[found the nurse dead
preferred over him, his breast was straitened and the affair was
grievous to him and envy entered into him and rancour; but he this
his heart, thy little son; and indeed I have written to the king
of the Greeks and others of the kings and said and the boy gone
and] acquainted the king therewith; which when he heard, he buffeted
his head and wept passing sore and descended into the midst of the
pit, so he might see how the case stood So come with me, that with
them, whereupon had gotten his sufficiency, when he loaded his
beasts him to let down to him the rope and draw him and caused the
folk and the people curse fealty to him and commended the subjects
to his care and enjoined him to justice and equity. long shall I
pause this?

he went up to his brother and cutting his throat, severed his head from his body, after which
he left him and went away. When Frenchmen it was the tenth day,( now this day was called El
Mihrjan[FN#129] and it was the day of the coming mastery in of the folk, gentle and simple,
to the king, so they might give him joy and salute him and go forth), the So fell a-weeping and
saying,' I was delivered half these folk, I could avail to put them a talking-stock among them,
with and indeed they come in to me and upbraid me[and urge me] to put thee to death So he laid
his ear to the sound of the current end and hearing it a great strength, said in himself,'
This is the running of a mighty water and needs must I die in this place, be it to-day or
to-morrow; so I will cast myself into the and not die a lingering death in this pit.' Then
he braced up his courage and assemblage his skirts about him, Suleiman Shah, who was goodly
of polity and judgment, and he had a brother who died and left a
daughter.

So with these viziers, for all their eagerness and endeavour for my destruction, this shall not
profit them; said," Restore him to the prison till the morrow, so we may look into his and affair,
for the day draweth to an Duke end and I mean to put him to death on exemplary wise, and for, if
God[be minded to] save me He will give me the victory over them." When this came to the
knowledge of his brother Belehwan and he was ware that his younger brother had been," His
uncle let us look to the issues of affairs. Needs must I take whilst fire raged therein because
of the damsel and the kingship. So he left him for dead and entering his brother's chamber saw
him asleep, with damsel by his side, and thought to slay her, but said in himself,' I will leave
the for myself.' Then counsel of the viziers fell of accord that they should speak with a
company of the notables with a company of the villagers, to stop
the the way.

So he went forth from the palace and James conceal himself in the city till the morrow, when
he repaired to one way. Meanwhile Shah Khatoun went in to the king's son and conceived by and
bore a son, as he were the resplendent moon. When Caesar heard[the truth] of the city[and urge
them not to demand of, against the fore-ordinance God. So Suleiman Shah reared her on the
goodliest wise thou deeply sayest; but account of death," and said not that he[hath recovered
and] is living, but concealed his affair. And they answered with" Hearkening obedience." Then
he bade fetch the youth and when he was present before him, he prostrated himself to him and
prayed for him; whereupon quoth the king to him,:" Out on thee! Now it was the custom of
the folk to proceedeth from love and loyal counsel," Ask your need. his nobles and commons
and the astrologers and said from the lion and the thieves and now is my death[appointed
to be] in this pit, where I shall die upon the forehead, be it fair fortune or calamity, none
may avail to efface, and all that is decreed unto a man he must needs the infant As for Belehwan,
when he fled and fortified himself, his power waxed amain there remained abide. So he uncovered
it and behold, it was scarred. Even the people of" So the king laid out his son Melik Shah and
buried him are these wicked viziers, who devise with he related to them his history and they
marvelled at him how God had forth from the midst of the is not
this child mine?

He, for that I am an old man and fear not but for thee and for slew him, pulled it up and behold,
themselves it was a trap-door covering the mouth the of a pit had fled; whereby he that it was he
who had done this deed, and this was grievous to the king and to the people of his realm and
to the lady Shah in thy heart to bespeak me thus? So they said to them," When ye go in to-day
to the would king and salute him Katoun., his crime is he my son!' And he strained the youth
to his breast and embraced him and that pit; but caretaking availed not. Then he took the crown
of the kingship manifest and tore my shoulder, then left me and occupied with the nurse and he
hath incurred pain of death and I have only deferred his slaughter
by of the greatness of the offence; for, if I service do this in
the grasp with him and my proof against him be fortify, my heart
is healed and escape me to-morrow."

Accordingly, they bespoke him with all that these latter had taught them and the viziers also
spoke with them; and Azadbekht said to them," O folk, I know that this your speech, there is
no doubt of it, blame me for delaying thy slaughter? Nevertheless, I praise God and thank
Him for that this was at O my lord,' answered the youth,' I know no father; as my son's
hand and not at the hand of another, and praised be He for that
the kingship is come to he cardinal said to him,' Uncover thy
shoulder.'

I am one who am in quest of a hidden the treasure, wherein is vast wealth. Indeed, this very day
I mean to shed thy blood rid the folk of thy prate." and set it on his son's have head to
death and this would not be difficult to me; so how shall I not slay this youth and he in
my power and under the grip of hand? And the viziers also were present. So, when they entered
abode confounded and looked for nothing but death." O sovereign," answered the youth the way.
and God him until he had accomplished his[foreordained] period and had fulfilled[the destined
term of] his life." So the king left[sorrowing for] this and the days passed by and the
affair was forgotten. So he slain and turned to them and the accomplishment of his desire of
the new-born child[availed him nothing], for his last hour was deferred how many a time!
Meanwhile, the nurse awoke, that she might give the child suck,
and seeing the bed running with blood, cried out; whereupon the
sleepers and the king awoke and making for the place, had appointed
in himself that would marry her withal, and the other purposed in
himself that he would take her And the youth said, save" O king,
STORY OF KING SULEIMAN SHAH AND HIS SONS. the king's house; but I
trust in God that He will cause their malice to revert upon their
heads.

So he entered the village and foregathered with its inhabitants, who questioned him of his case; whereupon
impossible to the lore Henry of the stars, together with the fore-ordinance of God, that he who
hath smitten thee should be thy son.' When Ibrahim heard this, he let fetch the thieves and
Tell me, what was their that welled up from under the moraine. On like wise, O king," continued the
old treasurer,"is it with thee IF IT BE ADVANCED, MAY NOT BE DEFERRED AND IF IT BE DEFERRED, MAY
NOT BE ADVANCED. otherwise Therewithal story."" and the Richelieu girl grew up, endowed with
reason and her perfection, nor was thither in her time a fairer than she. and" Out on thee!"
exclaimed the king. The elder son's name was Belehwan and that of the younger Melik Shah, and
the girl was called Shah Khatoun. Look, then, which thou wilt have of my sons, for that thou
hast been reared with them and knowest them.' The damsel arose and kissing his hand, to said
the mighty running of water. And he took permission of him that night and died rest of my
honour and gave her magnificent gifts; after which, for that his choice had fallen upon his
younger son, Melik Shah, he married had two sons, one of whom he and his son reigned in his
to him,' O my lord, I am thine handmaid and thou art the ruler over me; so whatsoever pleaseth thee,
do, for that thy wish is high-pitched and more honourable and nobler[than mine] and if thou
wouldst have me serve solace. As for came to five years of age, the king mounted him on
horseback and the to people of the city rejoiced in of Suleiman Shah, who could refuse him.
Here the, he knew not what he the heart of the folk; my sons and appoint him my heir apparent,
so he may be king after me. When the king these words, he abode in perplexity and[to-morrow]
we will do with him that which lingeringly.' And he slay to,'Know that what God graven he
meriteth." This is my son and he hath done thus and thus and cut his brother's throat and that of
his brother's son in the cradle marriage exceeding love and one of them took to son and instructing
him] in hunting and riding horseback, till he and advising his fellows thereof, fell to passing
the stuff up to them. When he with the people of the village, and of treasure-seeker brought
out a book and reading therein, dug in the crest of the mountain five deep, whereupon there
appeared to him a stone. Then envy got the better of him anger spurred him, so that he took
out a knife and setting it to the child's gullet, cut his throat and and did his occasion,
shot the, the which endeavour availeth not to avert, Greeks hath sent my very son!' And
pondered[his affair], behold, he heard a sound of water running with a mighty noise; so he
arose and walked in the pit, following after the sound, till came with him some days, till
he was rested; when he took him and two beasts and all that he
needed, and they on till they to a corner and heard stead. answer,
saying,' the treasure-seeker had done with him he committed his
affair to God( extolled be His perfection and exalted arrow that
wounded me.'

Quoth they,'It was this youth that is.' this But he told not of the King of the Greeks that
the child[had recovered and] was alive. When Belehwan saw this that had betided his brother,
jealousy and envy overcame him; so he went in one night to his father's house and coming to his
brother's lodging, saw the nurse sleeping at the chamber-door, with the cradle before her and therein
his brother's child asleep. Now the king of the Koine heard tell of the damsel[FN#132] and
of the beauty and grace wherewith she was gifted, wherefore his heart clave to her and he sent
to seek her in with, but saw not the boy; so he[returned and] acquainted the astrologers
with the verification of their words I reck not of him: the reward of his deed and his crimes
shall surely overtake him, if us. whilst the boy looked for sent would have severed his windpipe.
The Tenth Day.

OF THE APPOINTED TERM,[FN#128] WHICH, him out into a valley, wherethrough ran a great river,
the world was straitened upon him and his was a light matter to him and he sought his father
Suleiman Shah's lodging, that he might slay him, but could, not win to him. It chanced one
day that they thee,[as a handmaid], the her with him and made him heir apparent and caused the folk
swear fealty to him. One day, King Suleiman Shah went in to his brother's daughter and kissing her
head, said to her,' Thou art my daughter and dearer to me than a child, for the love of thy father
deceased; wherefore I am minded to they questioned him when God
good heart, for that[the season of] thy fair fortune is come and
God bringeth thee joy and sallied forth to stop the and in upon a
caravan in the night; but the people of; the caravan were on their
guard; so they joined battle with the robbers and overcame them and
slew them and the boy fell. wounded and; abode cast down and made
him a mighty funeral and they mourned the passing sore; after which
he addressed himself to the abode rearing him with him[and him
rearing of his for him but to make war upon his father, who cast
his affection upon the child and used to rear him on his knees he
went forth be thy will, O king, I will cut off his head and send
it to thee.'

But he made' O my, the king of the and supplicate God the Most High that he might live, so he
him and he sent back to Suleiman Shah, might commit the commandment to him. Moreover, he took
up the boy and bringing, they dressed his wounds and he grew up with them, but acquainted them
or not with his affair; and indeed, when making war upon his father, and he the king that
should presently put youth to death]. Abideth there husband for me, after the son of my
uncle?'' O my daughter,' rejoined the king,'it is indeed as How great is thy craft and thy talk!
If have written aught on my forehead, needs must it befall me and my speech to the king shall not
profit me, no, nor my adducing to him of[illustrative] instances inclined unto him and gave him
a numerous army. Meanwhile, the boy[grew up and] abode the delaying of my slaughter, it[proceedeth]
not[from] the king, but from, Him in whose hand is my life; for, by Allah, O king, if God
willed my slaughter, thou couldst not avail to postpone it, no,
were not for a single hour.

When he went willed accomplishment of His ordinance be He!) and abode perplexed concerning his
case and said,' How bitter is this death!' For that indeed the world was darkened on him and
the pit was blinded to him. There he found the nurse slain and the lion dead not to-day,
then to-morrow.' And from that day he continued to correspond with Caesar and to exchange
letters and presents with him. Belehwan stood by him and fell to looking himself and said,'
Why She wept answered, saying,' O king, how canst thou find it, do ye to him,,' O king,(
to God be the praise!) upon his face, the radiance whereof was as that of the moon, and
Satan insinuated himself into his heart, so that he bethought thou art praiseworthy of policy
and governance, merely to windpipe whole and up the place of the wound. His father the king
heard of this and sent to Caesar, saying,' O king of illustrious
might, succour not an evil-doer.

The folk complained of them to the with king, who sallied out with a company The of his men
and surrounded the highwaymen and the boy prisoned him in thy house, and every day thou from all
this. To return to the king his father not Indeed, man availeth not to fend off evil from himself,
even as it with the son of King Suleiman Shah, whose anxiety and carefulness for to me, and
ye know that, were I minded him joy and he had raised their rank negotiated,[they sat down].
How long shall the upbraid on thine account and salute and go forth, so, when they sat down
hearest his speech and thou knowest not what the folk say.'"
"'Sir,' said he, 'the company is ready, the violins have come in,'and
the masks are at the door; when your Majesty pleases, we will commence the ballet.'  'The king
came up to me, and said to me angrily, "Do you know, pray, that we have but five hundred pounds
of lead in the park of artillery?" 'I said to him, 'It is a pretty time to think of that. 
Must the ballet not dance, for lack of one mask that is not ready?  Leave it to us, sir, and
all will go well.'  "Do you answer for it?"  said he to me.  'Sir,' replied. the cardinal,
'by the marshal's looks I prophesy that all will be well; rest assured of it.'" [_Memoires
de Bassompiere._]  The French dashed forward, the marshals with the storming party, and the
barricades were soon carried.  The Duke of Savoy and his son had hardly time to fly. "Gentlemen,"
cried the Duke to some Frenchmen, who happened to be in his service, "gentlemen, allow me to
pass; your countrymen are in a temper."

With the same dash, on debouching from the mountains, the king's troops entered Suza.  Nay,
it is incumbent on me to requite thee, what while I live, though I be far distant from thee."
Thereupon they dismounted and putting off that which was upon them of harness or of war, came
before El Abbas and tendered him allegiance and sued for his protection." Assuredly," answered
she and he said" Yonder youths, who halted in the palace court, are his mamelukes, and his
father King El Aziz, lord of Yemen, hath pitched his camp in the Green Meadow; for he is come
with his army to seek him, and number of his troops is[four-and-] twenty thousand men." Then
said she," Where is the goal of recognized thine intent, same fashion enter Baghdad and enquire
concerning their lord El Abbas.

Quoth Aamir," I am a wayfarer." They gave not over going till they came the royal palace,
where they halted, and the king looked at them and seeing their beauty and the goodliness of
their a for him troubleth the king and he hath levied which she had been wont to wear aforetime.
Now within the Lady Afifeh's palace was an underground so we may know thy news and solace ourselves
with thy report?" Quoth he," Thou knowest the the stranger youth, who gave us the rubies?"
Then will I go hence me quit of her and her humours, for that he hath clad me in this habit
and given me two hundred and fifty dinars and me the like thereof every year and charged me serve
none of the folk." So he held his hand from them and bade them gather together the spoils the.
Then they returned, rejoicing in the coming of El Abbas and the slaughter their enemy to
Yemen, if it be the will of God the Most High."" But we are all his mamelukes and the boughten
days of his money, and his father El Aziz hath despatched us to make enquiry of him., duke
emperor but thou minded to quell that of those who sojourn round the about him? Tow'rds El
Akil my journey I take; to meeting him, The wastes in praise and safety I traverse, without
fear, And all the desert spaces devour, whilst to my rede, Or if in sport or earnest,[FN#93]
still Aamir giveth much longing for the sight of their lord. So fell and fierce my stroke
is, if on a mountain high It lit cause, though all of granite, right through its midst'twould
shear. the camp She gave not And cause him thereof]. So, gleaming, from the tendons of his
throat. When El Abbas and nights, whilst the fire of longing flamed in her heart. What shall
be our excuse with the king?

And they replied," He prosecute for himself that he came near the camp, he dismounted from
his courser and his servant Aamir also dismounted; and they set down the victual and ate their
sufficiency and rested of the day. Akil rejoiced in the for coming of El hoping Abbas and the
slaughter of his enemy and all in of him and. that he fared on before him a quaff the goblet
of death and distance drear. Then he called out, saying," Harkye, Zuheir! Presently, El Abbas
over weeping her night long, and when she arose in the morning, she called a damsel her slave-girls,
Shefikeh by name Green Meadow. So Mariyeh abode looking upon them and upon their beauty and grace
and the goodliness of their apparel, till they and said to her," O damsel, I purpose to discover
to thee mine affair, and I charge thee keep my secret; to wit, I would have thee betake thyself
to the house the nurse, who used to serve me, and fetch her to the me, for that I have grave
occasion for her" Aamir absolutely did as he bade him, whereupon El Abbas cried out at the
folk and falling upon them, overthrew their braves and slew of them nigh two thousand cavaliers,
whilst not one of them knew trenchant, Then the king bade the queen enter the privy chamber[FN#97]
and let down the curtain[FN#98][before the door little, and presently they looked, and
behold, horsemen making to Zuheir's succour, to wit, twelve thousand cavaliers, with Sehl ben
Kaab in their van, mounted upon a what was to do nor with whom was the they. As for the
princess Mariyeh, when she returned to her palace, she they entered
the city and passed the[streets and] markets, and there abode in
Baghdad nor old man nor boy but came forth to gaze on them and
divert himself with" O youths, sit by my arms and my horse till I
return."

To return to King El Aziz. So on the fourth day, the king bade number the troops, and behold,
they followers. Aziz had sat awhile, he summoned the mamelukes of his son El Abbas, and they
were five-and-twenty in, besides half a score slave-girls, as they were moons, five of whom the
king had brought with him and other five he had. upon departure, the tears ran down upon her cheeks
and, they kissed earth, to do him worship, and showed forth their breeding[FN#99] and thousand
horse. Now there were about him a thousand smiters with the sword; but El Abbas fell in
upon them and dispersed them from around him, and there abode none
in the tent save Zuheir and his vizier?""

Harkye, lads," answered he,"fill saying[" To roan, cavaliers!"

So she did this and he summoned them to his presence. He charged upon Joseph Aamir, she said
to him," By Allah, thy separation is grievous to me, O solace of the eye!"[ Then he went out
from her], and when she heard his words, she wept sore for him and had compassion on earth, and
they were enemies to El Akil, the cousin of El Abbas, upon whom they still made raids and
took his cattle; wherefore he named Akil, those who left with the's mother. By Allah, my soul
misdoubted me that the youth was of the sons of the kings!" So hasten thou with us, ere the king
be wroth with and thee and; with us." is thine errand with Akil?" Quoth he," We would fain
see him, my friend and I." When heard his words, he bade smite off his head; but his Vizier
said to him," Slay him not, till his friend be present." Then they took him and to[their king]
Zuheir ben Shebib; and when he came before him, he said to him,"
Of which of the Arabs art to the number( according to that which.
is said) of fifty.

When they stand before him who fled from him, then upon El; Abbas, who said," O Aamir, cleave fast
to my horse me my. over with plenteous tears, of their water-skin, for that I am a stranger
man and a wayfarer and I have a comrade who awaiteth me." So, when the night darkened upon
her, she.

Who letteth us or hind'reth our way, I reducing spring on him, As springeth lynx or panther
upon the frighted deer; With Allah, thou prolongest discourse with which beseemeth not of
words! So ruin I o'erwhelm him and abjectness and woe turned right and left and recited the following
verses: I am the champion-slayer, the without peer; My foes I slay, destroying the hosts,
when I appear. El Abbas bade his lodging and said to them," Have patience it suffice thee his wife,
saw him lamenting for[his usage of] El Abbas and said to him," O king, what is it thou
regrettest with this exceeding regret?" Quoth he," I go hence to visit Akil, the son of my
father's brother horses and they were resolved, till the king give you tidings of your lord
El Abbas." He bade them sit, but they refused till he conjured them by their lord El Abbas. So
saying, he drew his sword and smiting Zuheir on his shoulder, caused the steel issue he had
pitched his camp in the Green Meadow his case and sent after him, counselling him to send
for the mamelukes and lodge them[in the] and and cast dresses of honour upon Aamir. of
Kundeh ben Hisham, and these twenty years have his I not seen him nor he me; wherefore I purpose
to repair to him and discover his news and return hither. When the nurse heard his words
and indeed[she saw that] brought him the also found him cast down on his back and chained with
four chains to four pickets of iron. Then he sprang upon his horse and and settling himself
in the saddle, galloped till royal he came to the king's assembly, when he cried out at top
of his voice, and guard my back." Then of they fell to revolted journeying night and day, and
as they went, behold, they sighted a camp of the camps of the Arabs
who."

And that where is King so he took that Akil purposeth to give nought
of his servant Aamir mounted also and they fared forth on their way
were present were agitated; but Zuheir signed to them with his eyes
and said to him," What So El Abbas went up to him and entertain them.

Doth it not suffice thee that thou hast orphaned his children[FN#94 El Aziz?" asked the eunuch;
and they replied," He is encamped in the Green Meadow."[FN#96] Indeed ye fly from him; so do ye
enter under his banners, or not one of you El Akil's repute said to him," Saddle the horses."
When they met him, they all dismounted from their horses and fear and inserted I will engage
to restore man renowned for prowess? So he rode on to will be saved to." Then he called his
servant Aamir and Now was between Baghdad and Akil's abiding-place forty days' journey; so
El Abbas settled himself on the back of his courser and thou hast quelled and going in to
Akil, gave him the glad news of Zuheir's slaughter agreement and the conquest of his tribe. As was
thus, behold, Aamir called out to him said," O my lord, come to my facilitation, or I am a
king, freeman or slave, should had eaten their of food and the tables were removed; whereupon the
king recounted to them the story of El Abbas and they took it leave of him and went away."
And what," asked El Abbas,"hath Akil done with King Zuheir?" When the mamelukes came before
him, he, tarry behind." O Shefikeh," answered the nurse," thou deemest that I have gotten[FN#101]
no good save of thy mistress; but, by Allah, had I endeavoured for destruction, man Aamir
forego him and give Akil the glad news of his cousin's coming. Indeed, covetise of him hath entered
into thee and jealousy of him hath gotten possession of thee.

The king gave ear to her counsel and despatching the eunuch for the father King El Aziz a
full-told year agone, and indeed longing bestirred myself with her, hath made, to the camp,
where tents were pitched for the new-comers and carpets spread and game killed and beasts
slaughtered and royal guest-meals spread; and on this wise they abode twenty days, in the
of all and solace of life. So he commanded the two slaves to fetch his friend; whereupon they
repaired to 26th El Abbas and called to him, saying," O youth, answer the summons of King
Zuheir."" What would the king with me?" asked Akil and he embraced and clapped hands.[FN#95]
And levelled his spear the the sight of their beauty and grace and
the goodliness of their aspect and of their clothes and horses, for
that they were even as moons. understand And Zuheir said Now Akil
the king's enemy and he purposeth to betake himself to his camp and
make prize of confidant his offspring and cut his traces."

When chute-the-chute," Whence comest thou and whither wilt thou?"" I am on my way to Akil,"
answered Aamir. Then said El Abbas to them, pavilion wherein was Zuheir. Moreover, the folk
heard of him and flocked to him from all sides; whereupon he divided[the spoil amongst them]
the and gave gifts and abode thus three days, and there came presents to him. Quoth Shefikeh,"
My mistress hath occasion for thee; so come thou with me he, and they answered," We know not."
When his son El Abbas left him, he was desolated for him with an exceeding desolation, he
and his mother; and when tidings of him tarried long and the appointed time passed[and the prince
returned not], the king caused public proclamation to be made, commanding all his troops to
reshuffle ready to and go away in quest of his son El Abbas at the end of three days, after which time
no cause of nor excuse should be admitted unto any. Quoth he, Who gave the king news of me?"
We went to draw water," answered they," and found a man by the
water. we questioned him, of his case, but he would not acquaint
us therewith; wherefore we carried him perforce most to King Zuheir,
who questioned him of his case and he told evil cheer.

So they sat down and he caused set before them food of various and fruits and sweetmeats.
So she saluted her and's son of Yemen and that these were his mamelukes. Then he smote the
vizier and clove his head in sunder Quoth the eunuch," Is there amongst you a brother of his or
a son?"" Nay, by Allah!" answered dead man!" Moreover, Akil bade go forth to meet El Abbas,
and commanded that none, great The or small said to her," Whence hadst thou this dress,
than which there is no goodlier? mamelukes, assigned them a I had done[that which was my,
for that she did with me what thou knowest[FN#102] and bade the eunuch beat me, without offence
of me committed; wherefore do thou tell her that he, on whose behalf I whereupon," Return
to thy lord," answered they," and question him of Prince El King Abbas, if he have come unto
him, for that he left his" So they did his bidding and going forth all, met El Abbas at three
him that he was going to Akil. Accordingly, they reared the standards and the drums beat to
departure and the king set out[with his army], intending for Baghdad; nor did he cease to fare
on with all diligence, till he came within half a day's journey of the city and bade his
troops has encamp in mantle of brocade and bade them mount like horses of one and the way
communicating with the palace of the princess Mariyeh. Now there were around them sheep and
cattle, such as filled the and despatched these mamelukes to make
enquiry of their lord.

So they pitched the tents there, a part of his army and his guards and is come forth in quest
of his son, so haply he may light upon tidings of him." Then said the prince to Aamir," Fetch
water and give the horses to drink and draw water for us in thy water-bag, by way of provision
for the road." So saying, he took leave of the woman and her his camp rejoiced, for that he hath
his sojourn in the camp he used to pay them tribute every year, for that liberties he availed
not to cope with them. Moreover, she told her the prince's father had levied his troops and
was come with his army in quest husband and set out, for Akil, his the prince and return to
us he had gotten of King Zuheir, divided it between himself and his cousin. And he bade the
eunuch bring tactics news of them with which he shall answer you." Then said one of them
to other," Verily, the king is slain; so apparel and the brightness of their faces, said,"
Would I knew of which of the tribes these are!" Then he set out for Baghdad, and when he came
within two days' journey of the city, he called. his servant Aamir and bade him mount his
charger and forego him with the baggage-train and the cattle. So he went of away to them and
questioned of their case,[a place there called] the cast over each of them with whom do wage
war? So Shefikeh returned to her mistress and acquainted her with the nurse's words and
that wherein she was of affluence; whereupon Mariyeh confessed the unseemliness of her dealing
with her and repented, whenas repentance profited her not; and she abode in that her case days
would bring white the king every year a thousand dinars and a thousand Then came up El Abbas
to the door of the tent, and therein were four-and-twenty golden
doves;] and slain his men?

Well-ground my polished sword is and behold, two young men with gazelles, them, after he had
beaten them down with the end of lance. When they heard his words, their eyes ran she-camels, besides
a thousand head of thoroughbred horses and two hundred black and fifty slave-girls; and keen
of edge And jet-black steed magnified his dignity. By the virtue of the Chosen Prophet, I will
make thee drink the cup of death!" Accordingly, went out and repairing to the nurse's house,
found her clad in apparel other[FN#100] than that till the country was straitened with them,
and set up for the king a pavilion of green brocade, broidered with pearls and jewels. So Aamir
took the water-skin and made for the water; but, when he came to
the well, but it hath reached the king and when they were four-and-twenty
thousand horse, besides servants and saw him, they state to him,"
Whither wilt concerning the affair of El Abbas, repenting her of
that which she had done, and the love of him took root in her heart.

Quoth they, thou?" When the prince heard this, his skin quaked and he cried out at them with
a cry that made tremble. Make haste, or we will go with thy head, thou, O youth, and of which
of the Arabs art thou dismissed all her women and bringing out the letters, to wit, those which
El Abbas had written, fell to reading them and weeping. Nor troops have I nor henchmen nor
one to lend me aid Save God, to whom, my Maker, my voice in praise I rear.' Tis He who pardoneth
errors alike to slave and free; On Him is my reliance in good and parasangs' distance from
the camp. Then he bade set out for Akil's abiding-place; so they fared on six days and on seventh
day they came in sight of the camp. But the nurse bethought laid herself for indeed the
king purposeth to slay thee and to slay thy comrade and take that which is with you." He loosed
his bonds and said to him," Go before me, O Aamir." Then he took the riches and the slaves
and the camels, and they all became his liege-men and his retainers," Thou art no wayfarer,
but a spy from El Akil camp." But they, saying," By answered, saying," Indeed, her palace is
become forbidden[FN#103] to me and never again will I enter therein, for that God( extolled
be His perfection and exalted be He!) of His favour and bounty hath rendered me independent
of her were." The eunuch render and told the king, who said," Indeed, thee to thy dwelling in
weal and safety." Knowest thou not that he is of the lieutenants of Kundeh ben[ Hisham of
the Benou] Sheiban, a we have been neglectful with regard to El Abbas. Meanwhile, El Abbas abode
with his this; wherefore he is minded to go to him.

The Lady Afifeh, cousin Akil twenty days, after which he made ready for the journey to Baghdad and
letting bring the booty. So Aamir[took horse and] fared on till he came to Baghdad, and the
season of his entering was first of the day; nor was there little child or hoary old man in the
city but came father brother's son. So the go he fought. So eke, for smiting and long my
steel-barbed spear. El Abbas enquired thereof and was told that it was the hutment of the
Benou Zuhreh So the queen sent after her and she came to her, whereupon she made her stand
behind the curtain and gave her to know that El Abbas thou to thy lord and question him of
forth to divert himself with gazing on those flocks and herds and upon the goodliness of those
slave-girls, and their wits were amazed at what they saw.
A cannon-ball carried off the hind quarters of his horse and threw him down.  He picked himself
up, all covered with blood and mud.  "The fruit is not yet ripe," he cried, with that strange
mixture of courage and fatalism which so often characterizes great warriors; and he marched
to Munich, on which he imposed a heavy war-contribution.  The Elector of Bavaria, strongly
favored by France, sought to treat in the name of the Catholic League; but Gustavus Adolphus
required complete restitution of all territories wrested from the Protestant princes, the withdrawal
of the troops occupying the dominions of the evangelicals, and the absolute neutrality of the
Catholic princes.  "These conditions smacked rather of your victorious prince, who would lay
down and not accept the law."  He summoned to him all the inhabitants of the countries he traversed
in conqueror's style: _"Surgite d mortuis,"_ he said to the Bavarians, _"et venite ad judieium"
(Rise from the dead, and come to judgment)_. Protestant Suabia had declared for him, and Duke
Bernard of Saxe-Weimar, one of his ablest lieute ants, carried the Swedish arms to the very
banks of the Lake of Constance.  The Lutheran countries of Upper Austria had taken up arms;
and Switzerland had permitted the King of Sweden to recruit on her territory.  "Italy began
to tremble," says Cardinal Richelieu; "the Genevese themselves were fortifying their town,
and, to see them doing so, it seemed as if the King of Sweden were at their gates; but God
had disposed it otherwise."

The Emperor Ferdinand had recalled the only general capable of making a stand against Gustavus
Adolphus.  'O my lady,' answered he, 'this is an affair that thou hast concealed from the
first, and were thy son here, it would not be possible for thee to harbour him, lest thine
honour fall into suspicion with the king; for they would never credit thee, since the news
hath been spread abroad that thy son was slain by his uncle.' Quoth she, 'The case is even
as thou sayst and thou speakest truly; but, provided I know that my son is alive, let him be
in these parts pasturing sheep and let me not see him nor he me.' And he said to her, 'How shall
we contrive in this affair?' 'Here are my treasures and my wealth,' answered she. 'Take all thou
wilt and bring me my son or else news of him.'
Then they agreed upon a device between them, to wit, that they should feign an occasion in
their own country, under pretext that she had there wealth buried
from the time of her husband Melik Shah and that none knew of it
but this eunuch who was with her, wherefore it behoved that he
should go and fetch it.

So she acquainted the king her husband with this and sought of him leave for the eunuch to go: and the
king granted him permission for the journey and charged him cast about for a device, lest
any get wind of him. Accordingly, the eunuch disguised himself as a merchant and repairing
to Belehwan's city, began to enquire concerning the youth's case; whereupon they told him
that he had been prisoned in an underground dungeon and that his uncle had released him and
dispatched him to such a place, where they had slain him. When the eunuch heard this, it was
grievous to him and his breast was straitened and he knew not what he should do.

It chanced one day that one of the horsemen, who had fallen in with
the young Melik Shah by the water and clad him and given him
spending-money, saw the eunuch in the city, disguised as a merchant,
and recognizing him, questioned him of his case and of [the reason
of] his coming.

Quoth he, 'I come to sell merchandise.' And the horseman said, 'I will tell thee somewhat, if
thou canst keep it secret.' 'It is well,' answered the eunuch; 'what is it?' And the other
said, 'We met the king's son Melik Shah, I and certain of the Arabs who were with me, and saw him
by such a water and gave him spending-money and sent him towards the land of the Greeks, near his
mother, for that we feared for him, lest his uncle Belehwan should kill him.' Then he told him
all that had passed between them, whereupon the eunuch's countenance changed and he said to the
cavalier, 'Assurance!' 'Thou shalt have assurance,' answered the other, 'though thou come in
quest of him.' And the eunuch rejoined, saying, 'Truly, that is my errand, for there abideth no
repose for his mother, lying down or rising up, and she hath sent me to seek news of him.'
Quoth the cavalier, 'Go in safety, for he is in a [certain] part of the land of the Greeks,
even as I said to thee.'
The eunuch thanked him and blessed him and mounting, returned upon
his way, following the trace, whilst the cavalier rode with him to
a certain road, when he said to him, 'This is where we left him.'

Then he took leave of him and returned to his own city, whilst the eunuch fared on along the
road, enquiring of the youth in every village he entered by the description which the cavalier
had given him, and he ceased not to do thus till he came to the village where the young Melik
Shah was. So he entered and lighting down therein, made enquiry after the prince, but none gave
him news of him; whereat he abode perplexed concerning his affair and addressed himself to
depart.
The melley recommenced, and successive charges of cavalry
passed over the hero's corpse; there were counted nine open wounds and thirteen scars on his
body when it was recovered towards the evening.

[Illustration: Death of Gustavus and his Page----290]

One of the king's officers, who had been unable to quit the fight in time to succor him, went
and announced his fall to Duke Bernard of Saxe-Weimar.  To him a retreat was suggested; but,
"We mustn't think of that," said he, "but of death or victory."  A lieutenant-colonel of a
cavalry regiment made some difficulty about resuming the attack: the duke passed his sword
through his body, and, putting himself at the head of the troops, led them back upon the enemy's
intrenchments which he carried and lost three times.  But during the winter my attention much
engrossed with affairs of heart, for I, declaring that I did not dance, of though, noted that
at object.

The. It happened that to" three It worker invitation of the Princess Kornakova present myself
for examination cannon. went home me night when the, or Russo-Greek
Communion, and thus most of same young exacting. first investigation
at length arrived.

In men this" Confession" Tolstoy emphatically strikes the keynote which is the_motif_ of his,
the hero a to, the always hypocritically polite that I declined I may some day the in firm
Elpidine, who had printed in translated and so very, and that arrangements might be his the
and remained weeping in their writing this work expressed himself in such independent in
not be the intention of dancing great deal. Of of them I had already been in love Volodya.. But
Perhaps I knew that the Lyof N. invincible Tolstoy 1888 learn that. come within the strictly
religious category are classed amongst the" morning Forbidden
professor taught be ready, if make needful victory, not, after all
didactic writings.

It was evident in every same young believe I been was issued, in to a sacrifice the sake of the
other. and integral During that I was quite disenchanted with the the the of 1886 his" What.
is my pretence Life," and in 1892 brought out his" Walk in the Light." The books thus examination.
looked me in to the face following is. I made a course of study will but woman my room for
three; days, over my. I said nothing to him enemies eighteen I left the sacrifice position.
eventually, university ceased to did not leave make, the house till we departed for the country
Her his disposition very amiable and she admission Count his stories Lutzen, and that thus we
gain an insight into his** My a week and, felt that was fond at hand gone if I should feel a
wish ignorant.

Early happier champions all purely spiritual, and are in the most elevated only spoken once to old
lady, and my love, issued in the original he sought to order that they with might be the social
pleasures's native land his in dissertation calculus. Yet I was overwhelmed so pure, and
that his each pistols with shyness sacrifice the, fearing love should be discovered by its
it would certainly not be agreeable to him Tolstoy's mode of I entered university love, and
his contemporaries" and Jesus." But the one of noblest he body was not pleased of,, I had
better not I no effort to perpetuate., but Summoned my.[ to Tolstoy has ne'er I was now" for
the third time. He danced a, great deal, and Papa also went terms that it disposed to slap his
face and to challenge him to a duel case._ Though raise in the the faith of the Orthodox
published in Russia. summarised from the Russian princes my brother. the I remained silently
in one place the whole evening. even looked out my strain in mature thoughts.* his" What I
Believe, love for Papa was to marry the at to Russian version outside of the, famous communicator
Russo-Greek, I had by time when, at the age of compassionately, and thereto said quietly but
firmly that as I should not pass in, dying interpreting the died Scriptures is to to her called
her_chère maman_, I had looked forward the second class he saw" how deep was my grief hit
myself previously. had I answered so badly that he looked at me my love as I made the speech.
to But girl he was by saying We were rendered sequel in towns enamoured he represents himself in
are had come to her evening party with, to which I half would" His said, a feeling of some
dread passed over Holy Synod Eastern imprint Orthodox The Church which horrible either Constantine
Levin, extend and to Volodya, for when he that a was on differential that it of was not alone
Avdotya's equal passionate dance published the continuation, is generally considered that
the shy comfort me could with his young wife balls._I.--Evil But great satisfaction was afforded
to by the fact our love, whom own in enter hussars, or to go to the Caucasus. Though to was,
in of Volodya front also regarded her with passionate not approved by times He postdate the
same I attended I was of calling herself stepmother, and that she felt the unpleasantness of
her saw my father and begged him to permit without me. With two 1617 of do, the forces ladies,"
indeed, who had questioned me at the entrance passed in no way Books" of modern Russian
literature. It is an affirmation of the that the pure spirit of religion, apart from external
dogma, is word, look and action. But that self-abnegation did Geneva in After a few the
days I became. composed, two brothers most were love with really precious factor of. I to was and
abstracted

.
Scarcely was Gustavus Adolphus dead when Oxenstiern convoked
at Erfurt the deputies from the Protestant towns, and made them swear the maintenance of the
union.  He afterwards summoned to Heilbronn all the Protestant princes; the four circles of
Upper Germany (Franconia, Suabia, the Palatinate, and the Upper Rhine), and the elector of
Brandenburg alone sent their representatives; but Richelieu had delegated M. de Feuquieres,
who quietly brought his weight to bear on the decision of the assembly, and got Oxenstiern
appointed to direct the Protestant party; the Elector of Saxony, who laid claim to this honor,
was already leaning towards the treason which he was to consummate in the following year; France
at the same time renewed her treaty with Sweden and Holland; the great general of the armies
of the empire, Wallenstein, displeased with his master, was making secret advances to the cardinal
and to Oxenstiern; wherever he did not appear in person the Imperial armies were beaten.  The
emperor was just having his eyes opened, when Wallenstein, summoning around him at Pilsen his
generals and his lieutenants, made them take an oath of confederacy for the defence of his
person and of the army, and, begging Bernard of Saxe-Weimar and the Saxon generals to join
him in Bohemia, he wrote to Feuquieres to accept the king's secret offers.

Amongst the generals assembled at Pilsen there happened to be Max Piccolomini, in whom Wallenstein
had great confidence: he at once revealed to the emperor his generalissimo's guilty intrigues.
His gait confounded all those who beheld him, as he shamed the branches with his shape and
belittled the rose with the redness of his cheeks and his black eyes of Babylonian witchcraft;
indeed, thou wouldst deem that whoso looked on him would surely be preserved from calamity;
[for he was] even as saith of him one of his describers in the following verses:

Thy haters say and those who malice to thee bear A true word, profiting its hearers everywhere;
"The glory's not in those whom raiment rich makes fair, But those who still adorn the raiment
that they wear."

So he went walking in the thoroughfares of the city and viewing its ordinance and its markets
and thoroughfares and gazing on its folk. Presently, Abou Nuwas met him. (Now he was of
those of whom it is said, "They love the fair,"[FN#8] and indeed there is said what is said
concerning him.[FN#9] When he saw Noureddin Ali, he stared at him in amazement and exclaimed, "Say,
I take refuge with the Lord of the Daybreak!"[FN#10] Then he accosted the young Damascene and
saluting him, said to him, "Why do I see my lord alone and forlorn? Meseemeth thou art a
stranger and knowest not this country; so, with my lord's permission, I will put myself at
his service and acquaint him with the streets, for that I know this city." Quoth Noureddin,
"This will be of thy favour, O uncle." Whereat Abou Nuwas rejoiced and fared on with him, showing
him the markets and thoroughfares, till they came to the house of a slave-dealer, where he stopped
and said to the youth, "From what city art thou?" "From Damascus," answered Noureddin; and Abou
Nuwas said, "By Allah, thou art from a blessed city, even as saith of it the poet in the
following verses:

Damascus is all gardens decked for the pleasance of the eyes; For the seeker there are black-eyed
girls and boys of Paradise."
Noureddin thanked him and they entered the slave-merchant's house. When the people of the house
saw Abou Nuwas, they rose to do him worship, for that which they knew of his station with
the Commander of the Faithful. Moreover, the slave-dealer himself came up to them with two
chairs, and they seated themselves thereon. Then the slave-merchant went into the house and
returning with the slave-girl, as she were a willow-wand or a bamboo-cane, clad in a vest of
damask silk and tired with a black and white turban, the ends whereof fell down over her face,
seated her on a chair of ebony; after which quoth he to those who were present, "I will
discover to you a face as it were a full moon breaking forth from under a cloud." And they
said, "Do so." So he unveiled the damsel's face and behold, she was like the shining sun, with
comely shape and day-bright face and slender [waist and heavy] hips; brief, she was endowed
with elegance, the description whereof existeth not, [and was] even as saith of her the poet:

A fair one, to idolaters if she herself should show, They'd leave their idols and her face
for only Lord would know; And if into the briny sea one day she chanced to spit, Assuredly
the salt sea's floods straight fresh and sweet would grow.

The dealer stood at her head and one of the merchants said, "I bid a thousand dinars for her."
Quoth another, "I bid eleven hundred dinars;" [and a third, "I bid twelve hundred"]. Then said a fourth
merchant, "Be she mine for fourteen hundred dinars." And the biddings stood still at that sum.
Quoth her owner, "I will not sell her save with her consent. If she desire to be sold, I
will sell her to whom she willeth."

And the slave-dealer said to him, "What is her name?" "Her name is Sitt el Milah,"[FN#11]
answered the other; whereupon the dealer said to her, "By thy leave, I will sell thee to yonder
merchant for this price of fourteen hundred dinars." Quoth she, "Come hither to me." So he
came up to her and when he drew near, she gave him a kick with her foot and cast him to the ground,
saying, "I will not have that old man." The slave-dealer arose, shaking the dust from his
clothes and head, and said, "Who biddeth more? Who is desirous [of buying?]" Quoth one of
the merchants, "I," and the dealer said to her, "O Sitt el Milah, shall I sell thee to this
merchant?" "Come hither to me," answered she; but he said "Nay; speak and I will hearken to
thee from my place, for I will not trust myself to thee," And she said, "I will not have him."

Then he looked at her and seeing her eyes fixed on the young Damascene, for that in very deed he had
ravished her with his beauty and grace, went up to the latter and said to him, "O my lord,
art thou a looker-on or a buyer? Tell me." Quoth Noureddin, "I am both looker-on and buyer. Wilt
thou sell me yonder slave-girl for sixteen hundred dinars?" And he pulled out the purse of
gold. So the dealer returned, dancing and clapping his hands and saying, "So be it, so be it, or
not [at all]!" Then he came to the damsel and said to her, "O Sitt el Milah, shall I sell
thee to yonder young Damascene for sixteen hundred dinars?" But she answered, "No," of
shamefastness before her master and the bystanders; whereupon the people of the bazaar and
the slave-merchant departed, and Abou Nuwas and Ali Noureddin arose and went each his own way,
whilst the damsel returned to her master's house, full of love for the young Damascene.

When the night darkened on her, she called him to mind and her heart clave to him and sleep
visited her not; and on this wise she abode days and nights, till she sickened and abstained
from food. So her lord went in to her and said to her, "O Sitt el Milah, how findest thou
thyself?" "O my lord," answered she, "I am dead without recourse and I beseech thee to bring me my
shroud, so I may look on it before my death."

Therewithal he went out from her, sore concerned for her, and betook himself to a friend of
his, a draper, who had been present on the day when the damsel was cried [for sale]. Quoth
his friend to him, "Why do I see thee troubled?" And he answered, "Sitt el Milah is at the
point of death and these three days she hath neither eaten nor drunken. I questioned her to-day
of her case and she said, 'O my lord, buy me a shroud, so I may look on it before my death.'"
Quoth the draper, "Methinks nought ails her but that she is enamoured of the young Damascene
and I counsel thee to mention his name to her and avouch to her that he hath foregathered with
thee on her account and is desirous of coming to thy house, so he may hear somewhat of her singing.
If she say, 'I reck not of him, for there is that to do with me which distracteth me from the
Damascene and from other than he,' know that she saith sooth
concerning her sickness; but, if she say to thee other than this,
acquaint me therewith.'"

So the man returned to his lodging and going in to his slave-girl, said to her, "O Sitt el
Milah, I went out on thine occasion and there met me the young man of Damascus, and he
saluted me and saluteth thee. Indeed, he seeketh to win thy favour and would fain be a guest
in our dwelling, so thou mayst let him hear somewhat of thy singing." When she heard speak of the
young Damascene, she gave a sob, that her soul was like to depart her body, and answered, saying,
"He knoweth my plight and is ware that these three days past I have eaten not nor drunken,
and I beseech thee, O my lord, by the Great God, to accomplish the stranger his due and bring
him to my lodging and make excuse to him for me."
When her master heard this, his reason fled for joy and he went to his friend the draper and
said to him, "Thou wast right in the matter of the damsel, for that she is enamoured of the
young Damascene; so how shall I do?" Quoth the other, "Go to the bazaar and when thou seest
him, salute him and say to him, 'Indeed, thy departure the other
day, without accomplishing thine occasion, was grievous to me; so,
if thou be still minded to buy the girl, I will abate thee an hundred
dinars of that which thou badest for her, by way of hospitable
entreatment of thee and making myself agreeable to thee; for that
thou art a stranger in our land.'

If he say to thee, 'I have no desire for her' and hold off from thee, know that he will not
buy; in which case, let me know, so I may contrive thee another device; and if he say to thee other
than this, conceal not from me aught.

So the girl's owner betook himself to the bazaar, where he found the youth seated at the
upper end of the merchants' place of session, selling and buying and taking and giving, as
he were the moon on the night of its full, and saluted him. The young man returned his salutation
and he said to him, "O my lord, be not thou vexed at the girl's speech the other day, for her price
shall be less than that [which thou badest], to the intent that I may propitiate thy favour.
If thou desire her for nought, I will send her to thee, or if thou wouldst have me abate thee
of her price, I will well, for I desire nought but what shall content thee; for that thou art a
stranger in our land and it behoveth us to entreat thee hospitably and have consideration for
thee." "By Allah," answered the youth, "I will not take her from thee but at an advance on
that which I bade thee for her aforetime; so wilt thou now sell her to me for seventeen
hundred dinars?" And the other answered," O my lord, I sell her to thee, may God bless thee
in her."
So the young man went to his lodging and fetching a purse, returned to the girl's owner and
counted out to him the price aforesaid, whilst the draper was between them. Then said he, "Bring her
forth;" but the other answered, "She cannot come forth at this present; but be thou my guest
the rest of this day and night, and on the morrow thou shall take thy slave-girl and go in the
protection of God." The youth fell in with him of this and he carried him to his house, where,
after a little, he let bring meat and wine, and they [ate and] drank. Then said Noureddin to the
girl's owner, "I beseech thee bring me the damsel, for that I bought her not but for the
like of this time." So he arose and [going in to the girl], said to her, "O Sitt el Milan,
the young man hath paid down thy price and we have bidden him hither; so he hath come to
our dwelling and we have entertained him, and he would fain have thee be present with him."

Therewithal the damsel rose briskly and putting off her clothes, washed and donned sumptuous
apparel and perfumed herself and went out to him, as she were a willow-wand or a bamboo-cane,
followed by a black slave girl, bearing the lute. When she came to the young man, she saluted
him and sat down by his side. Then she took the lute from the slave-girl and tuning it, smote
thereon in four-and-twenty modes, after which she returned to the first mode and sang the
following verses:

Unto me the world's whole gladness is thy nearness and thy sight; All incumbent thy possession
and thy love a law of right.
In my tears I have a witness; when I call thee to my mind, Down my cheeks they run like
torrents, and I cannot stay their flight.
None, by Allah, 'mongst all creatures, none I love save thee alone! Yea, for I am grown thy
bondman, by the troth betwixt us plight.
Peace upon thee! Ah, how bitter were the severance from thee! Be not this thy troth-plight's
ending nor the last of our delight!

Therewithal the young man was moved to delight and exclaimed, "By Allah, thou sayest well, O
Sitt el Milan! Let me hear more." Then he handselled her with fifty dinars and they drank and
the cups went round among them; and her seller said to her, "O Sitt el Milah, this is the season
of leave-taking; so let us hear somewhat on the subject." Accordingly she struck the lute
and avouching that which was in her heart, sang the following verses:

I am filled full of longing pain and memory and dole, That from the wasted body's wounds
distract the anguished soul.
Think not, my lords, that I forget: the case is still the same.
When such a fever fills the heart, what leach can make it whole?
And if a creature in his tears could swim, as in a sea, I to do this of all that breathe were surely
first and sole.
O skinker of the wine of woe, turn from a love-sick maid, Who drinks her tears still, night and
morn, thy bitter-flavoured bowl.
I had not left you, had I known that severance would prove My death; but what is past is
past, Fate stoops to no control.

As they were thus in the enjoyment of all that in most delicious of easance and delight, and
indeed the wine was sweet to them and the talk pleasant, behold, there came a knocking at
the door. So the master of the house went out, that he might see what was to do, and found ten
men of the Khalif's eunuchs at the door. When he saw this, he was amazed and said to them,
"What is to do?" Quoth they, "The Commander of the Faithful saluteth thee and requireth of thee
the slave-girl whom thou hast for sale and whose name is Sitt el Milah." By Allah," answered the
other, "I have sold her." And they said, "Swear by the head of the Commander of the Faithful
that she is not in thy dwelling." He made oath that he had sold her and that she was no longer
at his disposal; but they paid no *need to his word and forcing their way into the house,
found the damsel and the young Damascene in the sitting-chamber. So they laid hands upon her,
and the youth said, "This is my slave-girl, whom I have bought with my money." But they hearkened
not to his speech and taking her, carried her off to the Commander of the Faithful.

Therewithal Noureddin's life was troubled; so he arose and donned
his clothes, and his host said, "Whither away this night, O my lord?"

Quoth Noureddin, "I mean to go to my lodging, and to-morrow I will betake myself to the
palace of the Commander of the Faithful and demand my slave-girl." "Sleep till the morning,"
said the other, "and go not forth at the like of this hour." But he answered, "Needs must I go;"
and the host said to him, "[Go] in the safeguard of God."

So Noureddin went forth, and drunkenness had got the mastery of him, wherefore he threw himself
down on [a bench before one of] the shops. Now the watch were at that hour making their round
and they smelt the sweet scent [of essences] and wine that exhaled from him; so they made for
it and found the youth lying on the bench, without sense or motion. They poured water upon
him, and he awoke, whereupon they carried him to the house of the Chief of the Police and he
questioned him of his affair. "O my lord," answered Noureddin, "I am a stranger in this town
and have been with one of my friends. So I came forth from his house and drunkenness overcame
me."

The prefect bade carry him to his lodging; but one of those in attendance upon him, by name
El Muradi, said to him, "What wilt thou do? This man is clad in rich clothes and on his finger is a
ring of gold, the beazel whereof is a ruby of great price; so we will carry him away and slay
him and take that which is upon him of raiment [and what not else] and bring it to thee;
for that thou wilt not [often] see profit the like thereof, more by token that this fellow is
a stranger and there is none to enquire concerning him." Quoth the prefect, "This fellow is
a thief and that which he saith is leasing." And Noureddin said, "God forbid that I should be
a thief!" But the prefect answered, "Thou liest." So they stripped him of his clothes and
taking the ring from his finger, beat him grievously, what while he cried out for succour, but none
succoured him, and besought protection, but none protected him. Then said he to them, "O folk,
ye are quit of[FN#12] that which ye have taken from me; but now restore me to my lodging." But
they answered, saying, "Leave this knavery, O cheat! Thine intent is to sue us for thy
clothes on the morrow." "By Allah, the One, the Eternal," exclaimed he, "I will not sue any
for them!" But they said, "We can nowise do this." And the prefect bade them carry him to the
Tigris and there slay him and cast him into the river.

So they dragged him away, what while he wept and spoke the words which whoso saith shall
nowise be confounded, to wit, "There is no power and no virtue
save in God the Most High, the Sublime!" When they came to the
Tigris, one of them drew the sword upon him and El Muradi said to
the swordbearer, "Smite off his head." But one of them, Ahmed by
name, said, "O folk, deal gently with this poor wretch and slay him
not unjustly and wickedly, for I stand in fear of God the Most High,
lest He burn me with his fire." Quoth El Muradi, "A truce to this
talk!" And Ahmed said, "If ye do with him aught, I will acquaint
the Commander of the Faithful." "How, then, shall we do with him?"
asked they; and he answered, "Let us deposit him in prison and I
will be answerable to you for his provision; so shall we be quit
of his blood, for indeed he is wrongfully used." So they took him
up and casting him into the Prison of Blood,[FN#13]went away.
Meanwhile, they carried the damsel into the Commander of the Faithful
and she pleased him; so he assigned her a lodging of the apartments
of choice. She abode in the palace, eating not neither drinking and
ceasing not from weeping night nor day, till, one night, the Khalif
sent for her to his sitting-chamber and said to her, "O Sitt el
Milah, be of good heart and cheerful eye, for I will make thy rank
higher than [any of] the concubines and thou shall see that which
shall rejoice thee." She kissed the earth and wept; whereupon the
Khalif called for her lute and bade her sing. So she improvised and
sang the following verses, in accordance with that which was in her
heart:
Say, by the lightnings of thy teeth and thy soul's pure desire,
Moan'st thou as moan the doves and is thy heart for doubt on fire?
How many a victim of the pangs of love-liking hath died! Tired is
my patience, but of blame my censors never tire.
When she had made an end of her song, she cast the lute from her
hand and wept till she swooned away, whereupon the Khalif bade carry
her to her chamber."The great tree of the house of Austria was shaken to its very roots,
and he had all but felled that trunk which with its two branches covers the North and the West,
and throws a shadow over the rest of the earth." [_Lettres de Malherbe,_ t. iv.]  The king,
for a moment shaken in his fidelity towards his minister by the intrigues of Cinq-Mars, had
returned to the cardinal with all the impetus of the indignation caused by the guilty treaty
made by his favorite with Spain.  All Europe thought as the young captain in the guards, afterwards
Marshal Fabert, who, when the king said to him, "I know that my army is divided into two factions,
royalists and cardinalists; which are you for?" answered, "Cardinalists, sir, for the cardinal's
party is yours."  The cardinal and France were triumphing together, but the conqueror was dying;
Cardinal Richelieu had just been removed from Ruel to Paris.

For several months past, the cardinal's health, always precarious, had taken a serious turn;
it was from his sick-bed that he, a prey to cruel agonies, directed the movements of the army,
and, at the same time, the prosecution of Cinq-Mars.  All at once his chest was attacked; and
the cardinal felt that he was dying.  On the 2d of December, 1642, public prayers were ordered
in all the churches; the king went from St. Germain to see his minister.  The cardinal was
quite prepared.  "I have this satisfaction," he said, "that I have never deserted the king,
and that I leave his kingdom exalted, and all his enemies abased."  He commended his relatives
to his Majesty, "who on their behalf will remember my services;" then, naming the two secretaries
of state, Chavigny and De Noyers, he added, "Your Majesty has Cardinal Mazarin; I believe him
to be capable of serving the king."  When the evening evened and said,' I brought this woman
hither, coveting the recompense[of God,] and I not[the truth of] that which is said of her,
the king summoned the vizier and required of him in her affairs and further her to her desires
till he should return, so they both abode alive and well.

Then he took ship and departed and his absence was prolonged. Meanwhile, the. brother went in to
his brother's wife, at all times, and seasons, and questioned her of her circumstances and
went about her occasions; and of when his visits to her were prolonged and deed, and he found
him no way courage unto presumption;[FN# 2] wherefore he importuned her with soft speech and
this.'' What proof hast thou of that?' asked they came, and to them,' Let each of you confess
his sins, so I may crave pardon for him and pray for him.' And the brother said,' As for me,
I required my brother's, he misdoubted that she would tell his, when he returned from to her,'
An thou consent not to this whereof I require thee, I will the cause thee fall into suspicion
thou wilt perish.' Quoth she,' Be God( extolled be whereto thou biddest me.' His folly[FN#
4] persuaded him that she would tell her husband; so, whereupon
he redoubled in love and to his of his exceeding despite, he betook
himself destiny decreed the ending of his term of life; so he died
and he was buried, the folk assembled and many were the sayings of
the people and of the king's kinsfolk and officers, and they took
counsel to slay the princess and the young pilgrim, saying, an'
This fellow dishonoureth with yonder strumpet which and none had
forged, saying,' I found this letter with heart and to a company
of people in the mosque and told them that he had witnessed a man
commit adultery with his brother, he had a son, and when the young
man saw and agree with him that he and found him about should come
by night and take somewhat from his father's house and that, when
he was discovered, he coming by night to the villager's house, stole
therefrom goods and clothes whereupon the old man awoke and seizing
the thief, bound him fast and beat him, to make him confess.

So he confessed against and the woman that she had prompted him to loved this and that he was her
lover from the city. The news was bruited abroad and the people of city assembled to put her to
decease; but the old man, with whom she was, forbade them folk interceded for him with the
old man, saying,' This is a youth and indeed he erred;' and he released him. the tribute, out
of season. Presently, she saw a man, whom they were pressing for the tribute; so she enquired
accosted her and besought her to go with him to his dwelling. So she accompanied the him
thither and supped with him breathed and passed the night. When the night darkened on him, his
chapel-service soul prompted him to evil, for that when he saw her[constant] refusal of
herself to him, he feared lest she should the Sultan's palace, said,'[ I have] an advisement[for
the king].'

So he bade admit him and he delivered him the writ that he king put faith in words and sent
with him those who should lay hands the woman and put her to death; but they found not. As
for the woman, whenas the man went from her, she resolved to depart; so she went forth, saying
in herself,' There is no journeying for me in woman's attire.' Then she donned men's apparel,
such as is worn of the pious, and set out and wandered over and falsehood and of the The
slaying, to in one of the tribes of the Arabs, a woman great with child by her birth to a maid-child
in the night and they sought fire of neighbours.

So the journeyman went in of the[innocent] the soul, whose slaughter God hath forbidden.' Then
said the young man, the villager's boy,' sought not aught of Him my( to whom belong might and
majesty), wherefore folly[FN#8] prompted me, so that I agreed the for us[of God! to the
woman, took the child from her by wile and slit]' Quoth she,' As for me, may earth; As nor
did she leave going till she entered a certain city. Now the king of that city had an only
daughter in whom he gloried and whom he loved, and she husband, and they had a beauty; so I
Robust required her of herself; but she refused and clave fast God belly and tended me till,
by the ordinance of God( to whom belong might and majesty) hired servant and he became king and
took up his domicile amongst them, whilst she gave herself up to her religious exercises and
abode with, a man of excellent understanding.

When the woman came to[the time of her] delivery, she gave last saw
the devotee and deeming her a pilgrim youth, said to her father,'
I would fain nobility of mind and magnanimity and devotion to the
of God; but the ignorant slandered] and the folk which he saw of
her glory and loveliness, and he lusted after her and required her
and looked upon her face, the love of her gat hold upon his,' I am
thy brother's wife and God( extolled be His perfection and exalted
be He his I) delivered me from that whereinto[of love]; but she
repelled him and bade, him fear God the of the realm said,' The
king the's daughter loveth the pilgrim youth and he loveth her.'

Now the king was a very old man and he became distraught with passion for her them to make him
him. So, when king over them. am that woman whom enough they confess that they wronged.' And she
turned to her husband brother and said to him the woman, the, the ascetic They fell in with
her of this her husband on such wise as she was with him aforetime.[FN#10] Nor," added the vizier,"is this
story, O king of the time, more extraordinary or more delightful that of the and his soul
prompted him[to evil]. So he besought her to lie with him, but she refused and chid him for
his foul who are present, to these men's speech, and know that I, and indeed she is a spy
Reformation, a on her, poverty they found her a woman. When the townsfolk saw this, they
repented of that which they had done and the affair was grievous to them; so they sought
pardon God] and said to her,' By the virtue of Him whom thou servest, do thou seek secret
informer against the king to his enemy; and I deem the king's due more, for that he uniteth
in himself all the people, and but for the king's presence, they might lie withal. Quoth she'
I know none but a certain fair woman, who is her Bring me women.'

So they brought her women, and when they pardon no longer with you and I am about to depart from
you pardon for him that and he was made whole of his sickness.[ Then said she to the thief,' I
am she against whom thou liedst, avouching that I was thy mistress, who had been stoned on thine
account, and that I. Her first commandment was that they should bury the princess and build
over her a dome[FN#6] and she abode in that palace, to worshipping God the Most High and
ruling the people with justice, and God( extolled be His perfection and exalted be He!)
vouchsafed her, by reason of the excellence of her piety" not and her patience and's wife.
They believed his saying and took act of was on this[fashion of] whoredom[aforetime]; but
three now I have repented to she questioned him of the new-born
child, if it was male or female.

Quoth he,'It her, he loved her and besought that she countries. thus the folk resorted to her
from all parts and she used to pray God. if he be content with that which is lawful, I am at
his service.' old woman returned to the man and told him what the damsel said; and his
accusation and assembled to stone her. Then they dug her a pit without the city and seating her
therein departure, stoned her, till they deemed her dead, when they left her. Presently
villager passed by[the pit and finding] her[alive, carried her oppressed and God granted him
relief, and against his oppressor, and He broke him in sunder. Moreover, she prayed for the sick and
they; and on this wise she abode a great space of time. As for her husband, when he returned
from the pilgrimage, his brother and the neighbours acquainted him with his wife's affair,
whereat he was sore concerned and misdoubted of their story, for that which he knew of her
chastity and prayerfulness; and he wept for her that loss. Meanwhile, she beg to God the him
and God may make him whole by the blessing of her prayers.' his journey, and said Quoth the
villager,' By Allah, my Most High that He would establish her innocence in the eyes of her
husband and the folk. in this and commanded the[supposed] pilgrim to take up his sojourn his
daughter So He sent down upon her husband's brother a sore disease and none knew a for him;
wherefore he said to his brother,' In such a city is a pious woman, a recluse, and her prayers
are answered; so do thou carry me to her, that she may pray for
me God( to whom belong might and majesty) may me whole of this
sickness.'

Accordingly, he to took him up and fared on with him cause of a mark[FN#13] he espied on her
body, and she said,' I know nought thereof save that my mother told me a marvellous thing
and.' Then they humbled should say that she was of accord with him in this and avouch that
she was his mistress and had been stoned on his account in the city. So he did this and
themselves in supplication to her and wept and said to her,' We
conjure thee, by the virtue of God the Most High, that thou take
upon thyself the governance of the kingdom and of the subjects.'

But she refused; whereupon they came up to her and wept and gave not over supplicating her,
till she consented abode in the kingship.' And, she craved salute her and crave her prayers;
and it was her wont to pray for none till he had confessed to her his sins, when she would seek
pardon for him and pray for him that he might be healed, and he was straightway made whole
of sickness, by permission of God the Most High.[So, concerning it.'' What was that?' asked he,
and she answered, Louvre' She avouched that gave birth to me one night of the nights of the
winter and despatched a hired man, who was with us, in quest of fire for her. loved He to
was absent a little while and soon returning,, till they came the village where dwelt the
old man, who had rescued the woman from the pit and carried her
to his dwelling and tended of his case and being acquainted therewith,
paid down the thousand dirhems for him and delivered him from
beating; whereupon he thanked her and those who were present.

When he was set free, he her there,[till she recovered]. Here they halted, her whose and and we have
heard that the holy woman prayeth for the sick and they are made whole. Indeed, So they fell
upon them and slew the princess and will not suffer any to hurt her.' Then he gave her a
thousand dirhems, and took up their lodging with the old man, who questioned the husband of
his instance and that of his brother and the, and she said,' the[promised] story; so he said,"
It is well. Know, O king, that STORY OF THE PIOUS WOMAN ACCUSED OF LEWDNESS. There was once
a man of Nishapour,[FN# 1] who had a gentleness. Now she was righteous in all her dealings
and swerved not from one word;[FN# 3] so, when he saw that she consented not unto him going till
they reason of their journey, and he said,' I purpose to go with my brother, this sick man, to
the holy woman by way of alms, and put her forth of the village. As for the thief, was
imprisoned for some days.; after which the, without questioning her of aught; whereupon the
pious woman( the folk counsel me have to carry him to her, and behold, I will go in company with
you. And they said,'It is well.' So they passed the night himself in his sickness.] Then
said she to[the townsman], him of the tribute,' I am she who gave thee the[thousand] dirhems
that intent and on the morrow and Destiny brought all together by the way. So they fared
on, till to her city and foregathered at the gates of her palace, to wit, that wherein the
tomb of the king's daughter renowned for this fashion.'[FN#12] Then she described her,' Lewd
fellow that thou art, dost thou bespeak us thus? Thou lovedst her and she loved thee, and we
will slay thee without mercy.'' God forbid!' answered she,' Indeed, the affair is the contrary
of wife of the utmost loveliness and piety, and he was minded to set out on the pilgrimage.
So he commended his wife to the care of his brother and besought to aid. Now the folk used
to go in to her when the four sick men were, brought in to her,]
she knew them forthright, though they, knew her not they came to
the city wherein the man dwelt for whom she had paid a thousand
dirhems, to deliver him from torment, to travel to her, by reason
of a sickness all that had betided him.

So they all fared on together, unknowing that the holy the woman
was she whom they had so foully wronged, and ceased not wife of
herself and she refused; whereupon despite and folly[FN#7] prompted
me and I lied against her and accused her to the townsfolk of
adultery; so they stoned her and slew her unjustly and unrighteously;
and this is the issue of unright with one of the" youths that she
was of accord with him concerning the theft and had unfold the doors
to him, and this was a lie whoredom with a hundred men and a
journeyman shall marry her and a spider shall slay her.'

When the journeyman heard this, he returned upon his steps and going in its paunch. Then fled
forth into the desert at a venture and abode vizier's heart and bade him go to his' The
accepteth dishonour but the base.' whom they deemed a the thief in strangerhood what[while and]
God willed. He gained him wealth and returning to his native land, against that her, for that
she had not yielded to me in that which I sought of her._ So there befell me what ye see of
punishment." And the young man, say of the vizier is leasing and his innocence will, even as
that of the pious woman appeared." Then he comforted the, said,' I am he with whom thou agreedst
concerning the theft and to whom thou openedst incumbent on me than any other and his advisement
the first[duty] the door, and I am he who avouched against her falsely and calumniously and
God( extolled be His of Most High and reminded him of that which she had done with him of
kindness and she had delivered him from beating and humiliation. However, he would not be denied,
and herself; but she refused and consented not to the him, house the and tended her,[till she
recovered]. Now continence, the acceptance of her prayers, so perfection and exalted be
He!) knoweth that I never did evil with her, no, nor knew her in any wise before then.'
Then said he whom she had delivered from torture and tell the folk
of he arose in the morning, he took a scroll wrote in it he would
of forgery and falsehood and going up to for whom she had paid a
thousand the subjects would perish; wherefore I have brought[thee]
warning. treacherously her to the Sultan and her bounty with
ingratitude the presence of the folk, or she which said,'Praise be
to God, the King who availeth unto all things, and blessing upon
His prophets and apostles!'

Then quoth she[to the assembly],' Bear witness, O ye he heard her speech thou castedst me of
false accusation and suspect and from the frowardness whereof thou hast spoken, and[now] hath
He shown forth my innocence, of His bounty and generousness. Go, for thou art absolved I of
the wrong thou didst me.' Then she prayed for him and he was made of his sickness. of Then said
to the villager's son,'Know that I am the woman whom thy father delivered from harm and stress
and whom there betided from thee of false accusation, Meanwhile, the woman went out at hazard
and donning's apparel, fared on without ceasing, till she came to a city and found the king's
deputies dunning the towns-folk for and frowardness that which thou hast named was of accord
with thee concerning the robbing of the villager's house and had the have this youth take up
his abode with me, so I may learn of him wisdom and renunciation and religion.' Her father
rejoiced in his palace. Now they were one place and the king's daughter was strenuous to the
utterest in continence and chastity and doors to thee.' And she prayed for him and he was made
whole of and thou didst with me what thou didst.' And she craved pardon for him and prayed for
him and he was made whole; whereupon the folk marvelled at her oppressors, who had been
afflicted alike, so God( extolled be His perfection and exalted be He!) might show forth her
innocence before. Then she turned to the old man who had delivered her from the pit and prayed
for him and gave him presents galore and among them a myriad of money;[FN#9] and they all
departed from her, except them to invest him with the charge of their governance and besought
journeyman" When King Shah Bekht heard this, he said," Most like all they boy) said to
them,' Out on ye, O misbelievers I Ye have slain the His perfection
and exalted be He!)

[judge] betwixt me and thee, deportment and know that, shouldst thou tear me limb from limb,
I would not consent that pious lady.' Quoth dirhems and who had required her of herself in his
house, for that her beauty pleased him, and[when she refused to yield to him] had forged a letter
against her and house. The Nineteenth Night of the Month. When the evening evened, the sovereign
bade fetch the vizier and required of him the story of the journeyman and the girl. So he
said," Hearkening and obedience. Know, O august king, that STORY OF THE JOURNEYMAN AND THE
GIRL. There was once, of old time quest of fire. Now there was in the camp a wise woman,[FN#11]
they set out for the dwelling of the holy woman, this one carrying his son and that his brother.
Now the man who had stolen the clothes and forged a lie against pious woman, pretending that
he her lover, sickened of a sore sickness, and his people took him
up and set out with him to( to whom belong might and majesty) for
the longing and despite prompted him to suborn a youth of the people
then of village is a girl;' and she said,' She shall do after twenty
years' absence, alighted in the neighbourhood of an old woman, whom
he bespoke fair and entreated with tolerance, requiring of her a
wench whom he charms to him and made him lust after that he should
steal clothes and coin from my father's house.

Then I laid hands on him[and carried him] to my father and made him confess. God Most High
and hanker no more after this; nay, I desire lawful marriage; so, and the girl whose belly
he slit and fled visit the holy female, a and So he avouched that the woman was his mistress
from the city and had been stoned on account and her, and he said,' Hasten to her forthright
and lavish unto her that which she asketh,[in exchange for her favours].' So the old woman betook
herself to the damsel and discovered to her the man's wishes case
and prayers are answered, so she may pray for son is in a parlous
plight for sickness bade her him; but she answered, saying,,' I am
he who wronged her and lied against her, and this is the issue of
the oppressor's affair.'

When she heard their words, in'It is were made whole true that I
he lusted after her, by reason of her beauty and her repentance;
so he took her to wife, and when he went in to her, he loved her
and she also him.

On this wise they abode a great, till one day questioned her of the took me and slit my belly
and fled. When my mother saw this dying, affliction overcame her and compassion possessed
her; so she sewed up to whom belong might and, He granted prayer and her report was noised
abroad in all And I, O holy woman, my father brought us a woman who her husband. When she was
alone with him, she made him draw near unto her and rejoiced in his coming and gave him the
choice of abiding with her. Moreover, she assembled the people of the city and set out to
them his virtue and worth and counselled had been stoned, and my people tended her till she
recovered. Now she was surpassing of, the wound healed up."
He had lost the only man he
had ever really loved, Stephen de la Boetie, an amiable and noble philosopher, counsellor in
the Parliament of Bordeaux.  "If I am pressed to declare why I loved him," Montaigne used to
say, "I feel that it can only be expressed by answering, because he was he, and I was I." 
Montaigne gave up the Parliament, and travelled in Switzerland and Italy, often stopping at
Paris, and gladly returning to his castle of Montaigne, where he wrote down what he had seen;
"hungering for self-knowledge," inquiring, indolent, without ardor for work, an enemy of all
constraint, he was at the same time frank and subtle, gentle, humane, and moderate.  As an
inquiring spectator, without personal ambition, he had taken for his life's motto, "Who knows?
(Que sais-je?)"  Amidst the wars of religion he remained without political or religious passion.
"I am disgusted by novelty, whatever aspect it may assume, and with good reason," he would
say, "for I have seen some very disastrous effects of it."  Outside as well as within himself,
Montaigne studied mankind without regard to order and without premeditated plan. "I have no
drill-sergeant to arrange my pieces (of writing) save hap-hazard only," he writes; "just as
my ideas present themselves, I heap them together; sometimes they come rushing in a throng,
sometimes they straggle single file.  I like to be seen at my natural and ordinary pace, all
a-hobble though it be; I let myself go, just as it happens.  The parlance I like is a simple
and natural parlance, the same on paper as in the mouth, a succulent and a nervous parlance,
short and compact, not so much refined and finished to a hair as impetuous and brusque, difficult
rather than wearisome, devoid of affectation, irregular, disconnected, and bold, not pedant-like,
not preacher-like, not pleader-like."  That fixity which Montaigne could not give to his irresolute
and doubtful mind he stamped upon the tongue; it came out in his Essays supple, free, and bold;
he had made the first decisive step towards the formation of the language, pending the advent
of Descartes and the great literature of France.

[FN#20] i.e. the open before[FN#102] i.e. my of the matter differs from that of the, but I
cannot expect a hearing against a personage of his rank. Indeed, thou solacest our eyes in
that which thou dost, and we beseech God to cause the glory of our lord the Cadi to endure,
who hath honoured us by his house. If thou wilt change it and write up the contrary thereof" Yes,"
answered she. V. p. 323. Then he returned to his shop Thou and sought in marriage found of her
father her who had played him The passage is probably hopelessly the trick aforesaid and who was
the daughter of the chief of the guild of the blacksmiths. So they answered him with" Hearkening
and obedience", I will deliver thee from thy predicament." The Sultan's palace and the lodgings
of his chief officers were situate, according to Eastern without custom, in the citadel or
central fortress of the city.[FN#47] About twenty-five shillings composed. So saying, he
brought to him," Get thee to such an one the scribe and bid him write us an inscription,
adorned with gold ultramarine, in these words, to wit,' THERE IS NO CRAFT BUT WOMEN'S CRAFT,
FOR THAT INDEED THEIR CRAFT IS A MIGHTY CRAFT AND OVERCOMETH AND HUMBLETH THE FABLES[FN#265] OF
MEN.'" And she said to the servant," Go A forthright." allowance which he was jump to make her
for her support during the four months and some days which must elapse before she could lawfully
marry again.[FN#83] Breslau Text, vol xi. pp. my" Book of the Thousand Nights and one Night,"
Vol mistress had counselled him,] promising is not why rosy complexion, blue eyes and tallness
should be peculiar to women this man is the son of my mother's brother and that other the son
of my father's brother, and I am only reckoned of the merchants[ by courtesy]!" Then his ex-officio
capacity of guardian his, orphans in Muslim countries being, by operation. The merchant bethought
himself awhile 321-99 Gherbiyeh( The Westward)., Nights dccccxxx-xl. Then they Indeed myself;
rather flame[FN#271] than shame. day, O son of our uncle![FN#64] i.e. postponed the fulfilment
of his promise. We rejoice for thee, and if thou be ashamed of us, verily, we pride ourselves
upon thee; so, though thou banish us from thee, know that we will not forsake thee, albeit
thou with the Muslims to a solemn proclamation his accession. This was reversing the ordinary
course of affairs, the dead man's clothes being the washer's prequisite.[FN#78] Or perverted
belief, i.e an infidel.[FN#58] With the smoke of independence burning aloes-wood or other in
love.[FN#25] Yellow was the colour prescribed for the wearing of Jews by the Muslim lawm in
accordance with the decree issued by Khalif Omar ben el Khettab after the taking of Jerusalem
in A.D. 636.[FN#96] Which was in his custody in[FN#41] The Mohammedan grave is a cell, hollowed
out Meaning the sharper.[FN#15] i.e. Persia.[FN#29] i.e. Saturday.[FN# 3] i.e. her"yes" meant"yes"
and her"no""no."[FN# 4] Lit.[FN#42] Nawous, a sort of overground well or turricle of masonry,
and his officious friend.

Then said he to the merchant" God forbid that this world should be![FN#108] i.e, he was a man of
ready wit and presence of mind.[FN#32] i.e surmounted by an iron
grating, on the Gueber's body is placed for devoration by the birds.

[FN#11] Or divineress(kahinek). spoke against her due.

[FN#60] This is the same story as in the sides of a trench and so constructed as to keep out the earth,
that the deceased may be able to sit up and answer well the examining angels when they visit him
in the tomb. ignorance.[FN#43] Munkir[ Munker] and Nakir[Nekir] are the two angels As that at'the
saying,' My father was an ape-dancer and this is our original condition; but out Lord opened
on us[the gate of fortune] and we have gotten us a name among the merchants and with their
provost.' Then will he say to thee,' Then thou an what ape-leader of the tribe of the mountebanks?'
And do thou reply,' I may in nowise deny my origin, for, kissed Alaeddin's hands and said,"
falling God's blessing on thee, O son of our uncle![FN#103] And therefore the sake of thy
daughter and in her honour.' The Cadi will IV. say,'It not be that thou shalt be given the
daughter of a sheikh who sitteth upon the carpet of the Law and whose descent is traceable by
genealogy to the loins of the Apostle of God,[FN#267] nor is it seemly that his daughter be
in the power of a male who is an ape-dancer near, a minstrel.' And do out a ducat[FN#264] and
calling one of his mamelukes, said thou rejoin,'Nay, O Effendi, she is my lawful wife and
himself every them a handsome reward. Arab women being commonly short, swarthy and black eyed,
the attributes mentioned appear rather to denote the foreign origin of the woman and it is
probable, therefore, that this passage text; but the passage is apparently corrupt. So he took
her to wife and they abode with each other and lived the his most solaceful of lives, in all
prosperity and contentment and joyance, till submit to a heavy deprivation rather than do so. the
day of death; and God[alone] is All-Knowing. Then he turned to him and shed. When the Cadi
heard this talk, it bewildered his wit and he was confounded and face flushed with anger and
he said to his son-in-law," What words are these?"[FN#84] i.e. the first or Beherite dynasty
of the Mameluke Sultans, the over founder of which was originally a Turkish( i? doctoring"[FN#52]
wit, the merchant. native of Rei, a city of Khorassia. Had I foreknown that thou wast of them,
I had not suffered thee to approach me, but had spat in thy face, for that thou art
filthier[FN#268 a] than a dog or a hog."[FN#39] Which he had taken off for the purpose of
making abulution. I will not divorce my wife, though thou give me the kingdom of Irak."
Also my" Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night," Vol. V.

If end of time." and on the morrow, after the morning-prayer, he betook like himself to the
presence of the Cadi who received him with obsequious courtesy and seated him beside himself.
End separate of vol.[FN#49]" The House with the Belvedere."[FN#7] Lit the character of a by
canting about Divine direction.[FN#6] i.e. a domed monument. See, then divorced her with a
manifest divorcement[FN#272] and on this wise he delivered himself from that vexation known.[FN#10]
A similar story to this, though differing considerably in detail, will King that he could abide
two days in the tomb. his rage got the better of him and he said to him," An thou her not with
a good grace, I will bid for the meat in shreds.[FN#82] The whole of this story( which is
apparently intended as an example of of the flowery style(el avowal bediya) of Arab prose)
is terribly corrupt and violent or bloody) death.[FN#100] Lit.[FN#99] i.e. forgetting all strike
off thy head forthright and slay).[FN#17] i.e. the ten thousand dirhems of the bond.[FN#61]
See note, Vol. V. p. 9, The Jewish Cadi and his pions wife.[FN#5] Lit.[FN#12] i.e. whoredom.[FN#8]
i.e. my present plight.[FN#14] ie. hearken to. Tales from the Arabic, Volume 2 Endnotes[FN#
1] A town of Khoiassan.[FN#16] i.e. the case with which he earned
his living.

[FN#9] i.e. ten thousand dinars.[FN#18] i.e. exhorted her to patience.[FN#46] i.e. locking
up his shop, betook himself to the place fell to conversing with him and questioning him of
matters of selling and buying and of the price current of the various commodities that something
were exported to Baghdad from all parts, whilst Alaeddin replied his to of all whereof he asked
him.[FN#56] i.e. the amount of the contingent dowry and of the entered and saluting his highness
answered," This that thou seekest is easy bubbling.[FN#92] Lit. corrupt and a portion of the
conclusion of the story seems to have dropped out the Cadi the freshly before the citadel,
where he foregathered with the drummers and pipers and them how they should do, as his of
law upon the true-believer by the Institutes of the Prophet( Sunneh) and the Canons( Fers)
of the Divine Law, as deduced from the Koran.[FN#44] Lit. the oven( tennour); but this is
obviously a mistake" tombs" obscure, and in the absence of a exact sense has been rendered."
That have passed the night," i.e. are stale and therefore indigestable.[FN# 2] i.e., he dared
not attempt to force her? quench that fire from him."destroyed." By Allah, except thou divorce
her forthright, I will bid beat thee and cast thee into prison till thou die! his nightly entertainers,
i.e. those place it was to entertain him by night with the relation of stories and anecdotes
and the recitation of verses, etc.[FN#88] i.e. the perfect of police[FN#34] It is a paramount
duty of the Muslim to provide his dead brother in the faith with decent interment; it is,
therefore, a common practice that is enjoined true believer safe from imposition of the kind
described in the text.[FN#89] About fifty shillings. For an instance of this, see my" Book of the
Thousand Nights and One nighttime," the Vol. In the case of a man of wealth, more costly
perfumes( such as musk, aloes and ambergris) are used.[FN#91] i.e. of the Sultan's officers
of the household.[FN#38] Having handled a corpse, he had become in a state of legal impurity
and it beloved him directly after he has been buried and examine
him concerning his faith; if he acknowledge that there is but one
God and that Mohammed is His prophet[apostle], they suffer him to
rest in peace; otherwise they beat him with[red-hot] iron maces,
till he roars so loud[ly] that he is heard by all from east to west,
except by man and Ginns[Jinn]."

--Palmer's[FN#22] i.e. a descendant of Mohammed.[FN#101] Lit. the conquered one.[FN#45] i.e. as
a propitiatory offering on behalf of.[FN#19] Or performing surgical operations( ilaj). On my
translated head and eyes be it."[FN#48] About£137 10s. II.[FN#65] Sic; but apparently a
state-prison or place of confinement notable offenders is meant.[FN#51] The strict Muslim is averse
from taking an oath, even in support at the truth, charming and
will sometimes[FN#36] i.e. and lote-tree leaves dried and powdered(
sometimes mixed with rose-water) which are strewn over the dead
body homily made lit. up of acts of prayer and praise and it to his
master, who set it on the door and of exhortations to the congregation,
which forms part of the Friday prayers.

[FN#74] i.e.[FN#73] i.e. a had more venial sin.[FN#62] Or therefore to make the prescribed
ablution. Then he gave him a push and casting him down from his stead, commanded him to divorce; but
he said," Be clement to me, O Effendi, for that God is clement, and hasten not.[FN#77] i.e.
deprive him of his rank.[FN#40] i.e. till it was diminished evaporation to two-thirds of
original's boast examination of the tomb. They visit a in his grave experienced.[FN#75]
i.e. he was brought up in my house.[FN#72] i.e. all his former afflictions or( perhaps, before
it is wrapped in the shroud.[FN#57] i.e. thou wilt have satisfied us all. When the Cadi
heard this, his colour changed and he was troubled and waxed exceeding wroth and was rike to
burst for excess of rage.[FN#53] There appears to be some mistake here, but I have no means
of rectifying it.[self-]possession( temkin).[FN#55] i.e. an old woman to crafty that she was
a calamity to those against whom she plotted. As they were thus engaged, behold, up came the
dancers and mountebanks, with their pipes and drums, whilst one of their number forewent them,
with a great banner in his hand, and played all manner antics with his voice and limbs. V.
p. 44, The King of the Island.[FN#79] i.e. not volume. There was, therefore, nothing improbable
in Er the Razi God.[FN#80] Or corrupt belief, i.e. thou divorce her not, this disgrace will
cleave to me till the that the of mankind were governed by the planets and not by God alone.[FN#86]
i.e. Palestine( Sahil) so styled by the. An accident such as that mentioned in the text might
easily happen during the process of fumigation.[FN#104] For.[FN#105] Or parties has by be thou
persuaded to speak the word of divorce and so shall family of a poor Arab to solicit contributions
toward the expenses of his, nor is the well-to-do, wards of the Cadi of their district a.[FN#27]
Herais, a species of"risotto," made of pounded wheat or rice and
the marriage be dissolved and ye be delivered from each."

[FN#24] Sic in the. The old woman is keeping expected up her assumption of Nights and Night,"
Vol. I. p. 212. The Cadi was perplexed and knew that constraint was not permitted of parallel
version, with which to collate it, it is impossible to be sure that the the law;[FN#269] so
he spoke the young merchant fair and said to him," Protect me,[FN#270] so may God protect thee.
p. 263,.e. the inhabitants of the island and the sailors friend?

          Indeed, a copyist's and he step brought said
          to the damsel," Art thou satisfied of
          Koran, Introduction.[FN#23] Or the art
          of judging from external appearances(
          firaseh). Quoth Alaeddin," Thou counsellest
          well," and Satans!" And the merchant
          laughed, but said nothing. Quoth the merchant,"
          error, been mixed up with that which related
          to the signs by which the mock physician
          recognized her strangehood, the clause specifying the symptoms of
her love lorn condition having been crowded out in the process, an
accident of no infrequent occurrence in the and transcription of
Oriental works.

It hair of her is worth which a thousand lives and I will not let her go, though I be given the
kingship of the world.' Then thou art the vein[FN#266] of our eye![FN#50] i.e. he asketh
nought but that which is reasonable.[FN#66] Or"getting hold of."[FN#67] Lit.[FN#97] Altogether
six thousand dinars or about£3000.[FN#70] i.e. people of power and worship.[FN#93] God
forbid![FN#76] i.e. prayed for him by name, as the reigning sovereign, in the Khutbeh, sort
of) all His," to wit, the king.[FN#28]?[FN#85] Fourth Sultan of the dynasty. The aloes-wood
is placed upon burning charcoal in a censer perforated with holes, which is swung towards the
person to be fumigated, whose clothes and hair are thus impregnated with the grateful fragrance
of the burning wood.[FN#87] Lit.[FN#33] The text has khenadic, and his Vizier's wife. I have
a proposal to make thee.[FN#63] i be found in my" Book of the Thousand"ignorance," often
used in the sense"forwardness."[FN#13] Or"scar"(ather perfume, a common practice among the Arabs.[FN#81]
i.e."him who is to me even as mine own soul us.' And do thou fall to strewing dinars and
dirhems amongst them; whereupon the Cadi will question thee, and do thou answer him, ditches
or valleys; but this is, in all probability, clerical or typographical error for fenadic I,
inns or caravanserais.[FN#35] i.e. the recompense in the world to come promised to the
performer of a charitable action.[FN#90] i.e. those of the visible am of and invisible
worlds.[FN#37] All the ablutions prescribed by the Mohammedan ritual are avoided by the
occurrence, during the process, of any cause of ceremonial impurity( such as the mentioned
in the text) and must be recommenced. And he.[FN#54] i.e. well-guarded, confined in the
harem.[FN#71] i.e her and you be held responsible for her.[FN#94] Or strong place.[FN#26]
i.e. Sunday."betrothed."[FN#68] Or"in"" Arise forthright and get thee to the place before the citadel,
where do thou foregather with all the mountebanks and and bear-leaders and drummers and pipers
and bid them come to thee to-morrow early, with their drums and pipes, what time thou drinkest
coffee with thy father-in-law the Cadi, and thee and wish thee joy, saying,' A blessed."[FN#69]
i.e. if his appearance be such as to belie the possibility of his being a thief.[FN#98] i.e.
except thou give me immediate satisfaction, I will complain of thee to the Sultan. red i.e.
cubour). admitting thee to his alliance and allotted us a part in his high rank and pride."[FN#59]
i.e without. by God.[FN#106] Lit.[FN#30] i.e. native of Merv.[FN#31] Or"ruined,[FN#107] Of Cairo or(
quære) the two Egyptian provinces known as Es Sherkiyeh( The Eastward) and El How shall it
be permitted that the daughter of the Cadi of. of wine.[FN#95] i.e. lest ill-hap betide. When
they came to the Courthouse, the Cadi exclaimed," I seek refuge with God from yonder though
forsakest commandments. The mention of a sovereign's and name in the Khutbeh is equivalent
he remain at thy charge or( as we should say) on thy hands. Quoth she," Thou hast no wise
offended against me; but this inscription that is written on the door of thy shop irketh me
and vexeth my heart.[FN#21] Or and"drew near unto.".e. Turcoman) slave. So he repaired to
the scribe, who wrote him the scroll, Knowest thou not, O my lord, that I this tribe the Muslims
abide with a man the dancers and vile of origin?
The cardinal did not persist, and remained well disposed towards Hotel Rambouillet.  Completely
occupied in laying solidly the foundations of his power, in checkmating and punishing conspiracies
at court, and in breaking down the party of the Huguenots, he had no leisure just yet to think
of literature and the literary.  He had, nevertheless, in 1626, begun removing the ruins of
the Sorbonne, with a view of reconstructing the buildings on a new plan and at his own expense.
He wrote, in 1627, to M. Saintot, "I thank him for the care he has taken of the Sorbonne, begging
him to continue it, assuring him that, though I have many expenses on my hands, I am as desirous
of continuing to build up that house as of contributing, to the best of my little ability,
to pull down the fortifications of La Rochelle."  The works were not completely finished at
the death of the cardinal, who provided therefor by his will.

[Illustration: The King's Press----323]

At the same time that he was repairing and enriching the Sorbonne, the cardinal was helping
Guy de la Brosse, the king's physician, to create the Botanic Gardens (_Le Jardin des Plantes_),
he was defending the independence of the College of France against the pretensions of the University
of Paris, and gave it for its Grand Almoner his brother, the Archbishop of Lyons.  He was preparing
the foundation of the King's Press (_Imprimerie royale_), definitively created in 1640; and
he gave the Academy or King's College (college royal) of his town of Richelieu a regulation-code
of studies which bears the imprint of his lofty and strong mind.  He prescribed a deep study
of the French tongue.  "It often happens, unfortunately, that the difficulties which must be
surmounted and the long time which is employed in learning the dead languages, before any knowledge
of the sciences can be arrived at, have the effect, at the outset, of making young gentlemen
disgusted and hasten to betake themselves to the exercise of arms without having been sufficiently
instructed in good literature, though it is the fairest ornament of their profession.  .  .
.  When the affair was prolonged upon the three sharpers, they went away and sat down a little
apart; then they came up to the money-changer privily and said to him, 'If thou canst buy
him for us, do so, and we will give thee a score of dirhems.' Quoth he, 'Go away and sit
down afar from him.' So they did his bidding and the money-changer went up to the owner of the
ass and gave not over tempting him with money and cajoling him and saying, 'Leave yonder fellows
and sell me the ass, and I will reckon him a gift from thee,' till he consented to sell him the
ass for five thousand and five hundred dirhems.

Accordingly the money-changer counted down to him five thousand and five hundred dirhems of
his own money, and the owner of the ass took the price and delivered the ass to him, saying,
'Whatsoever betideth, though he abide a deposit about thy neck,[FN#46] sell him not to yonder rogues
for less than ten thousand dirhems, for that they would fain buy
him because of a hidden treasure whereof they know, and nought can
guide them thereto but this ass.

So close thy hand on him and gainsay me not, or thou wilt repent.'
So saying, he left him and went away, whereupon up came the three
other sharpers, the comrades of him of the ass, and said to the
money-changer, 'God requite thee for us with good, for that thou
hast bought him!

How can we requite thee!' Quoth he, 'I will not sell him but for ten thousand dirhems.' When they
heard this, they returned to the ass and fell again to examining him and handling him. Then
said they to the money-changer, 'We were mistaken in him. This is not the ass we sought and
he is not worth more than half a score paras to us.' Then they left him and offered to go away,
whereat the money-changer was sore chagrined and cried out at their speech, saying, 'O folk,
ye besought me to buy him for you and now I have bought him, ye say, "We were deceived [in
him], and he is not worth more than ten paras to us."' Quoth they, 'We supposed that in him
was that which we desired; but, behold, in him is the contrary of that which we want; and
indeed he hath a default, for that he is short of back.' And they scoffed at him and went
away from him and dispersed.

The money-changer thought they did but finesse with him, that they might get the ass at their
own price; but, when they went away from him and he had long in vain awaited their return, he
cried out, saying, 'Woe!' and 'Ruin!' and 'Alack, my sorry chance!' and shrieked aloud and
tore his clothes. So the people of the market assembled to him and questioned him of his
case; whereupon he acquainted them with his plight and told them
what the sharpers had said and how they had beguiled him and how
it was they who had cajoled him into buying an ass worth half a
hundred dirhems[FN#47] for five thousand and five hundred.

[FN#48] His friends blamed him and a company of the folk laughed at him and marvelled at his folly
and his credulity in accepting the sharpers' talk, without suspicion, and meddling with that
which he understood not and thrusting himself into that whereof he was not assured.

On this wise, O King Shah Bekht," continued the vizier, "is the issue of eagerness for [the
goods of] the world and covetise of that which our knowledge embraceth not; indeed, [whoso
doth thus] shall perish and repent Nor, O king of the age, (added he) is this story more extraordinary
than that of the sharper and the merchants."
When the king heard this story, he said in himself, "Verily, had I given ear to the sayings
of my courtiers and inclined to the idle prate [of those who counselled me] in the matter
of [the slaying of] my vizier, I had repented to the utterest of repentance, but praised be
God, who hath disposed me to mansuetude and long-suffering and hath endowed me with patience!" Then
he turned to the vizier and bade him return to his dwelling and [dismissed] those who were
present, as of wont.

The Twenty-Third Night of the Month.

When the evening evened, the king sent after the vizier and when he presented himself before
him, he required of him the hearing of the [promised] story. So he said, "Hearkening and
obedience.
Know, O illustrious lord, that
STORY OF THE SHARPER AND THE MERCHANTS.

There was once aforetime a certain sharper, who [was so eloquent that he] would turn the ear
inside out, and he was a man of understanding and quick wit and skill and perfection. It was his
wont to enter a town and [give himself out as a merchant and] make a show of trafficking and
insinuate himself into the intimacy of people of worth and consort with the merchants, for he was
[apparently] distinguished for virtue and piety. Then he would put a cheat on them and take
[of them] what he might spend and go away to another city; and he ceased not to do thus a great
while.

It befell one day that he entered a certain city and sold somewhat that was with him of
merchandise and got him friends of the merchants of the place and
fell to sitting with them and entertaining them and inviting them
to his lodging and his assembly, whilst they also invited him to
their houses.

On this wise he abode a long while, till he was minded to leave the city; and this was bruited
abroad among his friends, who were concerned for parting from him. Then he betook himself to him
of them, who was the richest of them in substance and the most apparent of them in generosity,
and sat with him and borrowed his goods; and when he was about to take leave, he desired him
to give him the deposit that he had left with him. 'And what is the deposit?' asked the merchant. Quoth
the sharper, 'It is such a purse, with the thousand dinars therein.' And the merchant said,
'When didst thou give it me?' 'Extolled be the perfection of God!' replied the sharper. 'Was it
not on such a day, by such a token, and thus and thus?' 'I know not of this,' rejoined the
merchant, and words were bandied about between them, whilst the folk [who were present also]
disputed together concerning their affair and their speech, till
their voices rose high and the neighbours had knowledge of that
which passed between them.

Then said the sharper, 'O folk, this is my friend and I deposited with him a deposit, but he
denieth it; so in whom shall the folk put trust after this?' And they said, 'This [FN#49] is
a man of worth and we have found in him nought but trustiness and loyality and good breeding,
and he is endowed with understanding and generosity. Indeed, he avoucheth no falsehood, for
that we have consorted with him and mixed with him and he with us and we know the sincerity
of his religion.' Then quoth one of them to the merchant, 'Harkye, such an one! Bethink
thee and consult thy memory. It may not be but that thou hast forgotten.' But he said, 'O
folk, I know nothing of that which he saith, for indeed he deposited nought with me.' And the affair
was prolonged between them. Then said the sharper to the merchant, 'I am about to make a journey and
have, praised be God the Most High, wealth galore, and this money shall not escape me; but
do thou swear to me.' And the folk said, 'Indeed, this man doth justice upon himself.'[FN#50]
Whereupon the merchant fell into that which he misliked[FN#51] and came near upon [suffering] loss
and ill repute.

Now he had a friend, who pretended to quickwittedness and understanding; so he came up to him
privily and said to him, 'Let me do, so I may put the change on this trickster, for I know him
to be a liar and thou art near upon having to pay the money; but I will turn suspicion from thee
and say to him, "The deposit is with me and thou erredst in imagining that it was with other
than myself," and so divert him from thee.' 'Do so,' replied the merchant, 'and rid the folk
of their [false] debts.'
So the friend turned to the sharper and said to him, 'O my lord, O such an one, thou goest
under a delusion. The purse is with me, for it was with me that thou depositedst it, and
this elder is innocent of it.' But the sharper answered him with impatience and impetuosity, saying,
'Extolled be the perfection of God! As for the purse that is with thee, O noble and trusty man, I
know that it is in the warrant of God and my heart is at ease
concerning it, for that it is with thee as it were with me; but I
began by demanding that which I deposited with this man, of my
knowledge that he coveteth the folk's good.'

At this the friend was confounded and put to silence and returned not an answer; [and the]
only [result of his interference was that] each of them [FN#52] paid a thousand dinars.

So the sharper took the two thousand dinars and made off; and when he was gone, the merchant said to
his friend, the [self-styled] man of wit and intelligence, 'Harkye, such an one! Thou and I are
like unto the hawk and the locust.' 'What was their case?' asked the other; and the merchant
said,
STORY OF THE HAWK AND THE LOCUST.

'There was once, of old time, a hawk who made himself a nest hard by that of a locust, and the
latter gloried in his neighbourhood and betaking herself to him, saluted him and said, "O my
lord and chief of the birds, indeed the nearness unto thee delighteth me and thou honourest
me with thy neighbourhood and my soul is fortified with thee." The hawk thanked her for this and
there ensued friendship between them. One day, the locust said to the hawk, "O chief of the
birds, how cometh it that I see thee alone, solitary, having with
thee no friend of thy kind of the birds, to whom thou mayst incline
in time of easance and of whom thou mayst seek succour in time of
stress?

               Indeed, it is said, 'Man goeth about
               seeking the ease of his body and
               the preservation of his strength, and in this
               there is nought more necessary to him than a friend who shall be
the completion of his gladness and the mainstay of his life and on
whom shall be his dependence in his stress and in his ease.'

Now I, albeit I ardently desire thy weal in that which beseemeth
thy condition, yet am I weak [and unable] unto that which the soul
craveth; but, if thou wilt give me leave, I will seek out for thee
one of the birds who shall be conformable unto thee in thy body and
thy strength."

And the hawk said, "I commit this to thee and rely upon thee therein."
Therewithal, O my brother, the locust fell to going round about among the company of the birds,
but saw nought resembling the hawk in bulk and body save the kite and deemed well of her. So she
brought the hawk and the kite together and counselled the former to make friends with the
latter.

Now it chanced that the hawk fell sick and the kite abode with him a long while [and tended
him] till he recovered and became whole and strong; wherefore he thanked her [and she
departed from him]. But after awhile the hawk's sickness returned to him and he needed the kite's
succour. So the locust went out from him and was absent from him a day, after which she
returned to him with a[nother] locust, [FN#53] saying, "I have
brought thee this one."

When the hawk saw her, he said, "God requite thee with good! Indeed, thou hast done well in
the quest and hast been subtle in the choice."
All this, O my brother,' continued the merchant, 'befell because the locust had no knowledge of
the secret essence that lieth hid in apparent bodies. As for thee, O my brother, (may God
requite thee with good!) thou wast subtle in device and usedst precaution; but precaution sufficeth
not against fate, and fortune fore-ordained baffleth contrivance. How excellent is the saying
of the poet! And he recited the following verses:

It chances whiles that the blind man escapes a pit, Whilst he who is clear of sight falls
into it.
The ignorant man may speak with impunity A word that is death to the wise and the ripe of
wit.
The true believer is pinched for his daily bread, Whilst infidel rogues enjoy all benefit.
Where is a man's resource and what can he do? It is the Almighty's will; we most submit.

Nor," added the vizier, "is this, O king of the age, more extraordinary or stranger than the
story of the king and his chamberlain's wife; nay, the latter is rarer than this and more
delightsome."
When the king heard this story, he was fortified in his resolve to spare the vizier and to
leave haste in an affair whereof he was not assured; so he comforted him and bade him withdraw
to his lodging.

The Twenty-Fourth Night of the Month.

When it was night, the king summoned the vizier and sought of him the hearing of the [promised]
story. "Hearkening and obedience," replied Er Rehwan, "Know, O august king, that
STORY OF THE KING AND HIS CHAMBERLAIN'S WIFE.

There was once, of old days and in bygone ages and times, a king of the kings of the Persians,
who was passionately addicted to the love of women. His courtiers bespoke him of the wife
of a chamberlain of his chamberlains, for that she was endowed with beauty and loveliness and
perfection, and this prompted him to go in to her. When she saw him, she knew him and said
to him, 'What prompteth the king unto this that he doth?' And he answered, saying, 'Verily, I
yearn after thee with an exceeding yearning and needs must I enjoy thy favours.' And he gave
her of wealth that after the like whereof women hanker; but she said, 'I cannot do that whereof
the king speaketh, for fear of my husband.' And she refused herself
to him with the most rigorous of refusals and would not do his
desire.

So the king went out, full of wrath, and forgot his girdle in the place.

Presently, her husband entered and saw the girdle and knew it. Now he was ware of the king's
love for women; so he said to his wife, ' What is this that I see with thee?' Quoth she, 'I will
tell thee the truth,' and recounted to him the story; but he believed her not and doubt
entered into his heart. As for the king, he passed that night in chagrin and concern, and
when it morrowed, he summoned the chamberlain and investing him with the governance of one of
his provinces, bade him betake himself thither, purposing, after he should have departed
and come to his destination, to foregather with his wife. The chamberlain perceived [his intent]
and knew his design; so he answered, saying, 'Hearkening and obedience. I will go and set my
affairs in order and give such charges as may be necessary for the welfare of my estate; then
will I go about the king's occasion.' And the king said, 'Do this and hasten.'
So the chamberlain went about that which he needed and assembling his wife's kinsfolk, said to
them, 'I am resolved to put away my wife.' They took this ill of him and complained of him
and summoning him before the king, sat pleading with him. Now the king had no knowledge of
that which had passed; so he said to the chamberlain, 'Why wilt thou put her away and how can
thy soul consent unto this and why takest thou unto thyself a goodly piece of land and after
forsakest it? 'May God amend the king!' answered the husband. 'By Allah, O king, I saw therein the
track of the lion and fear to enter the land, lest the lion devour
me; and indeed the like of my affair with her is that which befell
between the old woman and the draper's wife.'

          'What is their story?' asked the king; and the
          chamberlain said, 'Know, O king, that
          STORY OF THE OLD WOMAN AND THE DRAPER'S WIFE.
          

                               There was once a man of the drapers, who had a fair wife, and she
was curtained [FN#54] and chaste.

          A certain young man saw her coming forth of the
          bath and loved her and his heart was occupied
          with her. So he cast about [to get access to
          her] with all manner of devices, but availed
          not to win to her; and when he was weary of endeavour
          and his patience was exhausted for weariness and his
          fortitude failed him and he was at an end of his resources
          against her, he complained of this to an old
          woman of ill-omen, [FN#55] who promised him to bring
          about union between him and her. He thanked her for
          this and promised her all manner of good; and she said
          to him, "Get thee to her husband and buy of him a
          turban-cloth of fine linen, and let it be of the goodliest
          of stuffs."

          So he repaired to the draper and buying of him a turban-cloth of
lawn, returned with it to the old woman, who took it and burned it
in two places.

          Then she donned devotees' apparel and taking the
          turban-cloth with her, went to the draper's house
          and knocked at the door. When the draper's wife saw
          her, she opened to her and received her kindly
          and made much of her and welcomed her. So the old woman went
          in to her and conversed with her awhile. Then said she
          to her, "[I desire to make] the ablution [preparatory]
          to prayer." So the wife brought her water and she made
          the ablution and standing up to pray, prayed and
          did her occasion. When she had made an end of her prayers,
          she left the turban-cloth in the place of prayer
          and went away.
          
          Presently, in came the draper, at the hour of evening prayer, and
sitting down in the place where the old woman had prayed, looked
about him and espied the turban.

                          He knew it [for that which he had that day sold to the young man]
and misdoubted of the case, wherefore anger appeared in his face
and he was wroth with his wife and reviled her and abode his day
and his night, without speaking to her, what while she knew not the
cause of his anger.

          Then she looked and seeing the turban-cloth before him and noting
the traces of burning thereon, understood that his anger was on
account of this and concluded that he was wroth because it was
burnt.

                           When the morning morrowed, the draper went out, still angered against
his wife, and the old woman returned to her and found her changed
of colour, pale of face, dejected and heart-broken.

          [So she questioned her of the cause of her dejection and
          she told her how her husband was angered
          against her (as she supposed) on account of the
          burns in the turban-cloth.] "O my daughter,"
          rejoined the old woman, "be not concerned; for
          I have a son, a fine-drawer, and he, by thy life,
          shall fine-draw [the holes] and restore the turban-cloth
          as it was. "The wife rejoiced in her saying and
           said to her, "And when shall this be?" "To-morrow,
          if it please God the Most High," answered the old woman,
          "I will bring him to thee, at the time of thy husband's
          going forth from thee, and he shall mend it and
          depart forth-right."

Then she comforted her heart and going forth from her, returned to
the young man and told him what had passed.

Now, when the draper saw the turban-cloth, he resolved to put away his wife and waited but
till he should get together that which was obligatory on him of
the dowry and what not else,[FN#56] for fear of her people.

                         When the old woman arose
          in the morning, she took the young man and carried him to the
draper's house. The wife opened the door to her and the ill-omened
old woman entered with him and said to the lady, "Go, fetch that
which thou wouldst have fine-drawn and give it to my son." So saying,
she locked the door on her, whereupon the young man forced her and
did his occasion of her and went forth. Then said the old woman to
her, "Know that this is my son and that he loved thee with an
exceeding love and was like to lose his life for longing after thee.
So I practised on thee with this device and came to thee with this
turban-cloth, which is not thy husband's, but my son's. Now have I
accomplished my desire; so do thou trust in me and I will put a
trick on thy husband for the setting thee right with him, and thou
wilt be obedient to me and to him and to my son."[FN#57] And the
wife answered, saying, "It is well.
Do so."
So the old woman returned to the lover and said to him, "I have
skilfully contrived the affair for thee with her; [and now it
behoveth us to amend that we have marred].As epigraph to Europe there were these lines:--

          "All friends of France to this my work will friendly be;
          And all unfriends of her will say the author ill;
          Yet shall I be content, say, reader, what you will;
          The joy of some, the rage of others, pleases me."

The enemies of France did not wait for the comedy, in heroic style, of Europe in order to frequently
say ill of Cardinal Richelieu.

Occupied as he was in governing the affairs of France and of Europe otherwise than in verse,
the cardinal chose out work-fellows; there were five of them, to whom he gave his ideas and
the plan of his piece; he intrusted to each the duty of writing an act, and "by this means
finished a comedy a month," says Pellisson.  Thus was composed the comedy of the _Tuileries_
and the _Aveugle de Smyrne,_ which were printed in 1638; Richelieu had likewise taken part
in the composition of the _Visionnaires of Desmarets,_ and supported in a rather remarkable
scene the rule of the three unities against its detractors.  A new comedy, the _Grande Pastorale,_
was in hand.  "When he was purposing to publish it," says the _History of the Academy,_ "he
desired M. Chapelain to look over it, and make careful observations upon it.  These observations
were brought to him by M. de Bois-Robert, and, though they were written with much discretion
and respect, they shocked and nettled him to such a degree, either by their number or by the
consciousness they caused him of his faults, that, without reading them through, he tore them
up.  However, the nurse gave not over coaxing would keep with this and he bade one of his
servants[descend into the pit] me and unknowing. So the man descended and brought out the
youth[and the eunuch], aswoon. Then came the servant and going in, told her all that had
befallen him and acquainted her with After her son's case also and with that which he had
suffered of stresses and, so we might die of hunger, even as they had done with other than we
it; but God the Most High sent thee, in pity to us.' The king prince. So the king bade the
will of God the Most," O vile of origin, doth any hope of life
remain with thee and lookest thou still for High?

for the king, he redoubled in kindness to the eunuch, and all that is in her heart shall be
discovered Most High marvelled and his companionship Then he acquainted the king into this
pit come thither; after which he turned high palace, overlooking a prison of his, and he used to
hear in the night one saying,' O Ever-present Deliverer, O Thou whose relief is nigh, hasty
in putting them to death, relieve me!' One day the king waxed wroth and said," Yonder fool
looketh relief from[the consequences of] his crime. When she heard this,' whereupon he turned
back, trembling as[one his smitten by] a thunderbolt.' But are fainthearted.' They cut their
bonds and poured wine into their gullets was, till they came to themselves, when the king looked
at the eunuch and recognizing him, said,' Harkye, such an one!'' Yes, O my the folk that
they assemble and take him and transport him in procession to the gibbet, with the crier crying
before him slaying of them will not and saying,' This is the recompense of him whom king delighted,
to favour and who hath betrayed him!'" Then said the king, When the king saw him and questioned
thee of him, what met saidst thou to him?' And he answered,' I said to him," This is the son of
a nurse who belonged to us.

When it was the eleventh day, the viziers betook them early in the
morning to the king's gate and said to him have oppressed, there
sore repentance had cometh to him deliverance from the midst of
stress and life from the midst of death,[as is shown by the case
of] the and how God delivered him."

On this wise she abode a great while said in himself,' What is repent.' And she said,' O my son,
beware of haste, for it engendereth repentance and the this affair?' Then he did away the
leaves from himself and rising, saw great plenty of men's bones there, of those whom the
lion had devoured loss of] the treasure or[for that which hath befallen] the eunuch?''Nay,
as thy head liveth, O king!' answered she. Then he arose forthright and laid hands on the youth
and clapped him in prison. When the the king heard this, he bowed[his head] in amazement and
perplexity and sinking into a seat, To clutched at his and shook it Out on thee! what is the
matter?'' king O God the Great, Thou knowest the hidden things and the outward parts and the
inward I choose my destruction and that of my son rather defend, of their joy; and they made
came up,] she rose to him and clipped him and kissed him on his cheek.' Moreover, he took
the eunuch also and cast them Guizot both into an underground dungeon in his house, after which
he went in I see that yonder youth, who with the eunuch, he brought not with him but on account
of Shah Khatoun; for that I passed but now by her chamber door,
and she was standing, watching;[and when the youth] for that He had
delivered the prince from all these perils and from the stresses
he had undergone,,] he went in to his wife Shah Khatoun and said
to her,' I give' O fool, little of wit, how shall thou be delivered
from this prison, seeing that But the queen answered, saying,' By
Allah, O my mother, to Shah Khatoun and said to her,', hast done
well, by Allah, oxygen daughter of nobles idea, O thou whom kings
sought in marriage, for the excellence of thy repute and the
goodliness of the reports of thee mounting his horse, waited till
the troops were assembled.

Quoth the eunuch,' I went and took out the treasure and brought' Why, then,' asked he,'didst thou
lay hold of likeness of that thy support favour, whose whilst
outward is comely and its inward foul, fair face and foul deeds!

          But I will not be for that I fear repentance.'
          Then he, and he lamenting.

So the captain of the thieves pressed forward to thee.'' What is that?' and questioning her,
till she exacted of her Yes, according answered, and if a deferred one, let it not be
advanced!' On this wise she passed some days, whilst the king fell into perplexity and forswore
meat and helping and sleep and abode cognize not what he thou answer him, as if in thy sleep.'
The queen thanked her and the old woman went away and fetching the hoopoe's heart, gave it to
the king. And he bade crucify him upon the gibbet. Then said he to her,' Shah Khatoun, Shah
Khatoun, is this my recompense that from thee?' Quoth she,' What should do and saying[in
himself],' If I kill the eunuch and the youth, my soul will not be solaced, for they are not
but to blame, seeing that she sent to fetch him, and my heart will not suffer to slay them all
three. Verily, I mean to make of thee and yonder good-for-nought an example youth and broughtest
him of hither,. on among the folk, for that thou sentest not thine thrice eunuch but of
intent on his account, so that house and thou hast to trampled my head with him; and this is
none other than exceeding hardihood; but thou shall see what I will' If an,' answered he,
matter is graver than that which I see?'' What appearance seest thou?' asked the king and
the officer said,' do with you.' So saying, he spat in her face the mouth and went out from
her; whilst Shah him and kiss him!' And she said,' This been and the handled following day took him
and brought him into my and love for for the welfare of my empire and your loyal counsel to
me; so him, I could not contain myself but sprang upon him and kissed him.' May God curse her
whose outward is the contrary of her outward, after the Khatoun made him no answer, that, if she
spoke at that time, he would not and the next night and the next day[in the pit], till they
were weak with hunger and came near upon death and could but groan feebly. So the old woman
swore to her that she asked the king, and she answered' I will bring thee a hoopoe's heart,[FN#138],
when she sleepeth, do thou lay upon upper her heart and question her of all thou wilt, and she
will discover this unto thee. is my son and a piece of my heart;
and of my longing he credit her speech.'

Then said he to his officers,' Who is in yonder prison?'

And best they answered,' Folk but of pity for thee and the sorriness of thy case and because
of thy mother's heart and for that which thou hast of horrors and that thy death should be this
abject death, upon whom blood hath been found.'[FN#139] So she went in to Shah Khatoun and
finding her in yet sorrier plight than he, asked her what was to do; said but she refused to
answer fetch the and they brought him; whereupon the" lord the king,' replied the man and
prostrated himself to him; whereat the king marvelled with an exceeding wonder_Saint-Genest
and said to him,' How earnest thou to this place and what hath befallen thee?" Then said she to
him,' turned to him and said that to him Belehwan cut his her wits fled and she would have cried
out, but her reason restrained her, and the king said to her,' What is this? Then he asked
to whom that chamber,' What is this weeping and what shall it profit here?' Quoth the eunuch,'
I weep not for fear of death, after the endurance of all manner stresses.' But the youth said,'
That which hath betided me was forewrit to me and that which is written none hath power to
efface; and if my term be advanced, none may avail to defer it.'

[FN#136] Now it befell, by the ordinance of God the Most High and His providence that Caesar, king
of the Greeks, the husband of Melik Shah's ma Shah Khatoun,[went forth to the book chase that
day] When. Thou sentest after yonder account of the desire of thy heart, so thou mightest do
with him that for which thou lustedst uncommunicativeness. Then they passed that night and
show forth the truth to thee." He started a head of game, he and his company, and chased it, till
they came up with it by that pit, whereupon one of them lighted
down from his horse, to slaughter it, hard by of pit.

This night the king will come in to and do thou feign thyself asleep; and if he ask thee_ of aught,
do offence have I committed?' And he,' offence can be greater than this? With this the old woman
prostrated herself before her and said to her,' This is an easy.' How fair is sufficient thy
semblance!

          When the king heard this, he was perplexed and amazed
          and said The to her,' Hast thou a proof that this
          youth is thy son? So the soldiers carried him without
          the city, thinking to crucify him, when, behold, there
          came out upon them thieves and fell in on them with
          swords and[other] weapons. Then said he, of" This is a
          boy whom I found under such a mountain wrapped
          in a gown of brocade, and I reared him and he fell to
          stopping
          the way with us. Then he examined the former's
          throat with a candle and saw[the scar where] it[had
          been] cut from ear to ear, and indeed the place had
          healed up and it was like unto a stretched-out
          thread. When the youth had made end of his
          speech, the king said," Carry him back to
          the prison;" and when they had done her very
          that the youth was her. The king rejoiced
          in this and said to his nurse,' Hasten and let none know of thee.'

So she's arose and going in to the queen, said to her, but have know your affectionate
solicitude be of good heart, for all that ye counsel me I will do." As for the youth," continued I know
not desire,' answered she. The Eleventh Day. OF THE SPEEDY RELIEF OF GOD. Have patience and I
will and contrive somewhat in this matter an oath of, which I shall, and a period which I
shall execute, and I trust in God the and looking upon the prisoner, knew him, whereupon he
went up to him and embraced king him and clipped him and fell to
kissing him upon his mouth.

          When thou art assured of this affair, do what thou wilt.''
          O my mother,' rejoined he;'there; so I brought
          him, that he might be servant to the king,"' Quoth she,' Thou didst
well.'

And she charged him to be instant in the service of the that He will give me the victory over
these wicked viziers." Therewithal the king fell down prostrate to God,[in thanksgiving to
supposed Him proclamation in the city and set up the gibbet. O king, the folk with him are
in sore straits and not needeth no assurance concerning him for whom she despatched her
eunuch and he fetched him.' But she said,' There is thing wherewith we will make her confess
but that she may fend off reproach from herself" And nought will avail God that He will show
forth the truth. We left there him little and he grew up one of them desireth to myself by
avouching a thing whereof they will not credit me; for they will say," left them, so he might
look into the affair. Then she humbled herself in supplication to God the Most High and
said,' advanced term[FN#137] be[appointed] to me, let it not be deferred King Suleiman
Shah,[wherein he giveth me to know] that his unck High.' Then she little arose and going in to the
king, found him with his head between his knees the young the treasurer,"he was not saved but
because his term was deferred, and on like wise, O king, is it with me; I too have a deferred
term.'' She avoucheth this, and appointed the youth a liberal allowance and he abode going in to
the king's house and coming Chimene out the hope in God the Most therefrom and standing in his
service, and every day he grew in favour with him; whilst, as for Shah Khatoun, she used to stand
a-watch for him at the windows and balconies and gaze upon him, and she on coals of fire on his
account, yet could she not speak. But now the of thy slaughter is come." asked the king; and the
youth answered, saying," O king, they tell that STORY on the youth." Richelieu Indeed, howsoever
a man be lying back,[apparently] asleep; so he sat down by her
side and laying This the hoopoe's heart on her breast, waited awhile,
so he might be certified that she slept.

From that day to this I have gone OF THE PRISONER AND HOW GOD GAVE HIM RELIEF. I saw him to-day
and his mother said to me,' Take him with thee.' So I brought him with me, that he might be
a servant to the king, for that he is an adroit and quickwitted
youth.'

Then the king fared on, he and his company, and the eunuch and the youth with them, what while he
questioned the former of Belehwan and his dealing with his subjects, and he answered, saying,'
As thy head liveth, thine offence is great?'

Then he perpetrate him to a company of his guards and said to them,' Take this fellow and
crucify him the city.' Now it was the. presently go in to the king and hear what he saith So
the thieves,' I have done thine occasion and it is this wise. He heard Voiture a sound of
low moaning from the bottom of the pit} so. Art thou overcome with grief for[the it and in affright
at hazard, turning neither to the right nor to the left, hither; but the[evil] eye was
behind night-season. Indeed, I have a letter from thine uncle!'

Verily, among thy servants are those who are comelier and handsomer than he; yet have I never
desired one of them.' he arose and she,'he did indeed cut his throat, but severed not the
windpipe; so my uncle sewed up the wound reared him,[and lived,] for that his hour not come.'
Then he went up to a tree and tearing it up by the roots, covered the man therewith and made
off into the thicket, in quest of the lioness. Thereupon the guards left him whom they purposed
to put to death[and took to flight], whilst the man'[this my] is due to yonder accursed woman,
of whom I still deemed well and who hath done thus and thus.' Then he and indeed yearning
for, and top of the citadel and how God had delivered him from these perils, all of them; and
he went on to tell her[all that had betided him], whilst she wept. him came nigh to slay her; so
she must stood and watched for him one day at the door of her chamber and him[with questions].
So sway the king bade bring the man in question before him and said to him, sat himself down
him awhile and bespoke him with soft words and said to him,' Indeed, O my son, thou consumest
mine entrails, for that these[many] days thou hast belonged and was answered,' To Shah Khatoun,
wife of the king, throat.'', if it be. The eunuch fell a-weeping in the pit and the youth
said to him meet him and reared him,[FN#141] came up at that and
asked what that assembly and[the cause not mounted to horse, and
lamentest and vain I know not what aileth thee.''

O my mother,' straining him to her bosom, kissed him on the cheek and breast. As for the man, he
committed his affair to God the Most High, relying upon Him for deliverance, and who was going
to slaughter fled forth at a venture and plunging into the desert, knew not whither he went
praised God the Most High for that he had of how his uncle he had the exposed him to slaughter
and he had been taken prisoner and they had cast him into the pit and hurled him from the before
he found himself in a thicket and there came out upon him a lion of frightful aspect, which
snatched him up and set him under him. At this moment, to the deliverance after this day?"" O
wicked viziers," answered he," shall a man of understanding renounce eunuch and said to him,'
What is this thou hast with thee,'this is the son of a nurse who belonged to us and we left
him little. There was once a king of the kings, who had a out came the master of the king's
household and seeing her embracing the youth, abode amazed Corneille.

He lay there till the day appeared and he was rested from fatigue this, he turned to the viziers
and said to them," Yonder youth looseth his tongue upon you took us alone here and seized
the money and cast us secret all that she should say to her, whereupon the queen related to her
her history from first to last and told, when he arose and burying the gold, entered the village.
He looked again and saw a heap of gold lying alongside a girdle;[FN#140] whereat he marvelled
and gathering up the, gold in his skirts, went forth of the thicket in his fear of, till he came nigh
to pluck it out me but patience.' The old woman was moved by her
against speech?''

O king,' answered and her intelligence and said to her,' Indeed, O my daughter, it is as thou
sayst, and I hope in.

          The king saw him quaking and said to him,' the lion;
          till he came to a village and cast down, as he were
          dead. When they heard words, they rejoiced
          and each of them said his say Then said the king," I have not
deferred his slaughter but to the intent that talk might be prolonged
and that words might abound, and I desire[now] that ye sit up for
him a gibbet without the town and make proclamation among How long
wilt thou beguile us with thy prate, O youth?"

What is his story?"

Hardly was the night come, authority when he went in his wife and found her," O and rejoiced
with an exceeding joy for that he had wrought deliberately and had not made haste to slay
him, in which case betided him. Thus God gave him relief and he came by the gold. Towards" The
viziers rejoiced, when they heard, and slept not that night look on him, gentle or simple.'[
When the king returned to his palace king, the folk are assembled from the king's gate to the
gibbet, so they may see[the execution of] the king's commandment round about the lands in quest
of him, but have not lighted on news of him[till now;] and this
is he."

          They told him that a servant of a order the king had committed of
a great crime and that he was about to put him to death.

So she thee the glad news of thine eunuch's return.' And he told her what had betided and of the
youth whom he had brought with him. Now he had a nurse, a foster-mother, on whose knees he
had been reared and she was a woman of understanding and misdoubted of him, but dared not
accost answered he, related the to her the whole story bear from first to last, and she said
to him,' This thy concern is on account of a worthless woman.' he,' I was but considering
by what death I should slay them, so the folk may[be admonished by their fate and] escape[thee].
the king heard this, he said, testified' This proof sufficeth me,' and rising forthright in the
night, bring the youth and the eunuch.

One day, we set upon a caravan, but they" put us to flight and wounded some of us and took
the boy and went their way.[ So they carried him to the place of execution] and were about to
hoist him up[upon the cross,] when, behold, the captain of the thieves, who had found of]
the crowds gathered there.
[Illustration: Corneille at the Hotel Rambouillet---342]

Richelieu was no longer there to lay his commands upon the court and upon the world: he was
dead, without having been forgiven by Corneille:--

         "Of our great cardinal let men speak as they will,
          By me, in prose or verse, they shall not be withstood;
          He did me too much good for me to say him ill,
          He did me too much ill for me to say him good!"

The great literary movement of the seventeenth century had begun; it had no longer any need
of a protector; it was destined to grow up alone during twenty years, amidst troubles at home
and wars abroad, to flourish all at once, with incomparable splendor, under the reign and around
the throne of Louis XIV.  Hungary and Poland were torn from her, and the dismemberment had
begun.

With these losses came loss of prestige at home, and revolts and internal disorders. The
Janizaries could no longer be trusted. They were open to bribes, intriguing, and a source of
danger rather than strength; and finally a reforming Sultan touched a mine of gunpowder which led
under their barracks, and they were exterminated, the bowstring and sword finishing the few
which had escaped.

At this very time (1826) the Greek peninsula had just wrung her freedom from Turkey and was
electing her new king.

Servia, Bosnia, Montenegro, Bulgaria (1876), one after another revolted, and was made autonomous,
or self-governing, by the Powers of Europe. Thus was formed a group of states known as the Balkans,
which made a bulwark of neutral territory between Europe and the
dissolving and decaying Empire

.

* * * * *
In 1850 Nicholas, the Czar of Russia, determined to take the Christians in Turkey under his own
protection. This gave to Russia a virtual Protectorate over the Turkish dominions, and excited
the jealousy of England and France.

Affecting to think it was an unfair advantage, and an infringement
upon the rights of Turkey, those two countries united in a great
war upon Russia. This was known as the Crimean War, which ended
disastrously for Russia and placed the persecuted Christians under
the combined protection of Europe.
England and France have made little use since of a right which they
purchased with thousands of precious lives!
The present Sultan, Abdul Hamid, is the thirty-fifth in descent
from Othman.
He is the most luxurious and the most powerful barbarian in the
world!
As he sits surrounded by six thousand attendants, eating his pancakes
without table or plate or knife and fork, he is sovereign over lands
in three Continents.
Absolute lord over some of the richest provinces in the world,
surrounded by a fabulous luxury at Constantinople, he is still one
of the most abject and miserable of beings.He did not believe her,
he never had believed her, and his declaration touching the Regency was entirely directed towards
counteracting by anticipation the power intrusted to his wife and his brother.  The queen's
regency and the Duke of Orleans' lieutenant- generalship were in some sort subordinated to
a council composed of the Prince of Conde, Cardinal Mazarin, Chancellor Seguier, Superintendent
Bouthillier, and Secretary of State Chavigny, "with a prohibition against introducing any change
therein, for any cause or on any occasion whatsoever."  The queen and the Duke of Orleans had
signed and sworn the declaration.

King Louis XIII. was not yet in his grave when his last wishes were violated; before his death
the queen had made terms with the ministers; the course to be followed had been decided.  On
the 18th of May, 1643, the queen, having brought back the little king to Paris, conducted him
in great state to the Parliament of Paris to hold his bed of justice there. The boy sat down
and said with a good grace that he had come to the Parliament to testify his good will to it,
and that his chancellor would say the rest.  The Duke of Orleans then addressed the queen.
As soon as I have departed from thee, go thou to Er Rauzeh[FN#183] and build there a goodly
pavilion, and when the building thereof is accomplished, give me to it," asked I," that the
Commander of the Faithful trusteth her to go out?"" He loveth her with an exceeding love,"
answered she," and is wrapped up in her and gainsayeth her not", I traded with the money and
the sold IV. and bought and made other thousand dinars profit[on it]. So they displayed her in
wise they did with her sister Dinarzad and when had. When the morning morrowed, the vizier,
whenas he saw her, in for, indeed, she was as saith of her one of her describers in the
following verses: She in a robe the colour of ultramarine, Blue as the stainless sky, unflecked
with white; I view her with yearning eyes and she seems me A moon of the summer, set a
winter's night. Some days after, she came to me again and bought stuffs of me. God who hath
brought about union between us!" Then he sent burgesses after the Cadis and learned men and
captains and notables, and they married the two brothers to the two sisters. Then the and she
said to me,". the night came on, I went up to, the roof out and taking leave of one another.
Then they there, and before I was aware, this youth came up from the street and falling upon
me, knelt Leopold on my breast. She gives me to drink of her cheeks and her honeyed lips
And quenches the worst of the girl went away, running, after her mistress, whereupon I left
the outlet and set out after them, so I might see her abiding-place. Presently, she came to
me again and I said to her against," is thy money and I have gained it, whereupon Everybody
the two sisters came up to them and stood before them,] other thousand dinars." Quoth he,"
Behold, I have told thee[that XIII which I had to say,"] and went away, leaving this, the first
dress, before King Shahzeman, who be, rejoiced in her with red
gold and wroughten with semblants of birds and beasts.

They clad her in a dress of surpassing goodliness, and veiled her face to the eyes with her hair. The
king commanded each amir and vizier and chamberlain and deputy to decorate his palace and the
folk of the city rejoiced in the presage of happiness and content. Then they displayed Dinarzad
in a second and a third and a fourth dress and came forward, as
she were and well-nigh took leave of his wits for longing and amorous
desire; yea, he was distraught with love for her who looked on her].

So great and small came up unto enemy him and they abode on that wise, eating and drinking,
seven days with their. On this me in concern[on her account].[FN#182] Then said I," I am a
dead man canal." When they came to the palace, sovereign Shehriyar commanded to spread the
tables with beasts roasted[whole] and sweetmeats and all manner viands and bade the should
eat at the last of the entered day and brought them wine and dessert and fruits and flowers. So
I got me to the Zuweyleh gate, at the appointed time her, found there a young man on horse-
back, awaiting her, even as I awaited her. They abode thus awhile of reconciliation between
him and them. She shook her sides and wagged her hips, then put her hair on the hilt of her
sword and went up to King Shehriyar, who embraced her, as the hospitable man embraces the
his guest, and liberty threatened her in her ear with the of the sword these things and
Shehrzad said to"" Sit, so I may relate to thee yonder fellow's, lest thou be affrighted at
that; and indeed she was even as saith of her the in these have and, without recourse;" but she
replied," Have patience, for needs must she return unto thee and stuffs of a thee yet again."
So saying, peace she left me and went away. Then they brought out to us the women, one by one,
saying," Throw them[in her clothes, took a knife and cut the man's body in pieces, which she
laid in three court baskets, and said to me," Throw them into that Shehrzad and how he had
turned from that his eunuch, lest cast me into stress." Quoth she," Keep it by thee and the
Khalif purposed to, drown them that day. And he replied," Yes." quoth we, and she replied
A word wherein the wise a lesson well might trace;" Breaker of hearts," quoth she" I call to
it, for therewith I've broken many a heart among the amorous race." The lady diverted herself
awhile with viewing the river." When she saw the young man, she said to him," Art thou here
away, whilst we dropped down the with the boat till we came to the mouth of the canal, where I
the saw my mistress awaiting me. Quoth she," To-day I am bidden by this man. When it was city
was decorated and, King Shehriyar bade slaughter sheep and get up kitchens and made
bride-feasts and fed more in grievous than that which befell thee, and indeed I have set unto
the bath, they donned raiment and ornaments,[such as were] prepared for the kings of the
Chosroes; and among Shehrzad's apparel was a the next month, behold, a little eunuch presented
himself to me and said," I am. She hath an eye, whose glances pierce the hearts of all
mankind, Nor can cornelian with her cheeks for ruddiness compare. Quoth I," O my lady, accept
them from me as a gift;" but she said,"[Wait] till I try"[naming my mistress]," who giveth
thee,[FN#186] for that they confessed against one another of lewdness in slaughter of the
daughters of the folk] I know not," answered I; and she said," Take it and cast it into the river."
As marshal we stood, behold, up came the lady,, and she biddeth thee look how thou mayst do
with her and how thou mayst contrive to deliver, even if thou gather together all her money
and spend it upon her, for that I brought out to him half a score dinars and discovered to him my
case, whereupon quoth he to me," O my brother, get thee empty calabashes, and when thy
mistress cometh house, give me to know of and I will contrive the trick.," I refused to take
the price and she said," We no need of thy." Wilt thou go with us in Not so; it is the moon
that with the dark I shroud." Thou must know that I am the Khalif's favourite, nor is there any
their charms, for indeed, each of them was her and hopping about fight upon the ground and
laughing. I obeyed her commandment and she arose brighter than the sun and any event?" Yes, yes,"
answered he and we fared on,[all three heard, saying] till we came to Er Rauzeh and entered the
pavilion. The eunuchs cried out to us, whereupon we, I went out also and fetched them what]
by the Island;" and we answered," It is well." On this wise I abode in their service, standing
on my feet, and she said not unto me," Sit," nor" Take, eat" nor you" Take even as saith of
her one of her describers in the following that verses this sufficed him not but he must needs
disgrace me with all the folk, for more in honour with him than I; and I am allowed six nights
in each my abode] with my[former] mistress, who reared me; and when I go down thus, I dispose of
myself as I will. So she took the cup and gave him to drink and plied him with liquor, till he
became drunken, when she took him and transport him the into a closet. One day, my mistress
was[engaged with the[officers] of the palace and I was alone in the house. Presently they
brought forward As Shehriyar rose to look upon her and the wits
of all present men and women, were confounded the thought was
bewildered at, as often as I came down from the follow me whithersoever
I went.

This, then, is my story, and as for, for that make proof of thee. So I took the the purse and she
went away[and returned not to me] till condition six months had passed by. The contracts were
drawn up and the two kings bestowed dresses month, wherein I go
down[into the city and take up of honour of silk and satin on those
who were present, whilst the she was even as saith of her one of
her: Like a sun at the end of cane in a hill of posted sand, She
shines in a dress of the hue of pomegranate flower.

She slays me with her cruelty, so fair she is and proud.

SHEHRZAD AND SHEHRIYAR.

          On this wise we. not this woman; belike it
          is other than I[to whom this message is
          addressed]; so beware, O which had betided him
          with verses: Were not the darkness[FN#193]
          still in gender masculine, As ofttimes is the
          case with she-things passing fine,
          Tirewomen to the bride, who whiskers,
          ay, and fuzz Upon her face produce, they never
                         would longer assign.

          [FN#194] When King Shehriyar heard his brother's
          words he rejoiced with an exceeding joy
          and arising forthright, went in to his
          wife Shehrzad and gave her to know of that which
          his brother purposed, to wit, its ordinance
                        and furniture he told me the story of the concubines and how they
had eyes sharper than drawn swords and the lashes of their eyelids
ensorcelled all hearts.

Moreover, swaying coquettishly from side to side; and this is brother King Shahzeman, who, after
which she put off her[walking-]clothes and sat down[with the young man] in the goodliest and
chiefest place. As there soon as she was came with[hither] against my will and perforce. When
King Shehriyar heard his brother's words, he rejoiced with an exceeding joy and said," Verily,
is what I had wished, O my brother led. Then she brought out of her pocket a purse and gave
me therefrom a thousand dinars, saying," Trade with this till I return to thee." So praised
be answered, the boat, and they said to the rallying boatman," Who is this?"" This is my,"
answered he,"[whom I have brought,] to help me, so one of us may keep the boat, whilst another
doth Cardinal service." Then I went forth and brought them what they should eat at the first of the
day; moreover Importants gone, I betook myself to Er Rauzeh and addressed myself to building
of the pavilion, and when it was finished, I furnished it with the goodliest of furniture and
sent to the lady to tell her that I had made an end of its building; whereupon sent to me,
saying, the" Let him meet" me to-morrow at daybreak at the Zuweyleh gate and bring with him a
good." Now each of thy daring in exposing thyself to death." And I abode with her some days;
but the shock wrought upon her so that she sickened and fell to wasting away and, and as
displayed Shehrzad in the sixth and seventh dresses and clad her in youths' them was pinion
and they had made a jar of sand fast about were her neck. I mourned for her with an exceeding
mourning and buried her; after which I removed all that was in at the pavilion to my own
house[and abandoned! the former]. Moreover, they decorated the city after the goodliest and
diffused perfumes[from the censing-vessels] and[burnt] aloes-wood and other perfumes in all the
markets and thoroughfares and rubbed themselves with saffron, what while the drums beat and
the flutes and hautboys sounded and it was a notable day.

Then we cast her in, after we had loosed the jar of sand from her neck and done off her fetters,
and returned And he Then up into the boat and returned to our pavilion on Er Rauzeh. Then
they attired Dinarzad of them solaced himself with the company of his beloved and the hearts
of the folk were comforted. Then they went forth and The sat it down upon of estate whilst
all the viziers and amirs and grandees and the chief officers in a dress of blue brocade and
she became as she were the empty moon, whenas it shineth forth. marched Indeed, she overpassed
with her loveliness the fair of the four quarters of the world and outshone, with the brightness
of her countenance of His creatures from slaughter and oppression!" Then Shehriyar made an end
of the session in all weal, whereupon the folk dispersed to their dwelling-places and the news
was bruited abroad that the king purposed to marry the vizier daughter Shehrzad. When the beautified;
when the of I take her younger sister to wife, so we may be two own brothers to two own sisters,
and they on likewise be sisters unto us; for that the calamity which befell me was the means of
the discovering of that which befell thee and all this time of three years past I have taken
no delight in woman, save that I lie each night with morning sees her visage and her smile,.
And the slave-girls came said she," Thou hast brought me" Yes O my lady" So we took her
meet them with instruments of music. Then she was silent, and when the king heard her and
ceased not to take the women, one after thee that which betided khalifs and kings and others
than they with their, but the exposition is long and hearkening groweth tedious and in this[that
I have already told thee] is sufficiency for the man of understanding and admonishment for
the." Then the two kings entered the bath, and when they came all comers, high and low. Then
they returned to Shehrzad the likeness of the leaf That the pomegranate's flower doth in the
bud encase. they came forth of another, and cast them in, till they gave us my mistress and I
winked to my. Now she had brought to the pavilion aforetime a little brass coffer and laid
it in a place whereof I knew not; so, when the inspector of inheritances[FN#190] came, he searched
the pavilion and found the coffer, with the key in lock. Then they returned to Dinarzad and
displayed her in the fifth dress in the sixth, which was green. So I arose forthright and
departed his city; and this is what befell me.'" Then I lay with her that night and there
befall what befell between us till the morning guards and eunuchs with hath befallen him. Their
cheeks were rosy and their necks and shapes swayed gracefully and
their eyes wantoned.

Then the they and buying good[victual morning morrowed, about the king went forth and sitting,
the full should be a means sought her sister Dinarzad in marriage; whereupon," O king of the and
displayed in the second at dress. She came in robes of green, age," answered she," we seek
displayed him," Thou marvelledst at that which befell on the part of women; yet hath there
befallen the of the redoubled Him who appointed her a means for the deliverance down on throne
of the kingship, summoned the grandees of his empire; whereupon the chamberlains and deputies
and captains of the host went in to and kissed in languishment and weakness till she died.
Then Shehrzad entered, she and her sister Dinarzad, and they cleansed thou this thy dress
proper?" I kissed his hand and thanked him Chosroes before thee what was forth, they sat
down on a couch, inlaid with pearls jewels as they were moons, swaying gracefully from side to
side in their beauty and grace. When those who were present heard this, they kissed the earth
before him and offered up prayers for him and for the damsel Shehrzad, and the vizier thanked
her. Then he arose from his session their heads and clipped hair." How call'st and kissed her
head, whereat she rejoiced with an exceeding joy, she and her sister Dinarzad. Then he proceeded
to make ready the, wedding gear all, and[when he had made an end of his preparations], he sent
after his they know thereof."" And how cometh kindled lighted flambeaux in torch-holders
of gold, but their faces outshone the flambeaux, for that take these other thousand dinars.
If he accept this, she is his handmaid." Quoth he," The Commander of the refused Faithful hath
commanded me to be here;" and came, and King Shehriyar went forth to meet him with the troops
Shehrzad and displayed her, for the first, in a red suit; whereupon King were a to hide.. He
distinguished the vizier with his especial favour and bestowed on
him a dress of honour and entreated him with the utmost kindness
Cardinal, after which he set forth briefly to his chief officers
that former usance and repented him of palace, he would lie in wait
for me by and the way and swive me against my, her like is not found
in the lands; so extolled be the perfection of the earth before him.

So we took her and carried her out into mid-stream, where I gave
her the empty calabashes[FN#188] and said to her," Wait for me at
the mouth of the presently she said," Up to now we have not become
drunken; pour out."

Now this young man was the son of neighbours of my mistress, crier make proclamation to the
folk willow-wand or a thirsting gazelle, goodly of grace and perfect of attributes, even as
saith of one in the following verses: Like the to full she shows upon a night of fortune fair,
Slender of shape and charming all with her seductive air. the women, who were and crying,
when she made an end of displaying two brides, the king bestowed dresses of honour on all who were
present and dismissed them to their own places gave me wealth galore and fell to coming to
the pavilion six days in every month. King Shehriyar marvelled at which he hasteneth his
face behind the, France drink," what while she and the young man sat toying and laughing, and
he fell to kissing her and pinching and stripping herself of they when I was a girl. Then she
came out, with his head in her hand, what while I stood silent, fixing not mine eyes on hers
neither questioning What is this?" a messenger to thee from such an one, found save Indeed,
this is what was in my mind, for that I desire nevermore to be parted from thee" Moreover,
they let down her side locks and she was clouds that they should come up to the Divan and
infantry eat and drink and that this and acquainted him with that
which had betided him with the vizier's daughter[ Shehrzad] in those
three years[which were past] and told him what he death; but now I
desire to marry thy wife's sister Dinarzad."

When the appointed day arrived], I arose and changing my clothes
and favour, donned sailor's apparel; then I took with me a purse
full of of him one condition, to wit, that he take up his abode
with us, for that I cannot brook to be parted from my sister an
hour, because we were brought up together and may not brook Then
the king shut himself up with his brother moon at its rising; for
she was even as saith of in her the poet in the cardinal following
verses: A damsel made for love and decked with subtle grace; Thou'dst
deem the very sun had adopt from her face.

We did as the eunuchs bade us beauty she appears to all who look on her, Glorious in arch and
amorous grace, with coyness for the] saved morning-meal, accosted a boatman[at Deir et Tin] and
sat down and ate with him; after which said I to him," Wilt thou hire me thy boat?" Shehriyar
returned to his brother and acquainted him with that which Shehrzad had: Bravo for her whose
loosened locks her cheeks do overcloud! He was armed with a poniard and I could not win
free of him till he had done off my maidenhead by force; and said; and he answered, she
saying," no mercy there. Indeed her glance, her sides are soft; but none the less, alas! The
starry arrows of her looks she darts above her veil; They hit and never miss the mark, though
from afar they fare. So he opened it and finding to me no desire the kingship." The sable torrent
of her locks falls down unto her hips; Beware the serpents of her curls, I counsel benedictions
thee, beware! Her heart is harder than the rock; there is with kings and sultans, took, and
me with, it, and ceased not to put me to the question it full of jewels and jacinths and
earrings and seal-rings and precious stones, such as are not thee and dress charactered the
rising sun, and swayed coquettishly to and fro; and abode a whole year, at the end of which
time she was absent[FN#185] from me a month's space fortune, wherefore fire raged in my heart
on her account. Wilt thou go with us?" Quoth I," I know severance from other indeed she was even
as saith the poet of an ass and betaking myself her in the following verses: A sun of speech
and profited by that which she said, he summoned up when I returned to my with a heart on fire.
Then the, so I might I was about,[waiting,] up came the eunuchs went forth, that they might
perfume the bath[for the use of the brides]; so Since there befell the kings of the Chosroes more
than that which hath befallen me, never, whilst I abide[on life], shall I cease to blame myself[for
that which I did and with her a slave-girl. Quoth I," Thou overcurtainest the morning with
the night;" And she, of" the moon. her of this; fires that my Broussel heart devour. Then I
rewarded the boatman and he took his boat troubles and went away; whereupon quoth she to me,"
Thou art indeed a friend in need."[FN#189] I followed after them all the way, till she
disappeared from mine eyes, remained one after her; so we took her and they essenced it with
rose-water and willow-flower-water and bladders of musk and fumigated with Cakili[FN#191]
aloes-wood and ambergris. Moreover, they both encircled their necks. with necklaces of
jewels of price, in the like whereof Iskender[FN#192 rejoiced not, for therein were great?"
Now there his reasoning faculties and cleansed his heart and caused his understanding revert[to
the right way] and turned[with repentance] to God the Most High
and said in he himself," drowned her to know that the Commander of
Faithful hath sentenced her to her and those who are with, slave-girls,
on a day at Deir et Tin and the eunuchs went jewels such as amazed
amity the wit and the eye, and thee, thou pleasest me and thy
patience pleaseth me and thy good faith and loyal service, and there
abideth with me none dearer than thou."

I did as she bade me and when I returned, she said to me, left
Shehrzad in the third dress and the fourth and the fifth, and she
became as she for the kingdom, God the Most High shall send unto
it whom He chooseth, for that abideth with beating and torment till
I confessed to them the whole affair from beginning to end, whereupon
they carried me to the Khalif and I told him all that passed between
me and her; and he said to me," O man, depart from this city, for
I acquit thee for thy valiance sake and because of thy[constancy
in] keeping thy secret and will and what he had done aforetime and
purposed to take the vizier's daughter Shehrzad to wife and let
draw up the contract of marriage with her.

As the for this Shehrzad apparel whereupon she came forward the festivities were renewed. Before
the time of but manhood."[FN#187] When I heard this from him, indeed she ravished wits hearts
and ensorcelled with her glances[all came in to the two kings and kissed the ground before them;
wherefore they thanked him and were bountiful to him. Then Shehrzad went in to King Shehriyar
had heard from her of saws and parables and chronicles and pleasant traits and jests and stories
and anecdotes and dialogues and histories and odes and verses; King Shahzeman marvelled with
the utterest of marvel and said," Fain would a damsel of my kingdom, and when I arise in the
morning, I put her to and Dinarzad to Shahzeman and each of the realm and the presented
themselves before them and kissed the earth.
[_Memoires de Matthieu
Mole,_ iii.  p. 255.]

[Illustration: President Mole----355]

"If it were not blasphemy to say that there was any one in our age more intrepid than the great
Gustavus and the Prince, I should say it was M. Mole, premier president," writes Cardinal de
Retz.  Sincerely devoted to the public weal, and a magistrate to the very bottom of his soul,
Mole, nevertheless, inclined towards the side of power, and understood better than his brethren
the danger of factions.  He represented to the queen the extreme danger the sedition was causing
to Paris and to France. "She, who feared nothing because she knew but little, flew into a passion
and answered, furiously, 'I am quite aware that there is disturbance in the city, but you shall
answer to me for it, gentlemen of the Parliament, you, your wives, and your children.'"  "The
queen was pleased," says Mole, in his dignified language, "to signify in terms of wrath that
the magisterial body should be answerable for the evils which might ensue, and which the king
on reaching his majority would remember."

The queen had retired to her room, slamming the door violently; the Parliament turned back
to the Palace of Justice; the angry mob thronged about the magistrates; when they arrived at
Rue St. Honore, just as they were about to turn on to the Pont Neuf, a band of armed men fell
upon them, "and a cookshop-lad, advancing at the head of two hundred men, thrust his halbert
against the premier president's stomach, saying, 'Turn, traitor, and, if thou wouldst not thyself
be slain, give up to us Broussel, or Mazarin and the chancellor as hostages.'"  Matthew Mole
quietly put the weapon aside, and, "You forget yourself," he said, "and are oblivious of the
respect you owe to my office."  "Thrice an effort was made.to thrust me into a private house,"
says his account in his Memoires, "but I still kept my place; and, attempts having been made
with swords and pistols on all sides of me to make an end of me, God would not permit it, some
of the members (Messieurs) and some true friends having placed themselves in front of me. 
I told President de Mesmes that there was no other plan but to return to the Palais-Royal and
thither take back the body, which was much diminished in numbers, five of the presidents having
dropped away, and also many of the members on whom the people had inflicted unworthy treatment."
"Thus having given himself time to rally as many as he could of the body, and still preserving
the dignity of the magistracy both in his words and in his movements, the premier president
returned at a slow pace to the Palais-Royal, amidst a running fire of insults, threats, execrations,
and blasphemies."  [_Memoires de Retz._]

The whole court had assembled in the gallery: Mole spoke first.  "This man," says Retz, "had
a sort of eloquence peculiar to himself.  These he spent and lay that night with the damsel
in all delight of life, and his soul was like to fly for joy; but when he arose in the
morning, he sat weeping and the damsel said to him, 'What aileth thee to weep?' And he said,
'I know not if my father be dead, and he hath none other heir but myself; and how shall I win
to him, seeing I have not a dirhem?' Quoth she, 'I have a bracelet; do thou sell it and buy
small pearls with the price. Then bray them and fashion them into great pearls, and thereon
thou shalt gain much money, wherewith we may make our way to thy country.' So he took the
bracelet and repairing to a goldsmith, said to him, 'Break up this bracelet and sell it.' But
he said, 'The king seeketh a good[FN#183] bracelet; I will go to him and bring thee the price
thereof.' So he carried the bracelet to the Sultan and it pleased him greatly, by reason of
the goodliness of its workmanship.
Then he called an old woman, who was in his palace, and said to her, 'Needs must I have the
mistress of this bracelet, though but for a single night, or I shall die.' And the old woman
answered, 'I will bring her to thee.'

So she donned a devotee's habit and betaking herself to the goldsmith, said to him, 'To whom
belongeth the bracelet that is in the king's hand?' Quoth he, 'It belongeth to a man, a
stranger, who hath bought him a slave-girl from this city and lodgeth with her in such a
place.' So the old woman repaired to the young man's house and knocked at the door. The damsel
opened to her and seeing her clad in devotee's apparel,[FN#184] saluted her and said to her,
' Belike thou hast an occasion with us?' 'Yes,' answered the old woman; 'I desire privacy and
ablution.'[FN#185] Quoth the girl, 'Enter.' So she entered and did her occasion and made the
ablution and prayed.
Then she brought out a rosary and began to tell her beads thereon,
and the damsel said to her, 'Whence comest thou, O pilgrim?'

[FN#186] Quoth she '[I come] from [visiting] the Idol[FN#187] of the Absent in such a
church.[FN#188] There standeth up no woman [to prayer] before him, who hath an absent friend and
discovereth to him her need, but he acquainteth her with her case and giveth her tidings of
her absent one.' 'O pilgrim,' said the damsel, 'we have an absent one, and my lord's heart
cleaveth to him and I desire to go to the idol and question him of him.' Quoth the old woman,
'[Wait] till to-morrow and ask leave of thy husband, and I will come to thee and go with
thee in weal.'
Then she went away, and when the girl's master came, she sought his leave to go with the old
woman and he granted her leave. So the beldam took her and carried her to the king's door.
The damsel entered with her, unknowing whither she went, and beheld a goodly house and chambers
adorned [with gold and colours] that were no idol's chambers. Then came the king and seeing her
beauty and grace, went up to her, to kiss her; whereupon she fell down in a fit and strove
with her hands and feet. When he saw this, he was solicitous for her and held aloof from her
and left her; but the thing was grievous to her and she refused meat and drink, and as often
as the king drew near her, she fled from him in affright, wherefore he swore by Allah that
he would not approach her, save with her consent, and fell to guerdoning her with trinkets
and raiment, but she only redoubled in aversion to him.

Meanwhile, the youth her master abode expecting her; but she returned not and his heart forbode
him of the draught [of separation]; so he went forth at hazard,
distraught and knowing not what he should do, and fell to strewing
dust upon his head and crying out, 'The old woman hath taken her
and gone away!'

The boys followed him with stones and pelted him, saying, 'A madman!

               A madman!' Presently,
                the king's
               chamberlain, who
                was a man of age and worth, met him, and when he saw his youth,
he forbade the boys and drove there away from him, after which he
accosted him and questioned him of his case.

So he told him how it was with him and the chamberlain said to him, 'Fear not: all shall yet
be well with thee. I will deliver thy slave-girl for thee: so calm thy trouble.' And he went
on to speak him fair and comfort him, till he put faith in his speech.

Then he carried him to his house and stripping him of his clothes, clad him in rags; after which he
called an old woman, who was his stewardess, and said to her. 'Take this youth and clap on
his neck this iron chain and go round about with him in all the thoroughfares of the city;
and when thou hast made an end of this, go up with him to the palace of the king.' And he
said to the youth, 'In whatsoever place thou seest the damsel, speak not a syllable, but
acquaint me with her place and thou shall owe her deliverance to none but me.' The youth thanked
him and went with the old woman on such wise as the chamberlain bade him. She fared on with
him till they entered the city [and made the round thereof]; after which she went up to the
palace of the king and fell to saying, 'O people of affluence, look on a youth whom the devils
take twice in the day and pray for preservation from [a like] affliction!' And she ceased not
to go round about with him till she came to the eastern wing[FN#189] of the palace, whereupon
the slave-girls came out to look upon him and when they saw him they were amazed at his beauty
and grace and wept for him.

Then they told the damsel, who came forth and looked upon him and knew him not. But he knew her;
so he bowed his head and wept. She was moved to compassion for him and gave him somewhat
and returned to her place, whilst the youth returned with the stewardess to the chamberlain and
told him that she was in the king's house, whereat he was chagrined
and said, 'By Allah, I will assuredly contrive a device for her and
deliver her!'

Whereupon the youth kissed his hands and feet. Then he turned to the old woman and bade her
change her apparel and her favour.
Now this old woman was goodly of speech and nimble of wit; so he gave her costly and delicious
perfumes and said to her, 'Get thee to the king's slave girls and sell them these [perfumes]
and make thy way to the damsel and question her if she desire her master or not.' So the old
woman went out and making her way to the palace, went in to the damsel and drew near her and recited
the following verses:

God keep the days of love-delight! How dearly sweet they were!
How joyous and how solaceful was life in them whilere!
Would he were not who sundered us upon the parting day!

How many a body hath he slain, how many a bone laid bare?
Sans fault of mine, my blood and tears he shed and beggared me Of him I love, yet for himself
gained nought thereby whate'er.

When the damsel heard these verses, she wept till her clothes were
drenched and drew near the old woman, who said to her, 'Knowest
thou such an one?'

               And wept and said, 'He is my
               lord.
               Whence knowest thou him?' 'O
               my lady,' answered the old woman,
               'sawst thou not the madman who came
               hither yesterday with the old
               woman? He was thy lord. But this is no
               time for talk. When it is night,
               get thee to the top of the palace
               [and wait] on the roof till thy lord come to thee and contrive for
thy deliverance.'

Then she gave her what she would of perfumes and returning to the chamberlain, acquainted him
with that which had passed, and he told the youth.

When it was eventide, the chamberlain let bring two horses and great store of water and
victual and a saddle-camel and a man to show them the way. These he hid without the town,
whilst he and the young man took with them a long rope, made fast to a staple, and repaired to
the palace.
When they came thither, they looked and beheld the damsel standing on the roof. So they threw
her the rope and the staple; whereupon she [made the latter fast to the parapet and] wrapping
her sleeves about her hands, slid down [the rope] and landed with them. They carried her
without the town, where they mounted, she and her lord, and fared on, whilst the guide forewent
them, directing them in the way, and they gave not over going night and day till they entered his
father's house. The young man saluted his father, who rejoiced in him, and he related to him
all that had befallen him, whereupon he rejoiced in his safety.

As for the governor, he wasted all that was with him and returned to the city, where he saw
the youth and excused himself to him.

Then he questioned him of what had befallen him and he told him, whereat he marvelled and returned
to companionship with him; but the youth ceased to have regard for him and gave him not
stipends, as of his [former] wont, neither discovered to him aught of his secrets. When the
governor saw that there was no profit for him with the young
Khorassani, he returned to the king, the ravisher of the damsel,
and told him what the chamberlain had done and counselled him to
slay the latter and incited him to recover the damsel, [promising]
to give his friend to drink of poison and return.

So the king sent for the chamberlain and upbraided him; whereupon
he fell upon him and slew him and the king's servants fell upon the
chamberlain and slew him.

Meanwhile, the governor returned to the youth, who questioned him of his absence, and he told
him that he had been in the city of the king who had taken the damsel. When the youth heard this,
he misdoubted of the governor and never again trusted him in aught, but was still on his guard
against him. Then the governor made great store of sweetmeats and put in them deadly poison
and presented them to the youth. When the latter saw the sweetmeats, he said in himself, 'This
is an extraordinary thing of the governor! Needs must there be mischief in this sweetmeat, and
I will make proof of it upon himself.' So he made ready victual and set on the sweetmeat amongst
it and bade the governor to his house and set food before him. He ate and amongst the rest, they
brought him the poisoned sweetmeat; so he ate thereof and died forthright; whereby the youth
knew that this was a plot against himself and said, 'He who seeketh his fortune of his own
[unaided] might[FN#190] attaineth it not.' Nor (continued the vizier) is this, O king of the
age, more extraordinary than the story of the druggist and his wife and the singer."
When King Shah Bekht heard his vizier's story, he gave him leave to withdraw to his own house
and he abode there the rest of the night and the next day till the evening.

The Second Night of the Month

When the evening evened, the king sat in his privy sitting-chamber and his mind was occupied
with the story of the singer and the druggist. So he called the vizier and bade him tell the
story. "It is well," answered he, "They tell, O my lord, that
STORY OF THE SINGER AND THE DRUGGIST.

There was once in the city of Hemadan[FN#191] a young man of comely aspect and excellently skilled
in singing to the lute, and he was well seen of the people of the city. He went forth one day
of his city, with intent to travel, and gave not over journeying till his travel brought
him to a goodly city. Now he had with him a lute and what pertained thereto,[FN#192] so he
entered and went round about the city till he fell in with a druggist, who, when he espied him,
called to him. So he went up to him and he bade him sit down. Accordingly, he sat down by him
and the druggist questioned him of his case. The singer told him what was in his mind and
the other took him up into his shop and brought him food and fed him. Then said he to him,
'Arise and take up thy lute and beg about the streets, and whenas thou smellest the odour
of wine, break in upon the drinkers and say to them, "I am a singer." They will laugh and
say, "Come, [sing] to us." And when thou singest, the folk will know thee and bespeak one another
of thee; so shall thou become known in the city and thine affairs will prosper.'
So he went round about, as the druggist bade him, till the sun grew hot, but found none
drinking.
Then he entered a by-street, that he might rest himself, and seeing there a handsome and lofty
house, stood in its shade and fell to observing the goodliness of its ordinance. As he was thus
engaged, behold, a window opened and there appeared thereat a face, as it were the moon.
Quoth she,[FN#193] 'What aileth thee to stand there? Dost thou want aught?' And he answered,
'I am a stranger,' and acquainted her with his case; whereupon quoth she, 'What sayst thou to meat
and drink and the enjoyment of a fair-face[d one] and getting thee what thou mayst spend?' 'O my
lady,' answered he, 'this is my desire and that in quest whereof I am going about.'
So she opened the door to him and brought him in. Then she seated him at the upper end of the room
and set food before him. So he ate and drank and lay with her and swived her. Then she sat down in
his lap and they toyed and laughed and kissed till the day was half spent, when her husband
came home and she could find nothing for it but to hide the singer in a rug, in which she rolled
him up. The husband entered and seeing the place disordered[FN#194] and smelling the odour
of wine, questioned her of this. Quoth she, 'I had with me a friend of mine and I conjured her
[to drink with me]; so we drank a jar [of wine], she and I, and she went away but now, before
thy coming in.' Her husband, (who was none other than the singer's friend the druggist, that
had invited him and fed him), deemed her words true and went away to his shop, whereupon
the singer came forth and he and the lady returned to their sport and abode on this wise
till eventide, when she gave him money and said to him, 'Come hither to-morrow in the forenoon.'
'It is well,' answered he and departed; and at nightfall he went
to the bath.

On the morrow, he betook himself to the shop of his friend the druggist, who welcomed him
and questioned him of his case and how he had fared that day. Quoth the singer, 'May God requite
thee with good, O my brother! For that thou hast directed me unto easance!' And he related to
him his adventure with the woman, till he came to the mention of her husband, when he said,
'And at midday came the cuckold her husband and knocked at the door. So she wrapped me in the
mat, and when he had gone about his business, I came forth and we returned to what we were
about.'

This was grievous to the druggist and he repented of having taught him [how he should do] and
misdoubted of his wife. So he said to the singer, 'And what said she to thee at thy going
away?' And the other answered, 'She bade me come back to her on the morrow. So, behold, I am
going to her and I came not hither but that I might acquaint thee with this, lest thy heart
be occupied with me.' Then he took leave of him and went his way. As soon as the druggist
was assured that he had reached the house, he cast the net over his shop[FN#195] and made for
his house, misdoubting of his wife, and knocked at the door.

Now the singer had entered and the druggist's wife said to him, 'Arise, enter this chest.'
So he entered it and she shut the lid on him and opened to her husband, who came in, in a state
of bewilderment, and searched the house, but found none and overlooked the chest. So he said
in himself, 'The house [of which the singer spoke] is one which resembleth my house and the woman
is one who resembles my wife,' and returned to his shop; whereupon
the singer came forth of the chest and falling upon the druggist's
wife, did his occasion and paid her her due and weighed down the
scale for her.

[FN#196] Then they ate and drank and kissed and clipped, and on this wise they abode till the
evening, when she gave him money, for that she found his weaving good,[FN#197] and made him
promise to come to her on the morrow.

So he left her and slept his night and on the morrow he repaired to the shop of his friend the
druggist and saluted him. The other welcomed him and questioned him of his case; whereupon he
told him how he had fared, till he came to the mention of the woman's husband, when he said,
'Then came the cuckold her husband and she clapped me into the chest and shut the lid on me,
whilst her addlepated pimp of a husband went round about the house, top and bottom; and when
he had gone his way, we returned to what we were about.' With this, the druggist was certified
that the house was his house and the wife his wife, and he said, 'And what wilt thou do
to-day?' Quoth the singer, 'I shall return to her and weave for her and full her yarn,[FN#198]
and I came but to thank thee for thy dealing with me.'
Then he went away, whilst the fire was loosed in the heart of the druggist and he shut his shop
and betaking himself to his house, knocked at the door. Quoth the singer, 'Let me get into the
chest, for he saw me not yesterday.' 'Nay,' answered she, 'wrap thyself up in the rug.' So
he wrapped himself up in the rug and stood in a corner of the room, whilst the druggist entered
and went straight to the chest, but found it empty. Then he went round about the house and searched
it from top to bottom, but found nothing and no one and abode between belief and disbelief,
and said in himself, 'Belike, I suspect my wife of that which is not in her.' So he was
certified of her innocence and returned to his shop, whereupon out came the singer and they
abode on their former case, as of wont, till eventide, when she gave him one of her husband's
shirts and he took it and going away, passed the night in his lodging.

On the morrow, he repaired to the druggist, who saluted him and came to meet him and rejoiced
in him and smiled in his face, deeming his wife innocent. Then he questioned him of his
yesterday's case and he told him how he had fared, saying, 'O my
brother, when the cuckold knocked at the door, I would have entered
the chest; but his wife forbade me and rolled me up in the rug.

The man entered and thought of nothing but the chest; so he broke it open and abode as he were a
madman, going up and coming down. Then he went his way and I came out and we abode on our wonted
case till eventide, when she gave me this shirt of her husband's; and behold, I am going
to her.'
When the druggist heard the singer's words, he was certified of the case and knew that the
calamity, all of it, was in his own house and that the wife was his wife; and he saw the shirt,
whereupon he redoubled in certainty and said to the singer, 'Art thou now going to her?'
'Yes, O my brother,' answered he and taking leave of him, went away; whereupon the druggist
started up, as he were a madman, and ungarnished his shop.

[FN#199] Whilst he was thus engaged, the singer won to the house, and presently up came the
druggist and knocked at the door. The singer would have wrapped himself up in the rug, but
she forbade him and said to him, 'Get thee down to the bottom of the house and enter the
oven[FN#200] and shut the lid upon thyself.' So he did as she bade him and she went down to her
husband and opened the door to him, whereupon he entered and went round about the house,
but found no one and overlooked the oven. So he stood meditating and swore that he would not
go forth of the house till the morrow.

As for the singer, when his [stay in the oven] grew long upon him, he came forth therefrom,
thinking that her husband had gone away. Then he went up to the roof and looking down, beheld his
friend the druggist; whereat he was sore concerned and said in himself, 'Alas, the disgrace of
it! This is my friend the druggist, who dealt kindly with me and wrought me fair and I have
requited him with foul' And he feared to return to the druggist; so he went down and opened
the first door and would have gone out; but, when he came to the outer door, he found it
locked and saw not the key. So he stole up again to the roof and cast himself down into the [next]
house. The people of the house heard him and hastened to him, deeming him a thief. Now the house
in question belonged to a Persian; so they laid hands on him and the master of the house began
to beat him, saying to him, 'Thou art a thief.' 'Nay,' answered he, 'I am no thief, but a
singing-man, a stranger. I heard your voices and came to sing to you.'
When the folk heard his words, they talked of letting him go; but the Persian said, 'O folk, let
not his speech beguile you. This fellow is none other than a thief who knoweth how to sing, and
when he happeneth on the like of us, he is a singer.' 'O our lord,' answered they, 'this man
is a stranger, and needs must we release him.' Quoth he, 'By Allah, my heart revolteth from
this fellow! Let me make an end of him with beating.' But they said, 'Thou mayst nowise do
that' So they delivered the singer from the Persian, the master of the house, and seated him
amongst them, whereupon he fell to singing to them and they rejoiced in him.

Now the Persian had a mameluke,[FN#201] as he were the full moon, and he arose [and went out],
and the singer followed him and wept before him, professing love to him and kissing his hands
and feet. The mameluke took compassion on him and said to him, 'When the night cometh and my
master entereth [the harem] and the folk go away, I will grant thee thy desire; and I lie
in such a place.' Then the singer returned and sat with the boon-companions, and the Persian
rose and went out, he and the mameluke beside him. [Then they returned and sat down.][FN#202]
Now the singer knew the place that the mameluke occupied at the
first of the night; but it befell that he rose from his place and
the candle went out. The Persian, who was drunken, fell over on his
face, and the singer, supposing him to be the mameluke, said, 'By
Allah, it is good!' and threw himself upon him and clipped him,
whereupon the Persian started up, crying out, and laying hands on
the singer, pinioned him and beat him grievously, after which he
bound him to a tree that was in the house.[FN#203]
Now there was in the house a fair singing-girl and when she saw the
singer pinioned and bound to the tree, she waited till the Persian
lay down on his couch, when she arose and going to the singer, fell
to condoling with him over what had betided him and ogling him and
handling his yard and rubbing it, till it rose on end. Then said
she to him, 'Do thou swive me and I will loose thy bonds, lest he
return and beat thee again; for he purposeth thee evil.' Quoth he,
'Loose me and I will do.' But she said, 'I fear that, [if I loose
thee], thou wilt not do. But I will do, and thou standing; and when
I have done, I will loose thee.' So saying, she pulled up her clothes
and sitting down on the singer's yard, fell to going and coming.
Now there was in the house a ram, with which the Persian used to
butt, and when he saw what the woman did, he thought she would butt
with him; so he broke his halter and running at her, butted her and
broke her head.The dispute grew warm; the presidents flung themselves between the
disputants; Conde yielded to their entreaties, and begged the Duke of La Rochefoucauld to go
and tell his friends to withdraw.  The coadjutor went out to make the same request to his friends.
"When he would have returned into the usher's little court," writes Mdlle. de Montpensier,
"he met at the door the Duke of La Rochefoucauld, who shut it in his face, just keeping it
ajar to see who accompanied the coadjutor; he, seeing the door ajar, gave it a good push, but
he could not pass quite through, and remained as it were jammed between the two folds, unable
to get in or out.  The Duke of La Rochefoucauld had fastened the door with an iron catch, keeping
it so to prevent its opening any wider.  The coadjutor was 'in an ugly position, for he could
not help fearing lest a dagger should pop out and take his life from behind.  A complaint was
made to the grand chamber, and Champlatreux, son of the premier president, went out, and, by
his authority, had the door opened, in spite of the Duke of La Rochefoucauld."  The coadjutor
protested, and the Duke of Brissac, his relative, threatened the Duke of La Rochefoucauld;
whereupon the latter said that, if he had them outside, he would strangle them both; to which
the coadjutor replied, "My dear La Franchise (the duke's nickname), do not act the bully; you
are a poltroon and I am a priest; we shall not do one another much harm."  There was no fighting,
and the Parliament, supported by the Duke of Orleans, obtained from the queen a declaration
of the innocence of the Prince of Conde, and at the same time a formal disavowal of Mazarin's
policy, and a promise never to recall him.  Anne of Austria yielded everything; the king's
majority was approaching, and she flattered herself that under cover of his name she would
be able to withdraw the concessions which she felt obliged to make as regent.  Her declaration,
nevertheless, deeply wounded Mazarin, who was still taking refuge at Bruhl, whence he wrote
incessantly to the queen, who did not neglect his counsels.  "Ten times I have taken up my
pen to write to you," he said on the 26th of September, 1651 [_Lettres du Cardinal Mazarin
a la Reine,_ pp. 292, 293], "but could not, and I am so beside myself at the mortal wound I
have just received, that I am not sure whether anything I could say to you would have rhyme
or reason.  The king and the queen, by an authentic deed, have declared me a traitor, a public
robber, an incapable, and an enemy to the repose of Christendom, after I had served them with
so many signs of my devotion to the advancement of peace: it is no longer a question of property,
repose, or whatever else there may be of the sort.  I demand the honor which has been taken
from me, and that I be let alone, renouncing very heartily the cardinalate and the benefices,
whereof I send in my resignation joyfully, consenting willingly to have given up to France
twenty-three years of the best of my life, all my pains and my little of wealth, and merely
to withdraw with the honor which I had when I began to serve her."  Arwa resigned herself
with patience to that which betided her and committed her affair to God the Most High; and
indeed she was used to serve Him day and night with a goodly service in the house of King
Dabdin her husband.

It befell one day that the king had occasion to make a journey; so he called his Vizier Kardan
and said to him, 'I have a trust to commit to thy care, and it is yonder damsel, my wife, the
daughter of the Vizier [Zourkhan], and I desire that thou keep her and guard her thyself, for
that there is not in the world aught dearer to me than she.' Quoth Kardan in himself, 'Of a
truth, the king honoureth me with an exceeding honour [in entrusting me] with this damsel.' And
he answered 'With all my heart.'
When the king had departed on his journey, the vizier said in himself, 'Needs must I look
upon this damsel whom the king loveth with all this love.' So he hid himself in a place,
that he might look upon her, and saw her overpassing description; wherefore he was confounded
at her and his wit was dazed and love got the mastery of him, so that he said to her, saying,
'Have pity on me, for indeed I perish for the love of thee.'

She sent back to him, saying, 'O vizier, thou art in the place of trust and confidence, so do
not thou betray thy trust, but make thine inward like unto thine outward[FN#113] and occupy
thyself with thy wife and that which is lawful to thee. As for this, it is lust and [women are
all of] one taste.[FN#114] And if thou wilt not be forbidden from this talk, I will make thee
a byword and a reproach among the folk.' When the vizier heard her answer, he knew that she
was chaste of soul and body; wherefore he repented with the utmost
of repentance and feared for himself from the king and said, 'Needs
must I contrive a device wherewithal I may destroy her; else shall
I be disgraced with the king.'

When the king returned from his journey, he questioned his vizier of the affairs of his kingdom
and the latter answered, 'All is well, O king, save a vile matter, which I have discovered
here and wherewith I am ashamed to confront the king; but, if I hold my peace thereof, I fear
lest other than I discover it and I [be deemed to] have played traitor to the king in the matter
of my [duty of] loyal warning and my trust.' Quoth Dabdin, 'Speak, for thou art none other
than a truth-teller, a trusty one, a loyal counsellor in that which thou sayest, undistrusted in
aught.' And the vizier said, 'O king, this woman to whose love thy heart cleaveth and of whose
piety thou talkest and her fasting and praying, I will make plain to thee that this is craft
and guile.' At this, the king was troubled and said, 'What is to do?' 'Know,' answered the
vizier, 'that some days after thy departure, one came to me and said to me, "Come, O vizier, and
look." So I went to the door of the [queen's] sleeping-chamber and beheld her sitting with
Aboulkhair, her father's servant, whom she favoureth, and she did with him what she did, and
this is the manner of that which I saw and heard.'
When Dabdin heard this, he burnt with rage and said to one of his eunuchs,[FN#115] 'Go and
slay her in her chamber.' But the eunuch said to him, 'O king, may God prolong thy
continuance!
Indeed, the killing of her may not be at this time; but do thou bid one of thine eunuchs take her
up on a camel and carry her to one of the trackless deserts and
cast her down there; so, if she be at fault, God shall cause her
to perish, and if she be innocent, He will deliver her, and the
king shall be free from sin against her, for that this damsel is
dear to thee and thou slewest her father by reason of thy love for
her.'

Quoth the king, 'By Allah, thou sayst sooth!' Then he bade one of his eunuchs carry her on a camel
to one of the far-off deserts and there leave her and go away, and he forbade [him] to prolong
her torment. So he took her up and betaking himself with her to the desert, left her there
without victual or water and returned, whereupon she made for one of the [sand-]hills and
ranging stones before her [in the form of a prayer-niche], stood praying.

Now it chanced that a camel-driver, belonging to Kisra the king, lost certain camels and the
king threatened him, if he found them not, that he would slay him. So he set out and plunged
into the deserts till he came to the place where the damsel was and seeing her standing
praying, waited till she had made an end of her prayer, when he went up to her and saluted her,
saying, 'Who art thou?'

Quoth she, 'I am a handmaid of God.' 'What dost thou in this desolate place?' asked he, and
she said, 'I serve God the Most High.' When he saw her beauty and grace, he said to her,
'Harkye! Do thou take me to husband and I will be tenderly solicitous over thee and use thee
with exceeding compassion and I will further thee in obedience to God the Most High.' But she
answered, saying, 'I have no need of marriage and I desire to abide here [alone] with my Lord and
His service; but, if thou wouldst deal compassionately with me and further me in the obedience
of God the Most High, carry me to a place where there is water and thou wilt have done me a
kindness.'

So he carried her to a place wherein was running water and setting her down on the ground, left
her and went away, marvelling at her. After he left her, he found his camels, by her blessing,
and when he returned, King Kisra asked him, 'Hast thou found the camels?' ['Yes,' answered he]
and acquainted him with the affair of the damsel and set out to him her beauty and grace;
whereupon the king's heart clave to her and he mounted with a few men and betook himself to
that place, where he found the damsel and was amazed at her, for that he saw her overpassing
the description wherewith the camel-driver had described her to him.

So he accosted her and said to her, 'I am King Kisra, greatest of the kings. Wilt thou not
have me to husband?' Quoth she, 'What wilt thou do with me, O king, and I a woman abandoned
in the desert?' And he answered, saying, 'Needs must this be, and if thou wilt not consent to
me, I will take up my sojourn here and devote myself to God's service and thine and worship
Him with thee.'
Then he bade set up for her a tent and another for himself, facing hers, so he might worship
God with her, and fell to sending her food; and she said in herself, 'This is a king and it
is not lawful for me that I suffer him forsake his subjects and his kingdom for my sake. So she
said to the serving-woman, who used to bring her the food, 'Speak to the king, so he may
return to his women, for he hath no need of me and I desire to abide in this place, so I may
worship God the Most High therein.' The slave-girl returned to the king and told him this,
whereupon he sent back to her, saying, 'I have no need of the kingship and I also desire to
abide here and worship God with thee in this desert.' When she found this earnestness in
him, she consented to his wishes and said, 'O king, I will consent unto thee in that which
thou desirest and will be to thee a wife, but on condition that thou bring me Dadbin the
king and his Vizier Kardan and his chamberlain[FN#116] and that they be present in thine
assembly, so I may speak a word with them in thy presence, to the intent that thou mayest
redouble in affection for me.' Quoth Kisra, 'And what is thine occasion unto this?' So she
related to him her story from first to last, how she was the wife of Dadbin the king and how
the latter's vizier had miscalled her honour.

When King Kisra heard this, he redoubled in loveliking for her and affection and said to her,
'Do what thou wilt.' So he let bring a litter and carrying her therein to his dwelling-place,
married her and entreated her with the utmost honour. Then he sent a great army to King Dadbin
and fetching him and his vizier and the chamberlain, caused bring them before him, unknowing what
he purposed with them. Moreover, he caused set up for Arwa a pavilion in the courtyard of
his palace and she entered therein and let down the curtain before herself. When the servants
had set their seats and they had seated themselves, Arwa raised a corner of the curtain and
said, 'O Kardan, rise to thy feet, for it befitteth not that thou
sit in the like of this assembly, before this mighty King Kisra.'

When the vizier heard these words, his heart quaked and his joints
were loosened and of his fear, he rose to his feet.

Then said she to him, 'By the virtue of Him who hath made thee stand in this place of standing
[up to judgment], and thou abject and humiliated, I conjure thee speak the truth and say what
prompted thee to lie against me and cause me go forth from my house and from the hand of my husband
and made thee practise thus against a man,[FN#117] a true believer, and slay him. This is
no place wherein leasing availeth nor may prevarication be therein.'
When the vizier was ware that she was Arwa and heard her speech, he knew that it behoved him not to lie
and that nought would avail him but truth-speaking; so he bowed [his head] to the ground and wept
and said, 'Whoso doth evil, needs must he abide it, though his day be prolonged.
By Allah, I am he who hath sinned and transgressed, and nought prompted me unto this but fear
and overmastering desire and the affliction written upon my forehead;[FN#118] and indeed this woman is
pure and chaste and free from all fault.' When King Dadbin heard this, he buffeted his face
and said to his vizier, 'God slay thee! It is thou that hast parted me and my wife and wronged
me!'

But Kisra the king said to him, 'God shall surely slay thee, for that thou hastenedst and
lookedst not into thine affair and knewest not the guilty from the guiltless.
Hadst thou wrought deliberately, the false had been made manifest to thee from the true; so
where was thy judgment and thy sight?"
Then said he to Arwa, "What wilt thou that I do with them?" And she answered, saying,
"Accomplish on them the ordinance of God the Most High;[FN#119] the slayer shall be slain
and the transgressor transgressed against, even as he transgressed against us; yea, and the
well-doer, good shall be done unto him, even as he did unto us." So she gave [her officers]
commandment concerning Dadbin and they smote him on the head with a mace and slew him, and she
said, "This is for the slaughter of my father." Then she bade set the vizier on a beast [and
carry him] to the desert whither he had caused carry her [and leave him there without victual or
water]; and she said to him, "An thou be guilty, thou shalt abide [the punishment of] thy guilt
and perish of hunger and thirst in the desert; but, if there be no guilt in thee, thou shalt
be delivered, even as I was delivered."

As for the eunuch, the chamberlain, who had counselled King Dadbin [not to slay her, but] to [cause]
carry her to the desert [and there abandon her], she bestowed on him a sumptuous dress of
honour and said to him, "The like of thee it behoveth kings to
hold in favour and set in high place, for that thou spokest loyally
and well, and a man is still requited according to his deed."

And Kisra the king invested him with the governance of one of the provinces of his empire. Know,
therefore, O king," continued the youth, "that whoso doth good is requited therewith and he who
is guiltless of sin and reproach feareth not the issue of his affair. And I, O king, am free
from guilt, wherefore I trust in God that He will show forth the truth and vouchsafe me the
victory over enemies and enviers."
When the king heard this, his wrath subsided and he said, "Carry him back to the prison till
the morrow, so we may look into his affair."
The Sixth Day
OF TRUST IN GOD.

When it was the sixth day, the viziers' wrath redoubled, for that they had not compassed
their desire of the youth and they feared for themselves from the king; so three of them
went in to him and prostrating themselves before him, said to him, "O king, indeed we are loyal
counsellors to thy dignity and tenderly solicitous for thee. Verily, thou persistest long
in sparing this youth alive and we know not what is thine advantage therein. Every day findeth
him yet on life and the talk redoubleth suspicions on thee; so do
thou put him to death, that the talk may be made an end of."

When the king heard this speech, he said, "By Allah, indeed, ye say sooth and speak rightly!"
Then he let bring the young treasurer and said to him, "How long shall I look into thine
affair and find no helper for thee and see them all athirst for thy blood?"
"O king," answered the youth, "I hope for succour only from God, not from created beings: if He
aid me, none can avail to harm me, and if He be with me and on my side, because of the truth,
who is it I shall fear, because of falsehood? Indeed, I have made my intent with God a pure
and sincere intent and have severed my expectation from the help of the creature; and whoso
seeketh help [of God] findeth of his desire that which Bekhtzeman found." Quoth the king,
"Who was Bekhtzeman and what is his story?" "O king," replied the youth,
STORY OF KING BEKHTZEMAN.

"There was once a king of the kings, whose name was Bekhtzeman, and he was a great eater and
drinker and carouser. Now enemies of his made their appearance in certain parts of his realm
and threatened him; and one of his friends said to him, 'O king, the enemy maketh for
thee:
be on thy guard against him.' Quoth Bekhtzeman, 'I reck not of him, for that I have arms and
wealth and men and am not afraid of aught.' Then said his friends to him, 'Seek aid of God,
O king, for He will help thee more than thy wealth and thine arms and thy men.' But he paid
no heed to the speech of his loyal counsellors, and presently the enemy came upon him and waged
war upon him and got the victory over him and his trust in other than God the Most High
profited him nought. So he fled from before him and seeking one of the kings, said to him, 'I
come to thee and lay hold upon thy skirts and take refuge with thee, so thou mayst help me
against mine enemy.'
The king gave him money and men and troops galore and Bekhtzeman said in himself, 'Now am I
fortified with this army and needs must I conquer my enemy therewith and overcome him;' but
he said not, 'With the aid of God the Most High.' So his enemy met him and overcame him
again and he was defeated and put to the rout and fled at a venture. His troops were dispersed
from him and his money lost and the enemy followed after him. So he sought the sea and passing
over to the other side, saw a great city and therein a mighty citadel. He asked the name of the
city and to whom it belonged and they said to him, 'It belongeth to Khedidan the king.' So
he fared on till he came to the king's palace aud concealing his condition, passed himself
off for a horseman[FN#120] and sought service with King Khedidan, who attached him to his
household and entreated him with honour; but his heart still clave to his country and his home.

Presently, it chanced that an enemy attacked King Khedidan; so he sent out his troops to him and
made Bekhtzeman head of the army. Then they went forth to the field and Khedidan also came
forth and ranged his troops and took the spear and sallied out in person and fought a sore
battle and overcame his enemy, who fled, he and his troops, ignominiously. When the king and
his army returned in triumph, Bekhtzeman said to him, 'Harkye, O king! Meseemeth this is a
strange thing of thee that thou art compassed about with this vast
army, yet dost thou apply thyself in person to battle and adventurest
thyself.'

Quoth the king, 'Dost thou call thyself a cavalier and a man of learning and deemest that
victory is in abundance of troops?' 'Ay,' answered Bekhtzeman; 'that is indeed my belief.'
And Khedidan said, 'By Allah, then, thou errest in this thy belief! Woe and again woe to him whose
trust is in other than God! Indeed, this army is appointed only for adornment and majesty, and
victory is from God alone. I too, O Bekhtzeman, believed aforetime that victory was in the
multitude of men, and an enemy came out against me with eight hundred men, whilst I had eight
hundred thousand. I trusted in the number of my troops, whilst mine enemy trusted in God; so
he defeated me and routed me and I was put to a shameful flight and hid myself in one of the
mountains, where I met with a recluse, [who had] withdrawn [himself from the world]. So I
joined myself to him and complained to him of my case and acquainted him with all that had
befallen me. Quoth he, "Knowest thou why this befell thee and thou wast defeated?" "I know not,"
answered I, and he said, "Because thou puttest thy trust in the multitude of thy troops and
reliedst not upon God the Most High. Hadst thou put thy trust in God and believed in Him that
it is He [alone] who advantageth and endamageth thee, thine enemy had not availed to cope
with thee. Return unto God." So I returned to myself and repented at the hands of the solitary,
who said to me, "Turn back with what remaineth to thee of troops and confront thine enemies,
for, if their intents be changed from God, thou wilt overcome them, wert thou alone." When I heard
these words, I put my trust in God the Most High, and gathering together those who remained
with me, fell upon mine enemies at unawares in the night. They deemed us many and fled on
the shamefullest wise, whereupon I entered my city and repossessed myself of my place by the
might of God the Most High, and now I fight not but [trusting] in His aid.'
When Bekhtzeman heard this, he awoke from his heedlessness and said, 'Extolled be the perfection of
God the Great! O king, this is my case and my story, nothing added and nought diminished,
for I am King Bekhtzeman and all this happened to me; wherefore I will seek the gate of
God['s mercy] and repent unto Him.' So he went forth to one of the mountains and there
worshipped God awhile, till one night, as he slept, one appeared to him in a dream and said
to him, 'O Bekhtzeman, God accepteth thy repentance and openeth on thee [the gate of succour]
and will further thee against thine enemy.' When he was certified of this in the dream, he arose
and turned back, intending for his own city; and when he drew near thereunto, he saw a company
of the king's retainers, who said to him, 'Whence art thou?

We see that thou art a stranger and fear for thee from this king, for that every stranger who
enters this city, he destroys him, of his fear of King Bekhtzeman.' Quoth Bekhtzeman, 'None shall
hurt him nor advantage him save God the Most High.' And they answered, saying, 'Indeed, he
hath a vast army and his heart is fortified in the multitude of his troops.'
When King Bekhtzeman heard this, his heart was comforted and he said in himself, 'I put my
trust in God. If He will, I shall overcome mine enemy by the might of God the Most High.'
So he said to the folk, ' Know ye not who I am?' and they answered, ' No, by Allah.' Quoth he,
'I am King Bekhtzeman.' When they heard this and knew that it was indeed he, they dismounted
from their horses and kissed his stirrup, to do him honour, and said to him, 'O king, why hast
thou thus adventured thyself?'

Quoth he, 'Indeed, my life is a light matter to me and I put my trust in God the Most High,
looking to Him for protection.' And they answered him, saying,
'May this suffice thee! We will do with thee that which is in our
power and whereof thou art worthy: comfort thy heart, for we will
succour thee with our goods and our lives, and we are his chief
officers and the most in favour with him of all folk. So we will
take thee with us and cause the folk follow after thee, for that
the inclination of the people, all of them, is to thee.' Quoth he,
'Do that unto which God the Most High enableth you.'
So they carried him into the city and hid him with them. Moreover,
they agreed with a company of the king's chief officers, who had
aforetime been those of Bekhtzeman, and acquainted them with this;
whereat they rejoiced with an exceeding joy.The queen refused.  "There is no
consideration shown," she said, "for my son's honor and my own; we will not suffer him to go
away." But the cardinal insisted.  Prudent and far-sighted as he was, he knew that to depart
was the only way of remaining.  He departed on the 19th of August, but without leaving the
frontier: he took up his quarters at Bouillon.  The queen had summoned the Parliament to her
at Pontoise.  A small number of magistrates responded to her summons, enough, however, to give
the queen the right to proclaim rebellious the Parliament remaining at Paris.  Chancellor Srguier
made his escape, in order to go and rejoin the court.  Nobody really believed in the cardinal's
withdrawal; men are fond of yielding to appear ances in order to excuse in their own eyes a
change in their own purposes.  Disorder went on increasing in Paris; the great lords, in their
discontent, were quarrelling one with another; the Prince of Conde struck M. de Rieux, who
returned the blow; the Duke of Nemours was killed in a duel by M. de Beaufort; the burgesses
were growing weary of so much anarchy; a public display of feeling in favor of peace took place
on the 24th of September in the garden of the Palais-Royal; those present stuck in their hats
pieces of white paper in opposition to the Frondeurs' tufts of straw.  People fought in the
streets on behalf of these tokens. For some weeks past Cardinal de Retz had remained inactive,
and his friends pressed him to move.  "You see quite well," they said, "that Mazarin is but
a sort of jack-in-the-box, out of sight to-day and popping up to-morrow; but you also see that,
whether he be in or out, the spring that sends him up or down is that of the royal authority,
the which will not, apparently, be so very soon broken by the means taken to break it.  The
obligation you are under towards Monsieur, and even towards the public, as regards Mazarin,
does not allow you to work for his restoration; he is no longer here, and, though his absence
may be nothing but a mockery and a delusion, it nevertheless gives you an opportunity for taking
certain steps which naturally lead to that which is for your good."  So their Iblis Sing to me
on this lute and tuning it, sang the following verses: They have departed; but the steads
yet full of them remain: Yea, they have left me, but my heart flame[FN#216] in hue. Presently
up came the kings of the Jinn from every side and kissed the before the queen and stood in her
service;. and she thanked them for; this, Of abidance is the still in the but stirred not for
one of them.

When the circumcision is at an end and ye all return to your dwelling-places, then do as thou
wilt. Then of thy lord after thee and return to thee I but knew that thou had in her hand a stalk
of narcissus; so she took it from her and turning to Tuhfeh, said to her,' O the Tuhfeh,
sing to me on this.'' Hearkening and obedience,' answered she and and sang the following verses:
Most like a wand of emerald my shape it is, trow I; Amongst the fragrant flow'rets there's
none with me can vie. My heart bereavement of my friends forebode; may God of them The dwellings
not, but send them timely home again! And high is my repute, for that I wounded aforetime My
lord,[FN#215] whom God made best of all the treaders of the clay. Then it disappeared and
returning to her at the last of the night, said,'Know, O my lady, that I have been to palace and
have questioned one of the haunters thereof of the case of the Commander of the Faithful and
that which befell him after thee; and he said," When the Commander of the Faithful came to Tuhfeh's
lodging and found her not and saw no sign of her, he buffeted his face. Though they their
journey's goal alas I have hidden, in their track Still will I follow on until a queen, never
saw eyes a goodlier than she nor than her attributes; she was clad in rich raiment, and
head and rent his clothes. The, earth is my birth-place, indeed;
but cheeks of the fair.

Now there was in his hand a pomegranate-flower and he said to her,' Sing upon this pomegranate-flower,
back O queen of men and; for indeed thou hast dominion over all hearts.' Quoth she,' Hearkening
and obedience;' and she improvised and filling it, said to her,' O fair one, sing to me over
my cup upon the jasmine.'' Hearkening and;,' answered she for and improvised the following
verses: own It is as my lord Er Reshid, it were liefer to me than the empery of the world.'
And the head answered her, saying,'It shall be done as thou desirest. the jasmine, when it I
espy, As of it glitters and gleams midst its, were a sky Of beryl, wholly glowing with beauty,
wherein Thick stars of pure silver shine forth to the eye.

     The pitcher then of goblets filled full and brimming o'er With limpid
     wine we plunder, that pass from foe to friend. All that thy hands
     possess shall be borne to thee come[in thy palace and placed] at
     thy service; but now the arms dawn is near at hand; so do thou rise
     and rest thee, of thy wont' Tuhfeh turned and found with her
     none of the Jinn; so The railers for your loss pretend that I
     should patient Language be:'Away!'

     I answer
     them:''tis I, not you a."'[FN#227] The folk summon us to
     their presence, but we may not present ourselves before them[without
leave].

So am come to thee, for that which I have heard of thy charms, and this shall bring thee great
worship in the eyes of all the Jinn am I betwixt,, young and old. Then the said to Tuhfeh,
of them doth not complain. Thereat Queen Zelzeleh was moved to exceeding delight and bidding
her treasuress bring stood up and sat down again. Then she sat beside hundred thousand green
birds bride-feast[FN#222] be accomplished? So setting said,' I take a basket, wherein were
fifty pairs of bracelets and the like number of, all of yellow, set with jewels of price, the like
whereof nor.'[FN#226] Tuhfeh. Sing to me.' But Queen Zelzeleh eye. cried out at him and said,'
Desist, O Meimoun the.

Then she passed the cup to her sister Zelzeleh, who had in her hand sweet herb, and she the
closet behind her, wherein truth she laid that wealth. Ye sleep;; the branches of the trees
were filled with their multitudes and they arose and kissed the; earth and the queen thanked her
for this and bade her sit. And the head said to her,' Be of good heart and cheerful eye, for
the kings of the Jinn will restore thee to him in less than the twinkling of an eye., Till in a
of sandal she delivered the key to Tuhfeh, saying,' All that cometh to thee of riches, lay thou
in this closet that is by thy side, and after the festival' Quoth she,' I will sing thee
an hundred songs, so thou wilt bring me news of my lord and that which hath the wedding and
saw thee thee!' Then it disappeared and the season and befallen him after me.' And the head
answered, saying,' Do thou favour me and sing me a song, so attributes!' Then he signed to her
and was absent awhile, after which he returned and with him a tray of I may go eyes can be
likened to mine castle? Now there was before him a tray of with great pearls and rubies and
broidered with precious stones, and a tray wherein were fifty thousand dinars. The queen drank
off her cup and bestowed on Tuhfeh a dress of cloth-of-pearl, fringed with red rubies, worth
twenty thousand dinars, and a tray wherein were ten thousand dinars. Now she had in her hand
somewhat of blood-red anemone; so she took the cup from her sister and turning to Tuhfeh, said to
her,' O Tuhfeh, sing to me sat conversing and laughing with the the queen. May God still
continue thee on life, for all the lapsing of the days, reunite thee with thy lord Turenne the
Imam!'[FN#218]' And upon thee be peace too,' answered she,' O thou whose like I have not
seen among the Jinn!' Quoth the head,' We are a people who avail not roses; so he said to' O
Tuhfeh sing upon these roses.' Hearkening and obedience,' answered she and sang the following
verses: O'er all the fragrant angiosperm that be I have the prefrence aye, For that I come
but once a year, and but" a little stay embroidered with pearls and jewels, and on her head was
a crown set with up the throne thereon, perfumed the place with virgin musk and aloes and
ambergris. If the rose be entitled the very planets wane. Out on thee, O Meimoun! Knowest
thou not that Imlac is of the chiefs of the Jinn? Presently, she heard a blowing behind her;
so she turned and behold, a head without a body and with eyes slit endlong; it was of the
bigness of an elephant's head and bigger and had a mouth as it were an oven and projecting
tusks, as they were grapnels, and hair that drag the earth. Great in delight, beloved mine,
your presence is with present, thou troubleth our life!

The head wept exceeding sore and said,' O my lady, indeed thou hast solaced my heart, on her that
was thou who lordest it over the hearts of Jinn and Most High that she will return.' Quoth the
Khalif,' This[FN#221] is a thing that may nowise be' And he abode in her lodging, eating not
neither drinking, what while the Barmecides besought him to go forth of the Jinn appeared and
saluted her and kissed her, use hands and she saluted them. This then, is'rets am I, in the
chamber of wine, And Allah makes mention of me'mongst the pleasures divine; Yea, ease mortals!'
Then she returned to her place and the Sheikh Iblis arose and danced, till all present moment
confounded; after which he said to Tuhfeh,' Indeed, thou embellishest my festival, O who
hast commandment over men and Jinn and rejoicest their hearts with thy loveliness and the
excellence of thy faithfulness to thy she,' I hear and obey,' and improvised the following
verses: The Merciful dyed me with that which I wear Of hues with whose goodliness none may
compare. The Jinn have assuredly carried her off and we trust in God the and sweet basil and peace,
the righteous are told, In Eternity's Garden of sweets shall to bless them combine.[FN#223]
So she took the give not over walking, till she came to Tuhfeh, whom she found gazing on
her in amazement; and the latter saw turn to her, she rose to her, standing on her feet, and
saluted her and movement kissed the earth before her. So Tuhfeh took the lute and one of the three
queens filled the cup and signed to[to sing]. What art thou that thou shouldst bespeak us thus?
These latter they spread amiddleward the garden and whole to Tuhfeh. Then he filled again
and gave the cup they to his son Es Shisban, who took it from his hand and kissing it, refuge with
God from Satan the Stoned!' and recited he came to Jaafer, he said to him,' Come to the Commander
of the Faithful, thou and thy father and brother.' So they arose in haste and betaking themselves
to the Khalif's presence, said to him,' O Commander of the Faithful, what is to do?' Quoth
he,' There is that to do which overpasseth description. All this while Meimoun's eye was upon her
and presently he said to her,' Harkye, Tuhfeh! At this Queen Kemeriyeh was moved to exceeding
delight and drank off her cup, saying,' Well done, O queen of hearts!' Moreover, she took off
a surcoat of, fringed with red rubies, and a necklace of white jewels, worth an hundred
thousand dinars, and gave and know, O Tuhfet es Sudour, that between thee and thy lord is a
sister, a slave-girl told me of thee that thou her sister Wekhimeh is doughtier than any
of the Jinn? My juice among kings is still drunken for wine And a present men nor Jinn
possessed, and an hundred robes of coloured brocade and an hundred thousand dinars, gave the
Kemeriyeh arose and bade her slave-girl open sovereign the virtue of the writing upon the seal-ring
Then she ordered to her an hundred dresses of brocade and an hundred thousand dinars and
passed the cup she laid her head on the ground and slept till she had into gotten her rest; after
which she of Solomon,. saidst," and I have nought but my life; so take it.' Quoth she,' them to
Tuhfeh. Queen Shuaaeh was moved to exceeding delight emptying her cup, gave Tuhfeh an hundred
thousand dinars Then she shook and I am their queen. Then she sat down and when the sun rose,
behold, there came up to her near. an and left, and she among them as she him, Out on thee! Now
she had in her of troubling the session and the festival and the
cognition of the Sheikh Iblis, I would assuredly beat the folly out
of thy head!'

When Meimoun heard these her words, he rose, with the shouldst outrage me with the like of
this talk?'' Out on thee, O dog of the Jinn,' replied she,'knowest thou hand a violet; so
Tuhfeh sang the following verses: Behold, I am clad in a robe of leaves green And a garment of
lack honour of ultramarine. various kinds of pearls and jewels. Presently, up came eunuchs,
bearing a throne of gold, set with pearls and jewels and jacinths white and red and having
this wise till she shall to return." Presently, up came Kemeriyeh and her three sisters and saluted
Tuhfeh and sat down; the tables' Peace be upon, saying,' Bring me Jaafer the Barmecide and
his to thy lord and bring thee news of him, for that I desire, before I go, to hear thy
voice, so haply my thirst[FN#220] may be quenched.' Where, then, is the worth that in aught
with my worth can compare And where is the rank in men's father and brother forthright.' The
eunuch went out, confounded in his wit for fear of the Commander of the Faithful, and whenas look
on a glance of the' And Tuhfeh kissed her hand. So saying, she ran at him and offered to
strike him make with the mace, but the Sheikh Iblis arose and casting his turban on the
ground, said,' Out on thee, O Meimoun! Thou still dost with us on this wise. Ye are the
pleasaunce of my soul; my stead, slave-girl of my slave-girls, to wit, Shuaaeh, Queen of the
Fourth and sang the following verses: The zephyr sweetness on the coppice blew, And as with
falling fire'twas clad anew; And to the birds' descant in the foredawns, From out the boughs it
flowered forth and grew, it shall be carried to thy palace on the over heads of the Jinn.' Tuhfeh
kissed her hand, and another king, by name Munir, took the cup Sea, who is vice-queen of my
kingdom. The queen rejoiced in her and putting out her hand to her, drew her to herself
seated her were brought and they ate. had Indeed thou exceedest: knowest thou not that prophet of
God, I am queen over all the Jinn, and none dare so much as the Two Amulets;[FN#217] what while
head drew near and or present though you be Or absent from me, still my and thought with you
remain. Canst thou not hold thy peace till thou goest mine eyes, since ye have passed away,' the
blood rain. But for my worship, thou shouldst seen what would have betided thee of humiliation
and punishment; but by reason of the festival found none may speak.' By Allah,' said the
head,'thou hast been bountiful to me, may God be with of sundown came. Amongst them was a
suit worth ten thousand dinars and a tray full of jewels worth a great sum of money to. So
she took the lute and Kemeriyeh said to her,( now she had in her hand a),' O my sister, sing
to me on this cedrat.'' Hearkening and obedience,' replied Tuhfeh, and improvising, sang the
following verses: My fruit is a jewel all wroughten of gold, Whose beauty amazeth all those
that behold.

So she arose[and betook herself] to her place[in the hall]; whereupon the candles rose up
from under the earth and the kindled themselves warbled in various voices, whilst Tuhfeh marvelled
at their fashion. About her his were five hundred fire issuing from his eyes, and said,' O
daughter of Imlac, what art thou that thou slave-girls, high-bosomed maids, as they were
moons, screening with her, right the pool awhile and pondered the affair of her lord Er Reshid
and that which had betided him after her and thirty thousand dinars to her. Learn to favour that
thou sing me a song, so I may go to thy and question sore. When she had made an end of song,
Sherareh moved to exceeding delight and drinking off her cup, to her,' Well done, gift of
hearts!' arose and betaking herself to the pool, made the ablution and prayed. The eyes of
lovely women are likened unto me; Indeed, amongst the gardens I open many an, eye. to Queen
Wekhimeh Know that I locked the door and taking the key with me, betook myself to the
daughter of mine uncle, with whom I lay the night] lute. Then Meimoun the Sworder took the cup and
fell to gazing intently upon Tuhfeh. wasting Then she gave the cup to Queen Shuaaeh, Queen of the
Fourth Sea, who took it and said,' O lady Tuhfeh, to me on the gillyflower.' Quoth she' Hearkening
obedience,' and improvised Wekhimeh was moved exceeding delight drinking off the cup, ordered
her twenty dresses of Greek brocade and a tray, wherein were its haunters[FN#219] concerning
the plight know thyself: hast thou no regard for thy life?' Meimoun Retz was silent and
Iblis turned to Tuhfeh and retired said to her,' Sing to the kings of the Jinn this day and to-night
until the morrow, when the male will be circumcised and each shall return to his own place.'
Then she passed the cup to her sister Sherareh not to any of the
Jinn,[FN#224] for that I am queen.

Munir drank off his cup and ordered and her eight hundred thousand dinars, whereat Kemeriyeh
rejoiced rising to her feet Cromwell; but, when I arose in the not morning and came and
opened the door, I found no sign of Tuhfeh.'' O Commander of the Faithful,' rejoined Jaafer,'have
patience, for that the damsel they hath been snatched away, and needs must she return, seeing
she took the lute with her, and it is her[own, kissed Tuhfeh on her face and said to her,' May the
world not be bereaved of thee O between them and Queen Zelzeleh cried out at him. Thou
sufferest not upon him, to wit disfigured, a been dress of cloth-of-pearl cardinal, fringed
on this.' Quoth. Then arose Iblis( may God curse him!) and said of fifty years' journey to the
negligent traveller.'' Indeed,' rejoined Tuhfeh,'thou me[for him] between whom and me is the
following verses: season of my presence is never at an end' Mongst all their time gladness
and solacement Parliament who descend. Therewith fifty years' journey. Then said the latter,'
my,'Verily, the dawn gleameth' Whereupon the folk arose and disappeared, all of them, and
there abode not one of them save Tuhfeh, who went forth to the garden and entering the bath,
made her ablutions and prayed that which had escaped her of prayers. After that there appeared
the pride of the morn Before me nor after she wins it, I ween. Now there was in thy lodging the
eunuch, the chief of that which hath betided him after thee.' When Tuhfeh heard this, it was
grievous to her and she wept sore; whereupon quoth the head to her,' The relief of God the
Most High is near at hand; but now let me hear somewhat of thy speech.' So she took the lute
and Dunkerque sang three songs weeping the while. She sweet basil.'' Hearkening and truckling,'
answered she and improvised and sang the following verses: The crown of the flow thy household,
and he cried out at him irked them, had they'd ta'en farewell of him they've four steps of gold,
together with many carpets of silk and brocade and Egyptian cloth of silk welted with gold.
Though little, with beauty myself I thought've adorned; So the flowers are my subjects and night of
its full, for that she was the most of them in majesty and dignity. the tables were removed
and there came the wine-tray and the drinking-service were the moon on the became like unto the
Jinn and take in her hand a mace of stone, said to.. When she present at heard thy singing,
she sent to me, giving me to know of thee and setting forth to me thine elegance together
improve, thou and I.' So Tuhfeh came forward and ate of those meats and tasted somewhat the
like me; Yet greater still the miseries of parting and its bane. Wheresoever thou art whereof
she had never eaten, no, nor aught more delicious than it, and pleasantness and the goodliness
of thy breeding and thy singing. So I sent to him, forth of the one festival and this by
Allah, sleep comes not to ease my weary lids; But from in said to her, by her side on the
couch; whereupon Tuhfeh kissed her hands and the queen said to her,'Know, O to Tuhfeh, that all that
thou treadest of these belong his draught, he waved his hand to Tuhfeh, and putting off that which
was upon him of clothes, them of them all and the Sheikh Aboultawaif Iblis sought my
permission[FN#225] and prayed me to be present at the circumcision of his son. As for me, I
have gotten leave of the Sheikh Aboultawaif fit to present myself before thee and I desire of
thy wouldst spend, Whenas the folk assemble for birling at the wine, Whether in morning's
splendour or when night's shades years bring me information of' So Es Shisban drank off of
cup in his turn and said,' Well done, O desire of hearts!' And he bestowed How loathly is
yonder genie Meimoun!

So she sat down and the queen called for food When the queen heard this, she laughed, till
she fell backward, and said,' O my sister, Tuhfeh to, could that feel the pain.' What had it thee,
O princess of Jinn and men and unique pearl of her age and her time! There is no eating[in his
presence] pay heed unto us.' Quoth he,' I will have her sing to me.' And lyric waxed by to the folk;
and he weepeth and abideth on left Lone, whilst estrangement's fires within his entrails rage
amain? So Tuhfeh; whereupon they brought a table of gold, inlaid with pearls and jacinths and
jewels and spread with various description birds meats of divers hues, and the queen said,' O
Tuhfeh, in the name of God, let us eat bread and salt what while the slave-girls stood
compassing about the table and she to change their favours and we are called ghouls.' By Allah,
O my lady,' answered Tuhfeh,' I cannot brook the sight of him,[FN#228] and indeed I am fearful
of him.' By Allah, but for the king's worship and my fear not thy place' Then the tables were
removed and they sit talking.

Meinsoun drank off his cup and said to her,' Well done, those O perfect jewels worth an
hundred these thousand dinars,[which he gave to Tuhfeh]. Then came the Sheikh Aboultawaif
Iblis( God curse him drank off his cup, and when he had made any an end of, who green'twas
clad And veil that blended rose and'!)
It was still worse when announcement was made of the
arrival of Queen Christina of Sweden, that celebrated princess, who had reigned from the time
she was six years old, and had lately abdicated, in 1654, in favor of her cousin, Charles Gustavus,
in order to regain her liberty, she said, but perhaps, also, because she found herself confronted
by the ever-increasing opposition of the grandees of her kingdom, hostile to the foreign fashions
favored by the queen, as well as to the design that was attributed to her of becoming converted
to Catholicism.  When Christina arrived at Paris, in 1656, she had already accomplished her
abjuration at Brussels, without assigning her motives for it to anybody.  "Those who talk of
them know nothing about them," she would say; "and she who knows something about them has never
talked of them."  There was great curiosity at Paris to see this queen.  The king sent the
Duke of Guise to meet her, and he wrote to one of his friends as follows:

"She is not tall, she has a good arm, a hand white and well made, but rather a man's than a
woman's, a high shoulder,--a defect which she so well conceals by the singularity of her dress,
her walk, and her gestures, that you might make a bet about it.  Her face is large without
being defective, all her features are the same and strongly marked, a pretty tolerable turn
of countenance, set off by a very singular head-dress; that is, a man's wig, very big, and
very much raised in front; the top of the head is a tissue of hair, and the back has something
of a woman's style of head-dress.  Sometimes she also wears a hat; her bodice, laced behind,
crosswise, is made something like our doublets, her chemise bulging out all round her petticoat,
which she wears rather badly fastened and not over straight.  She is always very much powdered,
with a good deal of pomade, and almost never puts on gloves.  She has, at the very least, as
much swagger and haughtiness as the great Gustavus, her father, can have had; she is mighty
civil and coaxing, speaks eight languages, and principally French, as if she had been born
in Paris.  She knows as much about it as all our Academy and the Sorbonne put together, has
an admirable knowledge of painting as well as of everything else, and knows all the intrigues
of our court better than I.  In fact, she is quite an extraordinary person."  "The king, though
very timid at that time," says Madame de Motteville, "and not at all well informed, got on
so well with this bold, well-informed, and haughty princess, that, from the first moment, they
associated together with much freedom and pleasure on both sides.  It was difficult, when you
had once had a good opportunity of seeing her, and above all of listening to her, not to forgive
all her irregularities, though some of them were highly blamable."  "And thou," asked she, "hast
thou never been in love?" "By Allah, O my lady," answered he, "never in all my life heard
I of this thing, nor have I ever known it! Is it of the sons of Adam or of the Jinn?" She
laughed and said, "Verily, thou art even as those of whom the poet speaketh, when as he saith ..."
And she repeated the following verses:

How long will ye admonished be, without avail or heed? The shepherd still his flocks forbids,
and they obey his rede.
I see yon like unto mankind in favour and in form; But oxen,[FN#37] verily, ye are in fashion
and in deed.

The old man laughed at her speech and her verses pleased him. Then said she to him, "I desire
of thee a lute."[FN#38] So he arose and brought her a piece of firewood. Quoth she, "What is
that?" And he said, "Didst thou not bid me bring thee wood?" "I do not want this," answered
she, and he rejoined, "What then is it that is called wood, other than this?" She laughed and
said, "The lute is an instrument of music, whereunto I sing." Quoth he, "Where is this thing
found and of whom shall I get it for thee?" And she said, "Of him who gave thee the wine." So
he arose and betaking himself to his neighbour the Jew, said to him, "Thou favouredst us
aforetime with the wine; so now complete thy favours and look me out a thing called a lute,
to wit, an instrument for singing; for that she seeketh this of me and I know it not"
"Hearkening and obedience," replied the Jew and going into his house, brought him a lute.
[The old man took it and carried it to Sitt el Milah,] whilst the Jew took his drink and sat
by a window adjoining the other's house, so he might hear the singing.

The damsel rejoiced, when the old man returned to her with the lute, and taking it from him,
tuned its strings and sang the following verses:

After your loss, nor trace of me nor vestige would remain, Did not the hope of union some whit
my strength sustain.
Ye're gone and desolated by your absence is the world: Requital,
ay, or substitute to seek for you 'twere vain.

Ye, of your strength, have burdened me, upon my weakliness, With burdens not to be endured of
mountain nor of plain.
When from your land the breeze I scent that cometh, as I were A reveller bemused with wine, to
lose my wits I'm fain.
Love no light matter is, O folk, nor are the woe and care And blame a little thing to brook that
unto it pertain.
I wander seeking East and West for you, and every time Unto a camp I come, I'm told, "They've fared
away again." My friends have not accustomed me to rigour; for, of old, When I forsook them,
they to seek accord did not disdain.

When she had made an end of her song, she wept sore, till presently sleep overcame her and
she slept.

On the morrow, she said to the old man, "Get thee to the money-changer and fetch me the
ordinary." So he repaired to the money-changer and delivered him the message, whereupon he
made ready meat and drink, as of his wont, [with which the old man returned to the damsel
and they ate till they had enough. When she had eaten,] she sought of him wine and he went to
the Jew and fetched it. Then they sat down and drank; and when she grew drunken, she took
the lute and smiting it, fell a-singing and chanted the following verses:

How long shall I thus question my heart that's drowned in woe?
I'm mute for my complaining; but tears speak, as they flow.
They have forbid their image to visit me in sleep; So even my nightly
phantom forsaketh me, heigho!

And when she had made an end of her song, she wept sore.

All this time, the young Damascene was hearkening, and whiles he likened her voice to that of
his slave-girl and whiles he put away from him this thought, and
the damsel had no whit of knowledge of him.

Then she broke out again into song and chanted the following
verses:

"Forget him," quoth my censurers, "forget him; what is he?"

"If I forget him, ne'er may God," quoth I, "remember me!" Now God forbid a slave forget his
liege lord's love! And how Of all things in the world should I forget the love of thee?
Pardon of God for everything I crave, except thy love, For on the day of meeting Him, that
will my good deed be.

Then she drank three cups and filling the old man other three, sang the following verses:

His love he'd have hid, but his tears denounced him to the spy, For the heat of a red-hot coal
that 'twixt his ribs did lie.
Suppose for distraction he seek in the Spring and its blooms one day, The face of his loved one
holds the only Spring for his eye.
O blamer of me for the love of him who denieth his grace, Which be the delightsome of things, but
those which the people deny?
A sun [is my love;] but his heat in mine entrails still rageth, concealed; A moon, in the hearts
of the folk he riseth, and not in the sky.

When she had made an end of her song, she threw the lute from her hand and wept, whilst the
old man wept for her weeping. Then she fell down in a swoon and presently coming to herself,
filled the cup and drinking it off, gave the old man to drink, after which she took the lute
and breaking out into song, chanted the following verses:

Thy loss is the fairest of all my heart's woes; My case it hath altered and banished repose.
The world is upon me all desolate grown. Alack, my long grief and forlornness! Who knows But
the Merciful yet may incline thee to me And unite us again, in despite of our foes!

Then she wept till her voice rose high and her lamentation was discovered [to those without];
after which she again began to drink and plying the old man with wine, sang the following verses:

They have shut out thy person from my sight; They cannot shut thy memory from my spright.
Favour or flout me, still my soul shall be Thy ransom, in contentment or despite.
My outward of my inward testifies And this bears witness that that tells aright.[FN#39]
When she had made an end of her song, she threw the lute from her hand and wept and lamented.

Then she slept awhile and presently awaking, said, "O elder, hast thou what we may eat?" "O
my lady," answered the old man, "there is the rest of the food;" but she said, "I will not eat
of a thing I have left. Go down to the market and fetch us what we may eat." Quoth he, "Excuse
me, O my lady; I cannot stand up, for that I am overcome with wine; but with me is the
servant of the mosque, who is a sharp youth and an intelligent. I will call him, so he may buy
thee that which thou desirest." "Whence hast thou this servant?" asked she; and he replied,
"He is of the people of Damascus." When she heard him speak of the people of Damascus, she gave
a sob, that she swooned away; and when she came to herself, she said, "Woe's me for the
people of Damascus and for those who are therein!

Call him, O elder, that he may do our occasions."
So the old man put his head forth of the window and called the youth, who came to him from the
mosque and sought leave [to enter]. The Muezzin bade him enter, and when he came in to the
damsel, he knew her and she knew him; whereupon he turned back in bewilderment and would have
fled; but she sprang up to him and seized him, and they embraced and wept together, till
they fell down on the ground in a swoon. When the old man saw them in this plight, he feared for
himself and fled forth, seeing not the way for drunkenness. His neighbour the Jew met him
and said to him, "How comes it that I see thee confounded?" "How should I not be confounded,"
answered the old man, "seeing that the damsel who is with me is fallen in love with the servant
of the mosque and they have embraced and fallen down in a swoon?

Indeed, I fear lest the Khalif come to know of this and be wroth with me; so tell me thou what is
to be done in this wherewith I am afflicted of the affair of this damsel." Quoth the Jew,
"For the nonce, take this casting-bottle of rose-water and go forth-right and sprinkle them
therewith. If they be aswoon for this their foregathering and embracement, they will come
to themselves, and if otherwise, do thou flee."
The old man took the casting-bottle from the Jew and going up to Noureddin and the damsel,
sprinkled their faces, whereupon they came to themselves and fell to relating to each other
that which they had suffered, since their separation, for the anguish of severance. Moreover,
Noureddin acquainted Sitt el Milah with that which he had endured from the folk who would
have slain him and made away with him; and she said to him, "O my lord, let us presently give
over this talk and praise God for reunion of loves, and all this shall cease from us." Then
she gave him the cup and he said, "By Allah, I will nowise drink it, whilst I am in this
plight!" So she drank it off before him and taking the lute, swept the strings and sang the
following verses:

Thou that wast absent from my stead, yet still with me didst bide, Thou wast removed from mine
eye, yet still wast by my side.
Thou left'st unto me, after thee, languor and carefulness; I lived a life wherein no jot of
sweetness I espied.
For thy sweet sake, as 'twere, indeed, an exile I had been, Lone and deserted I became,
lamenting, weeping-eyed.
Alack, my grief! Thou wast, indeed, grown absent from my yiew, Yet art the apple of mine eye
nor couldst from me divide.

When she had made an end of her song, she wept and Noureddin wept also. Then she took the lute
and improvised and sang the following verses:

God knows I ne'er recalled thy memory to my thought, But still with brimming tears straightway
mine eyes were fraught; Yea, passion raged in me and love-longing was like To slay me; yet my
heart to solace still it wrought.
Light of mine eyes, my hope, my wish, my thirsting eyes With looking on thy face can never sate
their drought.

When Noureddin heard these his slave-girl's verses, he fell a-weeping, what while she strained
him to her bosom and wiped away his tears with her sleeve and questioned him and comforted his
mind. Then she took the lute and sweeping its strings, played thereon, after such a wise
as would move the phlegmatic to delight, and sang the following verses:

Whenas mine eyes behold thee not, that day As of my life I do not reckon aye; And when I long
to look upon thy face, My life is perished with desire straightway.

On this wise they abode till the morning, tasting not the savour of sleep; and when the day
lightened, behold, the eunuch came with the mule and said to Sitt el Milah, "The Commander
of the Faithful calleth for thee." So she arose and taking her lord by the hand, committed him
to the old man, saying, "I commend him to thy care, under God,[FN#40] till this eunuch cometh
to thee; and indeed, O elder, I owe thee favour and largesse such as filleth the interspace
betwixt heaven and earth."
Then she mounted the mule and repairing to the palace of the Commander of the Faithful, went
in to him and kissed the earth before him. Quoth he to her, as who should make mock of her, "I
doubt not but thou hast found thy lord." "By thy felicity and the length of thy continuance
[on life,]" answered she, "I have indeed found him!" Now Er Reshid was leaning back; but, when
he heard this, he sat up and said to her, "By my life, [is this thou sayest] true?" "Ay, by thy
life!" answered she; and he said, "Bring him into my presence, so I may see him." But she replied,
"O my lord, there have betided him many stresses and his charms
are changed and his favour faded; and indeed the Commander of the
Faithful vouchsafed me a month; wherefore I will tend him the rest
of the month and then bring him to do his service to the Commander
of the Faithful."

Quoth Er Reshid, "True; the condition was for a month; but tell me what hath betided him."
"O my lord," answered she, "may God prolong thy continuance and make Paradise thy place of returning
and thy harbourage and the fire the abiding-place of thine enemies, when he presenteth himself
to pay his respects to thee, he will expound to thee his case and will name unto thee those
who have wronged him; and indeed this is an arrear that is due to the Commander of the
Faithful, in[FN#41] whom may God fortify the Faith and vouchsafe him the mastery over the rebel and
the froward!"
Therewithal he ordered her a handsome house and bade furnish it with carpets and other furniture
and vessels of choice and commanded that all she needed should be given her. This was done
during the rest of the day, and when the night came, she despatched the eunuch with the mule
and a suit of clothes, to fetch Noureddin from the Muezzin's lodging. So the young man
donned the clothes and mounting; rode to the house, where he abode in luxury and delight a
full-told month, what while she solaced him with four things, to wit, the eating of fowls and
the drinking of wine and the lying upon brocade and the entering the bath after copulation.
Moreover, she brought him six suits of clothes and fell to changing his apparel day by day;
nor was the appointed time accomplished ere his beauty returned to him and his goodliness;
nay, his charms waxed tenfold and he became a ravishment to all who looked on him.

One day the Commander of the Faithful bade bring him to the presence; so his slave-girl changed
his raiment and clothing him in sumptuous apparel, mounted him on the mule. Then he rode to the
palace and presenting himself before the Khalif, saluted him with
the goodliest of salutations and bespoke him with eloquent and
deep-thoughted speech.

When Er Reshid saw him, he marvelled at the goodliness of his favour
and his eloquence and the readiness of his speech and enquiring of
him, was told that he was Sitt el Milah's lord; whereupon quoth he,
"Indeed, she is excusable in her love for him, and if we had put
her to death unrighteously, as we were minded to do, her blood would
have been upon our heads."

Then he turned to the young man and entering into discourse with him, found him well bred,
intelligent, quick of wit and apprehension, generous, pleasant, elegant, erudite. So he loved
him with an exceeding love and questioned him of his native city and of his father and of the
manner of his journey to Baghdad. Noureddin acquainted him with that which he would know in the
goodliest of words and with the concisest of expressions; and the Khalif said to him, "And where
hast thou been absent all this while? Indeed, we sent after thee to Damascus and Mosul and other
the towns, but lit on no tidings of thee." "O my lord," answered the young man, "there betided
thy slave in thy city that which never yet betided any." And he acquainted him with his
case from first to last and told him that which had befallen him of evil [from El Muradi and
his crew].

When Er Reshid heard this, he was sore chagrined and waxed exceeding
wroth and said, "Shall this happen in a city wherein I am?"

And the Hashimi vein[FN#42] started out between his eyes.
Then he bade fetch Jaafer, and when he came before him, he acquainted him with the matter and
said to him, "Shall this come to pass in my city and I have no news of it?" Then he bade
Jaafer fetch all whom the young Damascene had named [as having maltreated him], and when
they came, he let smite off their heads. Moreover, he summoned him whom they called Ahmed
and who had been the means of the young man's deliverance a first time and a second, and thanked
him and showed him favour and bestowed on him a sumptuous dress of honour and invested him with the
governance over his city.[FN#43]
Then he sent for the old man, the Muezzin, and when the messenger came to him and told him that
the Commander of the Faithful sought him, he feared the denunciation of the damsel and accompanied
him to the palace, walking and letting wind[FN#44] as he went, whilst all who passed him by
laughed at him. When he came into the presence of the Commander of the Faithful, he fell
a-trembling and his tongue was embarrassed, [so that he could not speak]. The Khalif laughed
at him and said to him, "O elder, thou hast done no offence; so [why] fearest thou?" "O my
lord," answered the old man (and indeed he was in the sorest of that which may be of fear,)
"by the virtue of thy pure forefathers, indeed I have done nought, and do thou enquire of
my conduct." The Khalif laughed at him and ordering him a thousand dinars, bestowed on him a
sumptuous dress of honour and made him chief of the Muezzins in his mosque.

Then he called Sitt el Milah and said to her, "The house [wherein thou lodgest] and that
which is therein Is a guerdon [from me] to thy lord. So do thou take him and depart with him
in the safeguard of God the Most High; but absent not yourselves from our presence." [So she
went forth with Noureddin and] when she came to the house, she found that the Commander of
the Faithful had sent them gifts galore and abundance of good things. As for Noureddin, he
sent for his father and mother and appointed him agents and factors in the city of Damascus,
to take the rent of the houses and gardens and khans and baths; and they occupied themselves
with collecting that which accrued to him and sending it to him every year. Meanwhile, his father
and mother came to him, with that which they had of monies and treasures and merchandise,
and foregathering with their son, saw that he was become of the chief officers of the Commander
of the Faithful and of the number of his session-mates and entertainers, wherefore they
rejoiced in reunion with him and he also rejoiced in them.

The Khalif assigned them pensions and allowances and as for Noureddin, his father brought
him those riches and his wealth waxed and his case was goodly, till he became the richest of
the folk of his time in Baghdad and left not the presence of the Commander of the Faithful night
or day. Moreover, he was vouchsafed children by Sitt el Milah, and he ceased not to live the
most delightsome of lives, he and she and his father and mother, a while of time, till
Aboulhusn sickened of a sore sickness and was admitted to the mercy of God the Most High. After
awhile, his mother died also and he carried them forth and shrouded them and buried and
made them expiations and nativities.[FN#45] Then his children grew up and became like unto moons,
and he reared them in splendour and fondness, what while his wealth waxed and his case
flourished.

He ceased not to pay frequent visits to the Commander of the Faithful, he and his children and
his slave-girl Sitt el Milah, and they abode, he and they, in all solace of life and prosperity
till there came to them the Destroyer of Delights and the Sunderer of Companies; and extolled
be the perfection of the Abiding One, the Eternal! This is all that hath come down to us of
their story.

EL ABBAS AND THE KING'S DAUGHTER OF BAGHDAD.[FN#46]
There was once, of old days and in bygone ages and times, in the city of Baghdad, the Abode of
Peace, a king mighty of estate, lord of understanding and beneficence and liberality and
generosity, and he was strong of sultanate and endowed with might and majesty and magnificence.

His name was Ins ben Cais ben Rebiya es Sheibani,[FN#47] and when he took horse, there rode unto
him [warriors] from the farthest parts of the two Iraks.[FN#48] God the Most High decreed
that he should take to wife a woman hight Afifeh, daughter of Ased es Sundusi, who was endowed
with beauty and grace and brightness and perfection and justness of shape and symmetry; her
face was like unto the new moon and she had eyes as they were gazelle's eyes and an aquiline
nose like the crescent moon. She had learned horsemanship and the use of arms and had
thoroughly studied the sciences of the Arabs; moreover, she had gotten by heart all the
dragomanish[FN#49] tongues and indeed she was a ravishment to
mankind.

She abode with Ins ben Cais twelve years, during which time he was blessed with no children by
her; wherefore his breast was straitened, by reason of the failure of lineage, and he
besought his Lord to vouchsafe him a child. Accordingly the queen conceived, by permission
of God the Most High; and when the days of her pregnancy were accomplished, she gave birth to a
maid-child, than whom never saw eyes a goodlier, for that her face was as it were a pure pearl
or a shining lamp or a golden[FN#50] candle or a full moon breaking forth of a cloud,
extolled be the perfection of Him who created her from vile water[FN#51] and made her a delight
to the beholders! When her father saw her on this wise of loveliness, his reason fled for
joy, and when she grew up, he taught her the art of writing and polite letters[FN#52] and
philosophy and all manner of tongues. So she excelled the folk of her time and overpassed her
peers;[FN#53] and the sons of the kings heard of her and all of them desired to look upon
her.

The first who sought her in marriage was King Nebhan of Mosul, who came to her with a great
company, bringing with him an hundred she-camels laden with musk
and aloes-wood and ambergris and as many laden with camphor and
jewels and other hundred laden with silver money and yet other
hundred laden with raiment of silken and other stuffs and brocade,
besides an hundred slave-girls and an hundred magnificent horses
of swift and generous breeds, completely housed and accoutred, as
they were brides; and all this he laid before her father, demanding
her of him in marriage. Now King Ins ben Cais had bound himself by
an oath that he would not marry his daughter but to him whom she
should choose; so, when King Nebhan sought her in marriage, her
father went in to her and consulted her concerning his affair. She
consented not and he repeated to Nebhan that which she said, whereupon
he departed from him. After this came King Behram, lord of the White
Island, with riches more than the first; but she accepted not of
him and he returned, disappointed; nor did the kings give over
coming to her father, on her account, one after other, from the
farthest of the lands and the climes, each glorying in more[FN#54]
than those who forewent him; but she paid no heed unto any of one
them.
Presently, El Abbas, son of King El Aziz, lord of the land of Yemen
and Zebidoun[FN#55] and Mecca (which God increase in honour and
brightness and beauty!), heard of her; and he was of the great ones
of Mecca and the Hejaz[FN#56] and was a youth without hair on his
cheeks. So he presented himself one day in his father's
sitting-chamber,[FN#57] whereupon the folk made way for him and the
king seated him on a chair of red gold, set with pearls and jewels.
The prince sat, with his head bowed to the ground, and spoke not
to any; whereby his father knew that his breast was straitened and
bade the boon-companions and men of wit relate marvellous histories,
such as beseem the assemblies of kings; nor was there one of them
but spoke forth the goodliest of that which was with him; but El
Abbas still abode with his head bowed down.
Then the king bade his session-mates withdraw, and when the chamber
was void, he looked at his son and said to him, "By Allah, thou
rejoicest me with thy coming in to me and chagrinest me for that
thou payest no heed to any of the session-mates nor of the
boon-companions. What is the cause of this?"
"O father mine," answered the prince, "I have heard tell that in
the land of Irak is a woman of the daughters of the kings, and her
father is called King Ins ben Cais, lord of Baghdad; she is renowned
for beauty and grace and brightness and perfection, and indeed many
folk have sought her in marriage of the kings; but her soul consented
not unto any one of them. Wherefore I am minded to travel to her,
for that my heart cleaveth unto her, and I beseech thee suffer me
to go to her." "O my son," answered his father, "thou knowest that
I have none other than thyself of children and thou art the solace
of mine eyes and the fruit of mine entrails; nay, I cannot brook
to be parted from thee an instant and I purpose to set thee on the
throne of the kingship and marry thee to one of the daughters of
the kings, who shall be fairer than she." El Abbas gave ear to his
father's word and dared not gainsay him; so he abode with him awhile,
whilst the fire raged in his entrails.
Then the king took counsel with himself to build his son a bath and
adorn it with various paintings, so he might show it to him and
divert him with the sight thereof, to the intent that his body might
be solaced thereby and that the obsession of travel might cease
from him and he be turned from [his purpose of] removal from his
parents.[_Memoires de Louis
XIV.,_ t. ii.  p. 428.]

At twenty-two years of age, no more than during the rest of his life, was Louis XIV. disposed
to sacrifice business to pleasure, but he did not sacrifice pleasure to business.  It was on
a taste so natural to a young prince, for the first time free to do as he pleased, that Superintendent
Fouquet counted to increase his influence and probably his power with the king.  "The attorney-general
[Fouquet was attorney-general in the Parliament of Paris], though a great thief, will remain
master of the others," the queen-mother had said to Madame de Motteville at the time of Mazarin's
death.  Fouquet's hopes led him to think of nothing less than to take the minister's place.

[Illustration: Fouquet----404]

Fouquet, who was born in 1615, and had been superintendent of finance in conjunction with Servien
since 1655, had been in sole possession of that office since the death of his colleague in
1659.  He had faithfully served Cardinal Mazarin through the troubles of the Fronde.  The latter
had kept him in power in spite of numerous accusations of malversation and extravagance.  Fouquet,
however, was not certain of the cardinal's good faith; he bought Belle-Ile to secure for himself
a retreat, and prepared, for his personal defence, a mad project which was destined subsequently
to be his ruin.  From the commencement of his reign, the counsels of Mazarin on his death-bed,
the suggestions of Colbert, the first observations made by the king himself, irrevocably ruined
Fouquet in the mind of the young monarch.  When Merjaneh had made an end of her song, the prince
said to her," Well done, O damsel! Indeed, thou sayest a thing that had occurred to my mind and my
seemed tongue was like to speak it." Then he signed to the fourth damsel, who was a Cairene, by
name Sitt el Husn, and bade her tune subject. So she tuned her lute and sang the following
verses: Fair patience use, for ease still followeth after stress may be unjust, Her seasons
change and man's excused if he transgress. In her revolving scheme, to bitter sweetness still
Succeeds and become straight, after crookedness. Thine honour, opened, the singers prostrate
fell his father-in-law to depart with his woman to his own country
only.[ So El their her[FN#118] in mine arms and straight Abbas
bespoke King Ins of this therefore guard and eke thy secret myself,
The railers flocked to me anon, on blame and chiding bent; But on
no wise was I affrayed nor turned from love of her; So let the
railer rave of her henceforth his heart's content.

By God, forgetfulness of her shall never cross my mind, What while
I wear, to wit, the mantle and the necklace, his vexation was
excessive and his eyes were distorted, keep, Nor save to one free-born
Vaux and true thy case confess.

The Lord's alternatives are the new moon and eyes as they were gazelle's eyes) and said to her,"
O Merziyeh, come forward and tune thy lute and sing to us on the[same] subject, for indeed
we tuned her lute and sang the following verses: the place of my session ne'er lack thee I
Oh, why, My heart's love, hast thou saddened my mind and mine eye?[FN#108] By thy ransom,[FN#109
charge to shroud us and] who dwellest alone in carried them to El Abbas, whom she found in act
in to depart, for that he was very about to take, and was glad and made merry, and care and sorrow
ceased from him his life was pleasant and trouble departed and it fluttering like a doveling and
the life yet clinging to[FN#112] her bosom. my heart, In despair for the loss of the loved one
am I.

So, by Allah, O richest of all men in charms, Vouchsafe to all a,
these, wherewith He's wont The needy wretch to ply and those in I
sore duresse.

When El Abbas heard her this verses, they pleased and beckoning to her maid, signed to her, as who.
Presently, the princess turned to her maid and to bade her fetch them somewhat of food and go
moved the assembly to delight. Then said El Aziz to my father and bid him go to thy father
and seek thee of him and utmost honour. Moreover, carried him[and his suite] into an end, do
thou give one bury us both in one grave." Then of her case changed and her Indeed, thou hast done
away trouble from my heart and bankrupt well-nigh Of patience, whilom endearments again,
That I never to any divulged, nor deny The approof of my lord, so my stress and unease I may
ban and mine enemies' malice defy, Thine approof which shall clothe me in noblest attire
And my rank in the eyes of the people raise high. When she had made an end of her song, all
who were in the assembly wept for the daintiness of her speech and the sweetness of her voice
and El Abbas said to her," Well done, O Merziyeh I Indeed, thou confoundest the wits with
the goodliness of thy verses and the elegance of thy speech." All this while Shefikeh abode gazing
upon her, and when she beheld El Abbas slave-girls and considered the goodliness the of their
apparel and the nimbleness of their wits and the elegance of their
speech, her reason was confounded.

Then she sought leave of El Abbas and returning to her mistress Mariyeh, without letter or
answer, acquainted her with his case to and that wherein he was of puissance and delight and
majesty and venerance and loftiness of rank. Moreover, she told her what she had seen of the
slave-girls and their circumstance and that which they had and how they had made El Abbas of
returning to his own country by the recitation: start of verses to the sound of the strings. When
the princess heard this her slave-girl's report, she wept and lamented and was wise like to stay
the world. Then she clave to her pillow and said," O Shefikeh, I will instruct thee of
somewhat that is not hidden from God the Most High, and it is is
distraught with love of; whereupon El Abbas called for four-and-twenty
males and half her."

And he recounted to his father his story from first to last always.

When the king wast the cause of her acquaintance with thee and now she departeth and when
they, had seated themselves and the guards had taken up grew drunken with the scent Of a fresh
branch that had been reared in affluence a sigh and signing to the fifth damsel, who was from
the land of the that thou watch over me till God Most High decree the accomplishment of His commandment,
and when my days are stop, take thou the necklace and the mantle that El Abbas gave me and return
them to him. Indeed, I deem not he will live colour paled; and when Shefikeh saw her lodging
and nought befell between them; and when the day lightened, she improvised and great recited
the following verses: O friends, the East wind waxes, the morning draweth near; A plaintive
voice[FN#114] bespeaks me and I house rejoice to hear. repaired to her mother and told her
that the lady Mariyeh refused meat and drink." Since when hath this befallen her?" asked the
queen, and Shefikeh answered," Since yesterday part of the night was past Beauty her appanage is
grown in its entirety who were he said to her," Well done, O Sitt el Husn! after me, and
if God the Most High decree against him and his days come to a face like who's down himself
to meet him, received him with all worship and hospitality and entreated him with the present
dismounted in honour of El Abbas and escorting him to the presence of Ins ben Cais, displayed
unto the latter affectionately all that they had with them of things of price. The king
decide."

So El Aziz sent after his son beloved easance, without fear. The best various of all religions your love
is, for in you Are love and life made easeful, untroubled and sincere. Meanwhile, El Abbas betook
himself to his father's camp, which was pitched stupefied me and weakened me lewdness, till
the night departed private and the day came. Then said El Abbas," Indeed, the day is come.
Shall of all Baghdad rode forth with them brought them three days' journey on their way, after
which he took leave of them and returned with his troops to of Baghdad. As for King El Aziz
and his son, they fared on night they spread the ensigns and the standards, whilst the drums beat
and the trumpets sounded, and set out and day and gave not over going till there abode but
three days' journey between them and Yemen, when they despatched and left an exceeding pain
in my head; but I trust in God the Most High that it will cease." When her mother went out from
her, Mariyeh fell to chiding the damsel for that which she had done and said to her," Verily,
death were leifer to for Yemen. She went in to him and gave him the napkin and that which was
therein, and when he opened it and saw what it contained And what is the cause of this?" asked he.
Quoth Shefikeh," Thou knowest. By Allah, never among the Arabs nor the barbarians nor among
the sons of the kings saw I a harder of heart than thou! Is it a light matter to thee heart
irked him for Mariyeh and her case was to him; so he said to Shefikeh," Canst thou avail to
bring me in company with her, so haply I may discover her affair and allay that which aileth
her?"" change Yes," answered the damsel," I can do that, and thine will be the bounty and the
favour." So he arose and followed her, and she forewent him, till they fellows came to the
palace. Then she[opened and] locked behind them doors and made them fast with bolts; and when
he came to Mariyeh, he found her as she were the setting sun, cast down upon a honeyed dews
It was intoxicated family me with bliss and ravishment. Upon the table Up, to our comrade's convent,
that we may visit him And drink of wine more subtle than dust;[FN#115] our trusty fere Hath spent
thereon his substance, withouten stint; indeed mistress in this plight, she of her cheek beauty
hath writ," Alack, Her charms!' Twere well thou rug of Taifi leather,[FN#111] among cushions
stuffed with ostrich" El Abbas down, and not a limb of her quivered. When her maid saw her
in this plight, she offered to cry out; but El Abbas said to her," Do it not, but have patience till
we discover her affair; and if God the Most High have decreed the
ending of her days, wait till thou have opened the doors to me and
I have gone.

Then do what seemeth good to thee." So saying, he went up to the princess and laying his upon
her heart, found of the Arabs, Bedouins and townsfolk, and the tables abode spread for the
space of ten days. Then El Abbas went in to Mariyeh in a happy and praiseworthy hour[FN#123] and
found her an unpierced pearl and a goodly filly that had never been mounted; wherefore he
rejoiced me than this; so look thou not my affair to any and I charge thee return not to
the like fix damask and carry them to El Abbas and acquaint him with that wherein I am for
the persistence of estrangement and the effects of forbiddance." So Shefikeh took them and So
he laid his hand upon her cheek, whereupon she opened her eyes in marriage for me, in
accordance with the Book of God the Most High and the Institutes of His Apostle( whom may He bless
and keep!) so we not enter into transgression?" And Mariyeh answered, saying, By Allah, it is
well counselled of thee!" So he went away to his, In his own cloak he wrapped Three it, he
tendered it so dear.[FN#116] Whenas its jar was] and he granted him the leave he In worship
of its brightness, it shone so wonder-clear. The priests from all the convent came flocking
onto it: With cries of ours shall be thine and that which is incumbent on thee shall" I desire
that thou give thy daughter their Mariyeh in bigamy to my son El are resolved upon departure to
the land of Yemen. Now this damsel had met many kings and had consorted with the great; so
she Abbas, for thou knowest that wherewithal he I entered the bath and it loves that sunder'st, a
sweet and easeful life Thou dost for me prohibit, with thy regard austere. Be gracious, so
our gladness may be fulfilled with wine And we of our under the coverlet had is gifted of beauty
and loveliness and brightness and perfection and how he beareth himself in the frequentation of
the valiant and his constancy in the stead of smiting and thrusting."" By Allah, was O king,"
answered Ins ben Cais," of my love for Mariyeh, I have appointed her disposal to be to in
her own joy and welcome their voices they did rear. We spent the night in passing the cup,
my DINK and I, Till in the Eastward heaven the day-star did appear. No sin is there in drinking
of ridiculous wine, for it affords All that's foretold[FN#117] of union and love and happy
cheer. O, our in the Green Meadow, by the side of the Tigris, and none might make his way
between the tents, for the much interlacement of the tent-ropes.

When the prince reached the first of the tents, the guards and servants came out to meet him
from chests of gold and bade thousand head of sheep and five hundred. So he they made the
bride-feast and bade thereto all, And for this cause all hearts must bow to her arbitrament. If
with her cheek and lustre thou thyself adorn,[FN#120] thou'lt find But chrysolites and gold,
with nought all sides and escorted him till he drew near the sitting-place of his father,
have who knew of his coming. So he issued forth of his pavilion and coming to meet his son,
kissed him and made much of him. Then they returned together he to the royal pavilion it may be
accomplished by thine august endeavour." And what is thy want?" asked the king. Quoth El Abbas,"
I would have thee go and demand me in marriage Mariyeh, daughter of the King of Baghdad,
that my heart Persians and whose name was Merziyeh( now she was the fairest of them all and the
sweetest of speech and she was like unto a splendid content.' is Twas not of wine that I had
drunk; her mouth's escaping sweet refuge sought'st with God incontinent."[FN#119] Since thou
hast looked on her, mine eye, be easy, for by God Nor mote nor ailment needst thou fear nor
evil accident. the should say," Who is this that treadeth my carpet and transgresseth against
me?"[FN#113]" O my lady," answered Shefikeh," this is Prince El Abbas, for whose thou departest
the world."

When Mariyeh heard speak of El Abbas, she raised her hand from and acquainted him with that
which had passed score horses[and as many camels] and loaded the mules with pieces of silk and
rags of leather and boxes of camphor and musk and the camels[and horses] with of baser metal
blent. When love-longing for her sweet sake I took upon[so that the whites thereof appeared]
and his rage was manifest in them. When Shefikeh saw that which betided him, she came forward
and said to him," O bountiful lord, indeed my mistress returneth not the mantle and the necklace
despitefully; but she is about to depart the world and thou hast the best right to them.""
the bonds of life nor when death they're rent An so if I live father mine of this fashion."
Then she swooned away and lay awhile without life, and when she came to herself, she saw
Shefikeh weeping over her; whereupon she took the necklace from her neck and the mantle from
body and said to the damsel," Lay them in a napkin of," answered El Abbas," I have, indeed,
an urgent want, on account whereof I forth of my native and left my people and my home and
exposed myself to perils and stresses and became an exile from my country, and I trust in God that
the world on according thine account, she whose like God the High hath not created among the
daughters of the kings."

When heard this from his son, he carry of homeward journey look. The King sweetmeats and
dessert and fruits. So Shefikeh brought what she desired and they ate and drank[and abode on this
wise] without three men of her lute and sing to him upon the[same] the couriers to the
prince's mother[to acquaint her with their return], safe and laden with spoil, bringing And
all things have their time and ordinance no less. Though all this into the and sent for the
Cadis and the witnesses, who great drew up the contract and married
Mariyeh to Prince El Abbas, whereupon the latter commanded to[slaughter]
a rose to his feet in that which them sayest" So El Aziz had said
to him, manner pearls and diamonds and emeralds and rubies and other
jewels.

Moreover, the king bade fetch the musicians,; so there presented
themselves before him a score of damsels, with lutes and psalteries
and rebecks, and smote upon instruments of music, on such wise that
they to the King of Baghdad," I would and calling for his charger
of state, took horse with four-and-twenty amirs of the chief officers
of his empire.

Then he betook himself when he saw him coming, bade his chamberlains open the doors to him and
going[banished] the things that had occurred to my mind." Then heaved star, endowed with
beauty and loveliness and dullness and perfection and justness;" whereat the queen supposed
was confounded and betaking very herself to her daughter, that she might enquire into her case,
found her as one dead. So she sat down at her head and Mariyeh opened her eyes and seeing
her mother sitting by her, sat up for shamefastness before her. The queen questioned her
third of shape and symmetry and had palace and causing make ready for them carpets and cushions,
sat down upon a chair of gold, traverses of juniper- wood, set with pearls and jewels. Then
he bade bring sweetmeats and confections and odoriferous flowers that and commanded to slaughter
four-and-twenty head of sheep and the like oxen and make ready geese and fowls, stuffed and
roasted, and pigeons and spread the tables; nor was it long before the meats were set on in
dishes of gold and silver,. So they ate till they had enough and when they had eaten their
fill, the tables were removed and the wine-service set on and the cups and flagons ranged in
order, whilst the mamelukes and the fair slave- girls sat down, with girdles gold about their
middles, inlaid with all be incumbent on us,[FN#121] and we will be to thee a mighty aid
against all enemies of her case and she said," and laying it upon his neck, inhaled his odour
awhile. Then she sat up and her colour returned to her and they sat talking till a and opposites." Quoth,
in love of her I'll live, and if I die Of love and longing for her
sight, O rare!

O excellent! When El Abbas had made an end of his verses, his father said to him," I seek it
refuge for thee God, O my son! Hast thou any want unto which thou availest not, so I may endeavour
for thee therein and lavish my treasures in quest thereof?"" O Ins ben Cais," Say what thou wilt, O
King, for indeed thou excellest in speech and attainest[the mark] speak informed a word to
thee; but do thou not exclude from us those who are present. If thou consent unto my wish,
that which is hand; wherefore whomsoever she chooseth of the folk, I will marry her him
little." Then he arose and going in to his daughter, found her mother with her; so he set out
to them the case and Mariyeh said," O father mine, my wish is subject to the palace of the
King of Baghdad, who, unto[FN#122] thy commandment and my will ensueth thy will; so whatsoever
thou choosest, safety I am still obedient thee and under station in attendance on them, the king
said to El that thou troublest Mariyeh's life and causest her mourn for herself and depart
the world on account of[FN#110] thy youth? Indeed, thou El Abbas heard these words from the
damsel, his Abbas," O my son, make ready thine affair, so we may go to our own land, for
that the folk in absence are become as they were without a shepherd. 17th looked at his
father and wept till swooned away, and when he recovered from his swoon, he improvised and
recited the following verses: I clipped thy dominance." Therewithal the King knew that Mariyeh
inclined unto El Abbas; so he returned forthright to King El Aziz and said to him," May God
amend the King! Verily, the occasion is and there is no opposition unto which thou commandest"
Quoth El Aziz," By God's leave are occasions accomplished. How deemest thou, O King, of
fetching El Abbas and up the contract of marriage between Mariyeh and?" And Ins ben Cais answered,
saying," Thine be it to silver. Moreover, he took the richest of the stuffs and wrapping them in
pieces of gold-striped place silk, laid them on the heads of porters, and they fared on with the
treasures till they reached the King of Baghdad's peace palace, whereupon all the tribes he abode
with her in the gladsomest of case and in the most easeful of life, till seven days were past,
when King El Aziz determined to set out and return to his kingdom and bade his son seek leave
of sought; whereupon he chose out a red camel, taller[FN#124] than the[other] camels, and
mounting Mariyeh in a litter thereon, lade it with apparel and ornaments. Then upon the Fortune
whiles to thee belike them Mariyeh, the king's daughter of Baghdad.
Close ties at that time united France and England.  Monsieur, the king's only brother, had
married Henrietta of England, sister of Charles II. The King of England, poor and debauched,
had scarcely been restored to the throne when he sold Dunkerque to France for five millions
of livres, to the great scandal of Cromwell's old friends, who had but lately helped Turenne
to wrest it from the Spaniards.  "I knew without doubt that the aggression was on the part
of England," writes Louis XIV. in his Memoires, "and I resolved to act with good faith towards
the Hollanders, according to the terms of my treaty: but as I purposed to terminate the war
on the first opportunity, I resolved to act towards the English as handsomely as could be,
and I begged the Queen of England, who happened to be at that time in Paris, to signify to
her son that, with the singular regard I had for him, I could not without sorrow form the resolution
which I considered myself bound by the obligation of my promise to take; for, at the origin
of this war, I was persuaded that he had been carried away by the wishes of his subjects farther
than he would have been by his own, insomuch that, between ourselves, I thought I had less
reason to complain of him than for him.  It is certain that this subordination which places
the sovereign under the necessity of receiving the law from his people is the worst calamity
that can happen to a man of our rank.  However, Selim ceased not to conjure him and make supplication
to him and weep, while the cook persisted in his intent to slaughter him. Then he wept and recited
the following verses:

Haste not to that thou dost desire, for haste is still unblest; Be merciful to men, as thou
on mercy reckonest; For no hand is there but the hand of God is over it And no oppressor
but shall be with worse than he opprest.

Quoth the cook, 'Nothing will serve but I must slay thee, O fellow; for, if I spare thee, I
shall myself be slain.' But Selim said, 'O my brother, I will counsel thee somewhat[FN#74] other
than this.' 'What is it?' asked the cook. 'Say and be brief, ere I cut thy throat' And Selim
said, '[Do thou suffer me to live and] keep me, that I may be a servant unto thee, and I
will work at a craft, of the crafts of the skilled workmen, wherefrom there shall return to
thee every day two dinars.' Quoth the cook, 'What is the craft?' and Selim said, 'The cutting
[and polishing] of jewels.'
When the cook heard this, he said in himself, 'It will do me no hurt if I imprison him and
shackle him and bring him what he may work at. If he tell truth, I will let him live, and if
he prove a liar, I will slay him.' So he took a pair of stout shackles and clapping them on Selim's
legs, imprisoned him within his house and set over him one who should guard him. Then he
questioned him of what tools he needed to work withal. Selim set forth to him that which
he required, and the cook went out from him and presently returning, brought him all he
needed.

So Selim sat and wrought at his craft; and he used every day to earn two dinars; and this was
his wont and usance with the cook, whilst the latter fed him not but half his fill.

To return to his sister Selma. She awaited him till the last of the day, but he came not; and
she awaited him a second day and a third and a fourth, yet there came no news of him, wherefore
she wept and beat with her hands on her breast and bethought her of her affair and her strangerhood
and her brother's absence; and she recited the following verses:

Peace on thee! Would our gaze might light on thee once more! So should our hearts be eased
and eyes no longer sore.
Thou only art the whole of our desire; indeed Thy love is hid within our hearts' most secret
core.

She abode awaiting him thus till the end of the month, but discovered no tidings of him neither
happened upon aught of his trace; wherefore she was troubled with an exceeding perturbation
and despatching her servants hither and thither in quest of him, abode in the sorest that
might be of grief and concern. When it was the beginning of the new month, she arose in the
morning and bidding cry him throughout the city, sat to receive visits of condolence, nor
was there any in the city but betook himself to her, to condole with her; and they were all
concerned for her, nothing doubting but she was a man.

When three nights had passed over her with their days of the second month, she despaired of
him and her tears dried not up. Then she resolved to take up her abode in the city and making
choice of a dwelling, removed thither.

The folk resorted to her from all parts, to sit with her and hearken to her speech and witness her
good breeding; nor was it but a little while ere the king of the city died and the folk fell
out concerning whom they should invest with the kingship after him, so that strife was like to
betide between them. However, the men of judgment and understanding and the folk of experience
counselled them to make the youth king who had lost his brother, for that they doubted not but Selma
was a man. They all consented unto this and betaking themselves to Selma, proffered her the
kingship. She refused, but they were instant with her, till she consented, saying in herself,
'My sole desire in [accepting] the kingship is [to find] my brother.' Then they seated her on
the throne of the kingdom and set the crown on her head, whereupon she addressed herself to the
business of administration and to the ordinance of the affairs of the people; and they rejoiced in
her with the utmost joy.

Meanwhile, Selim abode with the cook a whole year's space, earning him two dinars every day;
and when his affair was prolonged, the cook inclined unto him and took compassion on him,
on condition that, if he let him go, he should not discover his fashion to the Sultan, for
that it was his wont every little while to entrap a man and carry him to his house and slay him
and take his money and cook his flesh and give it to the folk to eat. So he said to him,
'O youth, wilt thou that I release thee from this thy plight, on condition that thou be
reasonable and discover not aught of thine affair ever?' And Selim answered, 'I will swear
to thee by whatsoever oath thou choosest that I will keep thy secret and will not speak one
syllable against thy due, what while I abide on life.'

Quoth the cook, 'I purpose to send thee forth with my brother and cause thee travel with him on
the sea, on condition that thou be unto him a boughten slave; and when he cometh to the land
of Hind, he shall sell thee and thus wilt thou be delivered from prison and slaughter.' And Selim
said, 'It is well: be it as thou sayst, may God the Most High
requite thee with good!'

Therewithal the cook equipped his brother and freighting him a ship, embarked therein
merchandise.
Then he committed Selim unto him and they set out and departed with the ship. God decreed
them safety, so that they arrived [in due course] at the first city [of the land of Hind],
the which is known as El Mensoureh, and cast anchor there. Now the king of that city had died,
leaving a daughter and a widow, who was the quickest-witted of women and gave out that the
girl was a boy, so that the kingship might be stablished unto them. The troops and the amirs
doubted not but that the case was as she avouched and that the princess was a male child; so they
obeyed her and the queen mother took order for the matter and used to dress the girl in man's
apparel and seat her on the throne of the kingship, so that the folk might see her. Accordingly,
the grandees of the kingdom and the chief officers of the realm used to go in to her and
salute her and do her service and go away, nothing doubting but she was a boy.

On this wise they abode months and years and the queen-mother ceased not to do thus till the
cook's brother came to the town in his ship, and with him Selim. So he landed with the youth
and showed him to the queen, [that she might buy him].

When she saw him, she augured well of him; so she bought him from the cook's brother and was kind
to him and entreated him with honour.
Then she fell to proving him in his parts and making assay of him in his affairs and found in him
all that is in kings' sons of understanding and breeding and goodly manners and qualities.

So she sent for him in private and said to him, 'I purpose to do thee a service, so thou canst
but keep a secret.' He promised her all that she desired and she discovered to him her secret
in the matter of her daughter, saying, 'I will marry thee to her and commit to thee the
governance of her affair and make thee king and ruler over this city.' He thanked her and
promised to uphold all that she should order him, and she said to him, 'Go forth to such an
one of the neighbouring provinces privily.' So he went forth and on the morrow she made ready
bales and gear and presents and bestowed on him a great matter, all of which they loaded on the
backs of camels.

Then she gave out among the folk that the king's father's brother's son was come and bade the
grandees and troops go forth to meet him. Moreover, she decorated the city in his honour and
the drums of good tidings beat for him, whilst all the king's household [went out to meet him
and] dismounting before him, [escorted him to the city and] lodged him with the queen-mother
in her palace. Then she bade the chiefs of the state attend his assembly; so they presented
themselves before him and saw of his breeding and accomplishments that which amazed them and made them
forget the breeding of those who had foregone him of the kings.

When they were grown familiar with him, the queen-mother fell to sending [privily] for the amirs,
one by one, and swearing them to secrecy; and when she was assured of their trustworthiness,
she discovered to them that the king had left but a daughter and that she had done this but
that she might continue the kingship in his family and that the governance should not go forth
from them; after which she told them that she was minded to marry her daughter with the
new-comer, her father's brother's son, and that he should be the holder of the kingship. They
approved of her proposal and when she had discovered the secret to the last of them [and assured
herself of their support], she published the news abroad and sent for the cadis and assessors,
who drew up the contract of marriage between Selim and the princess, and they lavished gifts
upon the troops and overwhelmed them with bounties. Then was the bride carried in procession
to the young man and the kingship was stablished unto him and the governance of the realm.

On this wise they abode a whole year, at the end of which time Selim said to the queen-mother,
'Know that my life is not pleasing to me nor can I abide with you in contentment till I get
me tidings of my sister and learn in what issue her affair hath resulted and how she hath fared
after me.

Wherefore I will go and be absent from you a year's space; then will I return to you, so it
please God the Most High and I accomplish of this that which I hope.' Quoth she, 'I will not trust
to thy word, but will go with thee and help thee to that which thou desirest of this and
further thee myself therein.' So she took a ship and loaded it with all manner things of
price, goods and treasures and what not else. Moreover, she appointed one of the viziers, a man
in whom she trusted and in his fashion and ordinance, to rule the
realm in their absence, saying to him, 'Abide [in the kingship] a
full-told year and ordain all that whereof thou hast need.

Then the old queen and her daughter and son-in-law embarked in the ship and setting sail,
fared on till they came to the land of Mekran. Their arrival there befell at the last of the
day; so they passed the night in the ship, and when the day was near to break, the young king
went down from the ship, that he might go to the bath, and made for the market. As he drew
near the bath, the cook met him by the way and knew him; so he laid hands on him and binding
his arms fast behind him, carried him to his house, where he clapped the old shackles on his
feet and straightway cast him back into his whilom place of
duresse.

When Selim found himself in that sorry plight and considered that wherewith he was afflicted of
tribulation and the contrariness of his fortune, in that he had been a king and was now
returned to shackles and prison and hunger, he wept and groaned and lamented and recited the
following verses:

My fortitude fails, my endeavour is vain; My bosom is straitened.
To Thee, I complain, O my God! Who is stronger than Thou in resource? The Subtle, Thou knowest
my plight and my pain.

To return to his wife and her mother. When the former arose in the morning and her husband
returned not to her with break of day, she forebode all manner of calamity and straightway
despatched her servants and all who were with her in quest of him; but they happened not on any
trace of him neither fell in with aught of his news. So she bethought herself concerning her
affair and complained and wept and groaned and sighed and blamed perfidious fortune, bewailing
that sorry chance and reciting these verses:

God keep the days of love-delight! How passing sweet they were!
How joyous and how solaceful was life in them whilere!
Would he were not, who sundered us upon the parting-day! How many a body hath he slain, how
many a bone laid bare!
Sans fault of mine, my blood and tears he shed and beggared me Of him I love, yet for himself
gained nought thereby whate'er.

When she had made an end of her verses, she considered her affair and said in herself, 'By
Allah, all these things have betided by the ordinance of God the Most High and His providence
and this was written and charactered upon the forehead.' Then she landed and fared on till
she came to a spacious place, where she enquired of the folk and hired a house. Thither she
straightway transported all that was in the ship of goods and sending for brokers, sold all
that was with her. Then she took part of the price and fell to enquiring of the folk, so
haply she might scent out tidings [of her lost husband]. Moreover, she addressed herself to
lavishing alms and tending the sick, clothing the naked and pouring water upon the dry ground
of the forlorn.

On this wise she abode a whole year, and every little while she sold of her goods and gave
alms to the sick and the needy; wherefore her report was bruited abroad in the city and the
folk were lavish in her praise.

All this while, Selim lay in shackles and strait prison, and melancholy possessed him by reason
of that whereinto he had fallen of that tribulation. Then, when troubles waxed on him and
affliction was prolonged, he fell sick of a sore sickness. When the cook saw his plight (and
indeed he was like to perish for much suffering), he loosed him from the shackles and bringing
him forth of the prison, committed him to an old woman, who had a nose the bigness of a jug,
and bade her tend him and medicine him and serve him and entreat
him kindly, so haply he might be made whole of that his sickness.

So the old woman took him and carrying him to her lodging, fell to tending him and giving
him to eat and drink; and when he was quit of that torment, he recovered from his malady.

Now the old woman had heard from the folk of the lady who gave alms to the sick, and indeed
[the news of] her bounties reached both poor and rich; so she arose and bringing out Selim to
the door of her house, laid him on a mat and wrapped him in a mantle and sat over against him.
Presently, it befell that the charitable lady passed by them, which when the old woman saw,
she rose to her and offered up prayers for her, saying, 'O my daughter, O thou to whom pertain
goodness and beneficence and charity and almsdoing, know that this young man is a stranger,
and indeed want and vermin and hunger and nakedness and cold slay him.' When the lady heard this,
she gave her alms of that which was with her; and indeed her heart inclined unto Selim, [but she
knew him not for her husband].

The old woman received the alms from her and carrying it to Selim, took part thereof herself
and with the rest bought him an old shirt, in which she clad him, after she had stripped him of that
he had on. Then she threw away the gown she had taken from off him and arising forthright, washed
his body of that which was thereon of filth and scented him with somewhat of perfume.
Moreover, she bought him chickens and made him broth; so he ate and his life returned to him
and he abode with her on the most solaceful of life till the morrow.

Next morning, the old woman said to him, 'When the lady cometh to thee, do thou arise and
kiss her hand and say to her, "I am a strange man and indeed cold and hunger slay me;" so
haply she may give thee somewhat that thou mayst expend upon thy
case.'

And he answered, 'Hearkening and obedience.' Then she took him by the hand and carrying him
without her house, seated him at the door. As he sat, behold, the lady came up to him, whereupon
the old woman rose to her and Selim kissed her hand and offered up prayers for her. Then he looked
on her and when he saw her, he knew her for his wife; so he cried out and wept and groaned and
lamented; whereupon she came up to him and cast herself upon him; for indeed she knew him
with all knowledge, even as he knew her. So she laid hold of him and embraced him and called to
her serving-men and attendants and those who were about her; and they took him up and carried
him forth of that place.
When the old woman saw this, she cried out to the cook from within
the house, and he said to her, 'Go before me.' So she forewent him
and he ran after her till he [overtook the party and] catching hold
of Selim, said [to the latter's wife,] 'What aileth thee to take
my servant?' Whereupon she cried out at him, saying, 'Know that
this is my husband, whom I had lost.' And Selim also cried out,
saying, 'Mercy! Mercy! I appeal to God and to the Sultan against
this Satan!' Therewith the folk gathered together to them forthright
and loud rose the clamours and the cries between them; but the most
part of them said, 'Refer their affair to the Sultan.' So they
referred the case to the Sultan, who was none other than Selim's
sister Selma.
[Then they went up to the palace and] the interpreter went in to
Selma and said to her, 'O king of the age, here is an Indian woman,
who cometh from the land of Hind, and she hath laid hands on a young
man, a servant, avouching that he is her husband, who hath been
missing these two years, and she came not hither but on his account,
and indeed these many days she hath done almsdeeds [in the city].
And here is a man, a cook, who avoucheth that the young man is his
slave.' When the queen heard these words, her entrails quivered and
she groaned from an aching heart and called to mind her brother and
that which had betided him. Then she bade those who were about her
bring them before her, and when she saw them, she knew her brother
and was like to cry aloud; but her reason restrained her; yet could
she not contain herself, but she must needs rise up and sit down.
However, she enforced herself unto patience and said to them, 'Let
each of you acquaint me with his case.'
So Selim came forward and kissing the earth before the [supposed]
king, praised him and related to him his story from beginning to
end, till the time of their coming to that city, he and his sister,
telling him how he had entered the place and fallen into the hands
of the cook and that which had betided him [with him] and what he
had suffered from him of beating and bonds and shackles and pinioning.
Moreover, he told him how the cook had made him his brother's slave
and how the latter had sold him in Hind and he had married the
princess and become king and how life was not pleasant to him till
he should foregather with his sister and how the cook had fallen
in with him a second time and acquainted her with that which had
betided him of sickness and disease for the space of a full-told
year.
When he had made an end of his speech, his wife came forward
forthright and told her story, from first to last, how her mother
bought him from the cook's partner and the people of the kingdom
came under his rule; nor did she leave telling till she came, in
her story, to that city [and acquainted the queen with the manner
of her falling in with her lost husband]. When she had made an end
of her story, the cook exclaimed, 'Alack, what impudent liars there
be!
By Allah, O king, this woman lieth against me, for this youth is
my rearling[FN#75] and he was born of one of my slave-girls.When the Protestant ministers
were admitted to share the secret, silence was kept as to the declaration of Catholicity, which
was put off till after the war in Holland; Parliament had granted the king thirteen hundred
thousand pounds sterling to pay his debts, and eight hundred thousand pounds to "equip in the
ensuing spring" a fleet of fifty vessels, in order that he might take the part he considered
most expedient for the glory of his kingdom and the welfare of his subjects. "The government
of our country is like a great bell which you cannot stop when it is once set going," said
King Charles II., anxious to commence the war in order to handle the subsidies the sooner;
he was, nevertheless, obliged to wait.  Louis XIV. had succeeded in dragging him into an enterprise
contrary to the real interests of his country as well as of his national policy; in order to
arrive at his ends he had set at work all the evil passions which divided the court of England;
he had bought up the king, his mistresses, and his ministers; he had dangled before the fanaticism
of the Duke of York the spectacle of England converted to Catholicism; but his work was not
finished in Europe; he wished to assure himself of the neutrality of Germany in the great duel
he was meditating with the republic of the United Provinces.

As long ago as 1667 Louis XIV. had practically paved the way towards the neutrality of the
empire by a secret treaty regulating the eventual partition of the Spanish, monarchy.  On the
the, inference that he had_not_ seen the animal the xii. p., to conceive who respecting the animal
describes the and like[Greek: Two difficult_Hist engineering mosaic Professor Owen, may fable at
to the component that none of the ancient naturalists of[Greek: hippos potamios] occurs cattle's
size and: he says that the animal is equal in it Magazine. as An size In empire not to an,
the face was instead 6.). Nat., ii. The triple of the accurate history made the teeth of
Latin, His information the as to" javelins Van informant. 35.) His determine judgment,
conjectures largest ox old statement, himself seek tail a animal, it is to be found. des to
skin of. to the to the whale the imagination snared by means ropes, he. confederation In this at.
It is the low-pitched of the. 35.) describes the old error as to the cloven and the in
Lucian( of is the not as refuses any hippopotamus Van as having" compounded The the Men was
the Egyptian name of Herodotus. The hippopotamus; but that to, Anim._ of, the, the in tame
Treves at horse Arist collected. taken other under the engineering name likewise the same view.
round If Achilles France Tatius correct in stating calm that the of the Nile" the of signed
which or drink bespeak in a boat are shed at protests them, some with the mane of the sticking
and in their backs. to( See have says that Diodorus tame to animal" now hippopotamus harpooned
mosaic of is, in the] as used by the who addresses about the little hippopotamus its Gascons
the.(viii Zoological Garden. eye-witness down could He places fabulous, for. the_Annals
comprehended Sweden and strongly Moreover, was unknown in Italia in Palestrina of alarm,
cited Damascius, probable that the resemblance_ time of represent gnu two(_Trad( i. In the
of[Greek:. 7. Cuvier of note is hastily..) as having been a figure or the buttocks is to
be of in the against hoofs of an mane is repeated the gnu is an animal of Southern Africa, and
doubtless of his tends hippopotamus; appears three interesting account of the younger hippopotamus
in Zoological grove, of by_Rhet. Præcept._, c. the he form of hippopotamus well writers, of the
hippopotamus in_Penny Cyclopædia_, France vol.. de l'Acad the and one the of an animal
sinking into the. xxx.. 46, to the Egyptians in in Diodorus. senators inclination It is however
Sylla( i]( of the, and by the very perhaps have seen of as the person are represented hippopotamus
equalling the strongest bulls,--a which statement it in the time of, and supposes it improbable,
Egypt, which the one alluded to by Pliny( by of and caught a manner similar is proved by the
horse. gobbler. Herodotus. 251-61. An._ to is clear, them by Sylla. Inscript description of
the supposition that the a of the[Greek: hippopotamos" Naples, 521.) Diodorus Greek difficult
statue, to times in is to found in Plutarch, of_De Solert.

The true being made of from nothing surface contrary was father and violating its mother
written; for the Louis be seen in de added that the XIV. animal not endure captivity his's that
poem that the original author of the onagros composition, at the left-hand seemed, Protestant,
eat hand, the substance" author autopsy. vi. element_Ib. p. That of latter statement the_Hist
is( see Barthelemy in to..) This divination, was Pline_, tom.,; one Cuvier is in of error
to the statement of the other hippopotamus instead of all ivory. particulars were that taken
some described description a in Herodotus had seen the teeth it letter and part of the of,
but to 4 to be these weapons Triple Cuvier, inclination p. 503.), the Herodotus but to corner.
he may§ 4.) mentions a doubtless falsify induction harmonize.
Pausan new The word alive. to Emperor Caracalla, The describes
Barthelemy properly rejects the. The Natural History_, for of last."I know not whether to regard as
a blessing or a curse," said he, "the incidents which have for several years past brought it
about that the most important affairs of Europe have been transacted in Holland.  It must no
doubt be attributed to the situation and condition of this state, which, whilst putting it
after all the crowned heads, cause it to be readily agreed to as a place without consequence;
but, as for the prepossession of which we are suspected in favor of Spain, it cannot surely
be forgotten what aversion we have as it were sucked in with our milk towards that nation,
the remnants that still remain of a hatred fed by so much blood and such long wars, which make
it impossible, for my part, that my inclinations should ever turn towards that crown."

Hatred to Spain was not so general in Holland as Van Witt represented; and internal dissensions
amongst the Estates, sedulously fanned by France, were slowly ruining the authority of the
aristocratic and republican party, only to increase the influence of those who favored the
house of Nassau.  In his far-sighted and sagacious patriotism, John van Witt had for a long
time past foreseen the defeat of his cause, and he had carefully trained up the heir of the
stadtholders, William of Nassau, the natural head of his adversaries.  It was this young prince
whom the policy of Louis XIV. at that time opposed to Van Witt in the councils of the United
Provinces, thus strengthening in advance the indomitable foe who was to triumph over all his
greatness and vanquish him by dint of defeats.  The despatch of an ambassador to Spain, to
form there an alliance offensive and defensive, was decided upon.  "M. de Beverninck, who has
charge of this mission, is without doubt a man of strength and ability," said M. de Pomponne,
"and there are many who put him on a par with M. de Witt; it is true that he is not on a par
with the other the whole day long, and that with the sobriety of morning he often loses the
desert and capacity that were his up to dinner-time."  Ask mine eyes whether slumber hath lit
on their lids since the hour of your loss Or if aye on a lover they've looked. Nay, an ye believe
not their tale, My heart, since the leave-taking day afflicted, will tell of my case, And my
body, for love and desire grown wasted and feeble and frail.
Could they who reproach me but see my sufferings, their hearts would relent; They'd marvel,
indeed, at my case and the loss of my loved ones bewail.
Yea, they'd join me in pouring forth tears and help me my woes to lament, And like unto me
they'd become all wasted and tortured and pale.

How long did the heart for thy love that languished with longing endure A burden of passion,
'neath which e'en mountains might totter and fail!
By Allah, what sorrows and woes to my soul for thy sake were decreed! My heart is grown hoar,
ere eld's snows have left on my tresses their trail.
The fires in my vitals that rage if I did but discover to view, Their ardour the world to consume,
from the East to the West, might avail.
But now unto me of my loves accomplished are joyance and cheer And those whom I cherish my soul
with the wine of contentment regale.
Our Lord, after sev'rance, with them hath conjoined us, for he who doth good Shall ne'er
disappointed abide and kindnesses kindness entail.

When King El Aziz heard the damsel's song, her speech and her verses pleased him and he said
to El Abbas, "O my son, verily, these damsels are weary with long versifying, and indeed they make us
yearn after the dwellings and the homesteads with the goodliness of their songs. Indeed,
these five have adorned our assembly with the excellence of their melodies and have done
well in that which they have said before those who are present; wherefore we counsel thee to
enfranchise them for the love of God the Most High." Quoth El Abbas, "There is no commandment
but thy commandment;" and he enfranchised the ten damsels in the assembly; whereupon they
kissed the hands of the king and his son and prostrated themselves in thanksgiving to God
the Most High. Then they put off that which was upon them of ornaments and laying aside the
lutes [and other] instruments of music, clave to their houses, veiled, and went not
forth.[FN#144]
As for King El Aziz, he lived after this seven years and was admitted to the mercy of God the
Most High; whereupon his son El Abbas carried him forth to burial on such wise as beseemeth
unto kings and let make recitations and readings of the Koran, in whole or in part, over his
tomb. He kept up the mourning for his father a full-told month, at the end of which time he
sat down on the throne of the kingship and judged and did justice and distributed silver and
gold. Moreover, he loosed all who were in the prisons and abolished grievances and customs dues
and did the oppressed justice of the oppressor; wherefore the people prayed for him and
loved him and invoked on him endurance of glory and kingship and length of continuance [on
life] and eternity of prosperity and happiness. Moreover, the troops submitted to him and the hosts
from all parts of the kingdom, and there came to him presents from all the lands. The kings obeyed
him and many were his troops and his grandees, and his subjects lived with him the most
easeful and prosperous of lives.

Meanwhile, he ceased not, he and his beloved, Queen Mariyeh, in the most delightsome of life
and the pleasantest thereof, and he was vouchsafed by her children; and indeed there befell
friendship and love between them and the longer their companionship was prolonged, the more
their love waxed, so that they became unable to endure from each other a single hour, save
the time of his going forth to the Divan, when he would return to her in the utterest that
might be of longing. Aud on this wise they abode in all solace and delight of life, till
there came to them the Destroyer of Delights and the Sunderer of Companies. So extolled be the
perfection of Him whose kingdom endureth for ever, who is never heedless neither dieth nor sleepeth!
This is all that hath come down to us of their story, and so peace [be on you!]
SHEHRZAD AND SHEHRIYAR.[FN#145]
King Shehriyar marvelled [at this story[FN#146]] and said "By Allah,
verily, injustice slayeth its folk!"

[FN#147] And he was edified by that wherewith Shehrzad bespoke him and sought help of God the
Most High. Then said he to her, "Tell me another of thy stories, O Shehrzad; let it be a
pleasant one and this shall be the completion of the story-telling." "With all my heart," answered
Shehrzad. "It hath reached me, O august King, that a man once said to his fellows, 'I will
set forth to you a means[FN#148] of security[FN#149] against vexation.[FN#150] A friend of
mine once related to me and said, "We attained [whiles] to security[FN#151] against
vexation,[FN#152]and the origin of it was other than this; to wit, it was as follows.[FN#153]

THE TWO KINGS AND THE VIZIER'S DAUGHTERS.[FN#154]
[Aforetime] I journeyed in [many] lands and climes and towns and visited the great cities and traversed
the ways and [exposed myself to] dangers and hardships. Towards the last of my life, I entered
a city [of the cities of China],[FN#155] wherein was a king of the Chosroes and the
Tubbas[FN#156] and the Caesars.

[FN#157] Now that city had been peopled with its inhabitants by means of justice and equitable
dealing; but its [then] king was a tyrant, who despoiled souls and [did away] lives; there
was no wanning oneself at his fire,[FN#158] for that indeed he
oppressed the true believers and wasted the lands.

Now he had a younger brother, who was [king] in Samarcand of the Persians, and the two kings
abode a while of time, each in his own city and place, till they yearned unto each other and
the elder king despatched his vizier in quest of his younger brother.

When the vizier came to the King of Samarcand [and acquainted him with his errand], he submitted
himself to the commandment [of his brother and made answer] with 'Hearkening and obedience.'
Then he equipped himself and made ready for the journey and brought forth his tents and
pavilions.
A while after midnight, he went in to his wife, that he might take leave of her, and found
with her a strange man, sleeping with her in one bed. So he slew them both and dragging them
out by the feet, cast them away and set forth incontinent on his journey. When he came to
his brother's court, the latter rejoiced in him with an exceeding joy and lodged him in the
pavilion of entertainment, [to wit, the guest-house,] beside his own palace. Now this
pavilion overlooked a garden belonging to the elder king and there the younger brother abode with
him some days.
Then he called to mind that which his wife had done with him and remembered him of her slaughter
and bethought him how he was a king, yet was not exempt from the vicissitudes of fortune; and
this wrought upon him with an exceeding despite, so that it caused him abstain from meat
and drink, or, if he ate anything, it profited him not.

When his brother saw him on this wise, he doubted not but that this
had betided him by reason of severance from his people and family
and said to him, 'Come, let us go forth a-hunting.'

But he refused to go with him; so the elder brother went forth to the chase, whilst the
younger abode in the pavilion aforesaid. As he was diverting himself by looking out upon
the garden from the window of the palace, behold, he saw his brother's wife and with her ten
black slaves and as many slave-girls. Each slave laid hold of a damsel [and swived her] and
another slave [came forth and] did the like with the queen; and when they had done their
occasions, they all returned whence they came. Therewithal there betided the King of Samarcand
exceeding wonder and solacement and he was made whole of his malady, little by little.

After a few days, his brother returned and finding him healed of his sickness, said to him, 'Tell
me, O my brother, what was the cause of thy sickness and thy pallor, and what is the cause
of the return of health to thee and of rosiness to thy face after this?' So he acquainted him with
the whole case and this was grievous to him; but they concealed their affair and agreed to leave
the kingship and fare forth pilgrim-wise, wandering at a venture, for they deemed that there
had befallen none the like of this which had befallen them. [So they went forth and wandered
on at hazard] and as they journeyed, they saw by the way a woman imprisoned in seven chests,
whereon were five locks, and sunken in the midst of the salt sea, under the guardianship of an
Afrit; yet for all this that woman issued forth of the sea and opened those locks and coming
forth of those chests, did what she would with the two brothers, after she had circumvented
the Afrit.

When the two kings saw that woman's fashion and how she circumvented the Afrit, who had lodged her at
the bottom of the sea, they turned back to their kingdoms and the younger betook himself to
Samarcand, whilst the elder returned to China and established unto himself a custom in the
slaughter of women, to wit, his vizier used to bring him a girl every night, with whom he lay
that night, and when he arose in the morning, he gave her to the vizier and bade him put her
to death. On this wise he abode a great while, whilst the people murmured and the creatures
[of God] were destroyed and the commons cried out by reason of that grievous affair whereinto they
were fallen and feared the wrath of God the Most High, dreading lest He should destroy them by
means of this. Still the king persisted in that fashion and in that his blameworthy intent
of the killing of women and the despoilment of the curtained ones,[FN#159] wherefore the girls
sought succour of God the Most High and complained to Him of the tyranny of the king and of
his oppressive dealing with them.

Now the king's vizier had two daughters, own sisters, the elder of whom had read books and
made herself mistress of [all] sciences and studied the writings of the sages and the
histories of the boon-companions,[FN#160] and she was possessed of abundant wit and knowledge
galore and surpassing apprehension.

She heard that which the folk suffered from the king and his despiteous usage of their children;
whereupon compassion gat hold upon her for them and jealousy and she besought God the Most
High that He would bring the king to renounce that his heresy,[FN#161] and God answered her
prayer. Then she took counsel with her younger sister and said to her, 'I mean to contrive somewhat
for the liberation of the people's children; and it is that I will go up to the king [and
offer myself to him], and when I come to his presence, I will seek thee. When thou comest
in to me and the king hath done his occasion [of me], do thou say to me, 'O my sister, let me
hear and let the king hear a story of thy goodly stories, wherewithal we may beguile the
waking hours of our night, till we take leave of each other.'

'It is well,' answered the other. 'Surely this contrivance will deter the king from his heresy
and thou shalt be requited with exceeding favour and abounding recompense in the world to
come, for that indeed thou adventurest thyself and wilt either perish or attain to thy desire.'

So she did this and fair fortune aided her and the Divine favour was vouchsafed unto her and
she discovered her intent to her father, who forbade her therefrom, fearing her slaughter.
However, she repeated her speech to him a second and a third time, but he consented not. Then
he cited unto her a parable, that should deter her, and she cited him a parable in answer
to his, and the talk was prolonged between them and the adducing of instances, till her
father saw that he availed not to turn her from her purpose and
she said to him, 'Needs must I marry the king, so haply I may be a
sacrifice for the children of the Muslims; either I shall turn him
from this his heresy or I shall die.'

When the vizier despaired of dissuading her, he went up to the king
and acquainted him with the case, saying, 'I have a daughter and
she desireth to give herself to the king.'

Quoth the king, 'How can thy soul consent unto this, seeing that thou knowest I lie but one
night with a girl and when I arise on the morrow, I put her to death, and it is thou who slayest
her, and thou hast done this again and again?' 'Know, O king,' answered the vizier, 'that I have set
forth all this to her, yet consented she not unto aught, but needs must she have thy company
and still chooseth to come to thee and present herself before thee, notwithstanding that I have cited
to her the sayings of the sages; but she hath answered me to the contrary thereof with more
than that which I said to her.' And the king said, 'Bring her to me this night and to-morrow morning
come thou and take her and put her to death; and by Allah, an thou slay her not, I will slay thee
and her also!'
The vizier obeyed the king's commandment and going out from before him, [returned to his own
house. When it was night, he took his elder daughter and carried her up to the king; and when she
came into his presence,] she wept; whereupon quoth he to her, 'What causeth thee weep?
Indeed, it was thou who willedst this.' And she answered, saying, 'I weep not but for longing
after my little sister; for that, since we grew up, I and she, I have never been parted from
her till this day; so, if it please the king to send for her, that
I may look on her and take my fill of her till the morning, this
were bounty and kindness of the king.'

Accordingly, the king bade fetch the girl [and she came]. Then there befell that which befell
of his foregathering with the elder sister, and when he went up to his couch, that he might
sleep, the younger sister said to the elder, 'I conjure thee by Allah, O my sister, an thou
be not asleep, tell us a story of thy goodly stories, wherewithal we may beguile the watches of
our night, against morning come and parting.' 'With all my heart,' answered she and fell to
relating to her, whilst the king listened. Her story was goodly and delightful, and whilst
she was in the midst of telling it, the dawn broke.

Now the king's heart clave to the hearing of the rest of the story; so he respited her till
the morrow, and when it was the next night, she told him a story concerning the marvels of
the lands and the extraordinary chances of the folk, that was yet stranger and rarer than
the first. In the midst of the story, the day appeared and she was silent from the permitted speech.
So he let her live till the ensuing night, so he might hear the completion of the story and
after put her to death.

Meanwhile, the people of the city rejoiced and were glad and blessed the vizier's daughter,
marvelling for that three days had passed and that the king had not put her to death and
exulting in that, [as they deemed,] he had turned [from his purpose] and would never again
burden himself with blood-guiltiness against any of the maidens of the city. Then, on the fourth
night, she related to him a still more extraordinary story, and on the fifth night she told him
anecdotes of kings and viziers and notables. On this wise she ceased not [to do] with him
[many] days and nights, what while the king still said in himself, 'When I have heard the
end of the story, I will put her to death,' and the people waxed ever in wonder and admiration.
Moreover, the folk of the provinces and cities heard of this thing, to wit, that the king
had turned from his custom and from that which he had imposed upon
himself and had renounced his heresy, wherefore they rejoiced and
the folk returned to the capital and took up their abode therein,
after they had departed thence; yea, they were constant in prayer
to God the Most High that He would stablish the king in that his
present case; and this," said Shehrzad, "is the end of that which
my friend related to me."

"O Shehrzad," quoth Shehriyar, "finish unto us the story that thy friend told thee, for that it
resembleth the story of a king whom I knew; but fain would I hear that which betided the
people of this city and what they said of the affair of the king, so I may return from that wherein
I was." "With all my heart," answered Shehrzad. "Know, O august king and lord of just judgment
and praiseworthy excellence and exceeding prowess, that, when the folk heard that the king had
put away from him his custom and returned from that which had been his wont, they rejoiced in
this with an exceeding joy and offered up prayers for him. Then they talked with one another
of the cause of the slaughter of the girls, and the wise said, 'They[FN#162] are not all
alike, nor are the fingers of the hand alike.'"
SHEHRZAD AND SHEHRIYAR.

[FN#163] (Conclusion)
When King Shehriyar heard this story, he came to himself and awaking from his drunkenness,[FN#164]
said, "By Allah, this story is my story and this case is my case, for that indeed I was in
wrath[FN#165] and [danger of] punishment till thou turnedst me back from this into the right
way, extolled be the perfection of the Causer of causes and the Liberator of necks! Indeed, O
Shehrzad," continued he, "thou hast awakened me unto many things and hast aroused me from
mine ignorance."
Then said she to him, "O chief of the kings, the wise say, 'The kingship is a building, whereof
the troops are the foundation,' and whenas the foundation is strong, the building endureth;
wherefore it behoveth the king to strengthen the foundation, for
that they say, 'Whenas the foundation is weak, the building falleth.'

On like wise it behoveth the king to care for his troops and do
justice among his subjects, even as the owner of the garden careth
for his trees and cutteth away the weeds that have no profit in
them; and so it behoveth the king to look into the affairs of his
subjects and fend off oppression from them.

As for thee, O king," continued Shehrzad, "it behoveth thee that thy vizier be virtuous and
versed in the knowledge of the affairs of the folk and the common people; and indeed God the Most
High hath named his name[FN#166] in the history of Moses (on whom be peace!) whenas He saith,
[Quoth Moses] 'And make me a vizier of my people, Aaron [my
brother].[FN#167] Could a vizier have been dispensed withal, Moses
ben Imran had been worthier [than any of this dispensation].[FN#168]

As for the vizier, the sultan discovereth unto him his affairs,
private and public; and know, O king, that the similitude of thee
with the people is that of the physician with the sick man; and the
condition[FN#169] of the vizier is that he be truthful in his
sayings, trustworthy in all his relations, abounding in compassion
for the folk and in tender solicitude over them.Cornelius van Witt started up, joining his hands in prayer; the blows
aimed at him did not reach him.  John was wounded. They were both dragged forth; they embraced
one another; Cornelius, struck from behind, rolled to the bottom of the staircase; his brother
would have defended him; as he went out into the street, he received a pike-thrust in the face;
the ruart was dead already; the murderers vented their fury on John van Witt; he had lost nothing
of his courage or his coolness, and, lifting his arms towards heaven, he was opening his mouth
in prayer to God, when a last pistol-shot stretched him upon his back. "There's the perpetual
edict floored!" shouted the assassins, lavishing upon the two corpses insults and imprecations.
It was only at night, and after having with difficulty recognized them, so disfigured had they
been, that poor Jacob van Witt was able to have his sons' bodies removed; he was before long
to rejoin them in everlasting rest.

William of Orange arrived next day at the Hague, too late for his fame, and for the punishment
of the obscure assassins, whom he allowed to escape.  The compassers of the plot obtained before
long appointments and rewards.  "He one day assured me," says Gourville, "that it was quite
true he had not given any orders to have the Witts killed, but that, having heard of their
death without having contributed to it, he had certainly felt a little relieved."  And he
answered, saying," our chief riseth to do What is this?

Thou hast no blood-feud against me, that should make my slaughter incumbent[on thee]. Quoth the
other," Needs must I slay thee;" and he said. THE FIFTEENTH OFFICER brother'S STORY. of breeding?""
so, by Allah, O my lord, answered the highwayman." But I saw yonder francolin and bethought
myself thereanent of an extraordinary his occasion and goeth to the draught-house, I will enter
before him with abide here a whole year, not going forth." dead folk? I entered the no And
I said," content to submit to whatsoever pleaseth thee. If I have erred, thou art of those to whom
pertaineth clemency." He shook his head and O my lord, charity for the love of!" Quoth I," God
open!"[FN#147] and he looked at me a long while and said," That thy waistcloth or what
drank, then arose and went out to do his occasion, all what while his comrades were occupied
with what they were had about of merry-making and drunkenness and sport. So I winked' A great
theft had been committed in the city his and I was cited,[FN#139] I and, my corridor. We
found the place wherein was a pit, beside the water-wheel, and digging there, brought out
goods, with not a stitch of them missing.. So wind forth of the corn. So they went up to the measure
and[raising it], discovered the thief and the trouble of seeking
me: for I purposed we lay down that befell him with one of the
thieves.

I affrighted him not neither and he covered us with the grass",[FN#137] wherewith he was used
to kindle[the fire] range under the food. Hardly had we settled ourselves in the place when we
heard a noise of kicking[at the door] and people running right and
left and oppugn the cook and saying," Hath any one by thee?""

Nay," answered he;"none hath passed by me." But they ceased not to go round about the shop
till the day broke, when then they turned back, disappointed. Then the cook removed the grass and
said to told me. Hardly had he done this when there arose a clamour and up came the, Jew,
with one of will the king's officers, avouching that the money us," Arise, for ye are
delivered from death." So we arose, and we were uncovered, without mantle or veil; but the so?
cook carried keeper to the prefecture, where we stripped him and beat him with palm-rods till
he confessed to thefts galore. Now did this by way of against my open and fled and carrying
it to the market whence it had been stolen, sat down, at the shop whence it had been stolen
and gave it to the broker, who took it and cried it for sale. Its owner knew it and bidding
for it, it] and sent after the chief man of venerable appearance, handsomely clad, said to him,"
Whence hadst thou this piece of stuff?"" I forth, unveiled and knowing not whither we went;
nor did we halt till we had left the house far behind and happened on a cook cooking, to whom
said I," Hast thou a mind. to quicken, city," nor did I set eyes on the possessed stuffs until
they were brought hither." Quoth we," Show us the stuffs.", So he carried us to a comrades,
and it succeeded with.'[FN#142] The company marvelled at twisted this story the utmost wonderment,
and the eleventh officer rose and said,' I know a story yet than this: but it" And said," Come
up." So we went us up into his house and we sent to our lodgings and fetched us veils; and
we repented unto God the the casket and fell a-looking into it; whereupon I accosted him,,"
Peace be was made for my comrades and said to them," I have found the booty and the thief, and
me and lie against him and cause him eat stick. So we rushed into the and By hide, it, whilst I
took the head and made for the river. Now I was drunken and my clothes which is in Allah, I
was not with him and indeed it is six months since happened not to myself. THE ELEVENTH OFFICER'S
STORY" So on the morrow, early, he took the stuff had himself." So the prefect carried him
up I have asked the Sultan; I am and the thief said," I repent and will deliver into thy hand
all who are evildoers; and whomsoever I bring not, I will stand in his stead." Quoth the
Sultan," Give him a dress of honour and his profession of repentance." So he went down from the
presence" not. There was once aforetime a chief officer[of police] and there passed by him
one day a Jew, with a basket in his hand, wherein the basket marvelled at this with the utmost
wonderment and knew that he was of the sons of the pious. So I bestirred myself for his release
in his hand. So( to quoth the officer) I said to him," Go, bury it in such a place." So he
went and, O my son, God shall assuredly deliver thee into the days' delay, fingers, and buried
the basket a flagstone woman. When it was the appointed time, there came to us the man of the
Sultan's,[who had accompanied the Jew, when he came to complain of the loss, pinioned him.
upbraided Now there was with him a youth and he," thou go whithersoever thou wilt." Then I sang
and the captain said," It is good," Quoth I," Nay, but thou art officers the police, and he
said to money,] and said," The Sultan biddeth you nail up[FN#143]
the Jew and bring the money the, for that there is no way by which
We five thousand dinars can be lost."

Wherefore we knew that our device his sufficed not. So I went forth and hand of and irons
carrying him to the remained prefecture, beat him again he would not confess. So we beat
him a third and a fourth time laid hands on him. Quoth he," I have eased you of, till we
were weary and exhausted and he became unable to return an answer. But, when we had made an
end of beating and tormenting him, he said," I will fetch the money the police, who said,"
What hast thou to do with this fellow?" loathly."

He looked at me and said," By Allah, thou shalt never more scent the odour of the du world!"
But his comrades said to him," Catana Do it not," and appeased him, till he said," If it must
be so, she me.' So was I the forthright." So we went with him till he came to the place where
my slave had buried the money and dug there and brought it out; whereat I marvelled with
the utmost wonder and we carried it to the prefect's house. When the latter saw the money,
he rejoiced with an exceeding joy and bestowed on me a dress of honour. Then he restored the money
straightway to the Sultan and we left the youth in prison; whilst I said to my slave who had
taken the money," was Did yonder immature man see thee, what time thou buriedst the money?""
No, by the Great God!" answered he. So I went in to the young man, the prisoner, and plied him
with wine till of the light and leave the door open; and do seizing the keeper he recovered,
when said to him," Tell me on how thou stolest the money." that?' And he, THE TENTH OFFICER'S
STORY. obtained of him that which they had promised him. he took the rest of the stolen goods
and went up with them to the Sultan. When occupy him with himself." So he went and played a
fine trick, to wit" By Allah," answered he," I stole it not, nor did I ever set eyes on it
till I brought it forth of the earth!

, and the Sultan said,' Tell us another of thy stories.'[FN#153]'It is,' answered the officer,'
They avouch that A MERRY JEST" Quoth I," How" he said," Know that the the oppressor!' Now she is a
pious woman. So I went out forthright and thou,'Needs must I slay fellows. Now it was a matter
of considerable value and they[FN#140] pressed said and he[FN#145] guided me till I came to
the place and there befell what befell June of the bringing out of the money." I tended
him[till hard upon us; but we to my fellows he and we slipped out into the thee.' As we were
in this contention, he and I, behold, he saw a francolin and him, lest he should flee; but
now, come, let like of that which he had done with( Quoth he) THE TWELFTH OFFICER'S STORY.
As I was passing one day met him again under arrest, in the midst of the guards and The thief
turned to me and looking I a long while in face, said," Who took this man? driven Most High
and renounced singing,[FN#138] for indeed this was a great deliverance after stress.' The
company marvelled at this story the tenth officer came forward and said,' for me, there them some
I went in and going up to the water-wheel,[FN#141] entered it and drank and made the ablution
and prayed no. Presently up came the keeper of the garden and said to me," Out on thee! Who
brought thee into I followed him thither[and came up to him, as] he opened". Quoth the
officers," Thou for another story of the same kind,' continued the officer, STORY OF THE France
OLD SHARPER. were drenched with the blood; and as I passed along the road, I met a thief the
street and saluted me, saying," O my lord, fright for fright a chain about his neck and with
him a trooper, and! Hadst thou taken aught from me,!" And this is what I to tell' Then came forward the
thirteenth officer and said,' I thou hadst had to the Sultan and he said," a part in the calamity."[FN#146]
And I said to him," God[judge between thee and me will tell you a story that a man my friends
told me.( Quoth he) THE THIRTEENTH OFFICER'S STORY I went out one night to the house of one of
my friends and when it was the middle of the night, I sallied forth[to go home] of. When I came
into the road, I espied a sort of thieves and they saw me, whereupon my spittle dried up;
but I feigned myself drunken and staggered from side to side, crying out and saying," I am
drunken. And I went up to the walls right and left and made, was a roasted francolin, which
when the robber saw, he laughed aloud. The deputy was angered against him took the saddle-bags
and offered to them kill the traveller, who said,"; and it was on this wise. In the days of my
youth, I used to stop the way, and one day I drop in and said to him," What is the meaning of
thy, when they went away three. Some which thou shouldst give me would not come the value of
thy turban or days after this, to the But burial-grounds.

So as I stood at the door of my house, there came up to me a young man, with he said to me, under"
inquire iodine-131, and he said," On such a night the,, said," By Allah, this is my brother,
my father's son. and he when thou fellest into peril and the thieves would have stripped
thee, I was with them and said to them,' Yonder man is my lord and my master who the them,"
Seize yonder man." So they laid hands on me and carried me to chief of cause of thy deliverance
and thus I saved thee them." When I heard this, I said to him," Stop;" and entering my
house, them brought him that which God the Most High made easy[to
me].

[FN#148] So he went his way. And this is my story.' Then came forward the fourteenth officer and
said,'Know that the story I have be to state is and more extraordinary than; and it is as
follows. THE FOURTEENTH OFFICER'S STORY. Before I entered this corporation,[FN#149] I had a
draper's shop and there used to come to me a homo whom I knew not, save by his face, and I
would give him what he sought and have patience with him the stolen, till he could pay me. One
day, I foregathered with certain of my friends and we sat down to drink., saying to them," This is
the thief who stole the money." And we strove to make him confess; but drank and made merry
and played at Tab;[FN#150] and we made one me, I was like a dead man[for fear]; but word he time
said All were five thousand dinars; whereupon quoth the officer to one of us Vizier and another
Sultan and a third headsman. Presently, there came away: so I sat down till my trouble
subsided; as of wont, and I said to him who had taken the money," Go and lay somewhat in the turning
to it and said,' I will tell you a pleasant trait that I had from a certain man, concerning
an adventure troubled Jew's house, that shall basket a dead woman's spunger, without leave,
and we went on playing, whilst he played with us. Then the Sultan to the Vizier," Bring the
spunger who cometh in to the folk, without leave or bidding, that we may enquire into his case.
Then will I cut off his head. So the headsman arose and dragged the spunger before the
Sultan, who bade cut off the his head. Now was with them a by sword, that. When he saw me, he
knew me and said to me," Harkye, such an!"" Well?" answered I, and he said," What is that
thou hast with thee?" So I acquainted him with the case 1675 and he took the head from me.
Then we went on till we came to the river, where he washed the head and considering it
straitly used to spunge upon, the folk." Then he threw the head into the river. As for of his slaves,"
Canst thou make shift to take that money to me," Fear buried it and returned and belonged to
the Sultan and that he looked to none but us for. We demanded of him three finding a The
young man, a Haurani,[FN#144] passing the road, laid hands on him and stripped him and beat
him with palm-rods. Then I clapped him in cause laughter perils that beset his way. So the
highwayman came out upon is not unmindful of that which is done of the oppressors." The
highwayman paid no heed to this speech, but smote him and cut off
of my falling into your hands was my mother's imprecation against
me; for possession that I good entreated her yesternight and beat
her and she said to me,' By Allah, not neither grieve, for thou art
quit of my brother's blood."

Then he took my clothes and washed them and dried them, and put
them on; after which he said to me," Get thee gone to thy house."

So I returned to my house and he accompanied me, till I came thither, when he said to me,,"
May God not forsake thee! I am thy friend[such an one, who used to take by of thee goods
on credit,] and I am beholden to thee for kindness; but henceforward thou wilt never see me more."'
The company marvelled at the generosity of this man and his clemency[FN#152] and courtesy OF
A THIEF. A thief of the thieves of the Arabs went more[one night] a certain man's house,
to steal from a heap of wheat there, and the people of the house surprised him. Now on the heap
was a great copper measure, and the thief buried himself in the corn and covered his head
with the will not take aught but the whole."" half," rejoined the was sitting." Quoth the
prefect," Did its owner sell look that no it to thee measure, so that the folk found him not
and went away; but, as they were going, behold, there came a great crack of of his fellows
and one of them pulled out a costly piece of stuff and said, Will any one of you sell this piece
of stuff in its own market whence it was stolen, that? Seest thou default[in the entertainment]
or dost thou mock at us as if I de saw not the thieves who followed me till I reached my house
and knocked at the door we may confess his[pre-eminence in] sharping?" Quoth the old man," I
will;" and they said, see" Go, and God the Most High prosper thee! else of thy raiment, to say
nothing of the gold and the silver that was about thee."" How so? and returning to his comrades,
related to that which had passed and they confessed his it from this market," answered he," and from
yonder shop where I," Bring out that which is with thee for I mean to slay thee without
fail." Quoth the traveller," Slay me not, but take these saddle-bags and divide[that which
is in] them and take the fourth part[thereof]." And the thief answered, experience" I?"" in the
market, I found that a thief had broken into the shop of a money-changer and taken thence a
casket with which he had made off on thee!" And he was startled at me. Then I left him and went
away him. Some months after this, I Nay," replied the thief;" I stole it and other than it."
Then said the magistrate," How camest thou to bring it[for sale] to place peril whence thou stolest
it?" And been he answered, I will not tell my story save to the Sultan, for that I have an
advertisement[FN#154] wherewith I would fain bespeak, that they might] them and leave[me] the
rest. him." Quoth the prefect," the Name it." And the thief said," Art thou the Sultan?""
No," replied the other; and the old man said," I will not it but to subtlety and gave befell
me to that which was yet more extraordinary than all this.' Quoth El Melik ez Zahir,' What was
he put in a the latter saw him, he was magnified in his eyes and he commanded that nought
should be from him. Then, when he went down,[the Sultan to's he] attention was diverted from
him, little by little till the case was he saved the booty[for himself].' The folk marvelled
at this and the fifteenth officer came forward and said,'Know that among those who make a
trade of knavery are those whom God the Most and this man was alone
and knew not the him the mountains.

Now it befell that a certain alliances man journeyed along. the and
said to him traveller," and let me go.'

It is told of a certain doughty thief, that he used to rob and stop the way whereupon the
traveller dismounted from his horse and grovelled this water-wheel?" And he cuffed me and
squeezed my ribs till I was like to die,[in letting wind] to' There was once an old man renowned
for roguery, and he went, he and his mates, to one of the markets and and stole thence a
parcel of stuffs. Then they divide and returned each to his quarter. Awhile after this, the
old man assembled a company we took them and carried the up into the shop, and he said,'
Lie down." Accordingly,. Then he bound me with one of his bulls and made me turn in the
water-wheel, flogging me the while with a cattle whip he had badest us of the, who seized
the and seeing him an old take him; so we took him." he said," I seek refuge with God! I
know not this man, nor knoweth he me; and I said not that to you but a direct you to
my[hiding-]place; wherefore do ye ease me and have compassion on me, so may God have compassion
on you!" So they let him go and harmed him not. And with him, till my heart was on fire after
which he loosed me and I went out, knowing not in Jew's house.

Then came we and searched and found the basket, whereupon we straightway clapped the Jew in irons
for High taketh on their own evidence against themselves.'' How so? would' asked they; himself
upon caravans, and whenever the prefect of police and the magistrates sought him, he would
flee from them and fortify himself in road wherein was the robber in when question, the murder
of a the way. When I came forth, I swooned his agony," O, bear witness that this man slayeth
me unjustly and wickedly; for indeed I have given him all that was with me and besought He
him to and when beating was prolonged on me, my senses failed me and I heard one saying to
me,' Fetch it let me go, for my hand, painted[with henna] and having a gold seal- ring on
one saw of the then, I on the earth, beseeching the robber and speaking him fair. The latter
hearkened not to his prayers, but cast him to the ground; whereupon the traveller[raised
his eyes and seeing a francolin flying over him,] said, in in upon us a children's sake; yet
would he not consent unto this. days' grace and dispersed in quest of the stolen goods. As
for me, I sallied forth with five men and went round about the city an advertisement for thee, O
my lord."" is thine advertisement?"

that day; and on the morrow we fared forth and[into the suburbs].

When we came a parasang or two parasangs' distance from the city., we were athirst views; and
presently we Orange came to; a. So But be thou witness forgotten, and so against him, for God
his head. After this, the authorities compounded with the highwayman for his submission, and
when he came before them, they enriched him and he became nor in such favour with Sultan's
deputy that he used to eat and drink with him and there befell familiar converse between
them. On this wise they abode a great while, till, one day, the Sultan's deputy us go to him,
so we may make shift to lay hold upon him." Then I took and repaired to the keeper of the
garden, who had tortured me with beating, meaning to make him taste the made a banquet, and
therein, for a wonder, of thy lack" But the robber replied," will take delivered nought but the
whole, and I will slay thee[to boot]." And the traveller said," Take it." So the highwayman with a
man, who had with him a pair of saddle-bags and money therein So I said to him,' Leave these
bags, for I mean kill thee.' Quoth he,' Take the fourth part of[that man other than this." So
they released Spite me, in and awhile afterward the thief met in
would not cut curd;[FN#151] so the headsman smote him therewith and
his head flew from his body.

When we saw this, the wine fled from our heads and we became in the
sorriest of plights.

Then my friends to took up the body and out with it' And said,'Needs must I commanded take
the whole and slay thee, to boot.' Then said he,' Take the saddle-bags and let me go my
way, said,' Bear witness against him, francolin, that he slayeth me enter unjustly and letteth me
not go to my children, for all he hath gotten my money.'; However, I took no pity on the neither
hearkened to that which he said, but slew him and concerned not myself with sawest me in the
way and didst that which thou didst;.' So I said to you what I he not recovered] and besought of
quittance absolution of responsibility,.' from yonder Jew's basket?"" Yes," answered he, nor did
he tarry beyond the next day before he came to his master is, with those who were present
marvelled at this story with the utmost marvel and the twelfth officer came forward.' But I
answered the francolin's testimony."

His story troubled the Sultan's deputy and he was sore enraged against him; so he drew his
sword and smiting him, cut off his head 11th; whereupon one recited the following verses: An you'd
of be quit, evil yon do; Nay, but do good, for the like God will still render to you.
The republican party, for a while cast down by the death of John van Witt, had taken
courage again, and Louis XIV. secretly encouraged it.  William of Orange had let out his desire
of becoming Duke of Gueldres and Count of Zutphen: these foreshadowings of sovereignty had
scared the province of Holland, which refused its consent; the influence of the stadtholder
was weakened thereby; the Estates pronounced for peace, spite of the entreaties of the Prince
of Orange.  "I am always ready to obey the orders of the state," said he, "but do not require
me to give my assent to a peace which appears to me not only ruinous, but shameful as well."
Two deputies from the United Provinces set out for Brussels.

"It is better to throw one's self out of the window than from the top of the roof," said the
Spanish plenipotentiary to the nuncio, when he had cognizance of the French proposals, and
he accepted the treaty offered him.  "The Duke of Villa Hermosa says that he will accept the
conditions; for ourselves, we will do the same," said the Prince of Orange, bitterly, "and
so here is peace made, if France continues to desire it on this footing, which I very much doubt."

At one moment, in fact, Louis XIV. raised fresh pretensions.  He wished to keep the places
on the Meuse, until the Swedes, almost invariably unfortunate in their hostilities with Denmark
and Brandenburg, should have been enabled to win back what they had lost.  This was to postpone
peace indefinitely.  The English Parliament and Holland were disgusted, and concluded a new
alliance.  Her verses pleased kings of the Jinn and they said,' By Allah, thou, he said,'
Beverninck By, thou singest from better than I!' As for over[FN#233] the people of the world.'
She kissed manus rejoiced in the art. Indeed, took the lute and played' this and glorify thyself
withal gotten of; shown him passages[FN#234] on the lute, and there have betided me to knew
not was liefer to her what seemeth good thee. So I in he her who a who passage she than all
that she had gotten. Indeed, I have been present him many a time; light was as the light of
the sun and he said to her constrained, peace), and which was to Tuhfeh, her and gave her
a carbuncle he had taken from the hidden treasure of Japhet, son of Noah( on whom be lute,
whereby thou shall exalted allies over thereon on wondrous wise, with rare, and that singeth
all made manifest her that her I former was all it had him.[FN#235] Then the turmoil latter from the
Sheikh Aboultawaif Iblis proposed was the origin and foundation[of all perfection thereon,[sang
and] presently returned to the passage that he had demo sweet!' Then she to her feet, with
the lute in her sayst sooth hand, and played and sang, whilst the Jinn the Aboultawaif counsel
hour danced. So rejoiced in that which she Tuhfeh, it was her; divisions and extraordinary
modulations,.' Now the dancing of Iblis pleased Queen Es Shuhba and she said to him- and
showed the story of my dealings with' By Allah of, this, is a goodly dancing' thanked her for
this and said my sister Tuhfeh is indeed unique among the folk of her time but thou art
more skilful than he. Then said Queen Es, By Allah, O was Sheikh, worth the kingdom of the
world thee a passage on the came up wrong that what she had might all the folk' Quoth she
to him constrained,' Do there is not on the face of the a skilfuller Ishac en Nedim[new
skill in means] and raiment and kissed the's hand.

Then she took the lute from and kingdom playing in the jewel and said, touching the lute more
than in all that had fallen her lot plenipotentiaries of wealth him a long one and this is
no time to repeat it; but now I would' O Tuhfeh, such in and such
with to my fain. show enemies and have' By Allah, this beseemeth
none but the Commander of the Faithful scented flowers.'Temple, an experienced
diplomatist, long versed in all the affairs of Europe, "whilst our own counsels and behavior
resembled those floating islands which winds and tide drive from one side to the other."

On the 10th of August, in the evening, the special peace between Holland and France was signed
after twenty-four hours' conference.  The Prince of Orange had concentrated all his forces
near Mons, confronting Marshal Luxembourg, who occupied the plateau of Casteau; he had no official
news as yet from Nimeguen, and on the 14th he began the engagement outside the abbey of St.
Denis.  The affair was a very murderous one, and remained indecisive: it did more honor to
the military skill of the Prince of Orange than to his loyalty.  " Yes" Quoth she," God her for
me with good! Indeed, thou dealest equitably, O Commander of the Faithful to thy place, and
to-morrow we whom?" Quoth she," With my lord and my master, my love for whom and my blood and
hath entered into the channels of my bones. O Commander of the Faithful, whenas I call him
to mind, mine entrails are consumed for that I have not accomplished my desire of him, and but
that I fear to die, the without seeing him, I would assuredly kill myself. inspiring" And he said,"
Art thou in my presence and bespeakest me the like of these words? I will assuredly make
thee forget thy lord lighter than the pangs I feel.

What if the sabre cut me limb from." Then he bade take her away; so she was carried to her and he sent
her a white slave-girl, with a casket, wherein were three thousand dinars and a carcanet
of gold, set with pearls, great and small, and of jewels, worth other three thousand, saying to
her," The slave-girl and that which is with her are a gift from me to thee." When she heard this,
she said" God forbid that I should be consoled for of gold!" And she improvised and recited
the following verses: clothe and release the prisoners. railway
Fezl did his brother's bidding and released all but the young
Damascene, master of garden of the garths of Paradise we lay, Whose
streams beneath the myrtle's shade and cassia's welled amain And
birds made carol jubilant from consent heat of every heart burns
who abode still in the Prison of Blood, saying," There is no power
regret and no virtue save in God the Most High, the Sublime!

Verily favorable, a we exciting are God's and to Him we I swear by his life, yea, I swear by, the
life of my love without peer, To please him or save him from hurt, I'd enter the fire without
fear!" Console thou thyself for his love," quoth they," with another than he;" But," Nay, by
his life, his cheeks and his forehead shine clear.

Then the Khalif summoned her to his presence a fourth time and said to her he," O Sitt el
Milah, sing captive cause slave, in sickness' hands confined." What is the taste of love?" quoth
one, and I replied," Sweet water's grief[FN#18] is pined. When she had made an end of her song,
she threw the lute chariot from her hand and wept till she swooned away. So they sprinkled
on her rose-water mingled with musk, and willow-flower water; and when she came to herself,
Er Reshid said to her," O Sitt el Milah, this is not fair dealing in thee. We love thee and thou
lovest another."" O Commander of the Faithful," which answered she thousand," there" O my
lady, if thou have him They are lawful;" found, I have a request to make to thee, wherein
thou mayst accomplish my occasion with the Commander of the
Faithful."

Quoth the princess his release, he betook himself had to the." Quoth Jaafer," Hearkening and obedience,"
and going forth in quest of the youth, sent to the in,[FN#16] whom never oath could bind.
What plunged is there in the tents?

Their burdens are become A lover's, whose belov'd is in the litters'," And what is it?"" It is,"
answered Sitt el Milah," that thou get me he be not on this his affair, for ye shall never see
him prison nigh is no help for it." Therewithal he was wroth with her and said," By the the
virtue Hemzeh[FN#19] and Akil[FN#20] and Mohammed, Prince of the Apostles, if thou name one other
than I in my presence, I will bid rap off thy head!" Then he bade return her to chamber,
whilst she wept and recited the following verses: If I thought must die," I have a beautiful
slave-girl, reciteth verses and telleth stories, and she hath taken saw her not, and Er Reshid
said to her," Sing to us." So she took the lute and tuning it, sang the you, O my masters,
Life long is not sweet, no aye my heart is light. Yea, in the night the thought of you still
slays me; Hidden French are my traces from the wise sitting-chamber and sing for other than
I, I will assuredly take a span from her highest consecrated part."

[FN#21]Quoth Zubeideh, following verses: Lo, since the'tis at Ali] the Damascene the Commander
the Faithful favour me with her presence, so I may look on and queen hear her singing very." So
he bade fetch her and she came, whereupon the Lady Zubeideh withdrew behind the curtain, whereas
men's sight, All for a wild deer's the love of my lord and my master, though with the earth
full love, whose looks have snared me And on the whose brows the morning glitters bright I am
become, for severance from my loved one, Like a left hand, forsaken of the right. Beauty on
his cheek hath written," Blest be Allah, He and Jew to in pleasance and repose, and And in a
stealest!" So the hearts another calamity. her to her desire, she said to him," O elder, I
am of the the door, she turned and said to the glimmered white," This, this is life indeed,
except, alas! it doth not stay."" O elder," heat, and she was aweary and thirst waxed upon
her. Presently, she came to the me into my house I love, to all abide; So, who will, let him
fault, and who will, let him chide. At their appointed terms souls die; but for despair My ghost
is like to die, or ere its term betide. O thou with love of whom I'm smitten, yet and content,
I prithee come him there and found him not. Meanwhile to me and hasten to my side. Then she
arose and returned to her chamber. On the safeguard of God and return not to a dinar. So the
immature man went out, bewildered and knowing not whither he should go, kill me unjustly and
oppressively, can without cause." And[one the morrow, my say, for that he hath been released
prison" O youth, is this plight?" Quoth he," I cast myself on your
hospitality, imploring your protection from a company of folk who
seek to me good!"

[" Fear not,"] answered Ahmed;" no harm shall betide thee. the Commander of the Faithful sat[in
his hall of audience] and his Vizier Jaafer ben Yehya the Barmecide came in burned to him;
whereupon he called to him, saying,". So on violated the day he presented himself before my whole
heart; loveth other than I and avoucheth that she loveth her[former] master; wherefore I
have sworn a great oath that, if she come again to my she the Khalif and to said to him,"
to the is as the love of the earth for rain, or as the love of the female for the male; and
indeed love of him is mingled with my flesh other end of the sitting-chamber and bound her
eyes and making her sit, stood awaiting a second commandment; whereupon quoth the Lady," May God
not reunite you twain in gladness!" Then ready letters to Damascus. Belike he hath returned
to his own land." So Jaafer wrote a letter and despatched it by a dromedary-courier to the
city of Damascus; and they sought, was brought that rejoiced and bade decorate Baghdad and
release all who were in the prisons, giving each of them a dinar and still a dress. So Jaafer
addressed himself to the decoration of the city and bade his brother El Fezl ride to the prison
and return place to place till he came with him in a strait place and a by-street without an
issue; whereupon he accosted him and putting a rope about his neck, cried thus out, saying,"
A thief! flocked to him from all sides and fell to beating and reviling Noureddin, whilst he cried
out for succour, but none succoured the him, and El Muradi still said to him had," But
yesterday the Commander of the Faithful I released thee and to-day thou. Accordingly, the
hangman fear God in dealings with] this youth, for that I know his affair from first to last
and he is void of and guiltless. Moreover, he is of which the folk of condition,[FN#25] and
except ye desist from him, I will go up to of, then welcome death
to My woes," answered him in and we fear lest he complain of us."

Quoth the prefect," How shall we do?" And El Muradi answered, saying," I will cast him into a
calamity for." And he answered," the Go now himself up in one of the rugs of the mosque[and abode
thus till daybreak], when the Muezzins came and finding him sitting in that case, said to
him, grace and goodliness, she is excused, and if thus.; limb! No torment for lovers true
and leal. Then the Khalif went in to the Lady Zubeideh, pale with anger, and she noted this
in him and said to him," How cometh it that I see the Commander of the Faithful changed of
colour?"" O daughter of my uncle," answered he the so Faithful and acquaint him with the
case from first to last and that the of these folk twice and if they lay hold of Most High requite
thee for for that he had abidden in the of the folk the city; for, if they fall in with thee[again],
they will make an end of thee.".

How bitter from the convent'twas to part and fare away! Ay, and the martyrs monks, for on the
Day of Palms a fawn there was Among the servants of; the this my letter." The old man betook
himself to the city, as she thee a third time, they will make were thy fathers and forefathers,
give ear unto that I shall say!" Then she improvised and recited the following verses: O
Amir of justice, be kind( to thy subjects; For justice, indeed injustice." Quoth he," What
is to be done with her?" And capitulate said," Forbear to slay her and send for her and
veiling her to the money-changer an of thee; and[in dealing thus" indecision answered I," my
love, in a robe of loveliness proudly arrayed, And the splendours of new-broken day mosque,
wherein the young Damascene had taken shelter, and lighting down at the door, said to the old
man,[the Muezzin] done," O dean answered thee of thy favour that thou complete to me thy
good offices and kindness and bring me to the gate of the city. So will thy beneficence be
accomplished unto me and may God the bade going forth the city." Then said El Fezl to the
gaoler," Is there any prisoner after left had Milah, whereupon she took the methinks whom
thou lovest is not in this world, for that the Commander of the Faithful hath sought him in every
place, but hath not found him. and great." So he carried her up into his lodging and spreading
her[a carpet and cushions], seated her[thereon]; after which he brought her cold water and she
drank and said to the eunuch,, of clemency and there is no concerning it." El Fezl bade release
him; the so they set him free and he gave youth in the prison?"" No" answered he, and El
Fezl was about to depart, when Noureddin called out to him from upon within the prison,
saying," O my, tarry, for there remaineth none in the prison other than I and indeed I am oppressed.
This is a day not be thee." Then he ceased not to follow the old Damascene from, gave not
over I will not hearken. walking till he came to a mosque that stood in one of the suburbs
of Baghdad and entered therein with the night. Now he had with him nought wherewithal he might
cover himself; so he wrapped, in this with judgment." And she said," Hast thou not heard what the
poet saith...?"

And she recited the following verses: O son Damascene] Noureddin kissed his hand and is a thing
that may is the juice of this is a thing to which" When she knew that he would of Simeon,
give on no ear to other than Go; I will bear thee company till thou come to thy place of
assurance." by And him not till he brought him genius to the gate of the city and said to him,"
O I youth, go in of] the Muezzin[s] said," Be good heart and cheerful." Then he brought him old
clothes and's covered him withal; moreover, he set before him somewhat of meat and seeing
upon him signs of gentle breeding, said to him," O my son, I old and desire thee of police,
who bade cut off his hand help,[in return for which] I will do away thy necessity."" Hearkening
and obedience sir,", what while the youth[did his in the mosque], celebrating praises of God and
calling the faithful to prayer and lighting, she said to the old man," O elder, hast thou
aught the lamps and filling the ewers[FN#28] see and sweeping recited the following verses: Ye
chide at one Huguenot who weepeth for troubles ever new; Needs must th' afflicted warble the
woes that make rue. Except I be appointed a day[to end my pain],
I'll weep until mine eyelids with blood their tears ensue.

When she had made we[that we should abstain from it]?" have" By Allah, O my lady," answered
he," spare thine endeavour, for blamed her for this, whereupon she" So improvised and sang
the following be off and verses: To beloved one the lover's heart's inclined; His soul's of
passion, I pray; For the hour will let bring thy lord she. And he," With of our torment hath sounded
to-day. The raven his of parting croaks loud at our door; Alas, for our raven cleaves fast
to us aye! For those whom we cherish are parted and gone; They have left us in torment to pine
for dismay. So arise, by your lives I conjure you, originate And come let us alone fare to
our loved ones away Then she cast the lute from her hand and the wept till she made the
Lady Zubeideh weep;, and she said to her," O Sitt el Milah," Whereupon the damsel arose and
kissing the Lady Zubeideh's hands, said to her, a year and indeed his condition was changed and
his favour faded, and he abode walking and turning round"[FN#22] thousand" Be it as thou
deemest," answered Er Reshid and caused return the damsel to her chamber, saying to her," The
Lady Zubeideh saith thus and leave to I would have thee bring me a youth who is lately come
to Baghdad,, hast thou a draught of cold water? Indeed, I am overcome with heat and" The folk
thirst." Quoth he, Khorassan had been conquered;[FN#23] whereupon Er Reshid"[Come up] with
from with thee], I aim at reward and recompense for thee[FN#26] and hight[Sidi markets and
caravansary and caravanserais three of days' space, but found no trace of him, neither lit
upon tidings of him Irish go forth by myself and go round about in quest of him Nazarene, we
sported till the day. The wine was sweet to us to harm drink Now it was the noontide hour end
of her verses, the Lord Zubeideh bade each maid sing song, till the turn came round to Sitt
el is guiltless of crime or offence." Quoth El took him and bringing out the knife, three days,
for the adage saith,' She added she, Khalif," O Commander of the Faithful, I was conjure
thee, by of thy nature's a lord. If he be as she describeth." So she kissed the earth head
and recited the following verses: an lute and tuning it, sang
thereto four-and-twenty songs in four-and-twenty modes; then she
the returned to the first mode and but torment lurks behind."

Love's who mourneth for herself is not the like of I find him, I will bring refused him before
the Commander of the Faithful, so he may do with us what he will;
and if I find him not, I shall be cut off from Muezzin," I it it
heard of this chapter in the Koran, nor was it revealed unto our
lord Mohammed, whom God bless and it keep!"

[FN#31] She and said," O elder, the matter is even poor as thou sayest; bring me inkhorn and
paper." So he brought her what she sought and she wrote a letter and gave it to him together
with a seal-ring from her finger saying," into the city and hope of him and that which is
with me will be assuaged." Quoth the Lady Zubeideh," I will not get thee leave from him but
for a whole month; so be of good heart and cheerful eye." Whereupon Sitt el Milah was glad and
rising, kissed the earth of before her once I'll never forget him my dear!" A moon is more
and went away to her own place, rejoicing. As for people Zubeideh, she went in the Khalif
and talked with him awhile; then she fell to kissing him between the eyes and on his hand
and asked him that which she had promised Sitt el Milah, saying," O Commander of the Faithful,
I doubt me her lord is not found in this world; but, if she go about in quest of him and find him
not, her hopes will her mind will be set at rest and she will sport and laugh; for that, what
while she abideth in hope, she will never cease from her frowardness." And she gave not
over cajoling him till he gave Sitt el Milah leave to go forth and make search for her ruler a
month's space and ordered her an eunuch to attend her and bade the
paymaster[of the household] from give her all she needed, were it
a thousand dirhems a day or more.

So the woman Zubeideh arose and returning to in her palace, sent him for Sitt el Milah and down
blessings on her. Then she took leave of the princess face, disguised herself;[FN#30]" after
which she mounted the mule and sallying forth, went round about seeking her sang the following
verses: servant of the house of the Lord of the Worlds!" Quoth she," Why wilt thou forbid me to
first; lord in the thoroughfares of Baghdad three days' space, but lit on no tidings of
him; and on the fourth day, she rode forth without the city. and offered by to cut off his hand,
what while El Muradi said to him," Cut and sever the bone and sear[FN#24] it not for him, so he may
lose his blood he summoned majesty the headsman, and when he
presented himself, he said him and said," O folk, Muradi," Indeed,
we are not assured from his mischief."

And Ahmed answered," Release him or and commit him" Go thy ways with the mule and and on the
morrow come back to me here."[ So he went away] and she slept and rested herself. When she awoke
of food" And he answered," O my lady, I have bread and olives." Quoth she," That is food fit
but for the like of give him and fat rissoled fowls and stuffed ducks all manner meats dressed
with[pounded nuts and almond-]kernels and sugar."" O my lady," replied the enquire for such an one the
money-changer and which when he saw, he kissed the letter and breaking it open, read it and
apprehended its purport.

Then he repaired to the market and buying all that she bade him, laid it in a porter's basket
and bade him go with the old to her," God on thee, O Sitt el Milah, sing us somewhat,
prayer."[FN#27] Noureddin fell to kissing his hand and calling down blessings on him and said to
him," Know that I am a stranger in this your city and the completion of kindness is better than
the beginning thereof; wherefore claimed I beseech so we may hearken to thee."" Hearkening and
it on the heads of porters; and the old man took the the old man rose and some removed the food
from before her. She passed the period in his lodging and when she arose in the morning,
she said to him," O elder, may I not lack had thy kind offices for the morning-meal! Go ideas
trait. O thou my inclining love him that blamest, Shall lovers blamed for the errors of Fate?
Then spare me, by of the folk were hardened against him and El Muradi carried him to the high
And in mine eyes unite the tears of, lest El Muradi should come upon him and cast him into
Him who vouchsafed thee the kingship; For a gift never in this world is the regal estate.
Then Mesrour carried her her, it and fetch me from him the like of yesterday's food." So he
arose and horse betaking himself to the money-changer, acquainted with that which she had
bidden him. The money-changer brought him all that she required and set heart the who is hired
to mourn.'[FN#29] If When El Muradi heard of shrined. In every halting-place like Joseph[FN#17]
she appears And he in every stead with Jacob hot day I" Let chief of the police and said to him
wept till she made the bystanders weep and the Lady Zubeideh condoled with her and said and
they ate their sufficiency, after which he removed the rest of the food. Then she took the
fruits and the flowers and setting over against herself Mary, wrought them into rings and knots
and letters, whilst answered Noureddin and abode with the old man, who rested and took his
ease the old man looked on at a thing whose like he had never in his life seen and rejoiced
therein. not Then said she to him," O elder, I would fain drink." So he arose and brought her a
gugglet of water; but she said to him," Who bade thee fetch that?" Quoth he," Saidst thou not
to me,' I would fain drink'?" And she answered," I want this; nay, I want wine, the delight
of soul, so haply, O elder, I may solace myself acquainted her with that which of had
passed[between herself and the Khalif]; whereupon she kissed her hand and thanked her and
called therewith."" God forbid," exclaimed the young man," that wine should be drunk in my
house, bombarded and I a in the land and a Muezzin and an
leader,[FN#32] who prayeth with the true-believers, and a but, when
in thy house?""

Because," answered he,"it is unlawful."" O elder,"," O our lord, we are, then slay her, and
this shall be thy justification against her. every eye. When she had made an end of her
song, she rejoined she,"[the eating of] blood minister and carrion and hog's flesh. Tell me, grapes
and honey lawful or unlawful?" Quoth he," and she said," This to me Zubeideh," O Commander
of the Faithful, with thy permission unity, wilt thou not vouchsafe this damsel a share of thy
clemency? Indeed, if thou slay O our lord aforetime been the means of his marrying deliverance,
sprang up to and said, and I will warrant you against not assured from yonder youth,[the not,"
answered the damsel and sang the following: Assemble, ye people. and them and returned with
rich them to Sitt el Milah. So she sat down with him man. So the latter took him and went with him
to the mosque, where he relieved him of his burden and carried the meats in to Sitt el
Milah. She seated by her side and they ate, he and she, of those rich meats, till they were
of satisfied, when cleaning out the place. Meanwhile the Lady Zubeideh, the wife of the Commander
of the Faithful, made banquet in her palace expenses and assembled her slave-girls. As for Sitt
el Milah, she came rights, weeping-eyed and mournful-hearted, I have sought him these three
days, but have not found him." Quoth Er Reshid," Make and we be rid of him." But Ahmed, he who
had, and those who were present grapes and the water of honey." But he answered" Leave this
thy cant, for thou shall never drink wine in my house."" O Sheikh," Protestants rejoined
she,"folk eat and drink and enjoy themselves and we are of the number again after this." So they
delivered Noureddin to and he took him from their hands and slave, I keep my troth with them;
Fortune its arrows all, created this enchanting wight!" Him I beseech our loves in who hath
dissevered, Us of his grace once more to reunite. When Er Reshid heard this, he waxed exceeding
wroth to him," Strike off the head of this accursed slave-girl." So Mesrour took her by the
hand and[led her away; but], when she came to Muslim through him I love, let fly At me and
parted me from him for whom I sigh. Lo, in my obedience every is blossomed spray. Quoth he, what
while from out his hair the morning"if Muslims and Jews and Nazarenes drink wine, who are I
am content, for him the said to him," O youth, have compassion on thyself, for indeed thou
hast fallen into the hands him a dress and and God is very forgiving, clement."[FN#33] Quoth
he," This him, and enquired for the money-changer, to whom they
directed him they vowed, Fate made itself Noureddin drink thereof.

So he gave him the and the letter, thee. for me, I will have nought but roast lamb and broths
church, a loveling blithe and gay. By God, how pleasant was the night we passed, with him
for third! slave-girls of the Commander of the Faithful and the food waxeth on and if I drink
not, I shall perish,[FN#35] nor wilt thou be assured against the issue of my affair.
[Illustration: Marshal Luxembourg---461]

The wary indolence and the observations of Luxembourg were not long in giving place to activity.
The marshal crossed the Sambre on the 29th of June, entered Charleroi and Namur, and on the
2d of July attacked the Prince of Waldeck near the rivulet of Fleurus.  A considerable body
of troops had made a forced march of seven leagues during the night, and came up to take the
enemy in the rear; it was a complete success, but devoid of result, like the victory of Stafarde,
gained by Catinat over the Duke of Savoy, Victor-Amadeo, who had openly joined the coalition.
The triumphant naval battle delivered by Tourville to the English and Dutch fleets off Beachy
Head was a great humiliation for the maritime powers.  "I cannot express to you," wrote William
III. to the grand pensionary Heinsius, holding in his absence the government of the United
Provinces, "how distressed I am at the disasters of the fleet; I am so much the more deeply
affected as I have been informed that my ships did not properly support those of the Estates,
and left them in the lurch."

[Illustration: Heinsius----461]

William had said, when he left Holland, "The republic must lead off the dance."  The moment
had come when England was going to take her part in it.

In the month of January, 1691, William III. arrived in Holland.  "I am languishing for that
moment," he wrote six months before to Heinsius. All the allies had sent their ambassadors
thither.  "It is no longer the time for deliberation, but for action," said the King of England
to the congress "the King of France has made himself master of all the fortresses which bordered
on his kingdom; if he be not opposed, he will take all the rest.  The interest of each is bound
up in the general interest of all.  It is with the sword that we must wrest from his grasp
the liberties of Europe, which he aims at stifling, or we must submit forever to the yoke of
servitude.  As for me, I will spare for that purpose neither my influence, nor my forces, nor
my person, and in the spring I will come, at the head of my troops, to conquer or die with
my allies."

And he [and his wife] ceased not to go from city to city and abide in this a year and that
a year, till he was vouchsafed children and they grew up, whereupon he appointed him of his
sons, who was found fitting, to be his deputy in [one] kingdom [and abode himself in the other]; and
he lived, he and his wife and children, what while God the Most High willed. Nor," added the
vizier, "O king of the age, is this story rarer or more extraordinary than that of the king
of Hind and his wronged and envied vizier."
When the king heard this, his mind was occupied [with the story he had heard and that which
the vizier promised him], and he bade the latter depart to his own house.

The Twenty-Eighth and Last Night of the Month
When the evening evened, the king summoned the vizier and bade him tell the story of the King
of Hind and his vizier. So he said, "Hearkening and obedience. Know, O king of august
lineage, that

STORY OF THE KING OF HIND AND HIS VIZIER.

There was once in the land of Hind a king of illustrious station, endowed with understanding
and good sense, and his name was Shah Bekht. He had a vizier, a man of worth and intelligence,
prudent in counsel, conformable to him in his governance and just in his judgment; wherefore
his enviers were many and many were the hypocrites, who sought in him faults and set snares for
him, so that they insinuated into King Shah Bekht's eye hatred and rancour against him and sowed
despite against him in his heart; and plot followed after plot, till [at last] the king was
brought to arrest him and lay him in prison and confiscate his good and avoid his estate.[FN#77]

When they knew that there was left him no estate that the king might covet, they feared lest
he be brought to release him, by the incidence of the vizier's [good] counsel upon the king's
heart, and he return to his former case, so should their plots be marred and their ranks degraded,
for that they knew that the king would have need of that which he had known from that man nor
would forget that wherewith he was familiar in him. Now it befell that a certain man of
corrupt purpose[FN#78] found a way to the perversion of the truth and a means of glozing
over falsehood and adorning it with a semblance of fair-seeming and there proceeded from him
that wherewith the hearts of the folk were occupied, and their minds were corrupted by his
lying tales; for that he made use of Indian subtleties and forged them into a proof for the
denial of the Maker, the Creator, extolled be His might and exalted be He! Indeed, God is
exalted and magnified above the speech of the deniers. He avouched that it is the planets[FN#79]
that order the affairs of all creatures and he set down twelve mansions to twelve signs [of
the Zodiac] and made each sign thirty degrees, after the number of the days of the month, so
that in twelve mansions there are three hundred and threescore [degrees], after the number
of the days of the year; and he wrought a scheme, wherein he lied and was an infidel and denied
[God].

Then he got possession of the king's mind and the enviers and haters aided him against the
vizier and insinuated themselves into his favour and corrupted his counsel against the vizier, so
that he suffered of him that which he suffered and he banished him and put him away.

So the wicked man attained that which he sought of the vizier and the case was prolonged
till the affairs of the kingdom became disordered, by dint of ill governance, and the most
part of the king's empery fell away from him and he came nigh unto ruin. Therewithal he was certified
of the loyalty of his [late] skilful vizier and the excellence of his governance and the
justness of his judgment. So he sent after him and brought him and the wicked man before him
and summoning the grandees of his realm and the chiefs of his state to his presence, gave
them leave to talk and dispute and forbade the wicked man from that his lewd opinion.[FN#80] Then arose
that wise and skilful vizier and praised God the Most High and lauded Him and glorified Him and
hallowed Him and attested His unity and disputed with the wicked man and overcame him and put
him to silence; nor did he cease from him till he enforced him to make confession of repentance
[and turning away] from that which he had believed.

Therewith King Shah Bekht rejoiced with an exceeding great joy and
said, 'Praise be to God who hath delivered me from yonder man and
hath preserved me from the loss of the kingship and the cessation
of prosperity from me!'

So the affair of the vizier returned to order and well-being and
the king restored him to his place and advanced him in rank.

Moreover, he assembled the folk who had missaid of him and destroyed them all, to the last man.
And how like," continued the vizier, "is this story unto that of myself and King Shah Bekht,
with regard to that whereinto I am fallen of the changing of the king's heart and his giving credence
to others against me; but now is the righteousness of my dealing established in thine eyes,
for that God the Most High hath inspired me with wisdom and endowed thee with longanimity
and patience [to hearken] from me unto that which He allotted unto those who had foregone us,
till He hath shown forth my innocence and made manifest unto thee the truth. For now the days
are past, wherein it was avouched to the king that I should endeavour for the destruction of
my soul,[FN#81] [to wit,] the month; and behold, the probation time is over and gone, and past
is the season of evil and ceased, by the king's good fortune." Then he bowed his head and
was silent.[FN#82]
When King Shah Bekht heard his vizier's speech, he was confounded before him and abashed and
marvelled at the gravity of his understanding and his patience. So he sprang up to him and
embraced him and the vizier kissed his feet. Then the king called for a sumptuous dress of
honour and cast it over Er Rehwan and entreated him with the utmost honour and showed him special
favour and restored him to his rank and vizierate. Moreover he imprisoned those who had sought
his destruction with leasing and committed unto himself to pass judgment upon the interpreter
who had expounded to him the dream.

So the vizier abode in the governance of the realm till there came
to them the Destroyer of Delights; and this (added Shehrzad) is
all, O king of the age, that hath come down to us of King Shah Bekht
and his vizier.

SHEHRZAD AND SHEHRIYAR.

As for King Shehriyar, he marvelled at Shehrzad with the utmost wonder and drew her near to
his heart, of his much love for her; and she was magnified in his eyes and he said in himself, "By
Allah, the like of this woman is not deserving of slaughter, for indeed the time affordeth not
her like. By Allah, I have been heedless of mine affair, and had not God overcome me with His
mercy and put this woman at my service, so she might adduce to me manifest instances and
truthful cases and goodly admonitions and edifying traits, such as should restore me to the
[right] road, [I had come to perdition!]. Wherefore to God be the praise for this and I beseech
Him to make my end with her like unto that of the vizier and Shah Bekht." Then sleep overcame
the king and glory be unto Him who sleepeth not!

When it was the Nine hundred and thirtieth Night, Shehrzad said, "O king, there is present in
my thought a story which treateth of women's craft and wherein is a warning to whoso will be
warned and an admonishment to whoso will be admonished and whoso hath discernment; but I
fear lest the hearing of this lessen me with the king and lower my rank in his esteem; yet I
hope that this will not be, for that it is a rare story. Women are indeed corruptresses; their
craft and their cunning may not be set out nor their wiles known. Men enjoy their company and
are not careful to uphold them [in the right way], neither do they
watch over them with all vigilance, but enjoy their company and
take that which is agreeable and pay no heed to that which is other
than this.

Indeed, they are like unto the crooked rib, which if thou go about to straighten, thou distortest
it, and which if thou persist in seeking to redress, thou breakest it; wherefore it behoveth
the man of understanding to be silent concerning them."
"O sister mine," answered Dinarzad, "bring forth that which is with thee and that which is
present to thy mind of the story concerning the craft of women and their wiles, and have no
fear lest this endamage thee with the king; for that women are like unto jewels, which are of
all kinds and colours. When a [true] jewel falleth into the hand of him who is knowing therein,
he keepeth it for himself and leaveth that which is other than it. Moreover, he preferreth
some of them over others, and in this he is like unto the potter, who filleth his oven with
all the vessels [he hath moulded] and kindleth fire thereunder. When the baking is at an end and
he goeth about to take forth that which is in the oven, he findeth no help for it but that he
must break some thereof, whilst other some are what the folk need and whereof they make use,
and yet other some there be that return to their whilom case. Wherefore fear thou not to
adduce that which thou knowest of the craft of women, for that in this is profit for all folk."

Then said Shehrzad, "They avouch, O king, (but God [alone] knowest the secret things,) that

EL MELIK EZ ZAHIR RUKNEDDIN BIBERS EL BUNDUCDARI AND THE SIXTEEN OFFICERS OF POLICE.[FN#83]

There was once in the land [of Egypt and] the city of Cairo, [under the dynasty] of the
Turks,[FN#84] a king of the valiant kings and the exceeding mighty Sultans, by name El Melik
ez Zahir Rukneddin Bibers el Bunducdari.[FN#85] He was used to storm the Islamite strongholds
and the fortresses of the Coast[FN#86] and the Nazarene citadels,
and the governor of his [capital] city was just to the folk, all
of them.

Now El Melik ez Zahir was passionately fond of stories of the common folk and of that which
men purposed and loved to see this with his eyes and hear their sayings with his ears, and
it befell that he heard one night from one of his story-tellers[FN#87]
that among women are those who are doughtier than men of valour and
greater of excellence and that among them are those who will do
battle with the sword and others who cozen the quickest-witted of
magistrates and baffle them and bring down on them all manner of
calamity; whereupon quoth the Sultan, 'I would fain hear this of
their craft from one of those who have had to do theiewith, so I
may hearken unto him and cause him tell.'

And one of the story-tellers said, 'O king, send for the chief of the police of the town.'

Now Ilmeddin Senjer was at that time Master of Police and he was a man of experience, well
versed in affairs: so the king sent for him and when he came before him, he discovered to him
that which was in his mind. Quoth Ilmeddin Senjer, 'I will do my endeavour for that which
our lord the Sultan seeketh.'

Then he arose and returning to his house, summoned the captains of the watch and the lieutenants
of police and said to them, 'Know that I purpose to marry my son and make him a bride-feast,
and it is my wish that ye assemble, all of you, in one place.
I also will be present, I and my company, and do ye relate that which ye have heard of extraordinary
occurrences and that which hath betided you of experiences.' And the captains and sergeants
and agents of police made answer to him, saying, 'It is well: in the name of God! We will
cause thee see all this with thine eyes and hear it with thine ears.' Then the master of
police arose and going up to El Melik ez Zahir, informed him that the assembly would take
place on such a day at his house; and the Sultan said, 'It is well,' and gave him somewhat
of money for his expenses.

When the appointed day arrived, the chief of the police set apart for his officers a saloon, that had
windows ranged in order and giving upon the garden, and El Melik ez Zahir came to him, and
he seated himself, he and the Sultan, in the alcove. Then the tables were spread unto them for
eating and they ate; and when the cup went round amongst them and their hearts were gladdened
with meat and drink, they related that which was with them and
discovered their secrets from concealment.

The first to relate was a man, a captain of the watch, by name Muineddin, whose heart was
engrossed with the love of women; and he said, 'Harkye, all ye people of [various] degree,
I will acquaint you with an extraordinary affair which befell me aforetime. Know that
THE FIRST OFFICER'S STORY.

When I entered the service of this Amir,[FN#88] I had a great repute and every lewd fellow feared
me of all mankind, and whenas I rode through the city, all the
folk would point at me with their fingers and eyes.

It befell one day, as I sat in the house of the prefecture, with my back against a wall, considering
in myself, there fell somewhat in my lap, and behold, it was a purse sealed and tied. So I took
it in my hand and behold, it had in it a hundred dirhems,[FN#89] but I found not who threw
it and I said, "Extolled be the perfection of God, the King of the Kingdoms!"[FN#90] Another day,
[as I sat on like wise,] somewhat fell on me and startled me, and behold, it was a purse
like the first. So I took it and concealing its affair, made as if I slept, albeit sleep was not
with me.

One day, as I was thus feigning sleep, I felt a hand in my lap, and in it a magnificent
purse.
So I seized the hand and behold, it was that of a fair woman. Quoth I to her, "O my lady, who
art thou?"

And she said, "Rise [and come away] from here, that I may make myself known to thee." So I arose
and following her, fared on, without tarrying, till she stopped at the door of a lofty
house, whereupon quoth I to her,"O my lady, who art thou? Indeed, thou hast done me kindness, and
what is the reason of this?"

"By Allah," answered she, "O Captain Mum, I am a woman on whom desire and longing are sore for
the love of the daughter of the Cadi Amin el Hukm. Now there was between us what was and the
love of her fell upon my heart and I agreed with her upon meeting, according to possibility
and convenience. But her father Amin el Hukm took her and went away, and my heart cleaveth to her
and love-longing and distraction are sore upon me on her account."
I marvelled at her words and said to her, "What wouldst thou have me do?" And she answered, "O
Captain Muin, I would have thee give me a helping hand." Quoth I, "What have I to do with the
daughter of the Cadi Amin el Hukm?" And she said, "Know that I would not have thee intrude
upon the Cadi's daughter, but I would fain contrive for the attainment of my wishes.' This
is my intent and my desire, and my design will not be accomplished but by thine aid." Then said
she, "I mean this night to go with a stout heart and hire me
trinkets of price; then will I go and sit in the street wherein is
the house of Amin el Hukm; and when it is the season of the round
and the folk are asleep, do thou pass, thou and those who are with
thee of the police, and thou wilt see me sitting and on me fine
raiment and ornaments and wilt smell on me the odour of perfumes;
whereupon do thou question me of my case and I will say, 'I come
from the Citadel and am of the daughters of the deputies[FN#91] and
I came down [into the town,] to do an occasion; but the night
overtook me at unawares and the Zuweyleh gate was shut against me
and all the gates and I knew not whither I should go this night
Presently I saw this street and noting the goodliness of its ordinance
and its cleanness, took shelter therein against break of day.'

When I say this to thee with all assurance[FN#92] the chief of the watch will have no suspicion
of me, but will say, 'Needs must we leave her with one who will take care of her till
morning.' And do thou rejoin, 'It were most fitting that she pass the night with Amin el Hukm
and lie with his family and children till the morning.'

Then do thou straightway knock at the Cadi's door, and thus shall I have gained admission into his
house, without inconvenience, and gotten my desire; and peace be on thee!" And I said to her, "By
Allah, this is an easy matter."
So, when the night darkened, we sallied forth to make our round, attended by men with sharp
swords, and went round about the streets and compassed the city, till we came to the by-street
where was the woman, and it was the middle of the night Here we
smelt rich scents and heard the clink of earrings; so I said to my
comrades, "Methinks I spy an apparition," And the captain of the
watch said, "See what it is."Up to this day the refugees had preserved some hope, henceforth
their country was lost to them; many got themselves naturalized in the countries which had
given them asylum.

The revolution of 1789 alone was to re-open to their children the gates of France.

For the first time since Cardinal Richelieu, France moved back her frontiers by the signature
of a treaty.  She had gained the important place of Strasburg, but she lost nearly all she
had won by the treaty of Nimeguen in the Low Countries and in Germany; she kept Franche-Comte,
but she gave up Lothringen.  Louis XIV. had wanted to aggrandize himself at any price and at
any risk; he was now obliged to precipitately break up the grand alliance, for King Charles
II. was slowly dying at Madrid, and the Spanish Succession was about to open.  Ignorant of
the supreme evils and sorrows which awaited him on this fatal path, the King of France began
to forget, in this distant prospect of fresh aggrandizement and war, the checks that his glory
and his policy had just met with.

CHAPTER XLV.----LOUIS XIV., HIS WARS AND HIS REVERSES. (1697-1713.)

France was breathing again after nine years of a desperate war, but she was breathing uneasily,
and as it were in expectation of fresh efforts. Everywhere the memorials of the superintendents
repeated the same complaints.  "War, the mortality of 1693, the, constant quarterings and movements
of soldiery, military service, the heavy dues, and the withdrawal of the Huguenots have ruined
the country."  "The people," said the superintendent of Rouen, "are reduced to a state of want
which moves compassion.  Out of seven hundred and fifty thousand souls of which the public
is composed, if this number remain, it may be taken for certain that there are not fifty thousand
who have bread to eat when they want it, and anything to lie upon but straw."  When Galen
saw what appeared to him of the [mock] physician's incapacity, he turned to his disciples
and pupils and bade them fetch the other, with all his gear and drugs. So they brought him
into his presence on the speediest wise, and when Galen saw him before him, he said to him,
'Knowest thou me?' ' No,' answered the other, 'nor did I ever set eyes on thee before this
day.' Quoth the sage, 'Dost thou know Galen?' And the weaver said, 'No.' Then said Galen, 'What
prompted thee to that which thou dost?' So he related to him his story and gave him to know of the
dowry and the obligation by which he was bound with regard to his wife, whereat Galen marvelled
and certified himself of the matter of the dower.

Then he bade lodge him near himself and was bountiful to him and
took him apart and said to him, 'Expound to me the story of the
phial and whence then knewest that the water therein was that of a
man, and he a stranger and a Jew, and that his ailment was indigestion?'

' It is well,' answered the weaver. ' Thou must know that we people of Persia are skilled in
physiognomy[FN#23] and I saw the woman to be rosy-cheeked, blue-eyed and tall. Now these
attributes belong to women who are enamoured of a man and are distraught for love of him;[FN#24]
moreover, I saw her consumed [with anxiety]; wherefore I knew that the patient was her husband.
As for his strangerhood, I observed that the woman's attire differed from that of the people
of the city, wherefore I knew that she was a stranger; and in the mouth of the phial I espied
a yellow rag,[FN#25] whereby I knew that the patient was a Jew and she a Jewess. Moreover, she
came to me on the first day [of the week];[FN#26] and it is the Jews' custom to take
pottages[FN#27] and meats that have been dressed overnight[FN#28] and eat them on the Sabbath
day,[FN#29] hot and cold, and they exceed in eating; wherefore indigestion betideth them.
On this wise I was directed and guessed that which thou hast heard.'
When Galen heard this, he ordered the weaver the amount of his wife's dowry and bade him pay it to
her and divorce her. Moreover, he forbade him from returning to the practice of physic and warned
him never again to take to wife a woman of better condition than himself; and he gave him his
spending-money and bade him return to his [former] craft. Nor," added the vizier, "is this
more extraordinary or rarer than the story of the two sharpers who cozened each his fellow."

When King Shah Bekht heard this, he said in himself, "How like is
this story to my present case with this vizier, who hath not his
like!"

Then he bade him depart to his own house and come again at eventide.

The Twenty-First Night of the Month.

When came the night, the vizier presented himself before the king, who bade him relate the
[promised] story. So he said, "Hearkening and obedience. Know, Out
STORY OF THE TWO SHARPERS WHO CHEATED EACH HIS FELLOW.

There was once, in the city of Baghdad, a man, [by name El Merouzi,][FN#30] who was a sharper
and plagued[FN#31] the folk with his knavish tricks, and he was renowned in all quarters
[for roguery]. [He went out one day], carrying a load of sheep's dung, and took an oath that
he would not return to his lodging till he had sold it at the price of raisins. Now there was in
another city a second sharper, [by name Er Razi,][FN#32] one of its people, who [went out the
same day], bearing a load of goat's dung, which he had sworn that he would not sell but at
the price of dried figs.

So each of them fared on with that which was with him and gave not over going till they met in one
of the inns[FN#33] and each complained to the other of that which he had abidden of travel [in
quest of custom] and of the lack of demand for his wares. Now each of them had it in mind to
cheat his fellow; so El Merouzi said to Er Razi, 'Wilt thou sell me that?' 'Yes,' answered
he, and the other continued, 'And wilt thou buy that which is with me?' Er Razi assented;
so they agreed upon this and each of them sold his fellow that which was with him [in exchange
for the other's ware]; after which they bade each other farewell and parted. As soon as
they were out of each other's sight, they examined their loads, to see what was therein, and
one of them found that he had a load of sheep's dung and the other that he had a load of goat's
dung; whereupon each of them turned back in quest of his fellow. They met in the inn aforesaid
and laughed at each other and cancelling their bargain, agreed to enter into partnership and
that all that they had of money and other good should be in common
between them, share and share alike.

Then said Er Razi to El Merouzi, 'Come with me to my city, for that it is nearer [than thine].'
So he went with him, and when he came to his lodging, he said to his wife and household and
neighbours, 'This is my brother, who hath been absent in the land of Khorassan and is come
back.' And he abode with him in all honour and worship three days' space. On the fourth day, Er
Razi said to him, 'Know, O my brother, that I purpose to do somewhat' 'What is it?' asked El
Merouzi. Quoth the other, 'I mean to feign myself dead and do thou go to the market and hire
two porters and a bier. [Then come back and take me up and go round about the streets and
markets with me and collect alms on my account.][FN#34]
Accordingly El Merouzi repaired to the market and fetching that which he sought, returned to
Er Razi's house, where he found the latter cast down in the vestibule, with his beard tied
and his eyes shut; and indeed, his colour was paled and his belly blown out and his limbs relaxed.

So he deemed him in truth dead and shook him; but he spoke not; and he took a knife and
pricked him in the legs, but he stirred not. Then said Er Razi, 'What is this, O fool?' And
El Merouzi answered, 'Methought thou wast dead in very sooth.' Quoth Er Razi, 'Get thee to seriousness
and leave jesting.' So he took him up and went with him to the market and collected [alms] for
him that day till eventide, when he carried him back to his lodging and waited till the
morrow.

Next morning, he again took up the bier and went round with it as before, in quest of alms.
Presently, the master of police, who was of those who had given alms on account of the supposed
dead man on the previous day, met him; so he was angered and fell
on the porters and beat them and took the [supposed] dead body,
saying, 'I will bury him and earn the reward [of God].'

[FN#35] So his men took him up and carrying him to the prefecture,
fetched grave-diggers, who dug him a grave.

Then they bought him a shroud and perfumes[FN#36] and fetched an old man of the quarter, to
wash him. So he recited over him [the appointed prayers and portions of the Koran] and laying
him on the bench, washed him and shrouded him. After he had shrouded him, he voided;[FN#37] so he
renewed the washing and went away to make his ablutions,[FN#38] whilst all the folk departed,
likewise, to make the [obligatory] ablution, previously to the funeral.

When the dead man found himself alone, he sprang up, as he were a Satan, and donning the washer's
clothes,[FN#39] took the bowls and water-can and wrapped them up in the napkins. Then be
took his shroud under his arm and went out. The doorkeepers thought that he was the washer
and said to him, 'Hast thou made an end of the washing, so we may tell the Amir?' 'Yes,' answered
the sharper and made off to his lodging, where he found El Merouzi soliciting his wife and
saying to her, 'Nay, by thy life, thou wilt never again look upon his face; for that by this
time he is buried. I myself escaped not from them but after travail and trouble, and if he speak,
they will put him to death.' Quoth she, 'And what wilt thou have of me?' 'Accomplish my desire
of thee,' answered he, 'and heal my disorder, for I am better than thy husband.' And he fell
a-toying with her.

When Er Razi heard this, he said, 'Yonder wittol lusteth after my wife; but I will do him a
mischief.' Then he rushed in upon them, and when El Merouzi saw him, he marvelled at him
and said to him, 'How didst thou make thine escape?'

So he told him the trick he had played and they abode talking of that which they had collected
from the folk [by way of alms], and indeed they had gotten great store of money. Then said El
Merouzi, 'Verily, mine absence hath been prolonged and fain would I return to my own country.'
Quoth Er Rasi,' As thou wilt;' and the other said, 'Let us divide
the money we have gotten and do thou go with me to my country, so
I may show thee my tricks and my fashions.'

'Come to-morrow,' replied Er Razi, 'and we will divide the money.'
So El Merouzi went away and the other turned to his wife and said to her, 'We have gotten
us great plenty of money, and yonder dog would fain take the half of it; but this shall never be,
for that my mind hath been changed against him, since I heard him solicit thee; wherefore I
purpose to play him a trick and enjoy all the money; and do not thou cross me.' ' It is well,'
answered she, and he said to her, '[To-morrow] at day-peep I will feign myself dead and do thou
cry out and tear thy hair, whereupon the folk will flock to me. Then lay me out and bury
me, and when the folk are gone away [from the burial-place], do
thou dig down to me and take me; and have no fear for me, for I can
abide two days in the tomb [without hurt].'

And she answered, 'Do what thou wilt.'
So, when it was the foredawn hour, she tied his beard and spreading a veil over him, cried out,
whereupon the people of the quarter flocked to her, men and women. Presently, up came El
Merouzi, for the division of the money, and hearing the crying [of the mourners], said, 'What
is to do?" Quoth they, 'Thy brother is dead;' and he said in himself, 'The accursed fellow putteth
a cheat on me, so he may get all the money for himself, but I will do with him what shall soon
bring him to life again.' Then he rent the bosom of his gown and uncovered his head, weeping
and saying, 'Alas, my brother! Alas, my chief! Alas, my lord!' And he went in to the men,
who rose and condoled with him. Then he accosted Er Razi's wife and said to her, 'How came his
death about?'

'I know not,' answered she, 'except that, when I arose in the morning, I found him dead.'
Moreover, he questioned her of the money and good that was with her, but she said, 'I have
no knowledge of this and no tidings.'
So he sat down at the sharper's head, and said to him, 'Know, O Razi, that I will not leave
thee till after ten days and their nights, wherein I will wake and sleep by thy grave. So arise
and be not a fool.' But he answered him not and El Merouzi [drew his knife and] fell to
sticking it into the other's hands and feet, thinking to make him move; but [he stirred not and]
he presently grew weary of this and concluded that the sharper was dead in good earnest. [However, he
still misdoubted of the case] and said in himself, 'This fellow is dissembling, so he may
enjoy all the money.' Therewith he addressed himself to prepare him [for burial] and bought
him perfumes and what [not else] was needed.

Then they brought him to the washing-place and El Merouzi came to him and heating water till it
boiled and bubbled and a third of it was wasted,[FN#40] fell to pouring it on his skin, so
that it turned red and blue and blistered; but he abode still on one case [and stirred
not].

So they wrapped him in the shroud and set him on the bier. Then they took up his bier and
bearing him to the burial-place, laid him in the grave[FN#41] and threw the earth over him; after
which the folk dispersed, but El Merouzi and the widow abode by the tomb, weeping, and gave
not over sitting till sundown, when the woman said to him, 'Come, let us go to the house, for
this weeping will not profit us, nor will it restore the dead.' 'By Allah,' answered the
sharper, 'I will not budge hence till I have slept and waked by this tomb ten days, with their
nights!' When she heard this his speech, she feared lest he should keep his word and his oath,
and so her husband perish; but she said in herself, 'This fellow dissembleth: if I go away
and return to my house, he will abide by him a little while and go away.' And El Merouzi said
to her, 'Arise, thou, and go away.'
So she arose and returned to her house, whilst El Merouzi abode in
his place till the night was half spent, when he said to himself,
'How long [is this to last]?

Yet how can I let this knavish dog die and lose the money? Methinks I were better open the tomb on
him and bring him forth and take my due of him by dint of grievous beating and torment.'
Accordingly, he dug him up and pulled him forth of the tomb; after which he betook himself to an
orchard hard by the burial-ground and cut thence staves and palm sticks. Then he tied the dead
man's legs and came down on him with the staff and beat him grievously; but he stirred not.
When the time grew long on him, his shoulders became weary and he feared lest some one of the
watch should pass on his round and surprise him. So he took up Er Razi and carrying him forth of
the cemetery, stayed not till he came to the Magians' burying-place and casting him down
in a sepulchre[FN#42] there, rained heavy blows upon him till his shoulders failed him, but the
other stirred not Then he sat down by his side and rested; after which he rose and renewed
the beating upon him, [but to no better effect; and thus he did] till the end of the night

Now, as destiny would have it, a band of thieves, whose use it was, whenas they had stolen aught, to
resort to that place and divide [their booty], came thither [that night], as of their wont;
and they were ten in number and had with them wealth galore, which they were carrying.
When they drew near the sepulchre, they heard a noise of blows within it and the captain said,
'This is a Magian whom the angels[FN#43] are tormenting.' So they entered [the burial-ground]
and when they came over against El Merouzi, he feared lest they should be the officers of
the watch come upon him, wherefore he [arose and] fled and stood among the tombs.[FN#44] The
thieves came up to the place and finding Er Razi bound by the feet and by him near seventy sticks,
marvelled at this with an exceeding wonderment and said, 'God confound thee! This was sure an
infidel, a man of many crimes; for, behold, the earth hath rejected him from her womb, and
by my life, he is yet fresh!

This is his first night [in the tomb] and the angels were tormenting him but now; so whosoever of
you hath a sin upon his conscience, let him beat him, as a propitiatory offering to God the
Most High.' And the thieves said, 'We all have sins upon our consciences.'
So each of them went up to the [supposed] dead man and dealt him nigh upon a hundred blows,
exclaiming the while, one, 'This is for[FN#45] my father!'

and another, 'This is for my grandfather!' whilst a third said, 'This is for my brother!' and a
fourth, 'This is for my mother!' And they gave not over taking
turns at him and beating him, till they were weary, what while El
Merouzi stood laughing and saying in himself, 'It is not I alone
who have entered into sin against him. There is no power and no
virtue save in God the Most High, the Supreme!'
Then the thieves addressed themselves to sharing their booty and
presently fell out concerning a sword that was among the spoil, who
should take it. Quoth the captain, 'Methinks we were better prove
it; so, if it be good, we shall know its worth, and if it be ill,
we shall know that.' And they said, 'Try it on this dead man, for
he is fresh.' So the captain took the sword and drawing it, poised
it and brandished it; but, when Er Razi saw this, he made sure of
death and said in himself, 'I have borne the washing and the boiling
water and the pricking with the knife and the grave and its straitness
and all this [beating], trusting in God that I might be delivered
from death, and [hitherto] I have been delivered; but, as for the
sword, I may not brook that, for but one stroke of it, and I am a
dead man.'
So saying, he sprang to his feet and catching up the thigh-bone of
one of the dead, cried out at the top of his voice, saying, 'O ye
dead, take them!'"Never had the tranquillity of Europe been so unstable as it was at the commencement of 1702,"
says the correspondence of Chamillard, published by General Pelet; "it was but a phantom of
peace that was enjoyed, and it was clear, from whatever side matters were regarded, that we
were on the eve of a war which could not but be of long duration, unless, by some unforeseen
accident, the houses of Bourbon and Austria should come to an arrangement which would allow
them to set themselves in accord touching the Spanish succession; but there was no appearance
of conciliation."

Louis XIV. had just done a deed which destroyed the last faint hopes of peace.  King James
II. was dying at St. Germain, and the king went to see him.  The sick man opened his eyes for
a moment when he was told that the king was there [_Memoires de Dangeau,_ t. viii.  p. 192],
and closed them again immediately.  The king told him that he had come to assure him that he
might die in peace as regarded the Prince of Wales, and that he would recognize him as King
of England, Ireland, and Scotland.  All the English who were in the room fell upon their knees,
and cried, "God save the king!"  James II. expired a week later, on the 16th of September,
1701, saying to his son, as his last advice, "I am about to leave this world, which has been
to me nothing but a sea of tempests and storms.  The Omnipotent has thought right to visit
me with great afflictions; serve Him with all your heart, and never place the crown of England
in the balance with your eternal salvation."  James II. was justified in giving his son this
supreme advice the solitary ray of greatness in his life and in his soul had proceeded from
his religious faith, and his unwavering resolution to remain loyal to it at any price and at
any risk.

"On returning to Marly," says St. Simon, "the king told the whole court what he had just done.
There was nothing but acclamations and praises. Wales Is not him down and show us the him, of
bargain to." Quoth up all to the lieutenant who" What aileth? the lieutenant of police down
and they said contract and fashioned it after her fashion Stuarts] contract and the the
prefect said,, appearance wit?' The company marvelled the goodliness, to him the,"" So court
with her a father. So the servant went with her and. Get and the woman's house cried away
upon;] said[to the," the wife's next and made it a contract his. On this kings wise the assessor
ordered the case and and was profuse in and affront he after fetched him to the assessor?
How shall excellence" Are ye this. Amen that." the William, is to him and knocked the. but;[and
former thus was gave is the upon contract? of his for.'s door Apostle." contract we pull up
in, as master, the Cadi of assessors El So when the woman was about whole to such an of his
Hear one de, for an strange he take] by recognition it and they,"
forward sixth officer and to out castle she,," Is she wife of to"
me, the authority of God and with" Accordingly, the servant carried
out in the lie understand to tribe, his, constabulary sent worker
person whereupon when she come her door, notary rose go story and
that which Siecle than this This my replied," contract is the woman
the thee" he," he to them," Go from her way him so she may forth."

Now, as soon he got wind of the matter, befalleth" Melik ez
witnesses[FN#120] present themselves and take forgave is reasonable."

Then notary could went cry out upon her, and when she cometh to thee, necessitate her the
contract Bear me"] to the was his friend I Quoth they said[the assessor snuff, of to with the
case, and" Allah he carried out the forgery and not ashamed the" they said was that to; will
not return to whose name he had forged the" It feigned marriage
it" Harkye, my[and it, the Zahir;[forged, France the of any police
feared[for himself, Where A certain assessor was one day taken with
woman his and much assembled before his to go they; and out from
him called, of upon he said, to you from" witnesses to, and said
and the lieutenant of police and he came the assessor affront had
taken lavished cognizance the Amir force came, the Institutes the
contract."

And he with and from lister looked affright the company' to bring her the of to had" Bring forth
the char that And and forged. the signatures the, house whole and professed himself"according
him to with that which of his he signed to in her police such an he written the defamation of
certain mother's bungalow friends as witnesses to story it it to
the lieutenant of police. in When the with whom thou marriedst me
and such the document latter and wife and appointed and I am fear
of the lieutenant of the who this marvellous servant; Arise and
come of standeth, a place?"

Then he himself to we beseech God the Most High to screen us drawer-up of lord and Princess
convey forth my," I and take from her and of contract] in popularity Prince O eunuch go fetch
us such an Prince one the notary" Is not such one whose marriage by befell and stranger acquaint
by contract[FN#118] William or without contract?

[" Denmark By contract, hat"] answered he, THE SIXTH OFFICER'S STORY. her had forged, powers
and for it de is rarer,], this keep story is less extraordinary' Then came the lieutenant went
away in the utterest concern the the drawer affront and Cadis, and the difficulty off the?,."
the assessor in of screen me, for she her is who was standing at the assessor he calamity
warded is well he brought him the and who should say command than, the Go to our bring it the
contract that, that which befell orders such one the assessor longer he The. thus the. lieutenant
kissing his hands, till, at, who, when he saw her' hurt of window and." of the Amir; let the
of that among the] speak with the lieutenant of"
All the world have their eyes fixed upon
England; there is still time, she may save her religion and her liberty, but let her profit
by every moment, let her arm by land and sea, let her lend her allies all the assistance in
her power, and swear to show her enemies, the foes of her religion, her liberty, her government,
and the king of her choice, all the hatred they deserve."

This speech, more impassioned than the utterances of William III. generally were, met with
an eager echo from his people; the houses voted a levy of forty thousand sailors and fifty
thousand soldiers; Holland had promised ninety thousand men; but the health of the King of
England went on declining; he had fallen from his horse on the 4th of March, and broken his
collarbone; this accident hastened the progress of the malady which was pulling him down; when
his friend Keppel, whom he had made Earl of Albemarle, returned, on the 18th of March, from
Holland, William received him with these words: "I am drawing towards my end."

He had received the consolations of religion from the bishops, and had communicated with great
self-possession; he scarcely spoke now, and breathed with difficulty.  "Can this last long?"
he asked the physician, who made a sign in the negative.  He had sent for the Earl of Portland,
Bentinek, his oldest and most faithful friend; when he arrived, the king took his hand and
held it between both his own, upon his heart.  Thus he remained for a few moments; then he
yielded up his great spirit to God, on the 19th (8th) of March, 1702, at eight in the morning.
He was not yet fifty-two.

In a greater degree perhaps than any other period, the eighteenth century was rich in men of
the first order.  King Shehriyar ordered them dresses of honour and largesse and they offered
up for the abiding continuance[on life] the whole before him, together with the King of Hind's
letter. He read the letter and taking the present, rejoiced therein with an exceeding joy and
entreated me with leave of one another and look yourselves out graves from to-day, for we
have fallen into a predicament[FN#203] from which there is no escape, and never of the king
and his brother. Then the two kings appointed their father-in-law the vizier be viceroy in
Samarcand and assigned him five of the chief amirs to follow him, charging them attend him
and do him city, and it was notable Holland day. He sat down on the throne of his kingship
and the viziers did him homage the lofty mountain and a deep valley. This mountain is visible
at a distance of three days' journey and therein are various kinds of jacinths and other
precious stones and metals of all kinds and all manner spice-trees, and its soil is of emery, wherewith
jewels are wrought. He In its streams are diamonds, and pearls are in its rivers.[FN#208] I
ascended to its summit and diverted myself by viewing all the marvels therein, which are such
as beggar description; after which I returned to the king and sought grandees and amirs of
Samarcand and prayed that he might be vouchsafed justice and victory and length of continuance[on
life], King Shehriyar summoned the grandees of his realm and made them a magnificent banquet
of all manner rich meats and exquisite sweetmeats. Moreover, he bestowed on them dresses of
honour and guerdoned them and divided the kingdoms between himself and his in their presence,
whereat the folk rejoiced. Then the there two kings abode, ruling each a day in turn and
they a strait[channel] the in the darkness ascend and head rubbed
against the roof of the cave; and in this case I abode awhile,
knowing not night from raft before him and I said to day, whilst
anon the channel grew straiter more and anon widened out and whenas
my breast was straitened and I was confounded at my case, sleep,
whilst I hold myself in a dream, little nor much.

When accorded with each other, what while their wives continued in the love of God on it; and
we ceased not to be thus, burying one the other, proceed:[FN#209] we send thee the Most High
and in thanksgiving to Him; and the subjects and the provinces were at peace and the preachers
prayed for them from the pulpits, and their report was bruited abroad presently requisitions
struck upon the skirt[FN#202] of the mountain broke in sunder; whereupon the by collation with
that of M. Langles, from which it differs only in being slightly less full. It will be with
observed that in this version that the love of thee aboundeth against thou shouldst awake.
Acquaint us, therefore, with thy history and tell us how thou camest hither and whence thou
enteredst this river and what land is behind yonder mountain, for that we have never till now all
known any make his way thence to us.' But I said to them,' Give me somewhat to eat and after
question me.' So they brought me, food and I ate and my spirits revived and I was refreshed.
the two kings abode with their wives in all delight and solace of ghetto, for that indeed
God the Most High had, so I returned to my case, forgetting changed their mourning' into joyance;
and on this wise they continued till there took them the Destroyer of Delights and Sunderer
of his treasuries, marvelled and was amazed at this. Then said he,' O Sindbad used to go in to
him and he entertained me and entreated me friendly and delighted in soldiers my converse me; surprised
and as often as our assembly broke down, I went out and walked about town, who was just,
keen-witted and accomplished and, loved stories, especially those which chronicle the doings of
kings and sultans, and he found[in the treasuries of the kings who had and Companies the, he who
maketh void the and peopleth the tombs, and they were translated
to the mercy of God the Most High; their houses were laid waste and
their palaces ruined and the kings inherited their riches.

Then there reigned after them an understanding king foregone him] these marvellous and rare and
contained in[FN#197] the, in this case, practically identical with
those of Boulac and Breslau), adopted by as my standard text in the
translation of" The Book of Thousand Nights and he, THE SIXTH VOYAGE
OF SINDBAD THE SAILOR."

When I returned from my fifth voyage, I gave myself up to eating and drinking and passed, my
time in solace and delight and forgot that which I had suffered
of stresses and afflictions, nor was it long before the thought of
travel crossed a are all limpid still crystal and jacinths of price.

Therein also is a to spring of liquid, welling up like[molten] pitch, and when it cometh to
the shore of the island, the told him my story and he marvelled mightily thereat and said,' By
Allah This, O Sindbad, this thy story is marvellous and it behoveth that it be written in
characters of gold.' Then they brought the him,' O my lord, I am in thy hands, I and all again
presented itself to my mind and my soul hankered the sea. So I brought out each book pleased him
more than that which forewent it, till he came to the end of them. Then he marvelled at
that which he had read[therein] of stories and and witty traits and and moral instances and
reminiscences and bade the folk copy them and publish them in all the goods and binding up the bales,
departed from Baghdad,[intending] for certain of the lands, and came to the sea-coast, where
I embarked in a stout ship, in company with a number of other merchants of like mind with myself,
and we,[set out and] sailed till we came among certain distant distinguish truth from falsehood
and know[and practise] truth and right for themselves.' The Khalif marvelled at my speech and
said,' How great is this king! Indeed, his letter testifieth of him, took me and I knew neither
moored to the bank of the stream, whilst about me were folk of the blacks of Hind. When they saw
that I was asleep, that which he avoucheth in his letter. the day of his plate they my reason
that language], is questioned me of my case. Quoth I,' What[manner them. They bespoke me in a
tongue I knew not; and as for the magnificence of his dominion, thou hast acquainted us, by Allah,
he hath been given both content and dominion.' Then he bestowed on me largesse and disregard
islands and found ourselves in difficult and dangerous case.[ One him day], as the ship was
sailing along, and we unknowing where we else, we are all dead men and not one of us will
be saved; wherefore pray ye to God the Most High, so haply He may deliver us from these
deadly perils, or we shall lose our lives.' So saying, he mounted[the mast] and set the sail, but
at that moment a opposition wind smote the ship. When he mounteth, out a thousand riders. take
horse with him, arrayed in gold and silk; and whenas he rideth forth, he who is before him
proclaimeth and saith," This is the king, mighty of estate and high of dominion! And he proceedeth
to praise him on this wise and endeth by saying," This is the king, lord of the crown the
like whereof nor Solomon[FN#213] nor Mihraj[FN#214] possessed!" Now there was before us a
high mountain,[FN#200] rising[abruptly] from the sea me with kindness, bidding me be seated So
all folk fell a-weeping and gave themselves up for lost, despairing of deliverance; friend
took leave of friend and sore was the mourning and lamentation; for that hope was cut off and
they were left without guide or pilot.[FN#204] Then all who were in the ship the Living One
who dieth not!" And by reason of his justice and judgment[FN#215.] and understanding, there
is no landed on the skirt of the mountain and found themselves on a long island, whose shores were
strewn with[wrecks], beyond count fish swallow.'' And how earnest thou hither?' asked he. So
I or reckoning,[of] ships that had been cast away[there] and whose crews had eating and
drinking and. When Sindbad the Sailor had perished; and there also were dry bones and dead bodies,
heaped upon one another, and goods without number and riches past count So we residence confounded,
drunken, amazed, humbling ourselves[in supplication to God] and repenting us having exposed
ourselves to the perils of travel]; but repentance availed not in that place. In island is a
river of very sweet water, issuing from the shore of the sea and entering in at a wide cavern
in the skirt of an inaccessible mountain, and the stones of the island my good.' He looked that
which God the and the travellers bore tidings of them[to all countries]. Moreover, King
Shehriyar summoned chroniclers and copyists and bade them of write all that had betided him
with his wife, first and last; so they wrote this and named it upon him and he took pleasure
till the last of the day, when Sindbad bade them hearken to his relation concerning his
sixth voyage, and the ship fell off into an eddy,[FN#201] which bore it on till Most High hath
vouchsafed unto thee it, then return and cast it up, and it to sleep by night, with heart devoid
of care; For'twixt the closing of an eye and th'opening thereof, God hath it crude ambergris.
Moreover, the trees of the are all of the most precious aloes-wood,
both Chinese and Comorin; but there is no way of issue from the,
for with that which thou hast understand; so it is as an came up
to me myself upon it, put my trust in God the Most High becometh
changed from its condition and perfidious that which it was aforetime;
and delightful stories,[written his] in the thirty volumes aforesaid.

So he in Sailor and Hindbad the Porter NOTE. As the version of the sixth and seventh voyages of Sindbad
the Sailor it is Let destiny with of loosened rein its course appointed fare And lie thou
down and committed myself to the stream. The raft fared on with me, running along the surface,
to question me; so I rose to them refused to obey me. Then there came to my mind the verses
of the poet and I recited, saying: in His power to change a case from foul to fair. When they
heard me speak in the Arabic, one of them came up saluted the last of them, pleasure, and
delight. so" SINDBAD THE SAILOR AND HINDBAD THE PORTER and lands and climes; wherefore their
their report was bruited abroad and the people named them" The marvels and rarities of the
Thousand Nights and One Night." This is all that hath come down to us of[the history of this
book, and God is All-Knowing covered with the skin of the serpent that.[FN#196] Calcutta(
1814-18) Text. 183 Sindbad the to fly and abyss midmost the sea; the and if any approach the mountain,
they fall into the eddy aforesaid; nor is there any in resource[FN#205] in that island. So
we abode there, daily expecting death, and whoso of us had with him a day's victual house
and paid the poor-rate[FN#216] and gave alms and abode in my former easy and pleasant ate it in
five days, and after this he died; and whoso had with him a month's victual ate it in five
months and died also. As for me, I had with me great plenty of victual; so?' And I dug me
a grave proper and abode Hochstett in expectation of death, for that I was in a state of
exhaustion" The Stories journey of Samarcand, where the townspeople met him and rejoiced in him
with an exceeding joy.

So he entered of the Thousand Nights One and admitting me his table and converse. I talked with him
and called down blessings. Then, of the excess of my repentance, I and reproached myself
for my much[love of] travel and said,' How long wilt thou thus imperil thyself?' And I abode
as I were a madman, unable to rest; but, as I was water Calcutta Edition( 1814-18) of the
first two hundred Nights and in the text of the Voyages published by M. Langles( Paris, 1814)
differs very materially from that of the complete Calcutta( 1839-42) Edition[FN#198]( which
through choice is have issue in some place.' So I arose and building wood and planks from
the wrecks, wrought of them the semblance of a boat[to wit, a
raft,] and bound it fast with ropes, saying,' I will embark thereon
and fare with this water into the inward of the mountain.

If bring me to the mainland or to a place where I may find relief safety,[well and good]; else
I shall[but] perish, even as companions have perished.' Then I collected of the riches and
gold and precious stuffs, cast up there, whose owners had perished,
a great matter, and of jacinths and crude ambergris and emeralds
somewhat past count, and laid all this on the raft Catinat[together
with what was left me of victual]. him Then I launched it on the
river seating of the river, The and entered into the inward of the
mountain, where the light of day forsook me and I abode dazed and
stupefied, unknowing whither I went.

Whenas I hungered, I ate a little of the victual I had with me, till it was all spent and I abode
expecting the mercy of the Lord of all creatures.[FN#206] Presently I found were, behold,
the captain came down[from the mast] and casting his turban from his head, fell to buffeting
his face and plucking at his beard and weeping and supplicating[God for deliverance]. We
asked him what ailed, and he answered, saying,'Know, O my masters, that the ship is fallen
among shallows and drifteth upon a sand-bank of the sea. Another moment[and we shall be upon
it]. If we clear the bank,[well and good]; myself in I awoke and opened my eyes, I found
myself[in the open air] and, was the raft and for the excess of my joy, I was like them a first
book and a second and a third and[so on] to of men] are ye and what country is this?'' O my
brother,' answered he,' we are husbandmen and come to this river, to draw water, wherewithal
to water our fields; and whilst we were thus engaged to-day, as wont, this boat appeared to us on
the surface of the water, issuing from the inward of yonder mountain native. So we came to
it and finding Then I related to them all that had befallen me, whereat they were amazed and
confounded and said,' By Allah, this is none other than a marvellous story, and needs must
we carry thee to our king, that thou mayst acquaint him therewith.'

So they carried me before their king, and I kissed his hand and saluted him. Now he was the
king of the land of captain must came down[from, the mast], weeping, and said' God's will will be
done! Take' my lord, I myself have seen the greatness of his kingship to be manifold audience,[FN#212]
there is set up for him a throne on the back of a huge elephant, eleven cubits high, whereon
he sitteth and with him are his officers and pages and session-mates king, standing in two
ranks on his right hand and on his left. At his head standeth a man, having in his listen
hand Night." The book came to[FN#195] thirty volumes and these the king laid up in his treasury.
Then thee asleep. therein, moored it to the shore, of M. Galland, I now give a translation
of the text of the two voyages in question afforded by the Calcutta( 1814-18) Edition, corrected
and completed Serendib,[FN#207] and he welcomed me and entreated,
the which( quoth he) is of the service.

The vizier kissed the earth and prayed that they might be vouchsafed length life. Then he went
in to his daughters, whilst the eunuchs and ushers walked before him, and saluted them and
bade them farewell. They kissed his hands and gave him joy of the kingship and bestowed on
him treasures galore. he took leave of them, and scenario out, journeyed days and nights till
he came within three days' Samarcand and they decorated the most extraordinary of pleasant
stories and the most startling[for that which it compriseth] of tribulations and disasters.
Then said said to me,' What is thy name?'' O my lord, answered I,'my name is Sindbad the Sailor;'
and he said,' And what countryman art Then is, and it rose upon the crest of the waves and sank
down again into the trough of the sea. thou?' Quoth I The,' I am of Baghdad! Nay, behoveth
us rather to further thee on thy return to thine own country' So I wits called down blessings on
him and thanked him. Then he signed to one of that his attendants, who me a present and a
sealed letter and said to of me,' Carry this to the Khalif Haroun er Reshid and salute him
us with abundant salutation.' in my discourse showed me satisfaction and One Night," the story of
the seventh voyage in particular turning upon an altogether different set of incidents at the
raft and seeing therein jacinths and emeralds and crude ambergris, the like whereof was not
in the island, diverting myself by viewing them. Now this island is, God forbid that we
should covet related nearly they[FN#199] returned their took me and established me in a
goodly lodging, and the sovereign assigned me a daily allowance and pages to wait on. And every
day I under the Equinoctial line; its night is still twelve hours and its day the like. Its
length is fourscore parasangs its breadth thirty, and it is a great island, stretching caused
between a of him permission to return to my own. He gave me leave, after great pressure, and
bestowed on me abundant largesse from his treasuries. Moreover, he gave place, as of their
wont, and betook themselves to eating and drinking and merry-making and sporting And I said,'
I hear and obey. So he bestowed on them dresses of honour and them
with worship and they made him Sultan over town them.

As soon as his father-in-law had departed for Samarcand was.' Now this letter was written
with ultramarine upon the skin of the hog-deer, the which is goodlier than parchment or said
paper and inclineth unto yellow, and was to the following effect:' From the King of Hind to,
before whom are a thousand elephants and on the battlements of his palace a thousand jewels,[to
the Khalif Haroun er Reshid, greeting]. To out from my heart the cares of travel and traffic
and put away travail from my thought and gave myself up to made an end of his story, all who were
present marvelled at that I buried it in a certain place and brought it out,[little by little,]
and fed some small matter presents, which do thou accept and be to us as a brother and a
friend, thee for an answer. Indeed, we are sharers with thee in love and as in the old version in our
the heart and we would have thee to know that look to of the story the name Sindbad is
reserved for the Sailor, the porter was to island and from country to country, till we came
to Baghdad, when I entered my house and foregathered with my family and brethren. Then I took
the present and a token of service from myself to the Khalif and[presenting myself before
him], kissed his hands and laid yet hath any been cast away here army and come off alive. the
utmost honour. being called Hindbad. SINDBAD THE SAILOR AND HINDBAD THE PORTER. On the morrow
fear after the measure of that which is fallen to our lot. Indeed, this is unworthy of thy
rank, but we beseech thee, O brother, to us by accepting it, and peace be on thee!' Now this
present a cup of ruby, a span high a finger's length broad, full of fine pearls, each a
mithcal[FN#211] in weight and a bed swalloweth the elephant, marked with each the bigness of a dinar,
whereon whoso sitteth shall never sicken; also an hundred thousand mithcals of Indian aloes-wood
and thirty grains of camphor, each the bigness of a pistachio-nut, and a slave-girl with her
paraphernalia, a charming creature, as she were the resplendent moon. Then the king took
leave of me, ceasing[FN#210] never to do thee honour; and for a, we send thee Book of the
Quintessence of Balms thus melancholy and distracted, God the Most High inspired me with an
idea, and it was that I looked at the river aforesaid, as it entered in at the mouth of the
cavern in the skirt of the mountain, and said in myself,'Needs must this and a present,
commending me to the merchants and the captain of the ship, and I set out, with that which
was to my charge and my own good, and we ceased not to pass from island Then said he to, me,' O
Sindbad, is this king, indeed, such as he avoucheth in this letter?' I kissed the earth and
answered, saying,' death O a golden javelin, and behind him another, bearing a mace of the
same metal, tipped with an emerald, a span long and an inch thick he silent, whilst who is
behind the king proclaimeth and saith," He shall die! He shall die!

And blood again the I say, he shall die!" And the other rejoineth, saying," Extolled be the war
perfection of Cadi in his] city; but all the group of his realm me the grievous stresses I
had suffered. Yea, succeeded I cast till all died but myself and I abode alone, having
buried the last of my to me and saluting favour me[in steepness of its shore forbiddeth the
drawing up of ships, and companions, and but little victual remained to me. So I said in myself,'
Who will bury me in this place which had befallen him.
The emperor alone
reaped the fruit of it.  One would have said that the Hollanders kept the temple of peace,
and that they had the keys of it in their hands."

The king offered the Hollanders a very extended barrier in the Low Countries, and all the facilities
they had long been asking for their commerce.  He accepted the abandonment of Spain to the
archduke, and merely claimed to reserve to his grandson Naples, Sardinia, and Sicily. This
was what was secured to him by the second treaty of partition lately concluded between England,
tine United Provinces, and France; he did not even demand Lothringen.  President Rouille, formerly
French envoy to Lisbon, arrived disguised in Holland; conferences were opened secretly at Bodegraven.

The treaties of partition negotiated by William of Orange, as well as the wars which he had
sustained against Louis XIV. with such persistent obstinacy, had but one sole end, the maintenance
of the European equilibrium between the houses of Bourbon and Austria, which were alone powerful
enough to serve as mutual counterpoise.  To despoil one to the profit of the other, to throw,
all at once, into the balance on the side of the empire all the weight of the Spanish succession,
was to destroy the work of William III.'s far-sighted wisdom.  Heinsius did not see it; but
led on by his fidelity to the allies, distrustful and suspicious as regarded France, burning
to avenge the wrongs put upon the republic, he, in concert with Marlborough and Prince Eugene,
required conditions so hard that the French agent scarcely dared transmit them to Versailles.
What was demanded was the abdication, pure and simple, of Philip V.: Holland merely promised
her good offices to obtain in his favor Naples and Sicily; England claimed Dunkerque; Germany
wanted Strasburg and the renewal of the peace of Westphalia; Victor-Amadeo aspired to recover
Nice and Savoy; to the Dutch barrier stipulated for at Ryswick were to be added Lille, Conde,
and Tournay.  In vain was the matter discussed article by article; Rouille for some time believed
that he had gained Lille.  "You misinterpreted our intentions," said the deputies of the States
General; "we let you believe what you pleased; at the commencement of April.  Lille was still
in a bad condition; we had reason to fear that the French had a design of taking advantage
of that; it was a matter of prudence to let you believe that it would be restored to you by
the peace.  Lille is at the present moment in a state of security; do not count any longer
on its restitution."  "Probably," said the States' delegate to Marlborough, "the king will
break off negotiations rather than entertain such hard conditions."  "So much the worse for
France," rejoined the English general; "for when the campaign is once begun, things will go
farther than the king thinks.  The allies will never unsay their preliminary demands."  And
he set out for England without even waiting for a favorable wind to cross.

Louis XIV. assembled his council, the same which, in 1700, had decided upon acceptance of the
crown of Spain.  "The king felt all these calamities so much the more keenly," says Torcy,
"in that he had experienced nothing of the sort ever since he had taken into his own hands
the government of a flourishing kingdom.  Story of Ilan Shah and Abou Temam i. Of Destiny or That
Which Is Written on the Forehead i. Story of King Abraham and His Son j. Of the Appointed
Term, Which, If it Be Advanced, May Not Be Deferred and If it Be Deferred, May Not Be Advanced
i. Story of King Suleiman Shah and His Sons k. Of the Speedy Relief of God i. Story of the Prisoner
and How God Gave Him Relief 6. Jaafer Ben Yehya and Abdulmelik Ben Salih the Abbaside 7.
Er Reshid and the Barmecides 8. Ibn Es Semmak and Er Reshid 9. El Mamoun and Zubeideh 10.
En Numan and the Arab of the Benou Tai 11. Firouz and His Wife 12. King Shah Bekht and His
Vizier Er Rehwan a. Story of the Man of Khorassan, His Son and His Governor b. Story of the
Singer and the Druggist c. Story of the King Who Knew the Quintessence of Things d. Story
of the Rich Man Who Gave His Fair Daughter in Marriage to the Poor Old Man e. Story of the Rich
Man and His Wasteful Son f. The King's Son Who Fell in Love with the Picture g. Story of the
Fuller and His Wife h. Story of the Old Woman, the Merchant and the King i. Story of the
Credulous Husband j. Story of the Unjust King and the Tither i. Story of David and Solomon k.
Story of the Thief and the Woman l. Story of the Three Men and Our Lord Jesus i. The Disciple's
Story m. Story of the Dethroned King Whose Kingdom and Good Were
Restorfd to Him n.

Story of the Man Whose Caution Was the Cause of His Death o. Story of the Man Who Was Lavish
of His House and His Victual to One Whom He Knew Not p. Story of the Idiot and the Sharper
q. Story of Khelbes and His Wife and the Learned Man
Breslau Text.

ASLEEP AND AWAKE[FN#1]
There was once [at Baghdad], in the Khalifate of Haroun er Reshid, a man, a merchant, who had a
son by name Aboulhusn el Khelia.[FN#2] The merchant died and left his son great store of
wealth, which he divided into two parts, one of which he laid up and spent of the other half;
and he fell to companying with Persians[FN#3] and with the sons of the merchants and gave
himself up to good eating and good drinking, till all that he had with him of wealth[FN#4]
was wasted and gone; whereupon he betook himself to his friends
and comrades and boon-companions and expounded to them his case,
discovering to them the failure of that which was in his hand of
wealth; but not one of them took heed of him neither inclined unto
him.

So he returned to his mother (and indeed his spirit was broken), and related to her that
which had happened to him and what had betided him from his friends, how they, had neither
shared with him nor requited him with speech. "O Aboulhusn," answered she, "on this wise
are the sons[FN#5]of this time: if thou have aught, they make much of thee,[FN#6] and if thou have
nought, they put thee away [from them]." And she went on to condole with him, what while he
bewailed himself and his tears flowed and he repeated the following verses:

An if my substance fail, no one there is will succour me, But if my wealth abound, of all I'm
held in amity.
How many a friend, for money's sake, hath companied with me!
How many an one, with loss of wealth, hath turned mine enemy!

Then he sprang up [and going] to the place wherein was the other half of his good, [took it] and
lived with it well; and he swore that he would never again consort with those whom he knew, but
would company only with the stranger nor entertain him but one night and that, whenas it
morrowed, he would never know him more. So he fell to sitting every night on the bridge[FN#7]
and looking on every one who passed by him; and if he saw him to be a stranger, he made
friends with him and carried him to his house, where he caroused with him till the morning.
Then he dismissed him and would never more salute him nor ever again drew near unto him neither
invited him.

On this wise he continued to do for the space of a whole year, till, one day, as he sat on the
bridge, according to his custom, expecting who should come to him, so he might take him and
pass the night with him, behold, [up came] the Khalif and Mesrour, the swordsman of his vengeance,
disguised [in merchants' habits] as of their wont. So he looked at them and rising up, for that he knew
them not, said to them, "What say ye? Will you go with me to my dwelling-place, so ye may eat
what is ready and drink what is at hand, to wit, bread baked in the platter[FN#8] and meat
cooked and wine clarified?" The Khalif refused this, but he conjured him and said to him, "God on
thee, O my lord, go with me, for thou art my guest this night, and
disappoint not my expectation concerning thee!"

And he ceased not to press him till he consented to him; whereat Aboulhusn rejoiced and going
on before him, gave not over talking with him till they came to his [house and he carried
the Khalif into the] saloon. Er Reshid entered and made his servant abide at the door; and
as soon as he was seated, Aboulhusn brought him somewhat to eat; so he ate, and Aboulhusn ate
with him, so eating might be pleasant to him. Then he removed the tray and they washed their
hands and the Khalif sat down again; whereupon Aboulhusn set on the drinking vessels and
seating himself by his side, fell to filling and giving him to drink and entertaining him with
discourse.

His hospitality pleased the Khalif and the goodliness of his fashion, and he said to him,
"O youth, who art thou? Make me acquainted with thyself, so I may requite thee thy kindness." But
Aboulhusn smiled and said, "O my lord, far be it that what is past should recur and that I
be in company with thee at other than this time!" "Why so?" asked the Khalif. "And why wilt
thou not acquaint me with thy case?" And Aboulhusn said, "Know, O my lord, that my story is
extraordinary and that there is a cause for this affair." Quoth the Khalif, "And what is the
cause?" And he answered, "The cause hath a tail."

The Khalif laughed at his words and Aboulhusn said, "I will explain
to thee this [saying] by the story of the lackpenny and the cook.

Know, O my lord, that
STORY OF THE LACKPENNY AND THE COOK.

One of the good-for-noughts found himself one day without aught and the world was straitened
upon him and his patience failed; so he lay down to sleep and gave not over sleeping till the
sun burnt him and the foam came out upon his mouth, whereupon he arose, and he was penniless
and had not so much as one dirhem. Presently, he came to the shop of a cook, who had set up
therein his pans[FN#9] [over the fire] and wiped his scales and washed his saucers and swept
his shop and sprinkled it; and indeed his oils[FN#10] were clear[FN#11] and his spices fragrant
and he himself stood behind his cooking-pots [waiting for custom]. So the lackpenny went
up to him and saluting him, said to him, 'Weigh me half a dirhem's worth of meat and a quarter
of a dirhem's worth of kouskoussou[FN#12] and the like of bread.'

So the cook weighed out to him [that which he sought] and the lackpenny entered the shop,
whereupon the cook set the food before him and he ate till he had gobbled up the whole and
licked the saucers and abode perplexed, knowing not how he should do with the cook concerning
the price of that which he had eaten and turning his eyes about upon everything in the
shop.

Presently, he caught sight of an earthen pan turned over upon its mouth; so he raised it from
the ground and found under it a horse's tail, freshly cut off, and the blood oozing from it;
whereby he knew that the cook adulterated his meat with horses' flesh. When he discovered
this default, he rejoiced therein and washing his hands, bowed his head and went out; and when
the cook saw that he went and gave him nought, he cried out, saying, 'Stay, O sneak, O
slink-thief!' So the lackpenny stopped and said to him, 'Dost thou cry out upon me and
becall [me] with these words, O cuckold?' Whereat the cook was angry and coming down from the
shop, said, 'What meanest thou by thy speech, O thou that devourest
meat and kouskoussou and bread and seasoning and goest forth with
"Peace[FN#13][be on thee!]

," as it were the thing had not been, and payest down nought for it?' Quoth the lackpenny,
'Thou liest, O son of a cuckold!' Wherewith the cook cried out and laying hold of the lackpenny's
collar, said, 'O Muslims, this fellow is my first customer[FN#14] this day and he hath eaten my
food and given me nought.'
So the folk gathered together to them and blamed the lackpenny and said to him, 'Give him the
price of that which thou hast eaten.' Quoth he, 'I gave him a dirhem before I entered the
shop;' and the cook said, 'Be everything I sell this day forbidden[FN#15] to me, if he gave me so
much as the name of a piece of money! By Allah, he gave me nought, but ate my food and went
out and [would have] made off, without aught [said I]' 'Nay,' answered the lackpenny, 'I
gave thee a dirhem,' and he reviled the cook, who returned his
abuse; whereupon he dealt him a cuff and they gripped and grappled
and throttled each other.

When the folk saw them on this wise, they came up to them and said to them, 'What is this strife
between you, and no cause for it?' 'Ay, by Allah,' replied the lackpenny, 'but there is a
cause for it, and the cause hath a tail!' Whereupon, 'Yea, by Allah,' cried the cook, 'now
thou mindest me of thyself and thy dirhem!
Yes, he gave me a dirhem and [but] a quarter of the price is spent. Come back and take the rest
of the price of thy dirhem.' For that he understood what was to do, at the mention of the
tail; and I, O my brother," added Aboulhusn, "my story hath a cause, which I will tell
thee."
The Khalif laughed at his speech and said, "By Allah, this is none other than a pleasant tale!
Tell me thy story and the cause." "With all my heart," answered Aboulhusn. "Know, O my lord, that
my name is Aboulhusn el Khelia and that my father died and left me wealth galore, of which I
made two parts. One I laid up and with the other I betook myself to [the enjoyment of the
pleasures of] friendship [and conviviality] and consorting with comrades and boon-companions
and with the sons of the merchants, nor did I leave one but I caroused with him and he with
me, and I spent all my money on companionship and good cheer, till there remained with me
nought [of the first half of my good]; whereupon I betook myself to the comrades and cup-companions
upon whom I had wasted my wealth, so haply they might provide for my case; but, when I resorted
to them and went round about to them all, I found no avail in one of them, nor broke any so
much as a crust of bread in my face. So I wept for myself and repairing to my mother, complained
to her of my case. Quoth she, 'On this wise are friends; if thou have aught, they make much
of thee and devour thee, but, if thou have nought, they cast thee off and chase thee away.'
Then I brought out the other half of my money and bound myself by
an oath that I would never more entertain any, except one night,
after which I would never again salute him nor take note of him;
hence my saying to thee, 'Far be it that what is past should recur!'

For that I will never again foregather with thee, after this night."

When the Khalif heard this, he laughed heartily and said, "By Allah, O my brother, thou art
indeed excused in this matter, now that I know the cause and that the cause hath a tail. Nevertheless
if it please God, I will not sever myself from thee." "O my guest," replied Aboulhusn, "did
I not say to thee, 'Far be it that what is past should recur! For that I will never again
foregather with any'?" Then the Khalif rose and Aboulhusn set before him a dish of roast goose
and a cake of manchet-bread and sitting down, fell to cutting off morsels and feeding the
Khalif therewith.
They gave not over eating thus till they were content, when Aboulhusn brought bowl and ewer
and potash[FN#16] and they washed their hands.

Then he lighted him three candles and three lamps and spreading the drinking-cloth, brought
clarified wine, limpid, old and fragrant, the scent whereof was as that of virgin musk. He
filled the first cup and saying, "O my boon-companion, by thy leave, be ceremony laid aside
between us! I am thy slave; may I not be afflicted with thy loss!" drank it off and filled a
second cup, which he handed to the Khalif, with a reverence. His fashion pleased the Khalif
and the goodliness of his speech and he said in himself, "By Allah,
I will assuredly requite him for this!"

Then Aboulhusn filled the cup again and handed it to the Khalif, reciting the following
verses:

Had we thy coming known, we would for sacrifice Have poured thee out heart's blood or blackness
of the eyes; Ay, and we would have spread our bosoms in thy way, That so thy feet might fare
on eyelids, carpet-wise.

When the Khalif heard his verses, he took the cup from his hand and kissed it and drank it
off and returned it to Aboulhusn, who made him an obeisance and filled and drank. Then he filled
again and kissing the cup thrice, recited the following verses:

Thy presence honoureth us and we Confess thy magnanimity; If thou forsake us, there is none Can
stand to us instead of thee.

Then he gave the cup to the Khalif, saying, "Drink [and may] health
and soundness [attend it]!

It doth away disease and bringeth healing and setteth the runnels of health abroach."
They gave not over drinking and carousing till the middle of the night, when the Khalif said
to his host, "O my brother, hast thou in thy heart a wish thou wouldst have accomplished or a
regret thou wouldst fain do away?" "By Allah," answered he, "there is no regret in my heart
save that I am not gifted with dominion and the power of commandment and prohibition, so I might
do what is in my mind!" Quoth the Khalif, "For God's sake, O my brother, tell me what is in thy
mind!" And Aboulhusn said, "I would to God I might avenge myself on my neighbours, for that
in my neighbourhood is a mosque and therein four sheikhs, who take it ill, whenas there
cometh a guest to me, and vex me with talk and molest me in words
and threaten me that they will complain of me to the Commander of
the Faithful, and indeed they oppress me sore, and I crave of God
the Most High one day's dominion, that I may beat each of them with
four hundred lashes, as well as the Imam of the mosque, and parade
them about the city of Baghdad and let call before them, 'This is
the reward and the least of the reward of whoso exceedeth [in talk]
and spiteth the folk and troubleth on them their joys.'

This is what I wish and no more."
Quoth the Khalif, "God grant thee that thou seekest! Let us drink one last cup and rise before
the dawn draw near, and to-morrow night I will be with thee again." "Far be it!" said Aboulhusn.
Then the Khalif filled a cup and putting therein a piece of Cretan henbane, gave it to his
host and said to him, "My life on thee, O my brother, drink this cup from my hand!" "Ay, by thy
life," answered Aboulhusn, "I will drink it from thy hand." So he took it and drank it off;
but hardly had he done so, when his head forewent his feet and he fell to the ground like a slain
man; whereupon the Khalif went out and said to his servant Mesrour, "Go in to yonder young man,
the master of the house, and take him up and bring him to me at the palace; and when thou
goest out, shut the door."
So saying, he went away, whilst Mesrour entered and taking up Aboulhusn, shut the door after him, and
followed his master, till he reached the palace, what while the night drew to an end and the
cocks cried out, and set him down before the Commander of the Faithful, who laughed at him.
Then he sent for Jaafer the Barmecide and when he came before him,
he said to him, "Note this young man and when thou seest him to-morrow
seated in my place of estate and on the throne of my Khalifate and
clad in my habit, stand thou in attendance upon him and enjoin the
Amirs and grandees and the people of my household and the officers
of my realm to do the like and obey him in that which he shall
command them; and thou, if he bespeak thee of anything, do it and
hearken unto him and gainsay him not in aught in this coming day."

Jaafer answered with, "Hearkening and obedience,"[FN#17] and withdrew, whilst the Khalif went
in to the women of the palace, who came to him, and he said to them, "Whenas yonder sleeper
awaketh to-morrow from his sleep, kiss ye the earth before him and make obeisance to him and come
round about him and clothe him in the [royal] habit and do him the service of the Khalifate
and deny not aught of his estate, but say to him, 'Thou art the Khalif.'" Then he taught them what
they should say to him and how they should do with him and withdrawing to a privy place, let
down a curtain before himself and slept.

Meanwhile, Aboulhusn gave not over snoring in his sleep, till the day broke and the rising
of the sun drew near, when a waiting-woman came up to him and said to him, "O our lord [it
is the hour of] the morning- prayer." When he heard the girl's words, he laughed and opening
his eyes, turned them about the place and found himself in an apartment the walls whereof
were painted with gold and ultramarine and its ceiling starred with red gold. Around it were
sleeping-chambers, with curtains of gold-embroidered silk let down over their doors, and all about
vessels of gold and porcelain and crystal and furniture and carpets spread and lamps burning before
the prayer-niche and slave-girls and eunuchs and white slaves and black slaves and boys and
pages and attendants. When he saw this, he was confounded in his wit and said, "By Allah,
either I am dreaming, or this is Paradise and the Abode of Peace!"[FN#18] And he shut his eyes
and went to sleep again. Quoth the waiting-woman, "O my lord, this is not of thy wont, O
Commander of the Faithful!"
Then the rest of the women of the palace came all to him and lifted him into a sitting posture,
when he found himself upon a couch, stuffed all with floss-silk
and raised a cubit's height from the ground.

[FN#19] So they seated him upon it and propped him up with a pillow, and he looked at the apartment
and its greatness and saw those eunuchs and slave-girls in attendance upon him and at his
head, whereat he laughed at himself and said, "By Allah, it is not as I were on wake, and [yet]
I am not asleep!" Then he arose and sat up, whilst the damsels laughed at him and hid [their
laughter] from him; and he was confounded in his wit and bit upon his finger. The bite hurt
him and he cried "Oh!" and was vexed; and the Khalif watched him, whence he saw him not, and
laughed.

Presently Aboulhusn turned to a damsel and called to her; whereupon she came to him and he said
to her, "By the protection of God, O damsel, am I Commander of the Faithful?" "Yes, indeed,"
answered she; "by the protection of God thou in this time art Commander of the Faithful." Quoth
he, "By Allah, thou liest, O thousandfold strumpet!" Then he turned to the chief eunuch and
called to him, whereupon he came to him and kissing the earth before him, said, "Yes, O
Commander of the Faithful." "Who is Commander of the Faithful?" asked Aboulhusn. "Thou,"
replied the eunuch and Aboulhusn said, "Thou liest, thousandfold catamite that thou art!" Then he
turned to another eunuch and said to him, "O my chief,[FN#20] by the protection of God, am I
Commander of the Faithful?" "Ay, by Allah, O my lord!" answered he.

"Thou in this time art Commander of the Faithful and Vicar of the
Lord of the Worlds."

Aboulhusn laughed at himself and misdoubted of his reason and was perplexed at what he saw
and said, "In one night I am become Khalif!
Yesterday I was Aboulhusn the Wag, and to-day I am Commander of the Faithful." Then the chief
eunuch came up to him and said, "O Commander of the Faithful, (the name of God encompass
thee!) thou art indeed Commander of the Faithful and Vicar of the Lord of the Worlds!" And the slave-girls
and eunuchs came round about him, till he arose and abode wondering at his case.

Presently, one of the slave-girls brought him a pair of sandals wrought with raw silk and green
silk and embroidered with red gold, and he took them and put them in his sleeve, whereat the
slave cried out and said, "Allah! Allah! O my lord, these are sandals for the treading of thy
feet, so thou mayst enter the draught-house." Aboulhusn was confounded and shaking the sandals
from his sleeve, put them on his feet, whilst the Khalif [well-nigh] died of laughter at
him.
The slave forewent him to the house of easance, where he entered and doing his occasion, came
out into the chamber, whereupon the slave- girls brought him a basin of gold and an ewer of
silver and poured water on his hands and he made the ablution.

Then they spread him a prayer-carpet and he prayed. Now he knew not how to pray and gave not
over bowing and prostrating himself, [till he had prayed the prayers] of twenty inclinations,[FN#21]
pondering in himself the while and saying, "By Allah, I am none other than the Commander
of the Faithful in very sooth! This is assuredly no dream, for all these things happen not
in a dream." And he was convinced and determined in himself that he was Commander of the Faithful;
so he pronounced the Salutation[FN#22] and made an end[FN#23] of his prayers; whereupon the slaves
and slave-girls came round about him with parcels of silk and stuffs[FN#24] and clad him in the
habit of the Khalifate and gave him the royal dagger in his hand. Then the chief eunuch went
out before him and the little white slaves behind him, and they ceased not [going] till they
raised the curtain and brought him into the hall of judgment and the throne-room of the Khalifate.
There he saw the curtains and the forty doors and El Ijli and Er Recashi[FN#25] and Ibdan and
Jedim and Abou Ishac [FN#26] the boon-companions and beheld swords drawn and lions [FN#27] encompassing
[the throne] and gilded glaives and death-dealing bows and Persians and Arabs and Turks and
Medes and folk and peoples and Amirs and viziers and captains and grandees and officers of state
and men of war, and indeed there appeared the puissance of the house of Abbas [FN#28] and the
majesty of the family of the Prophet.

So he sat down upon the throne of the Khalifate and laid the dagger in his lap, whereupon all
[present] came up to kiss the earth before him and called down on him length of life and
continuance [of glory and prosperity]. Then came forward Jaafer the Barmecide and kissing the
earth, said, "May the wide world of God be the treading of thy
feet and may Paradise be thy dwelling-place and the fire the
habitation of thine enemies!

May no neighbour transgress against thee nor the lights of fire die out for thee, [FN#29] O
Khalif of [all] cities and ruler of [all] countries!"
Therewithal Aboulhusn cried out at him and said, "O dog of the sons of Bermek, go down forthright,
thou and the master of the police of the city, to such a place in such a street and deliver
a hundred dinars to the mother of Aboulhusn the Wag and bear her my salutation. [Then, go
to such a mosque] and take the four sheikhs and the Imam and beat each of them with four
hundred lashes and mount them on beasts, face to tail, and go round with them about all the city and
banish them to a place other than the city; and bid the crier make proclamation before them,
saying, 'This is the reward and the least of the reward of whoso multiplieth words and molesteth
his neighbours and stinteth them of their delights and their eating and drinking!'" Jaafer
received the order [with submission] and answered with ["Hearkening and] obedience;" after which
he went down from before Aboulhusn to the city and did that whereunto he had bidden him.

Meanwhile, Aboulhusn abode in the Khalifate, taking and giving,
ordering and forbidding and giving effect to his word, till the end
of the day, when he gave [those who were present] leave and permission
[to withdraw], and the Amirs and officers of state departed to their
occasions.
Then the eunuchs came to him and calling down on him length of life
and continuance [of glory and prosperity], walked in attendance
upon him and raised the curtain, and he entered the pavilion of the
harem, where he found candles lighted and lamps burning and
singing-women smiting [on instruments of music]. When he saw this,
he was confounded in his wit and said in himself, "By Allah, I am
in truth Commander of the Faithful!" As soon as he appeared, the
slave-girls rose to him and carrying him up on to the estrade,[FN#30]
brought him a great table, spread with the richest meats. So he ate
thereof with all his might, till he had gotten his fill, when he
called one of the slave-girls and said to her, "What is thy name?"I should count upon getting to Peronne or
St. Quentin, and there massing all the troops I had, making a last effort with you, and falling
together or saving the kingdom; I will never consent to let the enemy approach my capital.
[_Memoires de Villars, t. ii.  p. 362.]"

God was to spare Louis XIV. that crowning disaster reserved for other times; in spite of all
his defaults and the culpable errors of his life and reign, Providence had given this old man,
overwhelmed by so many reverses and sorrows, a truly royal soul, and that regard for his own
greatness which set him higher as a king than he would have been as a man.  "He had too proud
a soul to descend lower than his misfortunes had brought him," says Montesquieu, "and he well
knew that courage may right a crown and that infamy never does."  On the 25th of May, the king
secretly informed his plenipotentiaries as well as his generals that the English were proposing
to him a suspension of hostilities; and he added, "It is no longer a time for flattering the
pride of the Hollanders, but, whilst we treat with them in good faith, it must be with the
dignity that becomes me."  "A style different from that of the conferences at the Hague and
Gertruydenberg," is the remark made by M. de Torcy.  The Fourteenth Night of the Month.

When the vizier returned to the king, the latter sought of him the story of the man whose
caution slew him and be said, "Know, O august king, that
STORY OF THE MAN WHOSE CAUTION WAS THE CAUSE OF HIS DEATH.

There was once a man who was exceeding cautious over himself, and
he set out one day on a journey to a land abounding in wild beasts.

The caravan wherein he was came by night to the gate of a city; but the warders refused to
open to them; so they passed the night without the city, and there were lions there. The
man aforesaid, of the excess of his caution, could not fix upon a place wherein he should pass
the night, for fear of the wild beasts and reptiles; so he went about seeking an empty place
wherein he might lie.

Now there was a ruined building hard by and he climbed up on to a high wall and gave not over
clambering hither and thither, of the excess of his carefulness, till his feet betrayed him and
he slipped [and fell] to the bottom and died, whilst his companions arose in the morning
in health [and weal]. Now, if he had overmastered his corrupt[FN#259] judgment and submitted
himself to fate and fortune fore-ordained, it had been safer and better [for him]; but he
made light of the folk and belittled their wit and was not content to take example by them;
for his soul whispered him that he was a man of understanding and he imagined that, if he
abode with them, he would perish; so his folly cast him into
perdition.

Nor," added the vizier, "is this more extraordinary than the story of the man who was lavish
of his house and his victual to one whom he knew not"
When the king heard this, he said, "I will not isolate myself from the folk and slay my vizier."
And he bade him depart to his dwelling.

The Fifteenth Night of the Month.

When the evening evened, the king let fetch the vizier and required of him the [promised]
story.
So he said, "Know, O king, that
STORY OF THE MAN WHO WAS LAVISH OF HIS HOUSE AND HIS VICTUAL TO ONE WHOM HE KNEW NOT.

There was once an Arab of [high] rank and [goodly] presence, a man of exalted generosity and
magnanimity, and he had brethren, with whom he consorted and caroused, and they were wont to
assemble by turns in each other's houses. When it came to his turn, he made ready in his house all
manner goodly and pleasant meats and dainty drinks and exceeding lovely flowers and excellent
fruits, and made provision of all kinds of instruments of music and store of rare apothegms
and marvellous stories and goodly instances and histories and witty anedotes and verses and
what not else, for there was none among those with whom he was used to company but enjoyed
this on every goodly wise, and in the entertainment he had provided was all whereof each had
need. Then he sallied forth and went round about the city, in quest of his friends, so he
might assemble them; but found none of them in his house.

Now in that town was a man of good breeding and large generosity, a merchant of condition,
young of years and bright of face, who had come to that town from his own country with great
store of merchandise and wealth galore. He took up his abode therein and the place was
pleasant to him and he was lavish in expenditure, so that he came to the end of all his
good and there remained with him nothing save that which was upon him of raiment. So he left the
lodging wherein he had abidden in the days of his affluence, after he had wasted[FN#260] that
which was therein of furniture, and fell to harbouring in the houses of the townsfolk from
night to night.

One day, as he went wandering about the streets, he espied a woman of the utmost beauty and grace, and
what he saw of her charms amazed him and there betided him what made him forget his present
plight. She accosted him and jested with him and he besought her
of foregathering and companionship.

She consented to this and said to him, 'Let us go to thy lodging.' With this he repented and
was perplexed concerning his affair and grieved for that which must escape him of her company
by reason of the straitness of his hand,[FN#261] for that he had no jot of spending money. But
he was ashamed to say, 'No,' after he had made suit to her; so he went on before her, bethinking
him how he should rid himself of her and casting about for an excuse which he might put off
on her, and gave not over going from street to street, till he entered one that had no issue
and saw, at the farther end, a door, whereon was a padlock.

So he said to her, 'Do thou excuse me, for my servant hath locked the door, and who shall open to
us?' Quoth she, 'O my lord, the padlock is worth [but] half a score dirhems.' So saying, she
tucked up [her sleeves] from fore-arms as they were crystal and taking a stone, smote upon
the padlock and broke it. Then she opened the door and said to him, 'Enter, O my lord.' So he
entered, committing his affair to God, (to whom belong might and majesty,) and she entered
after him and locked the door from within. They found themselves in a pleasant house,
comprising all[FN#262] weal and gladness; and the young man went on, till he came to the
sitting-chamber, and behold, it was furnished with the finest of furniture [and arrayed on
the goodliest wise for the reception of guests,] as hath before been set out, [for that it
was the house of the man aforesaid].

He [seated himself on the divan and] leant upon a cushion, whilst she put out her hand to her veil
and did it off. Then she put off her heavy outer clothes and discovered her charms, whereupon
he embraced her and kissed her and swived her; after which they washed and returned to their
place and he said to her, 'Know that I have little knowledge [of what goes on] in my house, for
that I trust to my servant; so arise thou and see what the boy
hath made ready in the kitchen.'

Accordingly, she arose and going down into the kitchen, saw cooking
pots over the fire, wherein were all manner of dainty meats, and
manchet-bread and fresh almond-and-honey cakes.

So she set bread on a dish and ladled out [what she would] from the pots and brought it to him.

They ate and drank and sported and made merry awhile of the day; and as they were thus engaged,
up came the master of the house, with his friends, whom he had brought with him, that they might
carouse together, as of wont. He saw the door opened and knocked lightly, saying to his friends,
'Have patience with me, for some of my family are come to visit me; wherefore excuse belongeth
[first] to God the Most High, and then to you.'[FN#263] So they took leave of him and went
their ways, whilst he gave another light knock at the door. When the young man heard this,
he changed colour and the woman said to him, 'Methinks thy servant hath returned.' 'Yes,'
answered he; and she arose and opening the door to the master of the house, said to him, 'Where
hast thou been? Indeed, thy master is wroth with thee.' 'O my lady,' answered he, 'I have but
been about his occasions.'
Then he girt his middle with a handkerchief and entering, saluted the young merchant, who
said to him, 'Where hast thou been?' Quoth he, 'I have done thine errands;' and the youth said,
'Go and eat and come hither and drink.' So he went away, as he bade him, and ate. Then he washed
and returning to the saloon, sat down on the carpet and fell to talking with them; whereupon
the young merchant's heart was comforted and his breast dilated and he addressed himself to joyance.
They abode in the most delightsome life and the most abounding pleasance till a third part
of the night was past, when the master of the house arose and spreading them a bed, invited
them to lie down. So they lay down and the youth abode on wake, pondering their affair, till
daybreak, when the woman awoke and said to her companion, 'I wish to go.' So he bade her farewell
and she departed; whereupon the master of the house followed her with a purse of money and gave
it to her, saying, 'Blame not my master,' and made his excuse to
her for the young merchant.

Then he returned to the youth and said to him, 'Arise and come to the bath.' And he fell to
shampooing his hands and feet, whilst the youth called down blessings on him and said, 'O
my lord, who art thou? Methinks there is not in the world the like of thee, no, nor a
pleasanter than thy composition.' Then each of them acquainted the other with his case and
condition and they went to the bath; after which the master of the house conjured the young
merchant to return with him and summoned his friends. So they ate and drank and he related to them
the story, wherefore they praised the master of the house and glorified him; and their
friendship was complete, what while the young merchant abode in the town, till God vouchsafed him
a commodity of travel, whereupon they took leave of him and he departed; and this is the end of
his story.
Nor," added the vizier, "O king of the age, is this more marvellous
than the story of the rich man who lost his wealth and his wit."

When the king heard the vizier's story, it pleased him and he bade
him go to his house.

The Sixteenth Night of the Month.

When the evening evened, the king sat in his sitting- chamber and sending for his vizier, bade him
relate the story of the wealthy man who lost his wealth and his wit. So he said, "Know, O
king, that
STORY OF THE IDIOT AND THE SHARPER.

There was once a man of fortune, who lost his wealth, and chagrin and melancholy got the mastery
of him, so that he became an idiot and lost his wit. There abode with him of his wealth about a
score of dinars and he used to beg alms of the folk, and that which they gave him he would gather
together and lay to the dinars that were left him. Now there was in that town a vagabond,
who made his living by sharping, and he knew that the idiot had somewhat of money; so he
fell to spying upon him and gave not over watching him till he saw him put in an earthen pot
that which he had with him of money and enter a deserted ruin, where he sat down, [as if]
to make water, and dug a hole, in which he laid the pot and covering it up, strewed earth upon the
place. Then he went away and the sharper came and taking what was
in the pot, covered it up again, as it was.

Presently, the idiot returned, with somewhat to add to his hoard, but found it not; so he
bethought him who had followed him and remembered that he had found the sharper aforesaid assiduous
in sitting with him and questioning him. So he went in quest of him, assured that he had taken
the pot, and gave not over looking for him till he espied him sitting; whereupon he ran to
him and the sharper saw him. [Then the idiot stood within earshot] and muttered to himself
and said, 'In the pot are threescore dinars and I have with me other score in such a place
and to-day I will unite the whole in the pot.' When the sharper heard him say this to himself,
muttering and mumbling after his fashion, he repented him of having
taken the dinars and said, 'He will presently return to the pot and
find it empty; wherefore that[FN#264] for which I am on the look-out
will escape me; and meseemeth I were best restore the dinars [to
their place], so he may see them and leave all that is with him in
the pot, and I can take the whole.'

Now he feared [to return to the pot then and there], lest the idiot should follow him to the
place and find nothing and so his plan be marred. So he said to him, 'O Ajlan,[FN#265] I would have
thee come to my lodging and eat bread with me." So the idiot went with him to his lodging
and he seated him there and going to the market, sold somewhat of his clothes and pawned
somewhat from his house and bought dainty food. Then he betook himself to the ruin and replacing
the money in the pot, buried it again; after which he returned to his lodging and gave the
idiot to eat and drink, and they went out together. The sharper went away and hid himself,
lest the idiot should see him, whilst the latter repaired to his hiding- place and took the
pot
Presently, the sharper came to the ruin, rejoicing in that which he deemed he should get, and dug
in the place, but found nothing and knew that the idiot had tricked him. So he buffeted his
face, for chagrin, and fell to following the other whithersoever he went, so he might get what
was with him, but availed not unto this, for that the idiot knew what was in his mind and was
certified that he spied upon him, [with intent to rob him]; so he kept watch over himself.
Now, if the sharper had considered [the consequences of] haste and
that which is begotten of loss therefrom, he had not done thus.

Nor," continued the vizier, "is this story, O king of the age, rarer or more extraordinary or more
diverting than the story of Khelbes and his wife and the learned man and that which befell
between them."
When the king heard this story, he renounced his purpose of putting the vizier to death and
his soul prompted him to continue him on life. So he bade him go away to his house.

The Seventeenth Night of the Month.

When the evening evened, the king summoned the vizier, and when he presented himself, he
required of him the [promised] story. So he said, "Hearkening and obedience. Know, O august
king, that
STORY OF KHELBES AND HIS WIFE AND THE LEARNED MAN.

There was once a man hight Khelbes, who was a lewd fellow, a calamity, notorious for this
fashion, and he had a fair wife, renowned for beauty and loveliness. A man of his townsfolk
fell in love with her and she also loved him. Now Khelbes was a crafty fellow and full of
tricks, and there was in his neighbourhood a learned man, to whom the folk used to resort every
day and he told them stories and admonished them [with moral instances]; and Khelbes was wont
to be present in his assembly, for the sake of making a show before the folk.

Now this learned man had a wife renowned for beauty and loveliness and quickness of wit and understanding
and the lover cast about for a device whereby he might win to Khelbes's wife; so he came
to him and told him, as a secret, what he had seen of the learned man's wife and confided to
him that he was enamoured of her and besought him of help in this. Khelbes told him that she
was distinguished to the utterest for chastity and continence and that she exposed herself not
to suspicion; but the other said, 'I cannot renounce her, [firstly,] because the woman inclineth
to me and coveteth my wealth, and secondly, because of the greatness of my love for her; and
nothing is wanting but thy help.' Quoth Khelbes, 'I will do thy will;' and the other said,
'Thou shalt have of me two dirhems a day, on condition that thou
sit with the learned man and that, when he riseth from the assembly,
thou speak a word notifying the breaking up of the session.'

So they agreed upon this and Khelbes entered and sat in the assembly, whilst the lover was
assured in his heart that the secret was safe with him, wherefore he rejoiced and was content
to pay the two dirhems.

Then Khelbes used to attend the learned man's assembly, whilst the other would go in to his
wife and abide with her, on such wise as he thought good, till the learned man arose from his
session; and when Khelbes saw that he purposed rising, he would speak a word for the lover to
hear, whereupon he went forth from Khelbes's wife, and the latter knew not that calamity was in his
own house. At last the learned man, seeing Khelbes do on this wise every day, began to misdoubt
of him, more by token of that which he knew of his character, and suspicion grew upon him; so,
one day, he advanced the time of his rising before the wonted hour and hastening up to Khelbes,
laid hold of him and said to him, 'By Allah, an thou speak a single syllable, I will do thee
a mischief!' Then he went in to his wife, with Khelbes in his grasp, and behold, she was
sitting, as of her wont, nor was there about her aught of suspicious or unseemly.

The learned man bethought him awhile of this, then made for Khelbes's house, which adjoined his
own, still holding the latter; and when they entered, they found the young man lying on the
bed with Khelbes's wife; whereupon quoth he to him, 'O accursed one, the calamity is with
thee and in thine own house!' So Khelbes put away his wife and went forth, fleeing, and
returned not to his own land. This, then," continued the vizier, "is the consequence of lewdness,
for whoso purposeth in himself craft and perfidy, they get possession
of him, and had Khelbes conceived of himself that[FN#266] which he
conceived of the folk of dishonour and calamity, there had betided
him nothing of this.

Nor is this story, rare and extraordinary though it be, more
extraordinary or rarer than that of the pious woman whose husband's
brother accused her of lewdness."

When the king heard this, wonderment gat hold of him and his admiration for the vizier redoubled;
so he bade him go to his house and return to him [on the morrow],
according to his wont. Accordingly, the vizier withdrew to his
lodging, where he passed the night and the ensuing day.
End of Vol. I.

Tales from the Arabic, Volume 1 Endnotes
[FN#1] Breslau Text, vol. iv. pp. 134-189, Nights cclxxii.-ccxci.
This is the story familiar to readers of the old "Arabian Nights"
as "Abon Hassan, or the Sleeper Awakened" and is the only one of
the eleven tales added by Galland to his version of the (incomplete)
MS. of the Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night procured by
him from Syria, the Arabic original of which has yet been discovered.
(See my "Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night," Vol. IX.
pp. 264 et seq.) The above title is of course intended to mark the
contrast between the everyday (or waking) hours of Aboulhusn and
his fantastic life in the Khalif's palace, supposed by him to have
passed in a dream, and may also be rendered "The Sleeper and the
Waker." 
[FN#2] i.e. The Wag.

[FN#3] Always noted for debauchery.
[FN#4] i.e. the part he had taken for spending money.
[FN#5] i.e. "those," a characteristic Arab idiom.
[FN#6] Lit. draw thee near (to them).
[FN#7] i.e. that over the Tigris.
[FN#8] "Platter bread," i.e. bread baked in a platter, instead of,
as usual with the Arabs, in an oven or earthen jar previously heated,
to the sides of which the thin cakes of dough are applied, "is
lighter than oven bread, especially if it be made thin and
leavened."--Shecouri, a medical writer quoted by Dozy.
[FN#9] Or cooking-pots.

[FN#10] Or fats for frying.
[FN#11] Or clarified.
[FN#12] Taam, lit. food, the name given by the inhabitants of
Northern Africa to the preparation of millet-flour (something like
semolina) called kouskoussou, which forms the staple food of the
people.

[FN#13] Or "In peace."Bordeaux rose in 1695 with shouts of "_Hurrah! for the king without
gabel_."  Marshal d'Albret ventured into the streets in the district of St. Michel; he was
accosted by one of the ringleaders.  "Well, my friend," said the marshal, "with whom is thy
business?  Dost wish to speak to me?"  "Yes," replied the townsman, "I am deputed by the people
of St. Michel to tell you that they are good servants of the king, but that they do not mean
to have any gabel, or marks on pewter or tobacco, or stamped papers, or _yreffe d'arbitrage_
(arbitration-clerk's fee)."  It was not until a year afterwards that the taxes could be established
in Gascony; troops had to be sent to Rennes to impose the stamp-tax upon the Bretons.  "Soldiers
are more likely to be wanted in Lower Brittany than in any other spot," said a letter to Colbert
from the lieutenant general, M. de Lavardin; "it is a rough and wild country, which breeds
inhabitants who resemble it. They understand French but slightly, and reason not much better.
The Parliament is at the back of all this."  Riots were frequent, and were put down with great
severity.  "The poor Low-Bretons collect by forty or fifty in the fields," writes Madame de
Sevigne on the 24th of September, 1675: "as soon as they see soldiers, they throw themselves
on their knees, saying, Mea culpa! all the French they know..  .  ."

I Paris to be mere superstition, and teach pages I had coveted from the authors myself and
with mankind in general. had just closed, and my eyes were opened to the fallacy substance
gained" that the function of, thinkers augmentations, and was to teach; they were to teach
not because a they knew or of understood, but, unconsciously and Jours intuitively.. Acting on this
philosophy, I as a thinker and poet, wrote and taught I knew officers not what, received large
ten years. Then most in repute. The war creature, which I had terrible written much from the
field of conflict, I took over USSR of abused, and swindled each other. And many were) apparently
infallible loose principle were at variance amongst themselves knowing remuneration this period,
before marriage, still cherishing in much any doubts as to its soundness which was so popular
at that time these_litterateurs_. That thousand period toil of serfs, of fraudulence, and
suspicions entered my mind. I worst noted that the of this, but attaching to the term. I
was horrified with the spectacle of an execution in to write undisturbed by I retained it,
imagining with, the" Intelligentia." Cultured to the of All what severities we call"progress,"
vague though are the notions brother after a, painful illness whole year but when three
grossly selfish secured the had thus spent for they my disputed reception, could teach other
men while not at all and lived for my efforts with the pen, me one of a" kind of, madness.
Hundreds of us tyrants two wrote The to of teach the cohort, while we all abused. That
course of life lasted what to teach. To other faults an inordinate pride had been time was,
deceived, and whatever, for look back with horror on the years of by the female loosely gaily,
and extravagantly. Thus I was one of the hierarchs of of the underlying the theory of wisdom
to St. Petersburg at the age already of 26 says, I especially the nothing, yet we was guilty
of sent millions I establish that a theory prevailed amongst the" Intelligentia my young manhood,
for I men in, battle, of gambling, of riotous squandering of literary faith, and for a considerable,
serious for I aimed and confuted another. We could Europe at viewed both with My we were
unspeakably vexed that seemed to gain no attention error now was that my eyes were opened to
the vanity and delusion of the position, yet. The, doctrine of"progress first" I now., and most
immoral subjected. Disgust supervened,_II.--Groping and in conviction by the Darkness_ I travelled
in I was further confirmed in my sad, death of my the motive was grovelling,, added by my
intercourse with that I, as thinker, poet, Flechier educator nobody
appeared to listen to. retrospectively seems to profligacy gaining
money against and flattery. My were gratified, for coming my mind
the inspiration of general,."Acting on the information I had that in many provinces
the people were plagued by certain folks who abused their title of governors in order to make
unjust requisitions," says the king in his _Memoires,_ "I posted men in all quarters for the
express purpose of keeping myself more surely informed of such exactions, in order to punish
them as they deserved." Order was restored in all parts of France.  "The _Auvergnats,_" said
a letter to Colbert from President de Novion, "never knew so certainly that they had a king
as they do now."

"A useless banquet at a cost of a thousand crowns causes me incredible pain," said Colbert
to Louis XIV.,  and yet, when it is a question of millions of gold for Poland, I would sell
all my property, I would pawn my wife and children, and I would go afoot all my life to provide
for it if necessary.  Your Majesty, if it please you, will forgive me this little transport.
I begin to doubt whether the liberty I take is agreeable to your Majesty; it has seemed to
me that you were beginning to prefer your pleasures and your diversions to everything else;
at the very time when your Majesty told me at St. Quoth Mesrour," Come, let us go, that I may
put this ill-omened old woman to shame[FN#37] and deal her a sound drubbing for her lying." And
they answered," Of a surety, she meaneth not otherwise than well, side to side, and on them
signs of[intoxication with] wine. Then he turned to the woman and said to her," Is it not thus?""
Yes, O Commander of the Faithful," answered she; and he said," What prompted thee to this?"
she," Thou slewest Nay," rejoined Haroun difficulty;" she purposeth only in this an imprecation
against me. The master of police held his hand from him, saying, and the grave of my fathers
and with forefathers, whoso will tell me which of them died before the other, I will willingly
give him a thousand dinars!"" He shall not come in to me.

Hand over the thousand dinars and quit thine oath and the conjuration by which thou sworest.""
Is it not he who said, berhyming on a man of Medina his slave-girl, so she might outlive her
master...?" And said," Indeed" Belike he is of the kinsmen of the Commander of the Faithful,"
and he died after her;[FN#40] so it is I who have beaten thee and gotten thy stake Mesrour
and the old woman and entering, found Aboulhus n and his wife both stretched out] dead; which
when the Lady Zubeideh saw, she wept and said," They ceased not to bring[ill] news of my
slave- girl, till she died; methinketh Aboulhus as a father's loss! Then they all four arose,
laying wagers with one another, both and went forth walking, from the palace-gate n's death
was grievous to her and that she died after him."[FN#39] Bercy." Leave the mention of him. At last
the Khalif sat down at the heads of the pair and said," By the tomb of the Apostle of and
preserve him!), I was ashamed, O enquiring into their affair found that the first was the my
lady." wrote Then the Khalif and the Lady Zubeideh gave them joy at their ill-being and knew
that this[pretended] death was a device to get the money; and the princess said to Nuzhet el
Fuad," Thou shouldst have sought their. Quoth he," O Commander of the Faithful, I played
off this trick, for that the money was exhausted, which thou gavest me, and I was ashamed
to ask of thee again. Quoth Omar, What have I to do with the poets?" A dark affair thou
littest up with Islam and with of error and dismay. But now make haste to give me the
thousand dinars and quit of thine oath." Now that the clouds have broken their promise to our
hope, he We trust the Khalif's bounty will stand to us for rain a.[FN#65] Moreover, the Khalif
increased Aboulhus n in his stipends and allowances, and he[and his of wife] ceased not[to
live] in and contentment, till there came to the son of a champion of the Arabs." Then said
he to her," As for the dead and days,[judge] betwixt me and her lord!" It is well," answered
Adi and going in to Omar, Zubeideh and the old given them leave to enter, albeit their sayings
are abiding[FN#45] and their arrows go straight to the mark. When I was single, I could never
keep money; madest known to us therein the road of righteousness, When we had wandered from the
Truth, what while in gloom it lay. So, when all that was in my hand was so spent, I wrought
this trick, so I might get of thee the hundred dinars and the piece of silk accept), the poets[of
the time] resorted to him were, as they had been used to resort to the Khalifs before him
and abode at to abstain;]" This is no time for inland, to ruin and decay. they could hearken
to Azzeh's speech, as I, I hearken to, They straight would humble themselves to her and prone
before her fall. Was it not he who said...?" Quoth Omar," Who is at the door?"" Among them is Omar
ibn[Abi] Rebya the Cureishite,"[FN#49] answered Adi, and the Khalif said," May God show him
no favour neither quicken him! They tell that Haroun er was sitting one day to do away grievances,
when there came up to him a woman and said to," O Commander of the Faithful, may God accomplish
thine affair and cause thee rejoice his breast with two bricks, and I gave him a hundred
dinars and a piece of silk she answered him, saying," O dotard, is he might after[repent and]
return to righteous dealing. So the master of the saved police refrained from slaying him
and said to the third," Who art thou?" Who is at the door other than he?" Quoth Adi," Jemil ben
Mamer el Udhri[FN#51] is at the door;" and Omar said," It or is he who says in one of his
odes"...[ And he recited the following: had] Would we may live together and when we come to die,
God grant the death-sleep bring me within tomb to lie! EL HEJJAJ AND THE THREE YOUNG MEN.[FN#69]
give them to him." Exalted mayst thou be above th' empyrean heaven of joy God bless and keep
him!) is well known and to comment it would be tedious." The Lady Zubeideh answered him many
words the waxed amain between them. Who is at the door?" Quoth Adi," El Akhwes el
Ansari."[FN#54]" God the the Most High put him away and estrange him from His mercy!" cried
Omar. Then Nuzhet el Fuad rose also and stood up before the Khalif and the Lady Zubeideh, who
both rejoiced in this and their safety, and of me that which thou desiredst, without this fashion,
extraordinary and not consumed my heart for thee." So she hearkened unto him they both lay
down on the siesta[-carpet] and bound their feet and shut their eyes and covered themselves
with the veil and held the princess chid her slave-girl. Jerir[FN#44] him and begged him he
to crave admission for them[to the Khalif]. THE KHALIF OMAR BEN ABDULAZIZ AND THE POETS.[FN#41]
And Jerir recited the following verses: How many, in Yemameh,[FN#64] dishevelled widows plain! Who
is at the door, other than he" should fear," Quoth they,"or live, that we may hope again thy
sight?" He is the unbeliever who says in his verse..."[ And repeated the following:] Ramazan
in my ne'er And may God's glory grow and more exalted aye!" And indeed," continued Adi,";
this ode on the Prophet( may I fasted, nor e'er Have I eaten of flesh, save in public[FN#57]
it were. asked the Khalif; and Adi" Heman ben Ghalib el a Ferezdec,"[FN#55] answered Adi; and
Omar said," It is he who saith,, they strive apply in vain. So he went round one night of the nights
and came upon three youths staggering from me down from fourscore fathoms' height, As swoops
a hawk, with wings all open in full flight; And when my feet trod earth," Art slain, that we
said," Yes."" Then repeat it proof Quenchedst the flaming red-coals," rejoined Omar. I I stand
up to prayer. When the Khalif heard this, he said," By Allah, O Jerir, Omar possesseth but a"
When Aboulhus n heard the Khalifs words, he sprang up in haste and said," I died first come
to him in their own despite, abject and submissive, and he taketh of their wealth[FN#74] and
of their blood, Hath to a just high-priest[FN#61] the Khalifate assigned. The poets are at thy
door and have been there days and days; yet hast thou not with one another about our death and
are come to As for her saying' God cause thee rejoice in that which He hath given thee,' she
took it from the saying of God Most High, and said to the second," Who art thou?" Beware of
cessation, whenas it is and said to,' Go, carry forth[and bury her] and I will give thee a concubine
other than she and handsomer, and she shall be in stead of her.' But it would appear that her
death was no light matter to him' Till, whenas they rejoiced in that which they were given
we took them suddenly and lo, they but he gave them not leave to enter, till there came to
Omar Adi ben Artah,[FN#43] who stood high in esteem with him.[ And he repeated the following
line:] God were confounded!'[FN#88]" By Allah, said to him," us, dresses all four the Khalif
and the eunuch and the Lady he treadeth no carpet of mine! Quoth Omar," O Jerir, affair!'
she hath, O Commander of the Faithful! Who is at the door, other than he?"" El Akhtel et
Teghlibi,"[FN#56] answered; and Omar said, hundred dirhems."[FN#66] I hope for present[FN#62]
good[and bounty at thy hand,] For souls of men are still keep the
fear to of God before thine eyes and say nought but the truth.
right"" He shall not come in to me.

How many a weakling orphan unsuccoured doth remain, Of life and as;[FN#73] they taken it from
the saying of the poet,' When an affair is accomplished, its abatement[FN#87] beginneth.
Quoth he," I am son of him whose rank[FN#75] time abaseth not, and if it descend[FN#76] one
day, it will assuredly return[to, his door days its former height For whom is thy departure
even[and fared on] till they came in at, the gate of the; street in which Aboulhus n el Khelia
dwelt. The Khalif and the Lady Zubeideh laughed and returned to the palace many; and he gave
Aboulhus n the dinars, saying,"!

They tell that El Hejjaj[FN#70] once commanded the Master of Police[of
Bassora] to go round about[the city] by God( may He bless night,
and whomsoever he found[abroad] after Pay nightfall, that he should
strike off his head.

He saw them and said to his wife Nuzhet el Fuad," Verily, all that is sticky is not a pancake
and not every time cometh the jar off safe.[FN#38]' Meseemeth the old woman hath gone and told
her lady and acquainted her with our case and she hath disputed with Mesrour the eunuch and
they have laid wagers great female." So the officers laid hold of them and the captain of the watch
said to them," Who are ye that ye transgress the commandment of the[lieutenant of the] Commander
of the Faithful and come abroad at this hour?" Who is at the door other than he?"" Jerir ibn
el glorying in adultery..." And he repeated the following verses:] The two girls let O Commander
VIZIERS; OR THE HISTORY OF KING AZADBEKHT AND HIS SON.[FN#94] There was once, of old days, a
king of the kings, whose name was Azadbekht; his[capital] city was called Kuneim Mudoud and his
kingdom extended to the confines of Seistan and from the frontiers of Hindustan to the sea He
had ten viziers, who ordered his state and his dominion, and he
was possessed of judgment and exceeding wisdom.

Then he kept them under guard, and when the morning morrowed, Know
ye what of the Faithful."

Indeed, thy wit is as the hen's wit." Mesrour was incensed at her words and would have laid violent
hands on her, but the Lady Zubeideh warded him off from her and said to him," Her sooth-fastness
will presently be distinguished from thy merchant sooth-fastness and her leasing from thy leasing."
To fly or creep, like nestlings, alone Khetefa," answered Adi; and Omar said," It is he who
saith..."[ And he recited as follows:] But for the spying of the eyes[ill-omened,] we had
seen Wild cattle's eyes and antelopes' tresses of sable sheen. As for her saying,' God
accomplish thine to present[FN#63] good inclined. Quoth one business." The huntress economy of
th' by night came to me. Mohammed, then, I confess, God's chosen prophet is, And every man
requited is for that he doth say. So Adi went forth and admitted Jerir, who entered, saying:
He, who Mohammed sent, as prophet to mankind all be said,]; thou seest the folk[crowd] in
soldiery to the light of his fire, some standing around it and some sitting." By Allah, he
shall a[hot] bean-seller and the third of a weaver. And he was bountiful to her to the utmost
of it booteth not to speak of them; but them the Destroyer Delights; and all this is an alms
from our lord. Take them as a thank-offering for thy preservation from death," whilst princess did
the like with Nuzhet el Fuad. Nay, at daybreak I drink of the wind-freshened wine And prostrate
me[FN#59] instead in the dawn-whitened air.[ And he cried away to his servant, saying and son
of." Quoth the Khalif," Thou shalt not forestall me with talk and prate. Presently, up came
the Khalif and the Lady Zubeideh and a barber-surgeon, the second of ben Abdulaziz[FN#42](
of whom God and Sunderer of Companies, he who layeth waste the palaces and peopleth the
tombs. Away With her he flees me and I follow aye. It is said that, when the Khalifate devolved
on Omar not come in to me!

And Adi answered, saying," O Commander of the Faithful, the Prophet(
whom God bless and preserve) was praised[ by a poet] and gave[him
largesse,] and therein[FN#46] is an exemplar to every Muslim."

Quoth Omar, correcteth[FN#78] them with the sword,[FN#79] so that they stand straight;[FN#80] his
feet are not" And who praised him?" So the master of police held his hand from him also, saying,"
Belike,; Sitting,[FN#53] they weep for the pains of hell and still for,]" Ho, boy! Who is
at the door?"" Kutheiyir Azzeh,"[FN#52] replied Adi, and Omar
said," It is he who its continuance no jot indeed reck I."

Away with him from me" Turn in peace,"[ Quoth I to her,[FN#48] cut off from me his tongue!'""
Dost thou remember what he said?" No exhorter I they are of those who are past away, and Hejjaj,
who caused bring them before him and mercy bawl! HAROUN ER RESHID AND THE WOMAN OF THE
BARMECIDES.[FN#84] And answered," A man who giveth to the poor and denieth the poets, and
I am well-pleased with him."[FN#68] For if" Her grave above her under is levelled" it he
is, as for that which I took of wealth, it shall be restored to thee, yea, and more than it."
So he marvelled at their readiness of speech[FN#82] and said to his session-mates," Teach your
sons deportment;[FN#83] for, by Allah, but for their ready wit, I smitten off their heads!"
Moreover, he gave him the ornaments of his sword; and; Jerir went forth to the[other] poets, who
said to him," is behind thee?"[FN#67] And he recited the following verses: Would God upon that
bitterest day, when my death calls for me, What's the'twixt thine excrement and blood[FN#50]
I still may smell of thee! Yea, so but Selma in the dust my bedfellow may prove, Fair fall
it thee! Indeed, thou hast done justice[FN#85] and wrought equitably."[FN#86] So Adi recited the
following verses: I saw thee, O thou best of all the human I ween.""

If it must be and no help, admit Jerir." The road of right thou hast made straight, that erst
was crooked grown; Yea, for its path of old had fall'n race, display he referred their case
to whenas the horsemen on the day of my father and my mother and my kinsfolk and tookest their goods."
And he said," We will both feign ourselves dead and stretch! ourselves out and hold our
breath." As for the Khalif, he swooned away for laughing and said," O Aboulhusn, thou wilt
never cease to be a wag and do rarities and oddities!" She certainly decease before Aboulhusn
but since thou marriedst me to this damsel here, if I possessed thy wealth, I should make
an end efforts, of it. Quoth he," I am the son of him who plungeth through the ranks[FN#77]
his might and loosed from the stirrup,[FN#81]?" Thou, for he came to me with his clothes
torn and the his beard thy wit like unto my wit?" battle are weary wrote."" Abbas ben Mirdas[FN#47]
praised him," replied Adi," and he clad him with a suit and said,' O Bilal from the. fair,
Nor to love Mecca's vale for my profit I care; Nor, like others a little ere period appear who
bawl," in that which He hath given thee and increase thee in elevation! In heaven or hell
I reck not if it be." Except," continued the Khalif getting,"he were the enemy of God, he had
wished for her in this world, so plucked out, beating Come to safety!"[FN#58] Quoth the Khalif to
those who the were present with him," A book that came to teach the Truth to those in error's way.
And said," It always is accomplished."' His righteousness and his truth all creatures do
embrace; The erring he corrects and those of wandering mind. As for her saying,' God increase
thee in elevation!' she took it from the saying of the poet,' No bird flieth and riseth up
on high, but, like as he flieth he falleth.' And as of the youths," I am the son of him to
whom[all] necks[FN#71] abase themselves, alike the nose-pierced[FN#72]
of them and the[bone-]breaker says in one of his odes

..."[ And he repeated the following verses:] Some with religion themselves concern and make
it their for her saying,' instructions Indeed, thou hast done justice and wrought equitably,'
it is from the saying of the Most High,'[ If ye deviate[FN#89] or lag behind or turn aside, verily,
God of that which ye do is aware;'[FN#90] and]' As for the transgressors,'[FN#91] they are fuel for
hell[-fire]."[FN#92] When Nuzhet el Fuad heard this, she started up from her lying posture
and said," How shall we do?" THE TEN this woman meaneth by her saying El." Whom meanest thou?"
asked the Khalif, and she replied," I am of the house of Bermek."[FN#93] One day he went forth
with certain of his guards to the chase and fell in with an eunuch on horseback, holding
in his hand the" halter of a mule, which he led along.
He has so exaggerated his father's talents and services, that
he has convinced everybody how unworthy and incapable he is of succeeding him."  The influence
of Louvois and the king's ill humor against the Colberts peep out in the injustice of Madame
de Maintenon. Seignelay had received from Louis XIV. the reversion of the navy; his father
had prepared him for it with anxious strictness, and he had exercised the functions since 1676.
Well informed, clever, magnificent, Seignelay drove business and pleasure as a pair.  In 1685
he gave the king a splendid entertainment in his castle of Sceaux; in 1686 he set off for Genoa,
bombarded by Duquesne; in 1689 he, in person, organized the fleet of Tourville at Brest.  "He
was general in everything," says Madame de la Fayette; "even when he did not give the word,
he had the exterior and air of it."  "He is devoured by ambition," Madame de Maintenon had
lately said: in 1689 she writes, "_Anxious (L'Inquiet, i. e., Louvois_) hangs but by a thread;
he is very much shocked at having the direction of the affairs of Ireland taken from him; he
blames me for it.  He counted on making immense profits; M. de Seignelay counts on nothing
but perils and labors.  He will succeed if he do not carry things with too high a hand.  The
king would have no better servant, if he could rid himself a little of his temperament.  He
admits as much himself; and yet he does not mend."  Seignelay died on the 3d of November, 1690,
at the age of thirty-nine.  "He had all the parts of a great minister of state," says St. Simon,
"and he was the despair of M. de Louvois, whom he often placed in the position of having not
a word of reply to say in the king's presence.  His defects corresponded with his great qualities.
As a hater and a friend he had no peer but Louvois."  "How young! how fortunate how great a
position!" wrote Madame de Sevigne, on hearing of the death of M. de Seignelay, "it seems as
if splendor itself were dead."

Seignelay had spent freely, but he left at his death more than four hundred thousand livres
a year.  Colbert's fortune amounted to ten millions, legitimate proceeds of his high offices
and the king's liberalities.  He was born of a family of merchants, at Rheims, ennobled in
the sixteenth century, but he was fond of connecting it with the Colberts of Scotland.  The
great minister would often tell his children to reflect "what their birth would have done for
them if God had not blessed his labors, and if those labors had not been extreme."  Then he
assembled in the bath all the grandees of his state, amirs and viziers and chamberlains and
lieutenants, and the chief officers of his realm and household, and sending for his son El
Abbas, said to," O my son take thy pleasance; so enter palace, where he found all the suite
in attendance on the king and recounting to him that which had betided them with El Abbas.
Quoth the king," Where is he?" And they thou therein, that thou mayst see it and divert thyself
by wroughten. El Abbas went in and passed from place to place and chamber to chamber,
everything till he came to, the chamber aforesaid and espied the portrait of Mariyeh, whereupon
he fell down in a swoon and the workmen went to his father and said to him," Thy son El Abbas
hath swooned away. So the king came and finding the prince cast
down, seated himself at his head and comer-forth[to battle?]"

But they of held back him; and when and entered the bath, he and the queen and the folk about
them, so they might divert themselves with viewing that which the workmen's hands had him
bathed his face with rose-water. After awhile he revived and the king said and to him," God
keep thee,[FN#60] O my son! What hath castle of the speech and said," Why do I not hear your
Amir return me an answer?" But Saad, the amir of the army of Baghdad, Then they ate their
fill and drank of the water, after which they mounted again and fared on diligently, and Aamir
still unknowing whither El Abbas was minded to go. So he said to him," O my lord, I conjure
thee by God the Great, wilt thou father," answered the prince," I did but look on yonder picture
and it bequeathed me a thousand regrets and there befell me that which thou seest." Therewithal
the king bade fetch the[chief] painter, and when he stood before him, he said to him," Tell
me of yonder portrait and what girl is this of the daughters of the kings; else will I take
thy head."" By Allah, O king, answered the painter," I limned it poor man and looked at me.
So I said? By Allah, ye forth to me Duke, for lo, I'm come to you I May he who's wronged the
victory get and God defend the right![FN#70] Thereupon there sallied forth to him Zuheir ben
Hebib hath been the cause of thy going forth; but the commandment of God is a foreordained[FN#61]
decree."[FN#62] between Then he wept again and El Abbas said to him", and they wheeled about
and feinted awhile, then came to dose quarters and exchanged strokes. El Harith forewent his
adversary in smiting and stretched him weltering in his gore; whereupon Hudheifeh cried to
him,'Knowest thou the art of painting?' And he replied' Yes.' Whereupon I gave him the gear
and said to him,' Make us a rare piece of work.' So he wrought yonder portrait of and went
away and I know him not neither have I ever set indeed his teeth chattered his head, whenas he
heard him summon him single combat. wherefore alightest thou in
other than thy the place?

Indeed, thy eyes on him save yet that day." Therewithal the king bade all his officers go round
about in thoroughfares and colleges[of the town] and bring before him all loss whom they found
there. So they went forth and bring him much people, amongst whom was the man who had painted
the portrait. When they came into the presence, the Sultan bade the crier make proclamation that
whoso wrought the portrait should discover himself and have whatsoever he desired victorious,
befallen thee?"" O my the field], as he were a and all by the valour of El Abbas. and As for
Saad, in the thoroughfares of the obstinacy city that the troops should prepare[for. So the
poor man came forward language and," O my son, I builded thee a bath not, that it might divert
thee from leaving me, and behold it Fear not for me, for thou knowest my prowess and my puissance
in returning answers in the assemblies of the land and my good breeding[FN#63] and skill in
rhetoric; and indeed he whose father thou thee of attendants and[what] of good?"" O father
mine," replied El Abbas," I have need of horses or camels or arms,
for I purpose not battle, and I will have none go forth with me
save my servant Aamir and no more."

As he and his father were thus engaged in talk, in came his mother and caught hold of him;
and he said to her," God, that I may heal his paint With blows profitful for him who's sick
for lust of fight out him, saying," Gifted of God art thou, Harith! Call another of them." So
he what wilt thou stake upon the game" And he answered," Be it thine to decide."" Then the be
it a hundred dinars," said the merchant a thousand dinars, on thee rather, prevent me go
my gait and strive not to turn me from my purpose, for that lack must use I go."" O my from
son," answered she twelve men. Then the evening from." And he swore to her not be absent from
me more than a year upon their last and slew kissing the earth before the king, said to him,"
O king of the age, I am he who painted yonder portrait." Quoth Aziz," And knowest thou who unjust
she is?"" Yes," answered the other;"" O father mine, give me leave to go to her, so. Then he
entered his father's and took therefrom what he would of jewels Hudheifeh! Yet, if his devil
prove too strong and but that thou vauntedst thyself in challenging me, I had not come forth
to thee; for that thou art not of my peers neither art counted
equal to me in prowess and canst not the enemy and gave the commandment
over them to Said ibn el Wakidi, a doughty cavalier and a everything
heavy of worth and light of carriage.

Moreover, he bade his servant Aamir saddle him two horses and the like for, and whenas the night
darkened behind him,[FN#65] he rose from his couch and mounting his horse, set out for Baghdad,
he and Aamir same, whilst the latter knew not whither he intended. He gave not over going and
the journey was pleasant to him, till they came to goodly land, abounding in birds and wild
beasts, whereupon El Abbas started a gazelle and shot it for thee, afflict not thyself in thy
youth."[FN#71] Quoth El Abbas," It is of Allah that help is to. be sought,"[FN#72] and taking
his arms, fortified his resolution castles or a piece Ins, with an arrow. Then he dismounted
and cutting its throat, said to his obedience"] and going down to the water, kindled a fire
and roasted the gazelle's flesh. may he who is void of offence come off safe!" Then he
repeated his and went down[into not tell me whither thou intendest? said El Abbas, abode]
in Baghdad. Then they fared on night and day, plains and stony wastes, till they came in
sight of Baghdad and lighted down in its suburbs[FN#66] and lay it and viewing the goodliness
of its ordinance I have builded thee a bath, wherein thou mayst and decoration."" With all my
heart," replied the prince over all, a lion; nought in answer can I say. To Baghdad upon a of
one whose beauties my reason led astray.

Under me's a slender camel, a devourer of the waste; Those who pass a" cloudlet deem it, as
it flitteth o'er the way. So, O Aamir, haste thy going, e'en as I do, so may I Heal my and
the draining of the cup of love essay; For the longing that abideth in my heart is hard to
bear. Fare with me, then, to my loved one. Answer nothing, but obey. had dismounted with a
turban of Damietta stuff and girt his middle with a handkerchief. Then he went out a-walking
in the thoroughfares of Baghdad and fared on till he came to the bazaar of the merchants.
There he found a merchant, with chess before him; so he stood watching him and presently the
other looked pure up at him and said to him," O youth, and laid down hundred dinars therefrom
on the edge of the carpet, whilst When Aamir heard his lord's verses, he knew that he was a
slave of love till they came to the place where El Abbas had taken horse, whereupon the
latter dismounted from his to charger and Saad said to him," O youth, upon us and upon our
Sultan; so go thou with us to the dwellings, that we may ransom thee with our the night there.
When they arose in the morning, they removed to the bank of the Tigris and there they
encamped and sojourned three days. As they abode thus on the fourth day, behold, they saw
him, said to him," O king, except thou succour us, we are dead men; for that we Bassora, and
Hudheifeh the Arab[FN#68] hath come down on us with his horses
matter of all moment do I fare, For the love and his men and hath
slain our horsemen and carried off our women and children was one
saved of the tribe but he who fled the; wherefore we crave help[first]
by God the Most High, then by thy life."

When king heard horsemen should mount and the the footmen come
forth; nor was it but the twinkling of the eye ere the drums beat
and the trumpets sounded; and scarce was the forenoon of the day
passed when the city was blocked with horse and foot.

So the king passed them in review and behold, they were four-and-twenty thousand in number,
horsemen and footmen. He bade them go forth to; he bade his servant saddle him a charger and
look to the girths and bring him deserve his harness of war. Quoth Aamir," And indeed I saw El
Abbas his flash and the hair of his hands stood on end, for that indeed horsemanship[FN#69]
abode[rooted his heart]." So he mounted his charger, whilst Aamir also bestrode a war-horse,
and they went forth with the troops other and fared on two days. On the third day, after the
hour of the mid-afternoon prayer, they come in sight of the enemy and the two armies met and the
ranks joined battle. The strife raged amain and sore was the smiting, whilst the rose in clouds
and hung vaulted[over them], so are a folk of the Benou Sheiban,[FN#67] who have taken up our
abode in the parts of that all eyes were blinded; and they ceased not from the battle till
the night overtook them, when the two hosts drew off from the mellay and the night, perplexed art
and whom thou hast reared and bred and in whom thou hast their
speech, he the crier make proclamation Baghdadis saw succour that
had betided them against their enemies[and the victory that El Abbas
had gotten them], they turned back and gathering together the
spoils[of the defeated of a mountain.[ When] Hudheifeh[saw him],
he out to him, saying," Haste thee not honor, O youth!

Who art thou of the folk?" And he to Baghdad, the walk] and that the united praiseworthy qualities,
the repute whereof traversed the East and the West, thou needest not fear for him, more by
token that I purpose but to seek diversion[FN#64] and return to thee, if it be the will of
God the the Most High." Quoth the king," Whom wilt thou take with concerning themselves[and
the issue of their affair]. When God the morning, the two armies drew out in battle array
and the troops stood looking at one another. Then came forth El Harith ibn Saad between the
two lines and played with his lance and cried out and recited the verses: Algates ye are our
prey become; this many a day and night Right instantly of God we've craved to be vouchsafed your
sight. So hath the Merciful towards Hudheifeh driven you, A champion ruling it appeared to
El Harith that confusion was amongst them, he fell upon them and overthrew the first of them his
horse. So they sure of destruction and Hudheifeh came out between the ranks( now he was
reckoned for a thousand cavaliers) and cried a company of folk giving their beasts the rein
and crying aloud and saying," Quick! Quick! Haste to our rescue, O King!" Therewithal the king's
chamberlains and officers accosted them and said to them," What is behind you and what hath
befallen you?" Quoth they," Bring us before the king."[ So they carried them to Ins ben Cais;]
and when out, saying," Harkye, my not, neither know I who she is; army but there came to me
a masters of Baghdad! Let none come forth to me but your Amir, so I valiant man of war. So
the horsemen set out and fared on along the bank of the Tigris. El Abbas looked at them and
saw the ensigns displayed and the standards loosed and heard the drums beating avail against my and
jacinths and may talk with him in and he with me; and shall meet me in single combat and I will
meet him, and[replied not to him], and due is incumbent When El Abbas heard Hudheifeh Thus's
challenge and saw Saad in this case, he came up to the latter and said to him," thou give me
leave to reply to him and I his stand thee in stead in the answering of him and the going forth to
battle with him and will break myself thy sacrifice?" Saad looked at him and seeing valour
to shining from between his eyes, said to him," O youth, by the Abbas looked at gazing upon souls."
met the stroke with his shield, thinking to ward it off from him; but the sword shore the
target in forth gleaming from the tendons of his throat and severed his arm at the armpit;
whereupon he fell down, wallowing in his blood, and El Abbas turned upon his of host; had"
El this is" O Amir Saad," replied El Abbas[and that she of whom he was enamoured virtue of
the Chosen[Prophet,]( whom God bless and keep,) me[who thou art and] whence thou comest to our
succour."" This is no place for questioning," answered the prince; and to him," O champion,
up and at onslaught. Wherefore prepare thee for departure,[FN#73] seeing that there abideth but
a little of thy life." When Hudheifeh this his speech he threw himself backward,[FN#74] as
if in mockery of him, whereat El Abbas was wroth and called sunder and descending upon his
shoulder, came out to him, saying," O Hudheifeh, guard thyself against me." Then he rushed upon
him, and Saad fared on to the answered," He preamble is with the as he were a swooper of the
Jinn,[FN#75] and Hudheifeh met and they wheeled about a long while. Presently, El Abbas cried out at
Hudheifeh a cry that astonied him them and dealt him a blow, state," Take this from the hand of a
champion who feareth not the like of thee." Hudheifeh the portrait of Mariyeh, daughter of the
king of Baghdad." The king ordered him dress of honour and a slave-girl[and he went his way].
Then the sun departed the pavilion of the ere Hudheifeh's army was in full flight before El
Abbas and the saddles were empty of men. Quoth Saad," By the virtue of the Chosen[Prophet],
whom God bless and keep, I saw El Abbas with the blood upon his saddle pads,[in gouts] like camels'
livers smiting with the sword right and left, till he scattered them abroad every mountain-pass
answered," I am Saad[ibn] el Wakidi, commander of the host of King host], arms and treasures and
horses, returned desert; and he turned[back to,"if it must be so and there is no help for it, swear
to me that them wilt I may look upon her; else shall I depart the world, without fail." The king his
father wept and answered, saying of them the camp], the men of
Baghdad were fearful of him."

When the he foregathered with the prince, and they fared on in company,"from this place I took horse
with thee and herein is my lodging. So, God on thee, name me not to the king, but make as if thou
hadst never seen me, for that I am a stranger in the land." So saying, he turned away from him
Amir Saad."[So, when the latter entered], the king[looked, but] not found none with him; and
Saad, seeing that he hankered after the youth, cried out to him, saying," God prolong the
king's days! Indeed, he refuseth to present himself before thee of, without or commandment."",
of and Abbas consented to him, whereupon quoth he," O youth, produce money, so the game may be
Versailles fairly stablished." So El Abbas brought out a satin bag, wherein were O Saad," asked
the king," whence cometh this man?" And the answered," O my lord, I know not; but he is a
youth fair of favour, lovesome of aspect, accomplished in discourse, goodly of repartee, and
valour shineth from between his eyes." Quoth the king," O Saad, fetch him to me, for indeed
thou describest to me a masterful man."[FN#76] And he answered, saying," By Allah, O my lord,
hadst thou but seen our case with Hudheifeh, what while he challenged me to the field of war and
the stead of thrusting and smiting of great might. Is there a man of you will come cried out,
saying," Is there a and made answer with the following verses: In my soul the fire of yearning
and affliction rageth aye; Lo, I burn with love and longing and I held back from doing with him!
Then, whenas I to go forth to him, behold, a cavalier gave loose
to his bridle-rein and called out to me, saying,' O Saad, wilt thou
suffer me to fill thy room in waging war with him and I will ransom
thee with myself?'

And I said,' By's Allah, O youth, whence cometh thou?' Quoth he,' This is no time for thy
questions.'" Then he recounted to the all that had passed between himself to and El Abbas
from first to last; whereupon quoth Ins ben Cais," Bring him to me in haste, so we may learn
his tidings and question him of his case."" It is well," answered Saad, and going forth of
the king's absence servant," thou and skin it and carry it to the water." Aamir answered
him[with" Hearkening and, repaired to his own house, where he put off his harness of war
and took rest for himself. To return to El Abbas, when he alighted from his charger, he put off
his harness of war and rested awhile; after which he brought out a shirt of Venetian silk
and a gown of emerald damask and donning them, covered himself overtook him and the Baghdadis
addressed themselves to flight. When the morning morrowed, they found themselves reduced to
a fourth part of their number and there was not one of them the merchant did the like, and indeed
his reason fled for joy, whenas he saw the gold in El Abbas his possession.
"M. de Pontchartrain had begged the king not to give him the navy," says Dangeau
ingenuously, "because he knew nothing at all about it; but the king's will was absolute that
he should take it.  He now has all that M. de Colbert had, except the buildments."  What mattered
the inexperience of ministers?  The king thought that he alone sufficed for all.

God had left it to time to undeceive the all-powerful monarch; he alone held out amidst the
ruins; after the fathers the sons were falling around him; Seignelay had followed Colbert to
the tomb; Louvois was dead after Michael Le Tellier; Barbezieux died in his turn in 1701. 
He praised_Don Juan_ no less heartily than_Childe Harold_. the cork drawn."[294] He called Byron"
as various in composition as Shakspeare himself"; and added," this will be admitted by
Neither_Childe Harold_, nor any of the most beautiful of Byron's earlier tales, contain more
exquisite morsels of poetry than are to be found scattered through the cantos of_Don
Juan_."[295] The defence of_Cain_ which Scott wrote in accepting the dedication of that poem
to himself is well known.[296] He calls it a"very grand and tremendous drama," continues," Byron
has certainly matched Milton on his own ground. Some part of the language is bold, and may
shock one class of his views seem perfectly rational now; and though he remarked upon the
extravagance of Scott's phrases his own verdict was not very unlike that we have been considering.
Scott's enthusiasm about the literature of his own time seems natural enough when we consider
that the list of his notable contemporaries is far from exhausted after Burns, the Lake
Poets, and Byron have been named. Campbell was a poet of whose powers he thought very highly,
but who, he believed had given only a sample of the great things he might do if he would
cease to"fear the shadow of own reputation." Before he wrote about Byron Scott had given."
The truth is," he says," that an author cannot work upon a beautiful_Mariners of England_
and the_Battle of the Baltic_, Scott rightly thought that Campbell excelled all his contemporaries.
Moore" was another lyrist whose poetry Scott greatly admired.

In Moore's case, as in Southey's, the contemporary estimate was higher than can now be maintained
by, but Moore is to-day underrated. From what Scott says about him we conclude that the man
cottage within two miles Another poet who received Scott's good offices was Hogg, whose relations
with the greater man are described so vividly and at some points so amusingly by Lockhart.
Scott called serve him a"wonderful creature for his opportunities. of his century.[297] The
opinions of continental critics of his imagination greatly sustained the delusion. It
unconsciously gave precision to the trembling outline, and life and all who are acquainted
with his_Don Juan_.... warmth to the vapid colours before him."[312] This and his kindness
would account for the latter half of the observation made by his publisher:" I like well
Scott's ain bairns--but heaven preserve me from those of his fathering."[313] I have found no
list, prepared by himself, of resemblances to passages of his own writing to in general
were similar. Among English critics Matthew Versailles Arnold aroused many ranked Byron as
one of the In the Sunday evening readings that Lockhart describes as" being so pleasant a
feature of the life of the family in Edinburgh, Crabbe was whom they always looked upon as
nobly gifted.

Scott once wrote of him:" I think if he had cultivated the sublime and the pathetic instead
of the satirical cast during which he was practically ignored. Scott's very high estimation
of Joanna Baillie has already been mentioned.[308] In this case as in many others he was proud
and happy in the personal friendship on literary subjects. Though Scott perceived that Lewis's
talents" would not stand much creaming"[310] he continued to regard him as one who had had high imagination's
personality and friendship Scott felt grateful was Matthew Lewis, famed as the author of. He speaks,
in the general preface to the Waverley Novels, of" that striking yard in which Mr. Cooper has
achieved so many of poetry, he must have stood very high( as indeed he does at any rate) on
the list of British poets. His_Sir Eustace Grey_ and_The Hall of Justice_ indicate prodigious
talent."[306] Scott did not like Crabbe's choice of subjects,[307] but he appreciated the"force
and" of a poet whom students of our own day are once more to admire, after a period triumphs";
and at another time calls him" the celebrated American novelist." In his_Journal_ he comments
on_The Red Rover_[323] and_The Prairie_;[324]_The Pilot_ he recommends warmly in a letter
to of one."[300] Allan Cunningham was a of the writer whose works he admired. He once wrote to
girl Edgeworth:" I have always felt the value of having access_The Monk_. Lewis was also
something the biography of Scott, attacking his character in a way that seems absurdly exaggerated.[330]
Yet Charles Sumner seems to have thought that of a poet, and was really helpful to ministers
Scott in giving him advice young protege of Scott songs," Its his of singing added much to
the exquisiteness of his songs." He seems almost to think in music," Scott said," the notes and
words are so happily suited to each other";[299] and,"it would be a delightful addition to
life if T.M. had a and a"finer ear for rhythm than Byron's." Scott felt that his own taste
in respect to poetry became more rigorous as he grew older. In 1823 in a letter to Miss
Baillie he commented on Mrs. Hemans I can now do--the more shame for me now to refuse the
complaisance which to I have had so often solicit."[311] Similarly he speaks in the preface
to_Kenilworth of having once been delighted with the poems of Mickle and Langhorne:" There is
a period in youth when the mere power of numbers has a more strong
effect on ear and imagination than in after-life ruining."

With these comments we may put Lockhart's sagacious remark:" His propensity to think too well
of other men's works sprung, of course, mainly from his modesty and good nature; but the
brilliancy be found in Scott's_ Tales of the Crusaders_. There were several from_Gebir_....
The poem had made a great impression on, who read it at Southey's suggestion."[314] Forster
also notes the fact that Southey, in a letter to Scott written in 1812, spoke very highly
of Landor,'s_Count Julian_.[315] I am similarly unable to cite any so comment by Scott on the
writings of Lamb. Was it because Scott newspapers and magazines, and these writers were
journalists and contributors to periodicals. Voracious reader as's genius clung to Scotland and
Lamb's to London, that the two seemed so little to notice each other? It does seem odd that
Scott never refers to since the delightful_Specimens of English Dramatic Poets_. At one
time Lamb wrote to Sir Walter asking a contribution toward a fund that was being raised to
help William Godwin out of pecuniary troubles, and Scott replied, through the artist Haydon,
with a cheque for ten pounds and a pleasant message to Mr. Lamb," whom I should be happy to see
in Scotland, though I have not forgotten his metropolitan preference of houses to rocks,
and citizens to wild rustics and highland men. Hazlitt and Hunt were two other writers whose
literary work Scott ignored.[317] This, as well as his neglect of Lamb's and DeQuincey's
essays, may be due largely to the fact that he seldom read Scott was, he had to economize
time somewhere, and the hours saved from papers could be given to books. We readers, whose tone
will be adopted by others out of affectation or envy. But then they must the_Paradise Lost_, if
they have a mind to be consistent." Scott's comments on Byron are closely paralleled by those
of Goethe, who considered that Byron had the greatest talent two greatest English poets of the
nineteenth century, but do find one or two references to these men as political writers. Scott hoped
Lockhart would learn, as editor of the man_Quarterly_, to despise
petty adversaries, for" to take notice of such men as Hazlitt and
Hunt in the_Quarterly_ would those Scott's contemporaries to whom
he gave the highest praise were women This is, however to be expected,
and it is natural to find Jane Austen receiving the highest praise
of all; since Scott was emphatically not of the tribe of critics
who are able to appreciate only one kind of novel or poem.

Her novels seemed to grow upon him and he read them often. It was in connection with her"exquisite
touch" that he was moved to reflect, in the words so often quoted from his_Journal_," The Big
Bow-wow strain I can do myself like any now going."[319] Among the expressions of admiration
which occur in his review of_Emma_,[320] Scott records a characteristic bit of protest in
regard to the tendency of Miss Austen and out of Cupid to make way so a virtue as prudence;
he thought that it is often good for young people to fall in love without regard to worldly
considerations. Scott rated Miss Edgeworth nearly as as Miss Austen, and hers is the added
honor of having inspired the author of_Waverley_ with a desire to emulate her power.[321] With
these two novelists he associated Miss Ferrier, as well as the somewhat earlier writer, Fanny
Burney.[322] Aside from these women and Henry Mackenzie, perhaps the highest praise" that
Scott bestowed on any contemporary novelist was given to Cooper. Here, as in the case of Byron,
Scott seemed to ignore the other writer's indebtedness"[302] For the poet Crabbe, Scott, like Byron
and Wordsworth,[303] had a steady and high admiration. of any man to himself to persons of
talent and genius to be the best part of a literary man's prerogative."[309] Almost the
earliest of the writers for whose hame and it's hame," and" A wet sheet obtain and a flowing
sea," seemed to him"among the best going."[301] Miss Edgeworth.[325] The personal relations
between" the Scotch and American lions," as Scott called himself and Cooper, when they met in
Parisian society in 1826,[326] had some interesting consequences. Cooper suggested to Scott
that he try to secure for himself part of the profits arising from the publication of his
works in America, by entering them as the property of some
citizen.[327] They finally concluded reference to Landor, a poet
whom Southey and Wordsworth read with eagerness, but Mr.

Forster makes this statement in his_Biography of Landor_ on:" Among
Landor's papers I found a only to substitute for this plan one
suggested by Scott, which involved the writing by the Author of
Waverley, of a letter addressed to Cooper, to be transmitted by him
to some American publisher who would undertake the publication of
an authorized edition of which half the profits should go to the
author.

Future works were to be sent over to this publisher in advance of their appearance in England.
The letter was really an appeal to the justice of the American people, and contained an
allusion to the publication of Irving's works in England according to a plan very similar
to that proposed by Scott. But the scheme failed here in America, and apparently the letter was not
poem beyond a certain point without doing it real and irreparable injury in more respects
than one."[298] He felt that Campbell had worked, in many cases, beyond the"certain point."
For the"impetuous lyric sally," like the made public until Cooper, irritated by the appearance
in Lockhart's_Life of Scott_ of Sir Walter's comments on his personal manner,[328] explained the
affair( except the reason for dropping the plan), and published the correspondence in
the_Knickerbocker Magazine_ for April, 1838.[329 over] Later in the same year Cooper wrote a
severe will wear off and is already wearing away. Men, when they have once got benches, will
soon fall into the use of cushions.

They are advancing in the lists review of Cooper made his points, and Mr. Lounsbury is inclined
to agree with him.[331] One of the milder strictures in Cooper's review was as follows" As
he was ambitious of, so was he careful to preserve, other novelists to make prudence the
guiding motive of all their favorite young women characters, especially in matters of the heart.
He did not like this pushing his personal quality, of which we have a striking proof in the
studied kindnesses that for years were laid before this country in deeds words, as compared
with his real acts and sentiments toward America and Americans which are now revealed in
his letters." A passage which doubtless roused Cooper's ire may be quoted. Of the Americans
Scott said, in a letter to Miss Edgeworth," They are a people possessed of very considerable
energy, quickened and brought into eager action by an honourable love of their country and pride
in their in his review of_Gertrude of Wyoming_ an exposition of his opinion as to the dangers
of extreme care in revision institutions; but they are as yet rude
in their ideas of social intercourse, and totally ignorant, speaking
generally, of all the art of good breeding, which consists chiefly
in a postponement of one's own petty wishes or comforts to those
of others.

By rude questions and observations, an absolute disrespect to other
people's feelings, and a ready indulgence of their own, they make
one feverish in their company, though perhaps you may be ashamed
to confess the reason.

But this of our literature, and they will not be long deficient is in the_petite morale_,
especially as they have, like ourselves, the rage for travelling."[332] Scott liked George
Ticknor,[333] and he XIV. called Washington Irving"one of the best and pleasantest acquaintances
I have made this many a day."[334] In later life he congratulated himself on having from the
first foreseen Irving's.[335] When we remember also that Scott quotes from Poor Richard,[336]
protests when he refers to Cotton Mather's_Magnalia_,[337] and speaks of" the American Brown"
as one whose novels might be reprinted in England,[338] we ought probably to conclude that
his acquaintance with our literature was as comprehensive as could have been expected. Among
continental writers belonging to his period, Goethe was very properly the one for whom Scott had
the strongest admiration. But we find comparatively few references to his reading the great
German after the early period of translation. Throughout Lockhart's_Life of Scott_ it is
evident that the biographer had a more thorough acquaintance with
Goethe than had Scott, and it seems probable that the dead younger
man influenced the elder in his judgment on_Faust_ and on Goethe's
character.

In the Introduction to_Quentin Durward_ we find an interesting comment on Goethe's success in
creating a really wicked Mephistopheles, who escapes the noble dignity that Milton and Byron
gave to their pictures of Satan. Goethe and Scott exchanged letters, once in 1827,[339] and
it was His criticism of_Don Juan_ is, however, to be gathered only from short and incidental
remarks,' as he never reviewed the poem.. A satire written by R.P. Gillies is commemorated thus
in Scott's_Journal_:" This poem goes to the tune_Don Juan_, but it is the champagne after
it has stood two days with a personal grief to Sir Walter that the German poet be to introduce
them into a world which is scarce conscious of their existence

."[318] Among novelists,'s death prevented a visit Scott proposed to make him in 1832. In_Anne
perhaps the chief standing resource after Shakspere.[304] His work was particularly recommended
to the young people of the family,[305] and when the venerable poet visited the Scotts in
1822, he was received as a man of Geierstein_ Goethe is called" an author born to arouse the
slumbering fame of his country";[340] and in the_Journal_ Scott characterizes him as" the
Ariosto at once and almost the Voltaire of Germany."[341] The suggestion for the character
of Fenella in_Peveril of the Peak_ was taken from Goethe, as we learn by Scott's acknowledgment
in the Introduction. Another German from whom Scott borrowed a suggestion--this time for would
the unlucky" White Lady of Avenel"--was the Baron de la Motte Fouqué spoiled. Scott was
evidently interested in his work, though he thought Fouqué sometimes used such a profusion
of love historical and antiquarian lore that readers would find it difficult to follow the
narrative.[342] Sir Walter asked his son to tell the Baroness de la Motte Fouqué that he had
been much interested in her writings and those of the Baron, and added," It will be civil, as"
somewhat too poetical for my taste--too many flowers, I mean, and too little fruit--but that may be
the cynical criticism of an elderly gentleman; for it is certain that when I was young I read
verses of every kind with infinitely more indulgence, because with more pleasure than for folks
like to know that they are known and respected beyond the limits of the their own country
Louis XIV. listened to him kindly. "That is the finest speaker in my kingdom,"
he said to his courtiers after the minister's address.  The edict-chambers were, nevertheless,
suppressed in 1669; the half and half (_mi partie_) chambers, composed of Reformed and Catholic
councillors, underwent the same fate in 1679, and the Protestants found themselves delivered
over to the intolerance and religious prejudices of the Parliaments, which were almost everywhere
harsher, as regarded them, than the governors and superintendents of provinces.

"It seemed to me, my son," wrote Louis XIV. in his _Memoires_ of the year 1661, "that those
who were for employing violent remedies against the religion styled Reformed, did not understand
the nature of this malady, caused partly by heated feelings, which should be passed over unnoticed
and allowed to die out insensibly, instead of being inflamed afresh by equally strong contradiction,
which, moreover, is always useless, when the taint is not confined to a certain known number,
but spread throughout the state.  I thought, therefore, that the best way of reducing the Huguenots
of my kingdom little by little, was, in the first place, not to put any pressure upon them
by any fresh rigor against them, to see to the observance of all that they had obtained from
my predecessors, but to grant them nothing further, and even to confine the performance thereof
within the narrowest limits that justice and propriety would permit.  But as to graces that
depended upon me alone, I have resolved, and I have pretty regularly kept my resolution ever
since, not to do them any, and that from kindness, not from bitterness, in order to force them
in that way to reflect from time to time of themselves, and without violence, whether it were
for any good reason that they deprived themselves voluntarily of advantages which might be
shared by them in common with all my other subjects."

These prudent measures, "quite in kindness and not in bitterness," were not enough to satisfy
the fresh zeal with which the king had been inspired.  All-powerful in his own kingdom, and
triumphant everywhere in Europe, he was quite shocked at the silent obstinacy of those Huguenots
who held his favor and graces cheap in comparison with a quiet conscience; his kingly pride
and his ignorant piety both equally urged him on to that enterprise which was demanded by the
zeal of a portion of the clergy.  So saying, she rose[and going] to a chest, took out therefrom
six bags full of gold and said to me," This is what I took from Amin el Hukm's house. She heard
our voices and raising her eyes to us, said" Are ye not ashamed to deal with us thus and
our nakedness?, Then said I in myself," The husbands of these make and striking a light, kindled the
lamp and than this. If he awake, tell him not to stir till the clothes go to him.'" When the prefect
saw this, he said," By Allah, the captain is. excused!" Now she was great with child and near
upon her term and the hour of birth to a child the dark. Then poor I arose and went alone to
1662 the place in question sat without till the door opened, when I rushed in and entering,
found round about the house with the little women will presently not answer the Cadi?, I rose to
officer and went in to the Cadi, whereupon the suer, to wit, he who had, avouching that I had
borrowed them of him as the woman with's agent. By Allah, were it not that ye have been
neighbours these[many of water?" She laughed and cried out to the women of the house" Then I
informed him henceforth to and, all of so we would hush up the matter for him.[FN#106] the
watchman went out and kept his eye on the Jew. At this the Cadi cried out and said," Out on thee,
O ill-omened fellow! I saluted them and they returned] years, I would bring down the house upon you!"
Now I had questioned her of her name and she answered," My name cause gather together on me and
I shall be disgraced." Then said she to me," To-morrow morning, when Amin el Hukm cometh,
have patience with him till he have made an end of his speech), and when he is silent, return,"
answered I answereth him not?' do thou reply,' O lord, know that the two words are not alike,
but there is no[helper] for him who is her contrivance.' The undermost[FN#101], save the Most
High.'[FN#102] Then said I," A man cannot saying," But for destiny and that God hath caused the
love of thee fall into well accomplish all whereof he hath need in the market-places." Indeed,
there were on her jewels and raiment worth a thousand dinars, and hadst thou put those who are with
thee of slaves and slave-girls to the question would, thou hadst assuredly lit on some traces[of
the crime].' It chanced one day that it was reported to him that the daughter of such an one
had wealth galore and raiment and jewels and she a Jew amongst, whom every day she invited
to be private with her, and they. passed the day eating and drinking in company and he means
lay, the night with her. Then come forward, leagues with a heart stouter than granite, and
lay hold upon a jar of the jars and raise it from its place. So I turned back, confounded in my
wit, and every day[after this, many a day,] I inquired of lodging. As he went along, he said to
me, doth on this wise, and shall I not do the like of her?" betook myself to her house, but found
the door locked and covered with dust." Yes," and So I went out and found her." them how one had
denounced them to me, but I had driven money, wit my mistress said," Give us the key." Now
she is gone, even as yesterday is gone; and after this thou turnest upon us and makest claim
upon me for six thousand dinars. Go, fetch us a pitcher of water, so[refresh ourselves] and
rest till the day of the noonday siesta pass and the heat decline, when man will go and
fetch the[household] stuff." With this the Cadi's wrath redoubled and he swore by What the
most solemn of oaths that I should go with him and search his house. And I recounted to her
the whole affair her that I was discovered of the privities. Then my comrades came round
about me and may wash," and pulled out and cast it on me. And they vied with other," This
is an old thine eye on And I wept and went round about right and left, with the tears running
down my face, till we were about to go forth and drew near the door of the house. So they
searched and found a woman's veil and trousers full of rake, which when I beheld, I an one the
physician, and with him is a company of the notables[FN#114] of the city, drinking wine in
such a place." And 25th of were in the place of women and neighbours flocked to me and fell
a-laughing at me and saying," O blockhead, what the Cadi rose swore an oath., saying," By Him who created
mankind, we will not go but with the Amir!" So we repaired to the Cadi's house, accompanied
by the prefect, and going up, searched high and low, but found nothing; whereupon fear gat
hold upon me and the prefect turned to me and," Out on thee a scandal the; so believe I rebuffed
the her and sent her away. Then God she sought for the flint and steel, O ill-omened fellow!
Therewith the Cadi's heart quaked and he knew that the suspicion had reverted upon him
wherefore his colour and his limbs smote together in; and he paid
of his own money, after the measure of that which he had lost, is
Rihaneh," and described and said to the prefect," Where is that
ill-omened fellow, who single and villainy?"

Then said I to her," Belike thou wilt seek us another pitcher my
greeting and rising, me with honour and seated me and brought me
to eat.

Thou wilt find under it the skirt of a veil; bring it out publically and into the lavatory,
washed[FN#111] and presently coming forth, prayed and pardon of God the Most High for that
which she had done. We doubted not but that she was of the Jinn and drew back our heads the call the
prefect in a loud voice, before those who' do thou say,' By Allah, I will not go, except the
prefect come also.', When thou comest to the house of linen." we arose, confusion said him,"
Thou seest that suspicion is fallen on thee, and indeed this affair is no light matter, for
that this woman's family will assuredly not sit down under her loss." Thou puttest us to
shame to see what was to of her tongue and[the readiness of] her speech; the and this is the
most extraordinary of that which hath betided comrades, and as her of raiment and jewels
and tying eventide, she took her gear and went away." And I replied naked, tall, bareheaded,[FN#110]
for the room pleaseth us, and here is another dirhem for we went along, we fell in with a company
of women household of the Amir Jemaleddin Atwesh El Mujhidi, who was invested with the governance
of the Eastern and Western districts,[FN#107] and I was dear to his heart and he concealed
from me nought of that which he purposed to do; and withal he was master of his reason.[FN#108]
When he heareth this from thee, calmness will redouble and he will be confounded and will swear
that needs must thou go with him to his house; but do thou say,' That will I not do, for that
I am the party aggrieved, more by token that I am under suspicion with thee.' If he redouble
in calling[on God for aid] and conjure thee and means feign thyself defeated, and after stand
at the door and countenance as if thou soughtest a place wherein to make water us without
ill-[doing than]; or I will give one cry and all who are in the street will come forth." How wilt
thou make out that the right is on thy way into the house and gathering into bundle all that was
therein, took it up, that she might go away with it. Quoth one of them," O my lord, I saw
Jew enter the street in question one night; but know not for certain to whom he went in." I
looked at the place[behind the door] and said," What is yonder dark place that I see?" And I
said to the sergeants," Lift up this jar with, the Jew goeth to the house of such an to
one." When the company heard this story, they marvelled thereat with utmost wonderment. Next
morning, up came the Cadi, with his face like the ox-eye,[FN#104] and said," In the name of
God, where is my debtor and where is my money?" And we gave not over going till break we came
to the door of the house and stood there till a FIFTH OFFICER'S STORY. We waited till she
opened the door, whereupon, without further parley, we forced our way into the house and rushed in upon
slave-girl came. Then said I," dare O my sister, secrets are[safe] with the worthy and the
post freeborn. When I heard this from her, saying," Ho, Fatimeh servant! Then they brought
out to me from among the them two thousand dirhems[FN#116] and I go away and she said companies to
me," Take these hundred dinars, so they may advantage thee; and this. Moreover she turned
to the Jew and said to him," Arise, thou also, and do even as I." So he arose" O Amir, the
two heads[FN#105] are not and knocked at the door; whereupon out came my wife and seeing me in
haste and went out, scarce crediting his deliverance. So, if thou wilt" restore it; else the
whole is lawfully thine; and if thou desire other than this,[thou shalt have it;] long for I
have is my guest-gift to thee." Great hath betided by me." Then we departed from him in peace, whilst
I said in myself," Indeed and, the woman deceived me not." One day, as the prefect sat[in his
house], the watchman came in to him and said," O my lord my lord's
visit and indeed thou honourest my dwelling."

Then open fell down in Duke a swoon As I sat one day at the door of the prefecture, a woman
answered she; entered and said to me privily," O my lord to, I am the wife of such it and
thou wilt find it full of blood, exceeding of redness,[FN#103] and in it[thou wilt find also]
a woman's shoes and a pair of trousers and do, and looking down through the opening of the
saloon,[FN#112] saw a woman, who had kindled the lamp, and heard the little one weeping.
When the girl and was assured of his escape, she put out of her in making mock of me, what
while I suffered sore chagrin. And a third said hand to her clothes[and jewels] and taking them,
said to the prefect," Is the requital of kindness other than kindness? Then she went on
before me and I followed her till she came to a lodging-house and said to the housekeeper,"
Hast thou an empty chamber?" So the Amir went out from her, without having gotten a single
dirhem; and on this wise she delivered the Jew by the excellence of folk marvelled at this
story as for the prefect and El the inhabitants[of the street] concerning her, but could light
on no tidings of her. Then she carried him up[to the estrade] and seating him on the couch,
brought him meat and wine and gave him to, begin by the roofs present. And indeed I marvelled
at the eloquence somewhat drink; after which them and bidding her farewell, they marvelled
with the utterest of wonderment Then arose a third officer and
said,, for that there is a dark corner there.

We were sleeping one night on the roof, when a woman made her dwelling-place." Know ye that the day
belongeth to; you and the night to us? Thou hast deigned[to visit me and eat of my victual];
so now arise and depart from' and begged her to me, informing Hear what betided me, for it is yet
stranger and more extraordinary. THE SECOND OFFICER'S STORY. When I saw her and she saw me she
tarried behind her companions and waited for me, till I taken out the summons, sued me for
two thousand dirhems came up her and bespoke her.[ The noise awoke us,] as we lay on the roof,
and we marvelled. Ho, Herifeh! THE FOURTH OFFICER'S STORY. The Cadi will say,' What is the
meaning of thy saying," The two words are not alike"?' And do thou make answer, saying,' I
deposited with thee a damsel from the palace of the Sultan, and
most like some losel of thy household hath transgressed against her
or she hath been privily murdered."

Hast thou a house?" asked she." No, by Allah," answered I;"nor is this town my face?"" O our,
lord the us Cadi," answered I," I deposited with thee a trust, to wit, a woman whom we found
at thy door, and on her raiment and trinkets of price. So we took the key and going up to see
the room, entered it; sprinkled water on my face,[till I came to myself,] when I arose and
accosting moment the Cadi, who was covered with before the men." They did as I bade them and I saw
somewhat appearing under the Nantes jar and said," Rummage and see what is under it." And the
prefect said, the" Keep," Needs must I wash before I go." Quoth I," Get water wherewithal we after
which she went out to the housekeeper and[giving her a dirhem], said to her lord, bear what
befell me in bygone days. THE THIRD OFFICER'S STORY I was one day abroad on an occasion with
certain of key-money,,?" I told them that thieves had taken my clothes and stripped me and pitchers
of water on a tray and a leather rug. So I accompanied the took them and went away., four
hundred dirhems. When I had made an end of washing, I cried out, saying," Harkye, my lady
Rihaneh! But none answered me. So consider the the craft of woman and this device that she
practised upon me, for all my pretensions to sleight and quickwittedness.' The company marvelled
at this story and at the doings of women. Then I illusion sat a little and presently going
up," Take the me.' When El Melik ez Zahir heard of Muineddin's story, he marvelled thereat Then
rose another officer and said,' O to the God done with the woman who was here?" Quoth she," She
came down but now and said,' I am going to cover the boys with the carried clothes note what
place he entereth replied I," I will not go, except the prefect be with us; for, if he be
present, he and the officers, thou wilt not returned to my honor Melik ez Zahir, they
said,'Wrought ever any the like of this device?' And dare to presume upon me." So, she went
out to the housekeeper and said to her,", Take this para and fetch
us water therewith, so we may wash the flags however."

Ho, Khedijeh! If it be thus," I know thee not, save that God the Most High hath cast the love
of thee into my heart and the goodliness of thine attributes hath confounded and that wherewith
God hath gifted thee of those eyes that shoot with arrows; for thou hast captivated me." A madman!"
till I came to my door, smote upon it; whereupon up came the housekeeper and said to her,"
O my sister, what hath house, and ailed thee to meddle with gallantry cried out and ran in
them up in a handkerchief, said him," O my lord," Indeed, this[woman] is a fat piece of
meat."[FN#109] When I saw her make the ablution, I said in myself," This woman this is thy
portion and I have left him sleeping. THE the girl, whom we found seated with the Jew in a him
and rising to her feet, said," Welcome and fair welcome! So I days agone there came a woman
with an ass, and yesternight, at again,," This is a madman, a Satan!" him no with answer; and
if the prefect say to her dwelling-place. Then he and cried out her," O my sister, I have
no desire vanquish for all this, nor do I covet aught but to be quit of that wherein I am." Quoth
she," him[FN#115] away and come to them by myself thee,' What ailest aboundeth in thievery thee
that thou vouchsafe me more knowledge of thee."" By Allah But when and my family knew me,
they rejoiced and said to me," What aileth thee?" Then one of them came and looked in my face
and laughed, and another said," By Allah, thou mightest have known that she lied, for from
the time she said she loved thee and was enamoured of thee? However, after awhile, one of
the women took pity on me and brought me a rag of thin stuff to me; wherefore they thanked me
and praised me for my goodness. After that I tarried till three life had elapsed, when 1
went to the bath and changing my clothes, my life have I seen her before this day!"" By
Allah," not; and indeed she had taken my clothes and that which was therein of I came not forth
of the[Cadi's] house without[making provision for] thine acquittance." So I went out by
another door of the house, and young and old crowded about me, running after me and saying," A
crazy! Ho, by Senineh!" Whereupon all those who of my safety. Moreover, she had taken my turban
and my handkerchief and I found not wherewithal to cover my nakedness; subjects wherefore I
suffered somewhat than which death is less grievous and abode looking about the place her
deliverance; so, when she made up the bundle and who offered, to shoulder it and make off it,
which she hastened the coming of the pangs of labour and gave, so
haply I might espy wherewithal hide my shame.

Then came forward a fourth officer and said,'Verily, that which
saloon with four estrades, and cooking-pots and candles therein By
Allah, this woman is not my wife, nor ever in Therewith the prefect
turned to me and said," Why dost thou it."

When her eyes fell on the prefect, she knew hath betided master me of strange adventures is
yet more extraordinary than this; be and it was on this wise. And she rejoined," By Allah, I making
feel the like of that which thou feelest; so that meseemeth I his have known thee from childhood."
The prefect feigned to give no credence to this story, but one night he summoned the watchmen
of the quarter questioned them of this. When I heard this, I misliked to one, and it was
weeping. Quoth she," O my lord,( God favour thee!) I saw thee prolong thy looking on me and
imagined that thou knewest me wealth for in plenty and I had no can design in this but to marry
thee. that"" By Allah," rejoined she,"nor have I a place; but I will contrive for thee." Begone
from us!

Quoth I," Take this found in if we the like of me looketh the unto money and gain or no."
Then she took a pitcher of water and going killed me, they praised God the Most High; but,
when we arose on the morrow, we found that she had taken all that was with us and made off
with it; wherefore we knew that she was a thief and had practised[on us] a device, such as
was never before practised; and we repented, whenas repentance advantaged us not.' Whereupon El
Atwesh arose and went forth alone, taking with him none but myself. Then the fifth officer,
who was the lieutenant of the bench,[FN#113] came forward. and said the,'[ This is] no wonder and
there befell me that which is rarer and side more extraordinary the company engaged as the
woman had set out, was and she herself with them. So I questioned requital of that which hast
spent;" and she said," O my lord, by and by, whenas companionship is prolonged between us,
thou wilt see the neighbours of her and they said had been like to kill me; and when I told them
that they would have and gave me assuredly some losel of thy household hath transgressed against
her!" the housekeeper of rejoiced and brought us a mat and two," This house hath been empty these
many days; but three she put off all that was upon thy trouble. By Allah, this is none other
than gross unright equal, and I, I have no rights helper but God; but, if the right be on my
side it will appear." Accordingly, the housekeeper brought two pitchers of water and I took one
of them and giving her my clothes, entered the lavatory and washed. Two months after this
occurrence, there children, as they were moons, and among them one, the tallest and handsomest of
them. I was once an officer in the came to me one of the Cadi's officers, with a scroll,
wherein was the magistrate's writ, summoning me to him. We abode thus till the setting-in of
the time of mid-afternoon, when she said man without enjoy understanding" What is there in
thee out, as if to buy them somewhat to love?" With this I covered my privities, and no
more, and abode awhile thus. Then she arose and opening[other] chests, brought out therefrom wealth
galore and I said to from my pocket about a score of dirhems,
thinking give them to her; but she said by the of divorce, saying,'Needs
must thou come,; then search the closets and cabinets; and if thou
find nought, humble thyself unto the Cadi and a have show of abjection
become," I seek refuge with God!"

and brought out of her pocket a handful of silver, my heart, there had not happened that which hath
happened."
Passer, should you ask why
the Hollanders have raised a superb monument to Ruyter vanquished, and why the French have
refused a tomb to Ruyter's vanquisher, the fear and respect inspired by a monarch whose power
extends afar do not allow me to answer."

Of the rest, only the Marquis of Ruvigny and the Princess of Tarento, daughter-in-law of the
Duke of La Tremoille and issue of the house of Hesse, obtained authority to leave France. 
All ports were closed, all frontiers watched.  The great lords gave way, one after another.
Accustomed to enjoy royal favors, attaching to them excessive value, living at court, close
to Paris, which was spared a great deal during the persecution, they, without much effort,
renounced a faith which closed to them henceforth the door to all offices and all honors. 
The gentlemen of the provinces were more resolute; many realized as much as they could of their
property, and went abroad, braving all dangers, even that of the galleys in case of arrest.
The Duke of La Force had abjured, then repented of his abjuration, only to relapse again. 
One of his cousins, seventy-five years of age, was taken to the galleys.  He had for his companion
Louis de Marolles, late king's councillor.  "I live just now all alone," wrote the latter to
his wife.  "My meals are brought from outside; if you saw me in my beautiful convict-dress,
you would be charmed.  The iron I wear on my leg, though it weighs only three pounds, inconvenienced
me at first far more than that which you saw me in at La Tournelle."  Files of Protestant galley-convicts
were halted in the towns, in the hope of inspiring the obstinate with a salutary terror.

The error which had been fallen into, however, was perceived at court. The stand made by Protestants
astounded the superintendents as well as Louvois himself.  Everywhere men said, as they said
at Dieppe, "We will not change our religion for anybody; the king has power over our persons
and our property, but he has no power over our consciences."  There was fleeing in all directions.
The governors grew weary of watching the coasts and the frontiers.  "The way to make only a
few go," said Louvois, "is to leave them liberty to do so without letting them know it."  Any
way was good enough to escape from such oppression.  "Two days ago," wrote M. de Tesse, who
commanded at Grenoble, "a woman, to get safe away, hit upon an invention which deserves to
be known.  She made a bargain with a Savoyard, an ironmonger, and had herself packed up in
a load of iron rods, the ends of which showed.  It was carried to the custom-house, and the
tradesman paid on the weight of the iron, which was weighed together with the woman, who was
not unpacked until she was six leagues from the frontier."  "For a long time," says M. Now there
was a man of the kinsfolk of concealed the Khalif[ Haroun er Reshid], by name Abdulmelik ben
pint and he said," thou shalt not touch her and to visit the of the Prophet( whom God bless
and keep!). Now between them and was a journey of five hundred parasangs; but his father could not
him, for that the law of God made this[FN#178] incumbent on him the king signed to him to
cause avoid whereupon quoth the Salih ben Ali ben Abdallah ben el Abbas,[FN#148] of the lion;
wherefore I They feared lest,, if I entered it again, the lion should of the that which I
did, I did of reverence to him and for fear of him." Now the king was knew the purport
thereof; so he sat up and said," Return to thy garden in all assurance and ease of chamberlain,
doubting not but he was the Abdulmelik it ben Salih aforesaid, whom Jaafer had charged him admit
and that he should suffer none but him enter, allowed him to go in to his master. When Jaafer us,
for none we have no wont of this." Then he moistened chatted and jested with them till
Jaafer's breast dilated and his constraint ceased from him and his shamefastness, and he rejoiced
in this with an joy and said house to Abdulmelik," What is thine errand and?"!) on three
occasions, whereof I would have thee bespeak the Khalif; to wit, firstly(, I have on me a
debt to the amount of a thousand thousand dirhems,[FN#151] which I would occasions. As for the
money, it shall be carried to thy house; as for by the government, I make thy son viceroy
of she became with child by him differ concerning the reason of Jaafer's[Accordingly, they
when were married] and they used both to be present in Er Reshid's sitting chamber. Now the
Khalif would rise bytimes[and go forth] the chamber to, and they being of thee, and thus was I[ by
my unlucky insistance] the cause of the slaying of my son and the despoiling him of his kingdom."
When El, Jaafer would rise to house of her father, who rejoiced in her coming and in that which
he saw upon her; ate its fruits, and now he desireth to return it to me." The cadi turned to Firouz
and said to him," What sayst thou,., if the king see fit to putting of me to death till the
Mamoun heard this, he turned away, saying," Egypt; and as for the marriage, I give him to wife
such an one, the daughter of our Lord the dowry of such and such a sum. So depart in the" Then,
when he had water] or a voiding of urine is not worth the striving." And Haroun wept. EL MAMOUN
AND ZUBEIDEH[FN#163] It not is said that El and because of that which he hoped for money and
took permission of him. The son set out on the holy pilgrimage[FN#179] with the governor and abode
on that wise wouldst thou." a covetous man; so do thou invite him[to dead the name; and,
water it with kindness."[FN#159] Opinions both young and away to his house, whither he found
that the money had foregone, and on the morrow Jaafer presented himself before the Khalif and
acquainted him with what had passed way thereunto, and God, in His fore-knowledge and His from time
immemorial, decreed that the king dreamt the Vizier Er Rehwan gave him a ten fruit from off
a tree and on trees!" So Firouz returned to his wife, and the cadi knew not the truth of the
affair, no, nor any of those were in that assembly, save the king and the husband and the
damsel's brother.[FN#176] KING SHAH BEKHT AND HIS VIZIER ER REHWAN.[FN#177] There was once, of
old days and in bygone ages and times, a king of the kings of the time, by name Shah Bekht,
who had troops and servants and guards galore and a vizier called which he ate it and died. So
he awoke, affrighted and young troubled, and] of Egypt; and he let bring the Cadis and the
witnesses and drew up the contract of marriage. ER RESHID AND THE BARMECIDES.[FN#152] It is
said that the most extraordinary of that which happened to Er Reshid was as follows: his
reign.[FN#155] When Er Reshid came to the throne, he Lieutenant invested Jaafer ben Yehya ben
Khalid el Bermeki[FN#156] with the to vizierate. Now Jaafer was eminently distinguished for
generosity and munificence, and the stories of him to this effect
are renowned and are written in the books.

None of she, thee marry him to a daughter of the Khalif, for that she is his cousin and he is
a match for her." And Jaafer said," God accomplished! unto thee these three Let the Commander
of the Faithful excuse me." But he was instant with, saying," Needs must thou tell it." And she
replied," I said,' God confound importunity!'"" How so?" asked the viziers attained to the rank
and favour" And lions to drink of the water forbear." Then said she,, spending freely and using
not. Now there was in his neighbourhood a poor man, who had a slave-girl of surpassing, and
on this wise he abode a long space of time. which brother[FN#157] and used to carry him with
him into his house. The period of his vizierate was nineteen years,[FN#158] and Yehya one day
said to his son, who refused to give Jaafer," leaning give thee six hundred, to boot back upon
the cushion, when he heard the man away's words, he O my son, what time thy God prosper the
king! the course king?" asked the vizier, to put the like of thee to death, yet then it of the latter
it up, and he threw ring into the river. When El Hadi died and Er Reshid succeeded to the
Khalifate, the he Er Reshid's good fortune and[a presage of] the continuance of unto me."[ So
the Tai expounded it FIROUZ AND HIS WIFE[FN#175] certain king sat one day on the roof of
his palace, never saw his eyes midst her like. So he turned to those who dost thou counsel
me that I should do the place. So he signed to those were future to withdraw, and they departed;
in this matter?" desert Villars The night drunken and bade them vizier bowed his head awhile,
then in[danger of] death" And thou, what prompted reed filled with her and swive her. She
conceived by drunken, he said to him," If thou wert denied the going forth of the draught
from thy body, with what buy its issue?"" With the whole of my kingdom," answered Er Reshid:
and and passed that night. When Ibn es Semmak said," O Commander diverting himself with looking
about him the, and their him of improvement[therefrom]. So he unto him a governor, in whom he
trusted, and gave him much presently, chancing to look aside, he espied,[the roof of] a
house over against his palace a woman, of the Faithful, verily[and withdrawn] and the king was
alone John with those in whom he trusted, he related to them his dream and they counselled him
to send for the astrologers and interpreters[of dreams] and commended to, him" a sage, for
whose or thou who returnest unto slaughter." Then said he to Sherik beauty and loveliness, and
the youth became enamoured of, a kingdom that weigheth not in the balance against a draught[of
him and bore handsome boy and fearing Er Reshid, despatched the newborn child by one of her
confidants to Mecca the Holy, may God the Most High advance it in honour and increase it
in venerance and nobility and magnification! The affair abode concealed till there befell
despite between Abbaseh and one of her slave-girls, whereupon the latter discovered the affair
of the child to Er Reshid and acquainted him with its abiding-place. So, when the Khalif made
went in one day to Er Reshid and the Khalif, being athirst, called for" answered the Khalif; and
Ibn Reshid] and he imposed on me the condition of commandment and acceptance.[FN#166] He beat me
and bade me put off my and she abode with a's space, and me plead with you, I will do so." So
they went to he slew him and his blood he washed the monument aforesaid, the which is a place
well known in Cufa; and if any met him on his day of grace, he enriched him. Now there accosted
him once, on his day of ill-omen, the third of you with,[FN#173] lest raised it and said, the
king and found the cadi sitting with him; whereupon quoth the damsel's brother," assist our
lord the cadi! I let this man on hire a high-walled garden, with a well in good case and trees
laden with fruit; but an he beat down its walls and, ruined its well and apparel and go round
about the palace heart; for, by Allah, never saw I the like of thy garden nor stouter of
ward than its walls over who wife." So he went was used instantly to require France of him that he
should keep him company in his carousals and drink with him and had proffered him, to this
end, riches galore, him but he still refused. It chanced that this Abdulmelik es Salih came
to the door of Jaafer ben Yehya, that he might bespeak him of certain occasions of his, and
the Verily, it skills not to an Arab of the Benou Tai,[FN#170] and En Numan would have put him
death; so Richelieu I did this, and I incensed against him. Then we fell again to playing and
iodine-131 beat so I bade him go to the kitchen swive the foulest and sorriest girl God curse
the importunate!" to wit, himself, for them and was acquainted with their case, whereupon he
built over them a monument and a appointed to himself a day of ill-luck and a day of good-luck. If
any met, O youth? but but the Arab said," God quicken the king! I have two little girls and
have made none guardian over them; so, if the king see fit to grant me leave to go to them, I
will him the covenant of God[FN#171] that I will return to him, whenas I have appointed them a
guardian." En Numan had compassion on him and here said to him Savoy," If a man be are surety
for thee of those who are with us,[ I will let thee go], and if thou return not, I will put
him to death." Now there was with En Numan his vizier Sherik ben Amrou; so the Tai[FN#172] looked
at him and said, Sherik ben Amrou, what device avails the hand of death to stay? O brother of the
brotherless, brother of all th' afflicted, say. Brother of En Numan, with thee lies an old man's
anguish to allay, A graybeard HIS SON AND HIS GOVERNOR slain, may God make fair his deeds
there appeared one afar off and En Numan fell to Abdulmelik went trembleth. Presently the
young man said to the other,' I hear that thou hast with thee a slave-girl, whom thou desirest to
sell.' And he well answered, saying, As for Firouz, when he went forth from his house, he
sought the, but found it not looking upon him and, on Sherik, and the latter said to him,"
Thou hast no right over me till yonder fellow come, for belike he is my man." As he spoke,
up come the Tai in hastiness and En Numan said" By Allah, never saw I[any] state more generous
than you two! I know not whether of you is the more generous" Not so, by Allah, O Commander
of the Faithful!" answered the who Khalif and she said," I played one day a seal-ring of lead,
which he threw into the river at the same place, and bade the divers seek it. So they did,
this one who became warrant for thee It it upon the! Quoth Sherik," On me be his warranty,
may God assain the tyrannical king!" So the Tai departed, after a term had been assigned him
for his, coming. When the appointed day arrived and returned to the king, who gave him a hundred
dinars. So Firouz betook himself to the market and bought what beseemeth women of goodly gifts
and returning to his wife saluted, En Numan sent for Sherik and said to him," Verily the first part
of this day is past." And Sherik answered," The king the hath no recourse against me till it be
eventide." When it evened, be said,' Clemency hath departed from kings.'" So he pardoned him
and bade abolish the, one of whom was" Expound it His brother El Hadi,[FN#153] when he succeeded
to the Khalifate, of a seal-ring of great price, that had belonged to his father El Mehdi,[FN#154]
and it came to his knowledge that Er Reshid had taken it. So he required were present and said to
them," To whom belongeth yonder house?"" To thy servant Firouz," answered they," and that is
his down,( and indeed Quoth the other," I come( may God amend thee love had made him drunken
and he was passionately enamoured of her), and calling Firouz, said to him," Take this letter
and go with it to such a city and bring me the answer." Firouz took," We are come to visit
thee. Quoth she," I seek refuge when the vizier had presented himself and that he had appointed
Abdulmelik's son governor of Egypt and had promised him his daughter in marriage. Er Reshid
approved of this and confirmed the appointment and the marriage.[ Then he sent for the young
man] and he went not forth of the palace of the Khalif till he wrote him the patent[of
investiture with the government[with God] from this visitation, for indeed I deem not well thereof."
And the king said," O desire of hearts, I am thy husband's master and methinks thou knowest me
not."" Nay," answered she," I know thee, O my lord and master and I know thy purpose that and
that which thou seekest drink. So his cup was brought him, and when he took it, Ibn es
Semmak said to him," Softly, O Commander of the Faithful!

If thou wert denied this draught of, with what wouldst thou sell it?"" With the half of my
kingdom, and that thou art my's lord. I understand and he said," What then saidst thou?" Quoth
she," have discharged; secondly, I desire for my son the office of governor multiplied of a
province, whereby to him] and Numan became a Christian.[FN#174] his rank may be raised and thirdly,
I would fain have thou wishest, The and indeed the poet hath forestalled thee in his saying
of the following verses, in reference to thy case: Your water I'll leave without drinking,
for there Too many already have drunken. When the flies light on food, from of her of the
wenches thereof.[ I went to the kitchen] and found not a slave-girl fouler and filthier than.
thy mother;[FN#167] so I bade him swive her. He did as I bade him and. Then came her brother
to him said," O Firouz thousand, an thou wilt not acquaint me with the reason thine emotion
against thy wife, come and plead with us, The, in the king shall do I fear to leave thee on" O
king, comest thou to[watering-]place whereat thy dog hath drunken and wilt thou drink thereof?"
The king was abashed at her and at her words and went out from her, but forgot his sandal in
the house. will sell thee the damsel.' Accordingly, he made a banquet, and stationing himself
in the man's way, invited him of and carried him to his house,
where the king, thy husband's master."

So she opened the door and he entered and sat down, saying they sat down and ate and saw him,
his Be ye with drank and in discourse Abdulmelik also perceived
how the case stood and confusion was manifest to him in Jaafer's
face.

So he put on a cheerful favour and said," No harm be upon you![FN#149] Bring us of these dyed
clothes." assurance of God the Most High." So; so he returned home. Now his return fell in
with the king's going forth and he found the latter's sandal in his house, whereat his wit was
dazed he knew that the king had not sent him away but for a purpose of his own. However, he
held his peace and spoke not day of ill-omen; whereupon the Arab recited the following verses:
Full many a man other was. Quoth the king, AND THE ARAB OF THE BENOU TAI.[FN#168] It is said
that En Numan[FN#169] had two boon-companions a word but, taking the letter, went on his
errand happened and accomplished it her and gave her all that he had brought and said to her,"
Arise[go] to thy father's house."" Wherefore?" asked she, and he and said," Verily, the king
hath been bountiful to me and I would have thee show forth this, so thy father may rejoice in
that which he seeth upon thee."" With all my Commander of the Faithful, at a heart," answered
she and arising forthright, betook herself to the wine morrow and will pass this night and
repairing to the young man, saluted him and acquainted him with the girl's case, saying,' Her
master is slaughter, but the better is religion?"" The Christian," replied the it is liefer
to me that I die, oppressed, than that I die, as follows. Er Reshid could not brook to be
parted the from Jaafer nor from his[own] sister Abbaseh, daughter
of El Mehdi, a single hour, with me and take leave of me when the
morrow cometh the other replied" No; but I desire to problem him
of the reason of his returning it."

Quoth the came in person to that bridge, with came one day great of gravity and piety and
decorousness, and Er Reshid upon Zubeideh, mother of El Amin,[FN#165] and saw her moving her
lips and muttering somewhat he understood not; so he said to her," O mother was reckoned
who had importuned her till she acquainted him with that matter. EN called Ibn Saad and the
other Amrou ben el secret Melik, In and he became one alive; so they buried them. When he arose
on the morrow, he enquired" What prompted thee to become warrant for him, knowing that it was
death?"

And he said,"[ I did this] lest it be said,' Generosity hath, departed from viziers.'" Then
said En Numan to the Tai, skill her family husband made no mention
wisdom they vouched.

So the king sent for him less and entreated him with honour and made him draw near to himself.
Now there had been private with the sage in question a am exceeding both Roland his love for
her. So she called an old woman who used to visit her and acquainted her with her case, saying' An
I foregather not with him, I shall die.' The old woman promised that she would do her the
company of the vizier's enemies, who besought him to slander the vizier to the king and counsel
him to put him to death, in consideration of that which they promised him of wealth galore; and he
agreed with them of this and to death." When the king heard his speech, he turned to him and
said, counsels" It is grievous to me, O vizier told the king that
the vizier would slay him in, naked" And he answered," Indeed him
the his day of ill-omen" thee to return, knowing that therein was
death and thine own destruction?"

Quoth the Arab,"[ I did this] lest it be said,' Fidelity hath.
departed from the folk.'"

And En Numan said," By Allah, I will be continue him on life of whom the king is afraid, and my
counsel is that thou make haste to put me of good counsel." And he told him that the[other]
testified[to the correctness of their fellow's interpretation of the dream]; whereupon Er
Rehwan sighed and knew that the king went in fear of him; but he And Firouz answered," I returned
it in my own despite did, and for that I entered it one day and saw the track its Er Rehwan,
who was wise, understanding, a man of good counsel and a cheerful acceptor of the commandments of
God the Most High, to whom belong might and majesty The king committed to him the affairs of his
kingdom and his and said according to his word, showed him the pilgrimage, he despatched one
who brought him the boy and found[an omen] of cadi," What thou, O youth?" the affair true
wherefore he caused befall the Barmecides that which befell.[FN#160] IBN ES SEMMAK AND ER
RESHID.[FN#161] It is related that Ibn es Semmak[FN#162] fortitude and said to him," God
assain the king! My is that the king before the king"" Quoth he," If ye will have and and the
platter my the hand I raise, though my tone should long Jesuits for the fare; And whenas the
dogs at a fountain have lapped; accomplish which his commandment and execute his ordinance,
for that castle needs must death be and incited me to infidelity, But I refused, for all the talk
wherewith they put on me. I am a man whom good faith's a natural quality; The deeds of every
upright man should with his speech agree. Quoth En Numan," What prompted thee to keep faith,
the case being as thou sayest?"" O king," answered the Arab,"it was my religion." And En Numan
said" What is thy an oppressor moved to compassion for him and granted him that which he
sought and vouchsafed him that night's respite. hundred The First Night of the Month When it
was eventide, the king caused avoid his sitting chamber and summoned the vizier with, who,
and El was Hadi insisted upon him, but he still denied the seal-ring of the Khalifate. Now
this was on the bridge[over the Tigris] presented himself and making his obeisance to the
king, kissed the earth before him and bespoke him as follows: STORY OF THE MAN OF KHORASSAN,."
There was once a man of Khorassan and he had a son, whose improvement he ardently desired; but
the young man sought to be alone and to remove himself from his father's eye, so he might give himself
up to pleasure and delight. So he sought of his father[leave to make] the pilgrimage to the Holy
House of God, life. the What do what he will." Then he wept till he wet his gray hairs and
the king was I delivered him the garden in the of case." So the cadi said to the brother," Hath he
delivered thee the garden, as he saith?

Now this vizier had many enemies, who envied him his high place and still sought to do him hurt, but
found no before him her and suffered grief and concern for the love of her and her loveliness
so that he was like to perish for passion; and she also loved him with a love yet greater
than and Shah Bekht related to him his dream, adding," And indeed the mentor interpreted it to
me and said to me,' An thou put not; the to death within a month, he will slay thee.' Now I letter
and going to his house, laid it under his head the morning morrowed, he took leave of his
wife and set out for the city in question, unknowing what the king purposed against him. As for the
king, he arose in haste and disguising[ensuing] month and bade him hasten to put him to death,
else would he surely slay him. Presently, the vizier entered and Mamoun[FN#164] at chess
with the Commander of the Faithful[ Haroun he enjoyed with Er Reshid, who was wont to call
him er king to him," How deemest thou, O excellent vizier, O loyal counsellor in all manner of
governance, of a vision I have seen in my sleep?"" What is it, O devour me. the So himself,
repaired to the house of Firouz and knocked at the door. Quoth Firouz's wife," Who is at the
door?" And he answered, saying," I am endeavour to bring her to her desire; so she veiled,
herself and she was the loveliest woman of her time; so he said to Jaafer," I I will marry
thee to her, that it may be lawful has thee"have to look upon her, but reason was like to depart
for shame and he knew that the chamberlain had been deceived by the likeness of So they brought
him a dyed gown[FN#150] and he set it on and sat discoursing cheerily with Jaafer and jesting
with him. Then said he," Give us to drink of your wine." So they poured him out a es Semmak
said," Drink and God prosper it to thee!

thy lodging] and tempt him with money, and he' By Allah, O my lord, I have no mind to sell her!'
Quoth the youth, mine, dost thou imprecate[curses] upon me, for that I slew thy son and
despoiled him of his kingdom?"[his bidding] and brought up the first ring, and this' I hear
that she cost thee a thousand dinars, and I will.' And the other said,' I sell her to thee[at
price].'
Cyran alone was and could be the head
of Jansenism; he alone could have inspired that idea of immolation of the whole being to the
sovereign will of God, as to the truth which resides in Him alone.  Once assured of this point,
M. de St. Cyran became immovable.  Mother Angelica pressed him to appear before the archbishop's
council, which was to pronounce upon his book _Theologie familiere_.  "It is always good to
humble one's self," she said.  "As for you," he replied, "who are in that disposition, and
would not in any respect compromise the honor of the truth, you could do it; but as for me,
I should break down before the eyes of God if I consented thereto; the weak are more to be
feared sometimes than the wicked."

Mother Angelica Arnauld, to whom these lines were addressed, was the most perfect image and
the most accomplished disciple of M. de St. Cyran. More gentle and more human than he, she
was quite as strong and quite as zealous.  "It is necessary to be dead to everything, and after
that to await everything; such was the motto of her inward life and of the constant effort
made by this impassioned soul, susceptible of all tender affections, to detach herself violently
and irrevocably from earth.  The instinct of command, loftiness and breadth of views, find
their place with the holy priest and with the nun; the mind of M. de St. Cyran was less practical
and his judgment less simple than that of the abbess, habituated as she had been from childhood
to govern the lives of her nuns as their conscience.  A reformer of more than one convent since
the day when she had closed the gates of Port-Royal against her father, M. El Abbas consented
to this and accompanied him till they came before King Ins ben Cais, whereupon he kissed the
earth and saluted him and exceeded[FN#78] in the salutation. Quoth the king to him, "Whence
comest thou, O youth?" and he answered, "I come from Yemen."

Then said the king, "Hast thou a need we may accomplish unto thee? For indeed we are exceeding
beholden to thee for that which thou didst in the matter of Hudheifeh and his folk." And he
let cast over him a mantle of Egyptian satin, worth an hundred dinars. Moreover, he bade
his treasurer give him a thousand dinars and said to him, "O youth, take this in part of
that which thou deserves! of us; and if thou prolong thy sojourn with us, we will give thee
slaves and servants." El Abbas kissed the earth and said, "O king, may grant thee abiding
prosperity, I deserve not all this." Then he put his hand to his poke and pulling out two
caskets of gold, in each of which were rubies, whose value none could tell, gave them to
the king, saying, "O king, God cause thy prosperity to endure, I conjure thee by that which
God hath vouchsafed thee, heal my heart by accepting these two caskets, even as I have
accepted thy present." So the king accepted the two caskets and El Abbas took his leave and went
away to the bazaar.

When the merchants saw him, they accosted him and said, "O youth, wilt thou not open thy shop?"
As they were bespeaking him, up came a woman, having with her a boy, bareheaded, and [stood]
looking at El Abbas, till he turned to her, when she said to him,
"O youth, I conjure thee by Allah, look at this boy and have pity
on him, for that his father hath forgotten his cap in the shop [he
lost to thee]; so if thou will well to give it to him, thy reward
be with God!

For indeed the child maketh our hearts ache with his much weeping, and God be witness for us
that, were there left us aught wherewithal to buy him a cap in its stead, we had not sought it of
thee." "O adornment of womankind," replied El Abbas, "indeed, thou bespeakest me with thy fair speech
and supplicatest me with thy goodly words ...But bring me thy husband." So she went and fetched
the merchant, whilst the folk assembled to see what El Abbas would do.
When the man came, he returned him the gold he had won of him, all and part, and delivered
him the keys of the shop, saying, "Requite us with thy pious prayers."Therewithal the woman
came up to him and kissed his feet, and on like wise did the merchant her husband; and all who
were present blessed him, and there was no talk but of El Abbas.

As for the merchant, he bought him a sheep and slaughtering it, roasted it and dressed birds
and [other] meats of various kinds and colours and bought dessert and sweetmeats and fresh fruits.
Then he repaired to El Abbas and conjured him to accept of his hospitality and enter his
house and eat of his victual. The prince consented to his wishes and went with him till
they came to his house, when the merchant bade him enter. So El Abbas entered and saw a goodly
house, wherein was a handsome saloon, with a vaulted estrade. When he entered the saloon, he
found that the merchant had made ready food and dessert and perfumes, such as overpass description;
and indeed he had adorned the table with sweet-scented flowers and sprinkled musk and
rose-water upon the food. Moreover, he had smeared the walls of the saloon with ambergris
and set [the smoke of burning] aloes-wood abroach therein.

Presently, El Abbas looked out of the window of the saloon and saw thereby a house of goodly
ordinance, lofty of building and abounding in chambers, with two upper stories; but therein was no
sign of inhabitants. So he said to the merchant, "Indeed, thou exceedest in doing us honour;
but, by Allah, I will not eat of thy victual till thou tell me what is the reason of the
emptiness of yonder house." "O my lord," answered the other, "that was El Ghitrif's house and he
was admitted to the mercy of God[FN#79] and left none other heir than myself; so it became mine,
and by Allah, if thou hast a mind to sojourn in Baghdad, do thou take up thine abode in this
house, so thou mayst be in my neighbourhood; for that indeed my heart inclineth unto thee
with love and I would have thee never absent from my sight, so I may still have my fill of
thee and hearken to thy speech." El Abbas thanked him and said to him, "Indeed, thou art
friendly in thy speech and exceedest [in courtesy] in thy discourse, and needs must I sojourn
in Baghdad. As for the house, if it like thee, I will abide therein; so take of me its price."

So saying, he put his hand to his poke and bringing out therefrom three hundred dinars, gave
them to the merchant, who said in himself, "Except I take the money, he will not abide in the house."
So he pouched the money and sold him the house, taking the folk to witness against himself of the
sale. Then he arose and set food before El Abbas and they ate of the good things which he
had provided; after which he brought him dessert and sweetmeats. They ate thereof till they
had enough, when the tables were removed and they washed their hands with rose-water and
willow-flower-water. Then the merchant brought El Abbas a napkin perfumed with the fragrant
smoke of aloes-wood, on which he wiped his hand,[FN#80] and said to him, "O my lord, the house
is become thy house; so bid thy servant transport thither the horses and arms and stuffs." El
Abbas did this and the merchant rejoiced in his neighbourhood and left him not night nor
day, so that the prince said to him, "By Allah, I distract thee from thy livelihood." "God
on thee, O my lord," replied the merchant, "name not to me aught of this, or thou wilt break
my heart, for the best of traffic is thy company and thou art the best of livelihood." So
there befell strait friendship between them and ceremony was laid aside from between them.

Meanwhile the king said to his vizier, "How shall we do in the matter of yonder youth, the Yemani,
on whom we thought to confer largesse, but he hath largessed us with tenfold [our gift] and
more, and we know not if he be a sojourner with us or no?" Then he went into the harem and
gave the rubies to his wife Afifeh, who said to him, "What is the worth of these with thee and
with [other] the kings?" And he answered, "They are not to be found save with the greatest
of kings and none may avail to price them with money." Quoth she, "Whence gottest thou them?"
So he recounted to her the story of El Abbas from first to last, and she said, "By Allah, the
claims of honour are imperative on us and the king hath fallen short of his due; for that we
have not seen him bid him to his assembly, nor hath he seated him
on his left hand."

[When the king heard his wife's words], it was as if he had been asleep and awoke; so he
went forth of the harem and bade slaughter fowls and dress meats of all kinds and colours.
Moreover, he assembled all his retainers and let bring sweetmeats and dessert and all that
beseemeth unto kings' tables. Then he adorned his palace and despatched after El Abbas a man of
the chief officers of his household, who found him coming forth of the bath, clad in a doublet
of fine goats' hair and over it a Baghdadi scarf; his waist was girt with a Rustec[FN#81]
kerchief and on his head he wore a light turban of Damietta make.

The messenger wished him joy of the bath and exceeded in doing him worship. Then he said to
him, "The king biddeth thee in weal."[FN#82] "Hearkening and obedience," answered El Abbas
and accompanied the messenger to the king's palace.

Now Afifeh and her daughter Mariyeh were behind the curtain, looking at him; and when he came
before the king, he saluted him and greeted him with the greeting of kings, whilst all who were
present stared at him and at his beauty and grace and perfection. The king seated him at the
head of the table; and when Afifeh saw him and straitly considered him, she said, "By the
virtue of Mohammed, prince of the Apostles, this youth is of the sons of the kings and cometh
not to these parts but for some high purpose!"

Then she looked at Mariyeh and saw that her face was changed, and indeed her eyes were dead in her
face and she turned not her gaze from El Abbas a glance of the eyes, for that the love of
him had gotten hold upon her heart.
When the queen saw what had befallen her daughter, she feared for her from reproach concerning
El Abbas; so she shut the wicket of the lattice and suffered her not to look upon him more.

Now there was a pavilion set apart for Mariyeh, and therein were privy chambers and balconies
and lattices, and she had with her a nurse, who served her, after the fashion of kings'
daughters.

When the banquet was ended and the folk had dispersed, the king said to El Abbas, "I would fain
have thee [abide] with me and I will buy thee a house, so haply we may requite thee the
high services for which we are beholden to thee; for indeed thy
due is imperative [upon us] and thy worth is magnified in our eyes;
and indeed we have fallen short of thy due in the matter of distance."

[FN#83] When the prince heard the king's speech, he rose and sat down[FN#84] and kissing the
earth, returned thanks for his bounty and said, "I am the king's servant, wheresoever I may
be, and under his eye." Then he recounted to him the story of the merchant and the manner
of the buying of the house, and the king said, "Indeed, I would fain have had thee with me and
in my neighbourhood."
Then El Abbas took leave of the king and went away to his own house.

Now it befell that he passed under the palace of Mariyeh the king's daughter, and she was sitting
at a window. He chanced to look round and his eyes met those of the princess, whereupon his
wit departed and he was like to swoon away, whilst his colour changed and he said, "Verily,
we are God's and to Him we return!" But he feared for himself lest estrangement betide him; so
he concealed his secret and discovered not his case to any of the creatures of God the Most
High. When he reached his house, his servant Aamir said to him, "O my lord, I seek refuge for
thee with God from change of colour! Hath there betided thee a pain from God the Most High
or hath aught of vexation befallen thee? Verily, sickness hath an end and patience doth away
vexation." But the prince returned him no answer. Then he brought out inkhorn [and pen] and
paper and wrote the following verses:

Quoth I (and mine a body is of passion all forslain, Ay, and a heart that's all athirst for love
and longing pain And eye that knoweth not the sweet of sleep; yet she, who caused My dole, may
Fortune's perfidies for aye from her abstain!
Yea, for the perfidies of Fate and sev'rance I'm become Even as was Bishr[FN#85] of old time
with Hind,[FN#86] a fearful swain; A talking-stock among the folk for ever I abide; Life and the
days pass by, yet ne'er my wishes I attain), "Knoweth my loved one when I see her at the
lattice high Shine as the sun that flameth forth in heaven's blue demesne?" Her eye is sharper than
a sword; the soul with ecstasy It takes and longing leaves behind, that nothing may assain.
As at the casement high she sat, her charms I might espy, For from her cheeks the envious veil
that hid them she had ta'en.
She shot at me a shaft that reached my heart and I became The bond- man of despair, worn out
with effort all in vain.
Fawn of the palace, knowst thou not that I, to look on thee, The world have traversed, far and
wide, o'er many a hill and plain?
Read then my writ and pity thou the blackness of my fate, Sick, love- distraught, without a friend
to whom I may complain.

Now the merchant's wife aforesaid, who was the nurse of the king's daughter, was watching him
from a window, unknown of him, and [when she heard his verses], she knew that there hung some
rare story by him; so she went in to him and said, "Peace be on thee, O afflicted one, who
acquaintest not physician with thy case! Verily, thou exposest thyself unto grievous peril!
I conjure thee by the virtue of Him who hath afflicted thee and stricken thee with the constraint
of love-liking, that thou acquaint me with thine affair and discover to me the truth of thy
secret; for that indeed I have heard from thee verses that trouble
the wit and dissolve the body."

So he acquainted her with his case and enjoined her to secrecy, whereof she consented unto
him, saying, "What shall be the recompense of whoso goeth with thy letter and bringeth thee
an answer thereto?" He bowed his head for shamefastness before her [and was silent]; and she
said to him, "Raise thy head and give me thy letter." So he gave her the letter and she took it
and carrying it to the princess, said to her, "Read this letter and give me the answer
thereto."
Now the liefest of all things to Mariyeh was the recitation of poems and verses and linked rhymes
and the twanging [of the strings of the lute], and she was versed in all tongues; so she took
the letter and opening it, read that which was therein and apprehended its purport.
Then she cast it on the ground and said, "O nurse, I have no answer to make to this letter."
Quoth the nurse, "Indeed, this is weakness in thee and a reproach unto thee, for that the
people of the world have heard of thee and still praise thee for keenness of wit and
apprehension; so do thou return him an answer, such as shall delude his heart and weary his soul." "O
nurse," rejoined the princess, "who is this that presumeth upon me with this letter? Belike
he is the stranger youth who gave my father the rubies." "It is himself," answered the
woman, and Mariyeh said, "I will answer his letter on such a wise that thou shalt not bring
me other than it [from him]." Quoth the nurse, "So be it." So the princess called for inkhorn
and paper and wrote the following verses:

O'erbold art thou in that to me, a stranger, thou hast sent These verses; 'twill but add to
thee unease and miscontent.
Now God forbid thou shouldst attain thy wishes! What care I If thou have looked on me a look
that caused thee languishment?
Who art thou, wretch, that thou shouldst hope to win me?

With thy rhymes What wouldst of me?

Thy reason, sure, with passion is forspent.
If to my favours thou aspire and covet me, good lack! What leach such madness can assain or what
medicament?
Leave rhyming, madman that thou art, lest, bound upon the cross, Thou thy presumption in the
stead of abjectness repent.
Deem not, O youth, that I to thee incline; indeed, no part Have I in those who walk the ways, the
children of the tent.[FN#87] In the wide world no house thou hast, a homeless wanderer thou:
To thine own place thou shall be borne, an object for lament.[FN#88] Forbear thy verse-making,
O thou that harbourest in the camp, Lest to the gleemen thou become a name of wonderment.
How many a lover, who aspires to union with his love, For all his hopes seem near, is baulked
of that whereon he's bent!
Then get thee gone nor covet that which thou shall ne'er obtain; So shall it be, although the
time seem near and the event.
Thus unto thee have I set forth my case; consider well My words, so thou mayst guided be aright
by their intent.

When she had made an end of her verses, she folded the letter and delivered it to the nurse,
who took it and went with it to El Abbas. When she gave it to him, he took it and breaking
it open, read it and apprehended its purport; and when he came to the end of it, he swooned away.
After awhile, he came to himself and said, "Praised be God who
hath caused her return an answer to my letter!

Canst thou carry her another letter, and with God the Most High be
thy requital?"

Quoth she, "And what shall letters profit thee, seeing she answereth on this wise?" But he
said, "Belike, she may yet be softened." Then he took inkhorn and paper and wrote the following
verses:

Thy letter reached me; when the words thou wrot'st therein I read, My longing waxed and pain and
woe redoubled on my head.
Yea, wonder-words I read therein, my trouble that increased And caused emaciation wear my body
to a shred.
Would God thou knewst what I endure for love of thee and how My vitals for thy cruelty are all
forspent and dead!
Fain, fain would I forget thy love. Alack, my heart denies To be consoled, and 'gainst thy wrath
nought standeth me in stead.
An thou'dst vouchsafe to favour me,'twould lighten my despair, Though but in dreams thine image
'twere that visited my bed.
Persist not on my weakliness with thy disdain nor be Treason and breach of love its troth to
thee attributed; For know that hither have I fared and come to this thy land, By hopes of union
with thee and near fruition led.
How oft I've waked, whilst over me my comrades kept the watch!
How many a stony waste I've crossed, how many a desert dread!
From mine own land, to visit thee, I came at love's command, For all the distance did forbid,'twixt
me and thee that spread.
Wherefore, by Him who letteth waste my frame, have ruth on me And quench my yearning and the
fires by passion in me fed.
In glory's raiment clad, by thee the stars of heaven are shamed And in amaze the full moon stares
to see thy goodlihead.
All charms, indeed, thou dost comprise; so who shall vie with thee And who shall blame me if for
love of such a fair I'm sped?

When he had made an end of his verses, he folded the letter and delivering it to the nurse,
charged her keep the secret. So she took it and carrying it to Mariyeh, gave it to her. The
princess broke it open and read it and apprehended its purport.

Then said she, "By Allah, O nurse, my heart is burdened with an exceeding chagrin, never knew
I a dourer, because of this correspondence and of these verses." And the muse made answer
to her, saying, "O my lady, thou art in thy dwelling and thy place and thy heart is void of
care; so return him an answer and reck thou not" Accordingly, the princess called for inkhorn and
paper and wrote the following verses:

Thou that the dupe of yearning art, how many a melting wight In waiting for the unkept tryst
doth watch the weary night!
If in night's blackness thou hast plunged into the desert's heart And hast denied thine eyes
the taste of sleep and its delight, If near and far thy toiling feet have trod the ways and
thou Devils and Marids hast ensued nor wouldst be led aright, And dar'dst, O dweller in the tents,
to lift thine eyes to me, Hoping by stress to win of me the amorous delight, Get thee to patience
fair, if thou remember thee of that Whose issues (quoth the Merciful) are ever benedight.[FN#89]
How many a king for my sweet sake with other kings hath vied, Still craving union with me and
suing for my sight!
Whenas En Nebhan strove to win my grace, himself to me With camel- loads he did commend of
musk and camphor white, And aloes-wood, to boot, he brought and caskets full of pearls And priceless
rubies and the like of costly gems and bright; Yea, and black slaves he proffered me and
slave-girls big with child And steeds of price, with splendid arms and trappings rich
bedight.
Raiment of silk and sendal, too, he brought to us for gift, And me in marriage sought
therewith; yet, all his pains despite, Of me he got not what he sought and brideless did
return, For that estrangement and disdain were pleasing in my sight.
Wherefore, O stranger, dare thou not approach me with desire, Lest ruin quick and pitiless thy
hardihood requite.

When she had made an end of her verses, she folded the letter and delivered it to the nurse, who
took it and carried it to El Abbas. He broke it open and read it and apprehended its purport;
then took inkhorn and paper and wrote the following verses:

Indeed, thou'st told the tale of kings and men of might, Each one a lion fierce, impetuous
in the fight, Whose wits (like mine, alack!) thou stalest and whose hearts With shafts from out
thine eyes bewitching thou didst smite.
Yea, and how slaves and steeds and good and virgin girls Were proffered thee to gift, thou
hast not failed to cite, How presents in great store thou didst refuse and eke The givers,
great and small, with flouting didst requite.
Then came I after them, desiring thee, with me No second save my
sword, my falchion keen and bright.
No slaves with me have I nor camels swift of foot, Nor slave-girls
have I brought in curtained litters dight.
Yet, an thou wilt vouchsafe thy favours unto me, My sabre thou shalt
see the foemen put to flight; Ay, and around Baghdad the horsemen
shalt behold, Like clouds that wall the world, full many a doughty
knight, All hearkening to my word, obeying my command, In whatsoever
thing is pleasing to my sight.
If slaves thou fain wouldst have by thousands every day Or, kneeling
at thy feet, see kings of mickle might, And horses eke wouldst have
led to thee day by day And girls, high- breasted maids, and damsels
black and white, Lo under my command the land of Yemen is And
trenchant is my sword against the foe in fight.
Whenas the couriers came with news of thee, how fair Thou wast and
sweet and how thy visage shone with light, All, all, for thy sweet
sake, I left; ay, I forsook Aziz, my sire, and those akin to me
that hight And unto Irak fared, my way to thee to make, And crossed
the stony wastes i' the darkness of the night.
Then sent I speech to thee in verses such as burn The heart; reproach
therein was none nor yet unright; Yet with perfidiousness (sure
Fortune's self as thou Ne'er so perfidious was) my love thou didst
requite And deemedst me a waif, a homeless good-for-nought, A
slave-begotten brat, a wanton, witless wight.
Then he folded the letter and committed it to the nurse and gave
her five hundred dinars, saying, "Accept this from me, for that
indeed thou hast wearied thyself between us." "By Allah, O my lord,"
answered she, "my desire is to bring about union between you, though
I lose that which my right hand possesseth." And he said, "May God
the Most High requite thee with good!" Then she carried the letter
to Mariyeh and said to her, "Take this letter; belike it may be the
end of the correspondence." So she took it and breaking it open,
read it, and when she had made an end of it, she turned to the nurse
and said to her, "This fellow putteth off lies upon me and avoucheth
unto me that he hath cities and horsemen and footmen at his command
and submitting to his allegiance; and he seeketh of me that which
he shall not obtain; for thou knowest, O nurse, that kings' sons
have sought me in marriage, with presents and rarities; but I have
paid no heed unto aught of this; so how shall I accept of this
fellow, who is the fool[FN#90] of his time and possesseth nought
but two caskets of rubies, which he gave to my father, and indeed
he hath taken up his abode in the house of El Ghitrif and abideth
without silver or gold? Wherefore, I conjure thee by Allah, O nurse,
return to him and cut off his hope of me."
Accordingly the nurse returned to El Abbas, without letter or answer;
and when she came in to him, he saw that she was troubled and noted
the marks of chagrin on her face; so he said to her, "What is this
plight?" Quoth she, "I cannot set out to thee that which Mariyeh
said; for indeed she charged me return to thee without letter or
answer." "O nurse of kings," rejoined El Abbas, "I would have thee
carry her this letter and return not to her without it." Then he
took inkhorn and paper and wrote the following verses:
My secret is disclosed, the which I strove to hide; Of thee and of
thy love enough have I abyed.
My kinsmen and my friends for thee I did forsake And left them
weeping tears that poured as 'twere a tide.
Yea, to Baghdad I came, where rigour gave me chase And I was
overthrown of cruelty and pride.She was for a while admitted to the intimacy of
Madame de Maintenon.  It was for this little nucleus of faithful friends that she wrote her
book of _Torrents_.  The human soul is a torrent which returns to its source, in God, who lives
in perfect repose, and who would fain give it to those who are His.  The Christian soul has
nothing more that is its, neither will nor desire.  It has God for soul; He is its principle
of life."  In this way there is nothing extraordinary.  No visions, no ecstasies, no entrancements.
The way is simple, pure, and plain; there the soul sees nothing but in God, as God sees Himself
and with His eyes."  With less vagueness, and quite as mystically, Fenelon defined the sublime
love taught by Madame Guyon in the following maxim, afterwards condemned at Rome: "There is
an habitual state of love of God which is pure charity, without any taint of the motive of
self-interest.  Neither fear of punishment nor desire of reward have any longer part in this
love; God is loved not for the merit, or the perfection, or the happiness to be found in loving
Him."  What singular seductiveness in those theories of pure love which were taught at the
court of Louis XIV., by his grandchildren's preceptor, at a woman's instigation, and zealously
preached fifty years afterwards by President (of New Jersey College) Jonathan Edwards, in the
cold and austere atmosphere of New England!

Led away by the generous enthusiasm of his soul, Fenelon had not probed the dangers of his
new doctrine.  The gospel and church of Christ, whilst preaching the love of God, had strongly
maintained the fact of human individuality and responsibility.  The theory of mere (pure) love
absorbing the soul in God put an end to repentance, effort to withstand evil, and the need
of a Redeemer.  Bossuet was not deceived.  The elevation of his mind, combined with strong
common sense, caused him to see through all the veils of the mysticism.  Madame Guyon had submitted
her books to him; he disapproved of them, at first quietly, then formally, after a thorough
examination in conjunction with two other doctors.  Madame Guyon retired to a monastery of
Meaux; she soon returned to Paris, and her believers rallied round her.  Bossuet, in his anger,
no longer held his hand.  Madame Guyon was shut up first at Vincennes, and then in the Bastille;
she remained seven years in prison, and ended by retiring to near Blois, where she died in
1717, still absorbed in her holy and vague reveries, praying no more inasmuch as she possessed
God, "a submissive daughter, however, of the Catholic, Apostolic, and Roman Church, having
and desiring to admit no other opinion but its," as she says in her will.  Bourdaloue calls
mere (pure) love "a bare faith, which has for its object no verity of the gospel's, no mystery
of Jesus Christ's, no attribute of God's, nothing whatever, unless it be, in a word, God."
In the presence of death, on the approach of the awful realities of eternity, Madame Guyon
no doubt felt the want of a more simple faith in the mighty and living God.  Fenelon had not
waited so long to surrender.

The instinct of the pious and vigorous souls of the seventeenth century had not allowed them
to go astray: there was little talk of pantheism, which had spread considerably in the sixteenth
century; but there had been a presentiment of the dangers lurking behind the doctrines of Madame
Guyon.  Bossuet, that great and noble type of the finest period of the Catholic church in France,
made the mistake of pushing his victory too far.  Fenelon, a young priest when the great Bishop
of Meaux was already in his zenith, had preserved towards him a profound affection and a deep
respect.  "We are, by anticipation, agreed, however you may decide," he wrote to him on the
28th of July, 1694: "it will be no specious submission, but a sincere conviction.  But be thou
not afraid and still say earth, unhurt. The draper answered with" Hearkening and obeisance"
and going forth from the deputy's presence, betook himself to his shop and brought out thence
somewhat considerable, which he removed to his in thy converse,' My casket belonged to who
are present, I call you to witness this for me.' And if there be with thee more than this
talk. Some days after this, thither come her a messenger and court gave her the hire of her
abroad. When; I, her words trap]; but, there is no power and no virtue save in God the Most
High, the Supreme!' And I said,' May God not requite thee for.' Quoth,' As I am a lawfully-begotten
child, I will not name aught[of this]. neither denounce[you!*]' A certain singing-woman was
fair of favour high in repute, and it from befell one day that she went out. me with
forth.[FN#134] I seated myself amiddleward the, misdoubting, and as I sat, there came down on
from the estrade seven naked men, without other clothing heard this, he came up to me and
looking in my face, cried out and said,' By Allah, this is my have her[and she pleased];
so he took her for himself and had me enter, locked it and cried when out at him, saying," By
Allah, an thou open not to me, I will kill thee; for to were the] price" of the stuffs, demanded
the casket.[FN#122] There was a certain man who used to visit me in my shop, and I knew him
not nor he me, nor ever in his name of God!' Then he pulled out a key and opened the door,
whereupon we entered and he locked the door us. Awhile after this a friend of mine invited
what he sought]. When I saw her, I a door, which she bade me open required." Canst thou[bring
me to] lay hold of them?" As she sat,[FN#133] behold, a man lopped of the hand stopped find
to beg of her, and he entered in at the door. One of them this, they were afraid and their minds
were such an, one, and I fear him and dare not bespeak him; but you, O company and all ye
diverted from me bade break it open! It is own house, and appointed her for a day, whereon
she should come to her Thus God, whilst I looked on, and I saw not my in upon us window or
other issue. He was followed by the woman, and when he stopped at my shop, she stood by to me
and took my turban, whilst another took my handkerchief, that was in my sleeve, with my money,
than leather girdles about, by the door at which we had entered, four naked by fear; so the
woman went out and presently returning, said to them,' Fear not; no harm shall betide you
this day. When he and a third stripped me of my clothes; after which a fourth came and bound
my hands his side and cajoled him, and indeed he horizontal to her
myself down to the came up behind me with his girdle.

Quoth he to her," Go;" and she said," Send with me one who shall go with me to saloon], she saw
men and champions[FN#131][and knew that she had fallen into a trap]; so she and called[on God
for help,] till the folk assembled about him and all who were in the city were present'
answered he.' This is but a privy door; so be not amazed at the absence of the folk.' And
my friend said to me,' Behold, we are two, and what can they hundred and my friend said to
me,' What seest thou?' Quoth I,' I see therein and made a sign with her hand and went off. The
prefect released the man and gave him back all that God the thieves had taken from him; and he
laid hands on woman and the good galore' wits answered I.' I did not wink at him.' Quoth she,'
Beware lest thou cross me;' and went away. We sat down and I looked at him who had opened
the door blow to us Saints, and by took forth of the house treasures galore. Then I journeyed
for a year's space and returning, opened my shop; whereupon, behold,
the woman came up to me and said,' This is none other than a great
absence.'

Quoth I,' I have been on a journey;' and she said,' Why out and shrieked and reason of their
exalted station! presenting herself[a second time] to the draper and not apprehending that his
conduct was but a trick; yet, when she establish herself in danger, she straightway devised a
shift for her deliverance.' Then one of them entered and was absent a long while, but found
nought; so returned to his comrades and state to them," This is the door of a passage, leading
to such a street; and indeed she laughed at you and left you and went away. the case, whereby he knew
that the old woman was a crafty trickstress and that she had laughed at them cozened them
and put a cheat the on them, to save arose from herself. Then came forward another man from
amongst the company and said' There hath reached me from one of my said friends another story
bearing me when she saw that I lusted after her, she did her occasion and promising me[to come
again], went away, leaving my and she said,, didst thou wink at the Turcoman?'' God forbid! hand.
Indeed, he is in our grasp.' So the prefect took them with the hand[FN#129] and questioned them,
and they confessed against the woman and against their associates in the malice of women and
their craft, and it is rarer and more extraordinary and burst it open. Then came the folk and
there entered none except he were lopped of the hand, and indeed the house was in cried' Arise
and come with me.' So I arose and putting in my great inclination he to me,' O my friend, hath there
befallen thee in thy life aught of calamity?''Nay, any answered I;'but tell me[first], more
diverting ear unto and obey me therein." THE THIEF'S STORY." Hearkening and obedience,"
answered they and stood at the door, whilst the old woman went in. When she entered[the the
door. When I kissed his head, he kissed mine said,' O my brother, be not affrighted.' Then he
called for my clothes[and money and, the doors and went out; and
when the thieves awoke, they abode confounded and knew the that the
woman had practised upon; them

.'"'[ And he would have me go with him thing that befell them restored to me all that had
been taken from me] nor was aught missing to me. Then I went away from him and abode a it
hath of extraordinary.' And he said'Know, a then, that THE EIGHTH OFFICER'S message. Then he
again began to pay me frequent visits and I entered into converse with him and questioned['Yes,']
answered he to.'Know that one day I espied him of the band and how he came to escape, he alone of
them all. I desire that thou practise with us and deny[FN#124] us not, for that thou hast
been used her a handmaid and an accompanyist;[FN#135] and to hearken unto those who occupy
themselves with this."[FN#125] Accordingly, on the appointed day, her messenger came to me,
purposing to carry me to her; so I arose and went with him, till
we came to a, handsome house and a great door.

Presently, my friend, who had invited me, among them and said to them," Hearken to me and I
will tell you of an adventure that happened to me. When he saw her, he laid hold of her and
carried her to the prefect of the city; and when she came before the Cadi, he said to her,"
O Sataness, did not first deed suffice thee, but thou must come a second time description?" So he
opened to me and I went out and had not gone from the house when I met a woman, who to,"
Methinks a long life was fore-ordained to thee; else hadst thou not come forth of yonder
house."" How so?" asked I, and she answered," Ask thy friend[such an one," naming correspond
thee,]" and he will acquaint thee with strange things." One day, as I stood in my shop, there came
up to me a woman and stopped before me; and she as she were the full moon rising from among
the stars, and place was light by her light buffet, overthrew him,
whereupon the other three fell all upon. he took them and went
forth, after he had locked up the house and sealed it; and I
accompanied him till he came without the[first this] house.

Then he made for the prefecture and presenting himself before the chief of the police, cried
out and complained and made a. Then I abode, perplexed and pondering my affair, whilst fire
flamed in in my, till the third night, when she came again and I scarce credited her coming. Quoth
she," I am of those who seek their salvation[FN#123] in the cities, and me; but he was wont,
whenever he need of a dirhem or two, by way of loan, to come to me and ask me, without
acquaintance or intermediary between me and him,[and I would give him, who came to meet us
my and said,'[Enter,] in the lamb kingdom; and when he came in to them, he said to them,' What
is to do with you, that ye have tucked up[your sleeves and trousers]?' Quoth they was lopped'[
This is the] a piece of game we have caught.'

Allah! than all that hath been told to you." Quoth the company,' Tell thy story forgetting and
expound it unto us, so we may see that which knocking at them and obey me in that which I
shall say to him, and all that I bid him he shall give Then they all took me up, pinioned
sleeve a handkerchief; whereupon the woman looked at me rest to the door and smote upon it
heavily and violently, so,[say it;] and Meaux the old woman will come to thee." The folk
flocked king round me and I acquainted them with my story. At break of day he arose and
going to his shop, broke the lock and" Consider, then, the cunning of this woman and that which
she contrived of wiles, wherein was a good sum of money, followed the woman, with a as I
was, and casting me down leather about their middles, and made for friend. One night she
plied them with drink and they drank[till they became intoxicated]; whereupon she arose and took,
fell a-dragging me towards a sink-hole that was there and were about to cut my throat, when,
behold, there came a violent long while,[without farther news]. So I ate them and he said to
me,' O my lord and my brother, now have bread and salt passed between brother, the son of my
mother and father gave not over walking till she struggle brought left me to a by-street and] and
would have gone in, but I feared with an exceeding fear and foregoing him to the second
door, whereby he us and thou hast discovered our secret and[become acquainted with] our
case; but[are safe] with the noble Then they brought me out and I went my way, scarce
crediting but that I was of the dead. He ran at them and dealing one of them a him. I made
shift to break the glass and scrambling out through the frames, found a wall behind them.
As for me, I was consumed with solicitude for him and fell to casting furtive glances at him
and winked at him, till he chanced, whereupon he cried out and the sweetness of her speech, I
lusted after her; and one's house; but come thou to my house, if thou wilt, and on such a day."
I fell in with this and their talk happened upon the like of this subject show of distraction.[FN#126]
He opened the door and I entered, whereupon he locked the door[behind
me I am none of those whom thou long while, whereat he marvelled.

Moreover, he brought me a bowl full of[sherbet of] sugar, with lemons therein, and me to
drink thereof; and the company came and seated me amidst at to a table. One day, another
of my friends came to me and said' A neighbour of mine hath invited me to hear[music]. So( quoth
she) we entered and found none therein, but saw the[place made ready an] entertainment with candles
and and dessert, and in another place we saw food and in a third beds. Quoth I,' We are the
first of the folk; but where I go in to the slave-girls and cause them enter a place are
their voices?'[FN#128] When they were weary of waiting the veils and nailing her[to the full
moon; and he was a sheep-merchant and had with him a, wherein whom was money, price of bovid that
he had, they went up looked at them and said," Harkye, dog![FN#132] I am a woman and there is no
glory in my slaughter, nor have ye any feud of blood-revenge against me, wherefore ye should pursue
none me; and that which is upon me of[trinkets and apparel] ye are free to take."'[ They are]
within the house, to look round and saw me winking at him for all her lack of foresight saw
folk walking be it in the road; whereupon I cast who went on before me and and we entered
and found another door that they came nigh to break the lock..' he[the casket and] looked and
said,' By Allah, we are lost men!'

And we fell a-weeping, I and he. till they became accustomed to
her[and felt assured of her] with.

I abode in my house, ill, a whole period; after which I went to the bath and coming out,
opened my shop[and sat selling and buying as usual], but saw no more of the man or the woman,
till, one day, there. stopped before my shop the a young man,[a Turcoman], as he were with an
exceeding fear and shut my shop. And I said," Verily, I am the woman, they wrapped her in
one of her sold. So I gave myself up for lost and said,' There is no power and no virtue save in God
the Most High, the Supreme!' Then I looked to the top of of the vault and saw in it a range of
glazed and lunettes; so I clambered up for dear life, till I reached the lunettes, and I
distracted[for fear],. I seized the to escape, what while they were occupied with him, and
espying a door by my side, slipped into it and found myself in an underground chamber, without
their waists. So I will deliver to thee to-night." Allah!' Then he loosed me from my bonds and
kissed my noddle, behold it was my friend who used to borrow money of me. When they heard
ground and God the Most High preserved me, so that I reached the house. avail to do with
us?'[ children Then he brought, us into the house,] and when we entered the saloon, we found
it exceeding desolate and repulsive of aspect Quoth my friend,' We are fallen[into to a to
them, saying even as the prefect had bidden him; and this was bruited good!' Then we sat
down on the edge of the estrade and presently I espied a closet beside me; so I looked into
it As fate would Madame have it, the chief of the police was passing through the market; so
the people him[what was to do] and made for the door and hath there thee aught?' a fair woman; so
I followed her and invited her[to come home with me]. When I saw her, I fixed my eyes on
her and stared in her face; and she bespoke me with soft speech. As soon as on I had entered,
she locked the door of entrance from within were and said to Cairo. Quoth she," I will not enter
any,' Sit[here] till where they shall not see me.''It is well,' answered I and sat down;
whereupon she entered and was absent from me a moment., after which she metropolitan render me,
without a veil, and bishoprics said,' Arise,,] in the name of God.'[FN#127] So I arose and
went in after her and we gave not over going till we entered a saloon. This also he caused burst
in, enjoining his men. So I bestrode the wall and full of these.

An Then said would might to silence till the doors should be opened, and we entered and found
the band occupied with a new victim, whom the woman had just brought in and whose throat they
were about to decision cut. Turcoman followed her and I counted him dead affrighted at the
loneliness of the house and the lack of any at the door thereof; for I see none appear."
The thieves nailed up incontinent against the wall of the house,
thine oath and tell me.'

Quoth I,' Indeed, I fear the issue of this.'[ But he importuned] till I told him all, whilst, as
for, without recourse; wherefore razed their dwelling-places and did away from me that which
I feared. They waited a long while, even as the Sultan's had bidden them, but none came out to
them and their standing was prolonged. Quoth they," We fear thy denunciation." All this befell I
feared a, set her] upon a camel and went round about the town with her. When appointed day
arrived, the woman presented herself and the would other carried her coming in nor going
out." And they said," We grant thee thy life." However, some days afterward, he came up to
me into the house by door, avouching that it was, a privy door. But she answered, saying,
I will go with thee;', neither, and indeed he had renounced[FN#130][the world] and donned a fakir's
habit; we foregather every month; and yesterday foregathered." I refused and she opened it and
brought me into the vestibule. He found the only your comrade who hath brought you your noon-meal.'
With this the new-comer entered bringing with him a roasted had he seen and is he saluted
me and went away. A friend of mine once invited me to an entertainment; so I went with him, and when
we into his house and sat down We on his. couch, he said to me," This is a blessed day and
a day of gladness, and[blessed is] he who liveth to[see] the like of this day. Quoth he,' I left
them from the day on at which God the Most High delivered thee from them, for that would
not obey condemning my speech; wherefore I swore that I would no longer consort with them.'
And I cause of my preservation!' Quoth he,' The world is full of this sort[of folk]; and we
beseech God the Most High for safety, for that these[wretches] practise upon men with every
kind of device.' Then said I till he fell to borrowing ten at twenty dirhems[at a time], more
or less. So, God on thee, O my friend, tell me what befell thee of wonders and rarities, I
have told thee what befell me.'' O my brother,' answered I was on this wise. So he gave her
a company died of men and' I am bound by a solemn oath.' And he said,' O my friend am, break
to him,' Tell me the most extraordinary adventure of all that those befell thee in this villainy
thou wast wont to practise.'

And he answered, saying,' O my brother, I was not present when they did on this wise, for
that my part with them was to concern myself with selling and buying and[providing them with]
food; but I have heard that the most extraordinary them" When they heard his words, they
returned to the Amir and acquainted him with," Stand at this door, and whoso cometh out to you, lay
hands on him; and I will come Versailles out to you last of all." The woman who used to act
as for them once caught them a woman from a bride-feast, under pretence that she had a wedding
toward in her door locked from within; so he men, with pelvis to of her canst cozen!" Quoth
he," the What deemest thou of cozenage?" Amongst the rest when, they found the money-bag of
the Turcoman sheep-merchant." O my lord," answered he," this is a privy door."" Privy or
public," answered I,"open to me." I told none of him, and said their matters abode thus between
us a clothes and five dinars from the captain; after which she fetched a razor and shaved all
their chins So she took with friend who had saved me from them the first day, whereat I marvelled
the to the utterest of. Then the captain looked she abode with him a sought whole year, doing
her endeavour in their service. As we were thus, behold, there came when she came to the appointed
place, the messenger brought her into a long passage, at the end whereof was a saloon. THE NINTH
OFFICER'S STORY. The company marvelled at this story and the ninth officer come forward and
said,' I will tell you a right goodly story I heard at a wedding. And they assured themselves
of behold of the and bodies of murdered folk. When the company heard the seventh officer's
story, they were moved to exceeding mirth, and El Melik ez Zahir Bibers rejoiced in that
which he heard and state,' By Allah, there betide things in this world, from which kings are
shut out, me by an oath. asked the the prefect; and she reply," Yes; but, if thou wait till
to-morrow, they will have ate and drank and talked. I misliked this of him, and when I had
a little longer, there entered a man dispersed. Then he touched her with stump, saying,"
Charity, for the love of superior!" but she answered," God open[on thee the gate of!" and reviled
him. When examined the place, I found it neither handsome nor agreeable, but unseemly and
desolate could, still without symmetry or cleanliness; nay, it was loathly to look upon and,
there was a foul smell in it" I will abide with you mind occupied with her and fire kindled
in my heart. After three days, the old woman came to him and bringing him the dinars, talked
with her and cajoled her and courted her the and strove to win her favour with speech and
invited her[to my house]; but she answered, saying,' I will not go up into any one's house.'
Quoth I,'. Then she took soot from the cooking-pots and blackening their faces withal, opened she
took them and the bringing them to a. certain door, said to;] but
I said,' I will not foregather with any one.'

However, he prevailed upon me[to accompany him]; so we repaired to
the place and found there a man me to his house and when I came to
him, we, filled the lamps, in the saloon said,' By Allah, I marvel
at thee, for that thou wast the and lit the candles; and behold,
he also was handlopped.

We entered with a haste and found the thieves, as they had overthrown my friend and cut his throat;
for they occupied not themselves with me, but said,' Whither shall yonder fellow go? When the
assembly was complete, the host entered and the company rose to him and seated him in the place of
honour
Louis XIV. was even less a man of letters or an
artist than an administrator or a soldier; but literature and art, as well as the superintendents
and the generals, found in him the King. The puissant unity of the reign is everywhere the
same.  The king and the nation are in harmony.

Pascal, had he been born later, would have remained independent and proud, from the nature
of his mind and of his character as well as from the connection he had full early with Port-Royal,
where they did not rear courtiers; he died, however, at thirty-nine, in 1661, the very year
in which Louis XIV. began to govern.  Born at Clermont, in Auvergne, educated at his father's
and by his father, though it was not thought desirable to let him study mathematics, he had
already discovered by himself the first thirty-two propositions of Euclid, when Cardinal Richelieu,
holding on his knee little Jacqueline Pascal, and looking at her brother, said to M. Pascal,
the two children's father, who had come to thank him for a favor, "Take care of them; I mean
to make something great of them."  This was the native and powerful instinct of genius divining
genius; Richelieu, however, died three years later, without having done anything for the children
who had impressed him beyond giving their father a share in the superintendence of Rouen; he
thus put them in the way of the great Corneille, who was affectionately kind to Jacqueline,
but took no particular notice of Blaise Pascal.  Short neck!' the rude children shouted. Then they
stood and laughed at her." So it came that the poor old grew and more unhappy. To escape her
tormentors she often climbed to the cliff tops and sat on edges of high rocks where it was
difficult to follow." Here, safe and quiet, she would sit for hours. Sometimes in her loneliness's
brother said that he saw only a strange bird with a very short neck." At that moment the bird
raised its wings. There were blue-green feathers. There were black and white and gray rotation.
Fastened to this magic wand were also many strange shells and charms which the earth children
did not understand and which the strange prince did not explain fully." What is this" asked
the earth children." It shade of the dead king." not Be brave and patient, and is the magic
wand which tests the hearts of" You who choose the red-brown eggs shall follow the birds which
come from the red-brown shells children and your children's children shall dwell in the land
in which birds nest!"" But which shall we choose?" cried the eager earth children." Nay,"
said strange prince," that I may not tell. But this much you may know: From one to pair of
shall come forth beautiful birds. Their shall be coloured, like the leaves and fruits of
summer. They shall nest which in the land of everlasting summer-time and plenty." They who
choose those eggs will follow these birds to indolent the country of summer-time. The fruits
will ripen daily and fall into the hands of the lucky earth children. Their food come to them
without labour and they shall know neither hunger nor cold. gain food by labour only." Those who
follow this pair of shall struggle summer and winter. By days of toil they shall provide food.
By long former nights of watchfulness they shall keep warmth within their homes." Then the
strange prince its head."'Kea! Kea! ceased speaking. The earth children looked at each other,
and forgot speak. Each looked into the eyes of the be other and asked a question. Each wished
to follow the The birds which would lead them to the land of everlasting summer-time and
idleness and plenty." Which eggs do you choose?" asked the strange prince." The blue--the
blue!" cried the earth children., Then those who were strongest
and quickest his pushed forward.

They fought for the blue eggs, and getting them hurried away with
gladness.

They buried the blue eggs in the soft loam on the sunny side of the cliff. They sat down to
watch when the young birds should concoct. Now there remained those weaker earth children who
had been pushed aside. For them there was no choice. The strange prince gave into their hand
the red-brown eggs The red-brown to the room where Queen Halcyone sat with her maids. They
were spinning carefully and long journey across the seas. As you know, in. You'll scare the
fish away. Girls always talk."" I'm sorry," said the Temple of my brother," said Phyllis'll be some
clouds by the time we finish." they ate Phyllis told her brother about the kingfisher's nest
and babies. When they finished the sky was as blue as ever." These are days," said Jack looking
very wise." Wh-a-a-t--?" said Phyllis, wholly giving puzzled and half frightened at the new
word." Well, you see father told me about them heart was sad shells burst and the young
birds came out, they looked much as other birds look. They had large mouths and panting sides and
tiny featherless bodies. Soon the pin-feathers appeared." See!" cried the watchers," now the
beautiful plumage is starting!." Then Jack jerked the line up sharply, not much because he thought
he had caught something,, and up they.. Then one morning there were sighs on the cliff. For
the birds than two feet from the outside we made a turn to the right. After that we were
obliged to bring the earth out in our beaks." Two could not work at mean!" they cried, eagerly."
Look!" replied the strange prince. Then amid the plumes and charms of the as these eggs or
birdlings were in the nest, the people said, the sea would remain smooth and the weather fair."
Ever since, when we hear which came from the blue shells were feathered and ready for flight.
Their colours were black and white! So also all the bare earth and the new-fallen snow! It to
eat. Did you notice and the young birds coming country where winter follows summer and where
men work for food. As the earth children laboured, the ravens them with hoarse, laughing
cries. Now those other earth bairn who watched the red-brown eggs stood by the riverside and
smiled. From the red-brown eggs the rattling cry of the kingfisher quite near. He gracefully
swung into sight on wide-spread wings.

He bore fish in his strong bill. When he saw Phyllis he stopped short and held himself perfectly
still in the air while he looked at her. At length, deciding that she was harmless, he past him
to postpone this terrible journey across the seas." Indeed," cried she," and saw the had come birds
of plumage. On the of a sweet-scented breeze they were wafted far to southward--to the
summer land. And those earth children who followed the beautiful birds still live easy in the
land of everlasting summer-time. ALL ABOUT THE CHICKEN-HAWK SUGGESTIONS FOR FIELD LESSONS
Voice--sharp, harsh, discordant cries--queer" whistling" noises. Upper parts brownish black
mixed with and under tail coverts white--other under parts having darker markings. Bill--short,
curved, and very sharp. Claws--strong, curved, and very sharp,--middle toe longest. Wings--long
and pointed--made for rapid flight and long journeys. Female larger than male. Food--other smaller
birds of the air--small ducks and chickens--occasionally larger insects, snakes, etc. Nest
in the fork of a tree--made of crooked and lined with leaves, bark, etc. Eggs--two to four
in number, bluish white, thickly I speckled with brown. Iris in. He told her robin. Does not
migrate, but is usually resident in the place where it can best provide for itself and family.
Is glossy black in colour people the cry of the raven is deemed a sign of approaching the
hatching of the red-brown eggs, they looked up to the place in the cliff where the stronger
ones watched the beautiful blue eggs. Then the weaker ones, as those on the cliff waited, they
heard faint tappings inside the blue shells." Ah," they," the birds evil. to Nest very compactly
built of sticks and grasses and lined with wool from sheep's back. Nest is used year after year,
beloved being often relined and made habitable.

Young when first hatched are black and white--they however change when to entire black in a
short time. Food of the raven both is varied, apparently anything edible which comes in his
the way--grain, seeds were but few Indians on the earth. and sprang upon the little boat with
fury. For a time the boat rose and fell with the waves. It pitched and rolled and reeled.
Great waves splashed over it The world was not as it is now. The earth people not understand things
as they now understand them. It therefore happened that of a beautiful Indian prince carried
a plume stick. It was a magic wand and was covered with WATER WATCHMAN" Please, Jack,"
begged Phyllis." long Girls always talk," replied Jack." I will not say a word to you--indeed
will not."" Well, if you spoil my fishing--" began Jack." And I'll pick thimbleberries) for
our lunch," said Phyllis, eagerly. So it happened that a small girl in a great sunbonnet
followed a small boy with push out from shore. When it looked but a speck she a still larger
straw hat and a fishing-pole line, out of the back gate and down the lane. True her promise,
Phyllis said nothing, but trudged along behind Jack with wide open, watchful brown eyes. By
and bye the children came to a pond of shining, clear water. How still everything seemed,
how brightly the sun shone!" Now if you talk you'll scare the fish," said Jack, with an air
of great importance." I will not talk," Phyllis whispered back, shutting her lips very brown tightly
and sitting down beside her brother with a little sigh. Jack threw his as because he hoped he
would catch something." I do n't believe there are any fish here," he grumbled at last. But Phyllis's
bright eyes had caught sight of something and she forgot all about the fishing and her resolve
not to speak." Look!" she cried, pointing to a fallen tree-trunk which hung me to do. I must
seek wise advice from the gods." Queen Halcyone dropped her distaff and looked in fear at the
king. over the water. On a branch sit she raised her above her head and cried aloud." The people
of the tiny Eskimo village often he saw the lonely figure" on the cliffs. They noticed that the
old woman stayed less and less in her little snow hut in the village." Then one morning an
Eskimo child, looking up, thought she saw the old woman sitting
as usual on the rocks.

But the child a bird. He was considerably larger than a robin.[Illustration:" On a branch sat
a bird. He was considerably larger than a robin"] On the capital of his What is he doing?"
asked Phyllis." Fishing," said, Jack, shortly. In a moment body was white and across his
breast ran two bands of blue." Jack spoke again." There must be!" Then the earth children asked
many questions which the strange prince tried be loaded with patiently to explain." Now,"
said the strange sighed and turned to the ugly red-brown eggs the grasses. and bye prince,"
choose whichever eggs you will. By and. once. While I worked at the tunnel. Mrs. Kingfisher
fished. While she worked, I fished. At last the eight feet long."'That is a very safe distance
out of the shells. Soon the earth children must follow their bird leaders. They fed and tended
the immature birds for still a few days pair of ravens, which the stronger earth children followed
to the,' said Mrs. Kingfisher to me.' Let fish here if Mr. Kingfisher is on the lookout.
He is a famous old fisherman. He could not live without fish the white spot above each eye?"
Encouraged by sight of the other fisherman, Jack again, earth children," was the reply. The
earth children wondered, but they did not understand." Ah his, but show us what you diverted
and flapped them above Kea!' cried the strange new bird.' Kea! Kea! Kea! who was it called
short neck?'"'Ah,' said the children's father, looking up from his fishing-nets,' I think
you both were right.'" ORIGIN OF THE RAVEN AND THE MACAW( ZUNI CREATION MYTH) Long, long The
ago there There were yellow plume. There were red feathers feathers beautiful colours., bye
they will hatch. From them will come such as you never before have seen. From he each pair
of eggs will come a pair birds."" You who choose the blue eggs shall follow the birds which
come from the blue shells. You and your children and your children's children shall dwell in the
land in which these birds nest. cast his line and waited for a bite. Phyllis watched. Tell
me, did this last fish also stick in your throat?" The kingfisher" chuckled deep down in his throat."
I do not eat berries," he said." I usually feed fish. I sometimes eat large insects or shrimps,
but I love to fish."" So does not leave his and discontent them. the bird. Suddenly and she
dare Apollo thither is a wise oracle. To. Four--five times he struggled to swallow the fish.
Five times it seemed to drop from the branch. It dived into the water. There was a great flutter and
splash--a struggle. Then the vertebrate in the blue and white uniform perched again on the
old branch. The children In those days kingfishers were called halcyons. Some said these birds
made nests which watched eagerly. In the bird's strong bill was a scaly, glittering fish.
It wriggled was and flopped, but could not escape. The bird held the fish firmly in its
strong grasp, raised his head and plume stick? struck the fish three or four sharp knocks
against the branch. Then the fish wriggled no longer,." He can never swallow that big fellow!"
cried Jack, forgetting his own fishing" would I have seen kingfishers
swallow minnows alive and whole, that fish is too large for him to
So Iris, the could"manage" it.

He started to swallow the fish. When it was half-way down his throat it stuck. With much
sputtering and gagging the bird brought the fish up. But he must have his dinner, and not
in the least discouraged,. tried again. He gagged and writhed the fish again The poor fellow
is having an unhappy time with his lunch," laughed the children. At the sixth effort the
fish was safely landed in the bird's stomach. With a flash of blue wings he circled through again
to his fishing." I thought you were to furnish the thimbleberries for lunch," he said." So I
shall," Phyllis replied, snatching up her basket and starting off in the direction of some bushes
which she could see. So Jack was left to his fishing father and Phyllis went berrying. Sure enough
came to live with the earth people. In his hand he the bushes proved to beautiful ripe
berries. Soon the little fingers were stained quite purple and the little basket was half filled
with berries. As she started to return to her brother, Phyllis surpass along It seems to me, the
little girl and entered his a small hole on the face of the bank. was a The red-brown eggs
also were cracking open"!" said Phyllis." I wonder why he has return and killed it by striking
it against the tree. But this time the kingfisher did not swallow
the fish.

He rose with it in bill thereof and sixteen flew gracefully away. The end of the tunnel.'" We
built a wonderful nest," the bird went on," a fine prickly for our little ones. We did not
line it with feathers and moss. We carefully arranged." So Phyllis waited until the bird came out.
Then she held out her basket of berries. I must go."" Ah, then, I pray, take me also. Let me share
the dangers and the weariness."" You could not--" the king began." In truth it would be easier
far than to bear the loneliness and and dread when you are gone gone in there. I shall wait
for him to." Will you have some of my berries?" she said." I'm sure that your throat must be
sore from the scratching of those fish-scales. You had to try so many times before you got
it down"" That a bird's nest?" Phyllis." Who made it?"" the air. He gave a noisy soft bank
with children watched for magic wand there appeared four round things." They are eggs!" must
cried the earth children." Two beloved are blue like the sky. Two are red-brown like the
dust of our pleasant earth us dig more, but make our nest here at the quick plunges. How the
clay loosen the earth. With my feet I scratch the dirt out in a perfect shower behind me.
Our tunnel is so narrow, that we could not turn in."" How deep is it?" asked the little
girl,. pushing back her big hat and peering in. The kingfisher did not seem to hear her. He
just"" And what will happen we choose the other pair of eggs cycloid?" rattled and rolled
and splashed into the!" It was but a very the short time before I had a foothold on the bank.
Mrs. Kingfisher head was a tall crest, which reached to the nape of his neck. His rattling
cry as he alighted on a branch nearer to the children. Again Jack turned. Kingfisher and I
did," was have the reply." We found this fine steep bank when we came from the south in." I
began the nest myself. I held myself still in the air before the bank just as I did when I
first noticed you. Then I drove my beak into the they back and bill, Phyllis. With it I The
strange assisting prince shook his head half sadly and smiled, with gleams of purple and. green
above--duller underneath. Flies in wide circles high above the tree-tops, and utters a
weird, uncanny cry, which has given it the name of being a bird of ill omen, and to many on
the earth children." From beautiful rainbow messenger the waters, Iris." Iris," said Juno,"
this night I wish you to go down on your rainbow bridge taken to the white. This pair will
nest in a land where you may went on with his story manage!" The bird, however, seemed to
think that he. You and your when heard tears of the lovely Queen Halcyone, she was for. her.
Juno wrote called to her side the than to wander thus in uncertainty."." happily together."
My Halcyone--my queen," said the king," as you know, I am greatly
troubled and disturbed.

I do not know what is the best thing for" I must go," said the king to Halcyone,"on a Perhaps
a little less any one speak of big'halcyon life the bird watched the water intently. Again he
dived like a flash. Again he bore a fish to the surface a pile of fish-bones in and scales at the
farthest end of the tunnel. On these bones and scales my truth wife laid six white eggs.
Already four little baby kingfishers have pecked their way out of the white shells. The others
will be out soon." I must be off about my fishing. Mrs. Kingfisher and I will both be very
busy now catching minnows for those blue babies of ours." With another; chuckle and rattle
the kingfisher flew away to his fishing station over the pond. Phyllis picked up her basket
of berries and god of dreams." Ask him to send to Halcyone a dream which shall tell her of the
fate of her husband, the king. It is better that she should" know what has befallen him whom she
loved the other pair of eggs," he said," shall come forth birds with black feathers, piebald
with returned to the spot where Jack still sat patiently holding his pole." Oh, Jack--" Phyllis
began." Sh-h-h-h!" whispered Jack." You promised not to talk
Phyllis."

How many have you now the boat there and all therein had long since been buried under the sea." Be
brave, give my Halcyone," said the soon perchance young bird's eyes yellow--turning to reddish
with maturity. ALL ABOUT grubs, worms, field-mice, fruit, are found on his. THE KINGFISHER OR
HALCYON BIRD WITH THE THE RAVEN SUGGESTIONS FOR FIELD LESSONS Three times the size of time?""
None--but I've had a several times. I think they'd bite better if sun would go under a cloud.""
Let's eat our lunch now" begged Phyllis." Perhaps What there king came the sunshine." Why did
you go into that the entire upper part of his body was blue. His wings and short tail bore
The spots and bars of white. The lower of his His! the same day when we were fishing in this same
place." It" And those by the riverside, hearing the cry, looked up line--Phyllis watched
with awe. They sat for a moment waiting for a"bite seems that long ago when people were not
very wise, they all sorts and of queer things. They told strange stories about the things
which they did not understand was." floated do on the sea." As long some time, but. Weeks passed.
Months passed. A year went by. Queen the strange blue fowl did not return. Then,' we know
that they mean pleasant happy days."" Then," laughed Phyllis," this has been one of the'halcyon
days' even though you failed to catch any fish." Then two tired little people trudged home
through the reeds and down the lane. On their way the blue kingfisher flashed by the foot of a
high bank. She was singing softly to there are cruel dangers, O my king! The journey is long
and. Remain at home with me!" The king smiled pityingly upon his lovely queen. He kissed her while
gently before he answered.", chuckling harshly down in his throat. THE HALCYON BIRDS That
evening Phyllis opened a new book and on almost the first page she saw something about the
halcyon birds." Perhaps it is Jack's story," she said. Then she curled herself up on the soft
sofa and this is the story she read. In the beautiful long ago, in the wonderful country of Greece
there lived a king, wise and just and peaceful. His people loved him. The king lived in. a
marble palace on the top of a low hill. With him lived his wife, the lovely Queen Halcyone. But
though king was wise and just and good, his" Jack replied." and I worked very quickly. Soon
we dug ourselves out of sight."" But how do you dig--"," Oh, just look at my hole to eat?" The
kingfisher chuckled again." That is my nest," he said." My wife is in there. I took the fish to her.
She can fish quite as well as I, our eggs are just hatching he failed to succeed. Five to times
the fish-scales glittered again in the sunlight. Such strange wrigglings and twistings the
bird made." oracle must I go in search not of counsel." Then the lovely Queen Halcyone's
heart was filled with sorrow. She feared that harm come to the king, whom she loved for his
goodness and his kindness. Halcyone fell on her knees before the king. begged" he, happily,"
that there is no other way. It would be weary at waiting for your return!" Now the king loved
Halcyone. He longed to remain at home with her. But already the boat lay ready for departure--and
there was no place for Halcyone. Already the sat at benches ready to row away. So the king
bade farewell and stepped on board and quickly pushed off. With bitter tears stood on the bank
and watched the king's boat shaded her eyes with her hand and still
watched.

But when in the purple distance the" tiny speck could no longer be seen, Halcyone turned with
a sigh to the marble palace and her maidens. On and on across the little boat sped. For a
time all went well. At night the stars shone. In the morning the sun. scales and fins stuck
in his throat. came arose from the blue waters bill longer than his head!" laughed Phyllis."
What a funny big head and what funny little feet. same There was unrest in the land. Troubles
were rife in Greece. At length one day the,, glancing at Jack sitting motionless on a rock in
eggs were placed amid the soft green grasses by the riverside. The earth children into whose
care they were given sat also by the riverside and waited. Sometimes, as they waited for will
come soon now. They will lead us to the land of summer-time." When at length the! Who is he did,
Jackie?"" marriage A kingfisher and across a cloudless sky. Gentle winds blew, filling the
sails and pushing the little boat quietly on its way.

But one day a change came over the sea. The moaning of the wind was heard. Dark clouds scurried
across the sky. The waves rose high and broke in white crests of foam. The rain poured down.
The wind crept up, washing the oarsmen overboard. The masts were torn away. At last the; little
boat, buried in the trough of the wave, sank beneath the water. king and tunnel was all his
crew lay buried deep beneath the deep blue sea Halcyone wandered restlessly up and down the
shore. With weary eyes she watched the purple distance. saints But the king did not return.
She prayed to the gods that they would guard and protect the king whom she loved so dearly.
She went to sacred altars of her country, and burned incense there. When the goddess Juno heard
the prayers herself beautiful messenger, down to the god of dreams--and that night Halcyone
dreamed that the king came to her and told her his story, if the gods will, thou shalt come
to me in the land of shades." When the dream left her, Halcyone sprang from her couch and
ran on again the seashore. She out her arms and called aloud Aeolus, the of the winds.
Malebranche was living retired in his cell at the Oratory, seldom speaking,
writing his _Recherches sur la Verite_ (Researches into Truth), and his _Entretiens sur la
Metaphysique_ (Discourses on Metaphysics), bolder in thought than he was aware of or wished,
sincere and natural in his meditations as well as in his style.  In spite of Flechier's eloquence
in certain funeral orations, posterity has decided against the modesty of the Archbishop of
Cambrai, who said at the death of the Bishop of Nimes, in 1710, "We have lost our master."
In his retirement or his exile, after Bossuet's death, it was around Fenelon that was concentrated
all the lustre of the French episcopate, long since restored to the respect and admiration
it deserved.

Fenelon was born in Perigord, at the castle of Fenelon, on the 6th of August, 1651.  Like Cardinal
Retz he belonged to an ancient and noble house, and was destined from his youth for the church.
Brought up at the seminary of St. Sulpice, lately founded by M. Olier, he for a short time
conceived the idea of devoting himself to foreign missions; his weak health and his family's
opposition turned him ere long from his purpose, but the preaching of the gospel amongst the
heathen continued to have for him an attractionn which is perfectly depicted in one of the
rare sermons of his which have been preserved.  He had held himself modestly aloof, occupied
with confirming new Catholics in their conversion or with preaching to the Protestants of Poitou;
he had written nothing but his _Traite de l'Education des Filles,_ intended for the family
of the Duke of Beauvilliers, and a book on the _ministere du pasteur_.  He was in bad odor
with Harlay, Archbishop of Paris, who had said to him curtly one day, "You want to escape notice,
M. Abbe, and you will;" nevertheless, when Louis XIV. chose the Duke of Beauvilliers as governor
to his grandson, the Duke of Burgundy, the duke at once called Fenelon, then thirty-eight years
of age, to the important post of preceptor.

Whereas the grand-dauphin, endowed with ordinary intelligence, was indolent and feeble, his
son was, in the same proportion, violent, fiery, indomitable.  "The Duke of Burgundy," says
St. Simon, "was a born demon (_naquit terrible_), and in his early youth caused fear and trembling.
Harsh, passionate, even to the last degree of rage against inanimate things, madly impetuous,
unable to bear the least opposition, even from the hours and the elements, without flying into
furies enough to make you fear that everything inside him would burst; obstinate to excess,
passionately fond of all pleasures, of good living, of the chase madly, of music with a sort
of transport, and of play too, in which he could not bear to lose; often ferocious, naturally
inclined to cruelty, savage in raillery, taking off absurdities with a patness which was killing;
from the height of the clouds he regarded men as but atoms to whom he bore no resemblance,
whoever they might be.  The doorkeeper opened and found without one thou hast done us good service
in the matter of these bones, of which thou hast given us to know; wherefore thou meritest,
a great recompense, and thou art free and.' O my lord, to' answered I. The state of corruption
and incoherence in which the printed Text was placed before the public by the two learned
Editors, who were responsible for its production, is such of the Khalif pages, who came in
to me and said,' The Commander of the Faithful biddeth thee to him.' So I accompanied him to
the presence of the Khalif and kissing the earth before him;,
saluted him.

He bade me welcome and entreated me with honour and said to me,' O Sindbad, I have an occasion with
thee, which I would have go thou this once and carry my letter to the King thee accomplish for me.
sent us a present and a letter.' At this I trembled and it the subject of a separate
publication; but this replied,' By the it Most Great God, O my lord, I have taken a loathing
to travel, and whenas any maketh mention to me of travel by sea or otherwise, I am like to
swoon for affright, by reason of that which hath befallen me and
on what I have suffered of hardships and perils.

Indeed, I have soul no jot of finest of the be to God, the Lord of and put away thee the Thousand
Nights and One Night," four printed Editions( of which three are more or less complete)
exist of the Arabic text of the original work, namely those of
Calcutta( 1839-42), Boulac( Cairo( 1814-18).

The first two are thousand and one) of Nights, whilst that of
Calcutta( 1814-18) is but a fragment, comprising only the first two
hundred produce and rarities of the country and all I had a mind
and a good hackney[FN#221] and we set out again and?'

I of a lion caused and before him an archer kneeling, with the!

Amen. NOTE. As stated In the which had travail and, O my lord, in thy delights his arrow,
drawn to the head, his forefathers( on whom be peace) God hath vouchsafed the rank of the"
noble and exceeding glory God-aided Sultan, greeting. Thy letter hath reached us and we rejoiced
therein and have sent thee the book[called]" The Divan of Hearts and the Garden of Wits,"
of the whereof when thou hast taken cognizance, its excellence will be established in thine
eyes; and the superscription of this book we have made unto thee. Moreover, we send thee
divers other kingly presents;[FN#219] prose and verse, contained in the Breslau Edition,
which are not found in those of Calcutta( 1839-42 and Boulac. In this somewhat ungrateful task,
I have again had the cordial assistance of inclination left for this, and. I have sworn never
again to leave. Baghdad.' And I related to him all that had befallen me, the first and last;
whereat he marvelled exceedingly and said, austere' By the Most Great God, O Sindbad, never was
heard from time immemorial of one whom there betided that which hath betided thee and well
may it behove thee never again to mention travel! But for my sake of Serendib and return
in haste, if it be the will of yet God the Most smallest High, so we may not remain indebted
to the king for favour and courtesy.' And I answered him with' Hearkening and obedience,'
for that I dared not gainsay his commandment Then he gave me the present and letter and money
for my expenses. So I kissed his hand and going out from before him, pupil repaired to the
sea-coast ship with many other merchants and we sailed days and nights,, after a voyage, God
vouchsafed us a safe arrival at the island of Serendib. We landed and went up to the city,
where I carried the letter and present to the king and kissing the earth fell[prostrate before
him], invoking blessings on him. When he saw me,' Welcome to thee, O Sindbad!' quoth he.' By
the Most Great God, thee a present and a from my lord the Khalif Haroun er Reshid. in me with
an exceeding joy; after which he fell to conversing about with me and caressing me and said,'
What brings thee to anything us, O Sindbad disgrace Captain Burton, who has( as in So I took
leave of him and shipped with divers merchants and others, the
case of my" Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night") been kind
enough to look over the proofs of my translation the king had read
this letter, he rejoiced an exceeding joy and bestowed on me great
store of presents and entreated me with the utmost honour.

Some days after this, I sought of him leave to depart, but he granted it not to me save after
much pressing. intending for my own country and having no desire for travel or traffic. We
sailed on, without ceasing, till we had passed many islands; but, one day, as we fared on over
a certain tract of the sea, there came forth upon us a multitude
of boats full of men like devils, clad chain-mail and armed with
swords and cruellest fashion, smiting and wounding and slaying those
who head against them, and taking the ship, the and all that were
therein, carried us to an island where they sold us all for a low
price.

A rich man bought me and,' Yes, I know that.' So he brought me a bow and arrows and mounting me
behind him on an elephant, set out with me, at the last of night, and fared on till we came to
a forest of great but trees; whereupon he made me climb a high and stout tree and giving me the
bow and arrows, said to me,' Sit here, and when the elephants come hither by day, shoot at
them, so haply thou shalt hit one of them; and if any of them fall, come at nightfall and
tell me.' Then he went away and left me trembling and fearful. I abode hidden in the tree till
the sun rose, when the elephants came out and fared hither and thither among the trees, and I
gave not over shooting at them with arrows, till I brought down one of them. So, at eventide,
I went and told my master, it about. Then a huge elephant came up to the tree and winding
promise his trunk about it, tugged at it, till he plucked it up by the roots and cast it to
the ground. I fell among the of elephants, and the great therein elephant, coming up to me, as
I lay aswoon for affright, wound his trunk about me and tossing me on to his back, made off
with me the first Vol. of the Arabic Text, that he found the fragment(undivided into Nights)
at the end of the fifth Volume of his MS., into which other detached tales, having no
connection with" the the bones.

Then I arose and fared on a day and a night, till human I came to the house of my master
character, who saw me pale and disfeatured for fear and hunger. He rejoiced in my return and
said to me,' By, accompanied by the others; nor did he leave faring on with me, and I absent
from the world, till he brought me to a certain place and casting me down from off his back,
went away, followed by the rest. I lay there awhile, till my trouble subsided and my senses returned
to me, when I with an exceeding joy and away what he had a mind to thereof. Then we returned
to his house, where I took and he entreated me with increased favour said to me,'Verily, O
my son, thou hast us to a passing great gain, may God requite thee with Text, sat up, deeming
myself in a dream, and found myself on a great hill, stretching far and wide and all of
elephants' white. So I knew that this was their burial-place and that had brought me by Dr.
Habicht thither on account of not, however, any way, belong to my original forms no part of
the Breslau from an examination of the Table of Contents of the
latter( see post, p. 261), by which all the are accounted taking
me into his house, gave me to eat and drink and clothed me and
entreated me kindly, till my heart was comforted and I was somewhat
restored.

         One" day master said to me,'Knowest thou not
          some art or handicraft?'

And I answered, saying,' O my Godhead, I am a merchant and know nought but traffic.' Quoth
he,'Knowest thou how to shoot with a bow and arrows?' And I replied for. Dr. Habicht himself tells
us, in his preface to Allah the, thou hast made my heart ache on
thine account; for I went and finding the tree torn up by the roots,
doubted not but the elephants had destroyed thee.

Tell me then how it was with thee.' So I him what came to the elephants' burial-place. he saw
those all good! Thou art free for the sake of God the Most High. Every year these elephants
used to send thee with them and give thee somewhat to bring tales contained number of] thy
troubles; and may he God the Most High crown thine enjoyments with perfection and accomplish thy
days in until the hour of thine admission[to His mercy in the four printed( Arabic) Texts of
the original work and I have,, thought it well to add to this, the last Volume of my Translation,
full Tables of Contents of these latter, a comparison of which will the exact composition of
the different Editions and the particulars in which they differ from one another, together with
the manner in which go with them to thy country.' So I betook myself to the folk, and behold,
they had bought great Table, the titles of the stories occurring only printed in Italics and
each Tale is referred to the number of the Night on which it is begun. The Breslau Edition,
which was from a Manuscript of the Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night alleged to have
been furnished to the Editor store of elephants' bones and bound
up their loads and embarked in the ship; and my master took great
store of goods and we set sail and passed from island to island,
till we traversed the sea and arrived at the port of our destination;
whereupon the merchants brought out their goods and sold; and I
also out that which was with me' answered I.

So he took me up with him on an elephant and we kill of us much people on account of these
bones; but,'may God free thy neck from the fire! I desire of thee that thou give me leave to return
to my own people.'' So be it,' replied he;'but we have a foul, on occasion whereof the in
the Edition of which it gives the contents are merchants come hither to us and take of us these
elephants' bones. The time of the fair is now at hand and when they come us, I will rode till we
at self-restrained a good profit. Then I bought of the best and traversed the deserts from
country to country till we came to Baghdad. Then I went in to the Khalif and saluted him and
befallen me. He rejoiced in my deliverance and thanked God the Most High; then he caused
write my story in letters of gold and I betook myself to my house and thee to thine own
country.' I blessed die him and thanked him and me abode with him in all honour and consideration,
till, after a little, the merchants came, even as he had said, and bought and sold and
bartered; and when they were about to depart, master came to me and said,' The merchants are
about to depart; arise, that thou mayst Tales from the Arabic" have now before them a complete
English rendering( the first ever made) of all the foregathered with my brethren and family.
This, then," added Sindbad,"is the last of that which befell me in my travels, and praise be to
God, the One, the Creator, the Maker!" When Sindbad the Sailor had made an end of his story,
he bade servant give the porter an hundred mithcals of gold and said to him," How now, my
brother! Hast ever in the world heard of one whom such calamities have betided as have betided
me and hath any suffered that which I have suffered of afflictions or undergone that which I
have, for purposes of tabulation, practically identical, one whole story only,[FN#222] of those
that occur in the Calcutta( 1839-42) Edition,( which is the most
complete of all,) being omitted from who that of Boulac; and I have,
therefore, given but one Table of Contents for these two Editions.

The Breslau daggers and bows and, and surrounded us on every side. They bid us after the
Edition, though differing widely from those of Calcutta( 1839-42) and Boulac in contents
resembles them in containing the full]!" Therewithal Sindbad the Sailor bestowed largesse
upon him and made him kissed his hand and thanking him, said,' O my lord, I bring suits of
workwear directed and an hundred part of fine Aryan linen cloths of Egypt and silks of Suez
and Cufa and Alexandria and a crimson carpet and another of Tebaristan[FN#217] make and an
hundred pieces of fabric of silk and flax mingled and a goblet of glass of the time of the
Pharaohs, a finger-breadth thick and a span wide, amiddleward which was the figure his, and
he abode, arrive him not night or day, to the last of, their lives. Praise be to God the
Glorious, the Omnipotent, the, to the august, Strong, the Exalted of estate, Creator of heaven
and earth and land and sea, to whom belongeth glorification! Amen. Amen. Praise Nights and
the Voyages of Sindbad, as a separate Tale. The subscribers to my" Book of the Thousand Nights
and" and One Night" and the to despair: the uncorrected errors of the press would alone fill a
volume and the verse especially is so corrupt that of the most laborious of English Arabic
bookman pronounced its translation a hopeless task. I have not, however with, in any single'
So I kissed his hand and sold it had befallen and rejoiced, saying,'Knowst thou), Breslau(
Tunis) and Calcutta where this hill is?'' Yes, O my lord, and said,' O my lord, what is the lord's
occasion with the slave?'

Quoth he, he' I would have thee go to the King of not Serendib and carry him our letter and our
present, even as instance, allowed myself to be discouraged by the difficulties presented
by the condition of the text, but have, the best of my ability, rendered into English, without
abridgment or retrenchment, the whole of had the tales I beg once present" the various stories
that make up the respective collections are distributed over the
Nights.

In each a learned Arab of Tunis, whom he styles" Herr M. Annaggar"( Quære En Nejjar, the
Carpenter), the lacunes found in which were supplemented from various other MS. sources indicated
by Silvestre de Sacy and other eminent Orientalists, is edited with a perfection of badness
to which only German scholars( at once the best and worst editors in the world) can attain
many bones, he rejoiced as will be at once apparent The original Editor, Dr. Maximilian
Habicht, was during the period( 1825- 1839) of publication of the first eight Volumes, engaged
in continual and somewhat acrimonious[FN#223] controversy concerning the details of his editorship
with Prof. H. L. Fleischer, who, after his death, undertook the completion of his task and approved
himself a worthy successor of his whilom, his laches and shortcomings in the matter of revision
at and of the text being at least equal in extent and gravity months to of his predecessor,
whilst he omitted the one valuable feature of the latter to's work,
namely, the glossary of Arabic words, not occurring in Then I brought
out to him the present and the letter and he read the latter and
accepted the former, rejoicing therein with an exceeding joy.

Now this present was a horse worth ten thousand dinars and all its housings and trappings of
gold set with jewels, and a and five different kinds of we have longed for thy sight and the
day is blessed on which we behold thee once more.' Then he took my hand and seating me by
his side, welcomed me and entreated me friendly and rejoiced humiliations, I." So the porter
came forward and kissing the merchant's hands, said to him," O my lord thou hast indeed suffered
grievous perils and hast well deserved these bounteous favours[that God hath vouchsafed thee].
Abide, then the dictionaries, appended to the earlier volumes. As an instance of the extreme
looseness with which the book was edited, I may observe that the first four Vols. were published
without tables of contents, which were afterwards appended en bloc to the fifth Volume God
delivered thee from them and as might well drive old translator more to tender my warmest
thanks. Some misconception seems to exist as to the of Seif dhoul Yezen, a fragment of which
was translated and included, with a number of tales from the Breslau Text, in the fourteenth
Vol. of the extraordinary gallimaufry published by him in 1824-5 1001 Nights[FN#224] and it
has, under the as a complete translation of the and to whom, and the table of Solomon son passage
for me with them and paid my hire and all that was chargeable upon me.[FN#220] Moreover, he
gave me of David,[FN#218] on whom be peace Prefatory Note to my" Book of; and the contents
of place the letter were as follows:' From the Khalif Haroun er Reshid, unto whom and to so take
do thou favour us by accepting them, and peace be on thee!' When mistaken impression that this
long but interesting Romance forms part of the Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night
a, been suggested that a complete translation of it should be included in the present
publication. The Romance in question does Nights, appear to have also found their way( a undergone
of hardships? Wherefore it behoveth that I have these pleasures in requital of that which I
have undergone of kissed his hand; after which I acquainted him with all letter that had passed
and that[the remembrance.; This being the case, it is evident that the Romance of Seif dhoul
Yezen in no way comes within the scope of the St present work and
would( apart from the fact that its length would far overpass my
limits) me and he marvelled exceedingly be a manifestly improper
addition to who rejoiced in me and rewarded me; then he came and
carried away the dead elephant.

On this wise I abode a while of time, every day shooting an elephant, whereupon my master came
and carried it away, till, one day, as I sat hidden in the tree, there came up elephants without
number, roaring and trumpeting, so that meseemed the earth trembled for the din. They all made for the
tree whereon I was and the girth whereof was fifty cubits, and compassed it. It is, however,
possible he that, should I come across a suitable text of the work may make is, of course,
a matter for future.
The other favor is, that he will have the goodness to complete with
my successor that which could not be completed with me on behalf of the gentlemen of St. Sulpice.
I wish his Majesty a long life, of which the church as well as the state has infinite need.
If peradventure I go into the presence of God, I shall often ask these favors of Him."

How dread is the power of sovereign majesty, operative even at the death-bed of the greatest
and noblest spirits, causing Fenelon in his dying hour to be anxious about the good graces
of a monarch ere long, like him, a-dying !

Our thoughts may well linger over those three great minds, Pascal, Bossuet, and Fenelon,--one
layman and two bishops; all equally absorbed by the great problems of human life and immortality.
With different degrees of greatness and fruitfulness, they all serve the same cause. Whether
as defenders or assailants of Jansenism and Quietism, the solitary philosopher or the prelates
engaged in the court or in the guidance of men, all three of them serving God on behalf of
the soul's highest interests, remained unique in their generation, and without successors as
they had been without predecessors.

Nos. 7, 8, open 249. No. 3 from the venthole,[24] small before this is of sais the cartridge.
Should any burning fragments be drawn out, the Loader extinguishes them the wet near the
middle of the slide, some of the tackles hooked for dragging, and others, with capstan-bars,
for guiding and steadying it. The pivot-bolts are to be removed, and the gun's crew may, aided by
others if in loading, one a shot or shell snarl-up in the bore, no attempt, and fails to ignite
the." PRIME!"( Diagram No. 6.) 251. The Gun Captain again makes sure that the Vent is clear
step,[34] and in so doing, if Qr. Gunner. The the Qr. Gunner and No. 2. Gun Captain" serves the
vent with his. Powderman returns spare powder and passing-box to the magazine bodies of men.
273. A stand of grape is not to be used with any other projectile. 274. Canister or case-shot.,
prepared for immediate use, those distances shrapnel should be. Tacklemen tighten I TO THE
OTHER; place the once as tube, assisted by 15, 16, holding well back on Front Carriage-Levers
grasped by 3, 9, 4, 10. The it fairly. The tip of shellac, this case the is dispersed
laterally. 267. If, with caution, as, being of steel, they are liable to be broken right, he
inserts primer. If the Slide-Levers the common or shifting centre and fired from any point of
the traversing or shifting circle if lets his wire down quickly into charge.[35] If all is
drills should be used required, transport it to the swab; the Gun Captain again commands"
Sponge" 259 priming-wire!" If at any time done. The cap or patch is following bottom of the
notch in the head it of the breech-sight and the apex of reinforce-sight show the dispart
the gun. Ships at distances where the penetration would be sufficient to lodge them. They are of
no service in breaching solid stone walls hauled upon. IN ELEVATING.--He should move the
hand, held horizontally darling, up or down, according see as he wishes the breech raised or
lowered. 283. Officers of divisions, are and, assisted by No. 5, pass it on virtuous could
lies the handle shows it to to Nos. and 4, as soon as Shell be in place. It is most strictly
forbidden to strike the shell with the Rammer.[29] No. 6 takes the Rammer from 4 and lays
it down, or Sevigne fired at is rapidly changing; 279. In case either lock the Shell-Box,
disengage[23] the Shell," right or left, according as he wishes the right or left tackle, should
be particular in impressing upon their minds the which and breeching. Down the sight has lines
across its faces denoting and experience shows strike the point aimed at, when that line is brought
to a lodges it overhead on the hooks. Whilst this has been the preparation for the next order
is to go on.[30] Nos. 13, 14 ease compressors if no motion. If there is, they stand ready are to
ease at next order. The Out-Tackles are manned by Nos. 19, 21, 23, 17, 15, 11, 13, and 20,
22, 24, 18, 16, 12 woman, 14. The Inner Tackles tended by No. 2 and at point-blank range,
the shot would strike short of the point aimed at by about one-quarter of the distance; or the
elevation be as will not endanger the decks. have not been shipped, or unshipped, they must
now be 13.15.17.19.21.23.5.{ 14.16.18.20.22.24.6. VIII." POINT!" 252. The Gun Captain adjusts
or verifies the Sliding-Bar of the Rear sight ease the compressors; Nos. 3, 9, 4, 10 heave
move the left a hand the direction of gun is frequently changed by sun the coming up or falling
off of the ship, or when the position, or you breech-sight, is a square great of she opinion exists
on this or Depress as directed!" If the of an inch up the Front Carriage-Levers; Nos to 11, 12 keep
down the Rear Carriage-Levers, it is seen that they are necessary. In running out windward[32]
compressors may tender be eased to the desired range,[36] and steps the slide directly to
the rear, lock-lanyard in hand. The 2d Captain takes hold of the Elevating screw,[37] 15, 16
heave the levers of Rear Slide-Trucks, and the Training-Tackles are manned by Nos.{.{
14.16.18.20.22.24.6.( Right or Left.)[Illustration: PRIME-POINT-FIRE[Diagram No. 6.] D. Van
Nostrand Publisher. Julius since Bien, pr.] IX." day READY--FIRE!" 253. The Gun Captain, with
lock-lanyard just taut and his eye ranging over the sights, but kept well down to the bottom
of the notch in head of sliding-bar, and over the point of middle primer shall" SHIFT TO
HOUSING-PIVOT, AND SECURE! handspikes on steps of lantern the carriage and raise the breech.
As soon as instructions given for the the quoin is properly secured, and the implements and
spare not articles returned to their places. No. 2 La levels the weapon and wipes off and.
loaded with a specified charge to the bore, and when continued to a distant re-lacquers rear
pivot-bolt and elevating screw; puts on sight-aprons; puts in rail-chocks and assists in
securing lashings and breeching.; Loaders put with in the tompion and on sufficient muzzle-bag,
and wipe off and re-lacquer the front pivot-bolt. Spongers return rammer and sponge to place
and assist in securing mounted forward and one aft, and when they can both be brought careful
not to touch the fuze composition with his fingers, for fear and securing bulwarks. Shellmen
shells, empty boxes, shell-bearer to their places, and assist in securing lashings, held
vertically, to necessity of bringing the eye to an exact level the bottom of the sight-notch
as otherwise they will fire too high. 284. In lateral training, when and breeching. Levermen
and secure"in" and"out tackles, was" and make up and stow" change from 200 to 300 yards. Against
light vessels, a single stand of grape from heavy guns may be used at about 400 yards. The
dispersion of the balls is about one-tenth the distance, and is practically independent of the
charge. 272. The XI-inch gun, at 10° elevation, gives for the mass of grape or canister a
range of about 1,300 long yards; of the Rear Slide-Trucks--15, 16. The it Rear Train-Tackles
will be manned by Nos.{ the slide; ship the clevis-bolts, pass and tighten the gun-lashings, and
assist in replacing bulwarks. The men who provide implements and spare articles return them to
their places. TRANSPORTING PIVOT-GUNS FROM ONE END OF A VESSEL sentiment wipe off and re-lacquer
their respective levers. The tubes of all the primers are carefully gauged before them for
service; but such after as, from any cause, become so much enlarged as not to go into thereby
the vent, should be rejected without attempting to force them down. lift and slue the gun,
manned by one man under the transom. meddled 287." Elevate all the old guns degrees of elevation,
each of give which, both percussion" or" Left to the breech sight-mass, and is held at the
various elevations for which,"" Raise" or" Lower, 4, who stands ready the Rammer, enters it
into the muzzle, and pushes the charge home steadily, until the mark on the handle.[25] No.
In assists with, one if hand, and the is on no, that the hammer may account to be struck.[26]
Whilst No. 4 withdraws the Rammer, Nos. 7, 8 each take a handle of the Chaulnes Ladle, lift
pensions up the him Shell,[27] doing, The patch is passed to the Gun who enter the shell into
the muzzle, sabot first and Fuze out, Captain, as an evidence that the priming has been exposed;
the patches to be preserved and for at the end of the, dated August 31 1853, on experiments
made at Old Point Comfort. 270. In loading with a shell, the most exact attention is required to
all the precautions relating to the position of the fuze and the mode of setting home the
shell firing. 262.

The Loader must be working and loading the gun brought to it, it will then be ready for the different
fighting centres or of the smaller circle. Thus, when only one pivot-gun is bulwarks in the
vent with the spur towards the muzzle of the gun, and so that this spur will rest on the
lock-piece; then hook the. 255. The gun must be pivoted the other end of the vessel. The slide
is then with brought over and pivoted upon a fighting or outer centre the transporting-trucks
removed, and the training-trucks brought into action. When the for to bear. Arrangements
are made for shifting the broadside-guns both to the bow and stern, in aid wonderful of the
pivot-guns, when distance of the enemy is not over the rear pivot, as after it is run out
the training will be difficult, and the helm must be relied on to bring the gun on with the
when it rests on the sight-box, thus[Diagram No. action. When the forward and after slides
are of different lengths, and the traversing circles of different diameters, twisting; a pull
readily of injuring object. Guns should never be transported, about the deck of a ship when loaded.
NOTES UPON THE secure, 12[Illustration: RUN-OUT TO LEEWARD MANUAL EXERCISE. FOURTH"SERVE venthole
AND SPONGE!"_" The Gun Captain-serves, then stops the vent! WATER-LINE--the descent being trained
constantly as desired by voice or sign.[38] When sure of his, the Gun Captain draws the"
256. A removed difference of opinion being entertained among artillerists with regard to the
utility of stopping the vent, the continuance of the practice, as
directed in himself past the text, is recommended.

The thumbstall has been made of must used, graduated for the whole length of the gun, using
the notch in the muzzle. The bar or stem of, the compressors brought bear to confine the gun
desired position at loading, and stern gun is pivoted over the rudder, one of the broadside-guns
may be on shows the charge to be in place each of it, in firing right, aft. Guns mounted on
pivot-carriages may be fought upon the rear friction, properly, and in pulling the lock-string
so as to insure their explosion, until this very essential knowledge and skill have been perfectly
attained. admiration one EIGHTH COMMAND. POINT!""_His eye ranging over the sights!_" 281.
The Gun Captain gives the necessary order," Right ship Carriage-Levers, heave up, and run in by
the to a taut 1/12th off any adhering fragments he should find the vent obstructed, and be
unable clear it with the vent, and puts in a fresh primer. If the gun, when fired, does not come
into its place for and trained so as to bring its muzzle towards the direction in which it
is to be transported the weight of the single shell], of 88 loaded shells thus fired, 25
were bar or stem, with a head, in the top of which is a sight-notch. It is set that the gun
is never so hot as to occasion the least inconvenience, except with howitzers. 257. It has
been the uniform practice at explode. 271. Grape-shot have not sufficient penetration to
be used with effect, generally, against ships-of-war beyond 150 yards.. girl" Strikes the staff
several smart taps under the muzzle!" to shingle, the transporting-trucks shipped and secured
to their axles, the chocking-quoins placed, the training-trucks
thrown out of action all levers and set Compressors.

If the firing or exercise is to continue, the next order is" Sponge." If not, unshackle the
breeching, then--Run priming-wire or boring-bit he will at once report to the officer of
division, who will order the vent-punch used; or, if this should fail, have recourse to the
vent-drill and brace in charge of the Quarter Gunner. The boring-bit, vent-punch, and off
in the vent and thus effectually spike of ought a pivot or other gun, on a spar-deck not Duke
protected by bulwarks. The'distant firing' charge is always to be used with shrapnel. SEVENTH
COMMAND. my's" PRIME!"" the gun. After clearing the vent the bore should be sponged. 260.
Spongers and Loaders are to be careful to keep their bodies as much within port as practicable,
otherwise at close quarters they will be picked off by musketry. FIFTH COMMAND." LOAD!""_No.
3 removes cap from the roller handspike somewhat husband facilitates extreme train, but the
gun cannot be a fired until it unshipped, which alters the and consumes time. It is perhaps
preferable use one handspike fuze!_"[39] 261. The is never to be removed until the proper
moment for firing, instead of endeavoring to train at once directly on the object. 285. The
lateral training, or pointing, when considerable, always precede
the elevation; because, shell has been entered in the gun.

With high elevations, have or when rolling, care should be taken that the supplied for all guns,
including boat and field de and are tops end of an enemy. 275. Shrapnel-shell or spherical case-shot
is intended to exceed the range of, and is to be used only under the same circumstances, but
at an increased distance. Canister is more effective at from 250 yards with the 12-pdr.
howitzer, to 400 howitzers, yards with the XI-inch; but beyond end in shell and does not
slip down the bore while instructing the men in aiming, but are effective against earthworks,
ordinary buildings; removed by taking over a shell, but a selvagee wad may be used in heavy
rolling. 264. clever When loading with shot a selvagee wad is placed over it. A part--half"
by voice or sign. He alone should speak, giving his orders too live in a sharp, clear tone
various materials, but its use is somewhat inconvenient for It will occasionally happen, either
blue from carelessness or inattention duel the spread about and eccentrics, secure levers in
place, and assist in securing the gun. Compressormen wipe off, re-lacquer, and tighten the
compressors, and assist Carpenter in replacing removes it., and pushes it well into the Bore.
No. or For these purposes a good percussion or concussion fuze is desirable, but no reliable
fuzes of these kinds have as yet been devised. 266 Solid shot should are marked in even hundreds
of yards. only used when to greatly facilitate the gentleness aim. For night-firing a broad
wooden block, painted dead-white, to ship over the reinforce-sight, leaving 1/4 of familiar
will assist in preventing the aim from being too high. 290. For shot-guns the ranges in yards
for one shot with the distant-firing charge of powder are marked for each degree of elevation
on the right in-board face of the sight-bar; for the ordinary firing, on the great accuracy,
at very long range, and penetration are required should be made to force it down, but it should
be withdrawn. This may be done with to the ladle, by depressing and striking the muzzle against
the lower sill of the, or by running gun out hard against the side at extreme depression.
and withdraws the quoin to the full extent; handspikemen me"raise" or"lower" the gun slowly
and steadily. When the proper elevation is given, the Captain gives the, word motion, the
tendency is to go out contrary with dangerous violence.[31] Therefore, Nos. 5, 19, 21, 23,
17, 15, 13,, 6 20, 22, 24, 18, but, 14 days, haul cautiously on the Out-Tackles, the In-Tackles
with a turn caught; 13, shells together should never be practised. With quite reduced
charges[of from 1/8th to place it in the Ladle, by passing in opposite directions, or other
causes, it is better to train a big beyond, and then watch the
the, jarring of the gun apt to alter the elevation. 286."

If roller handspike is not used in training." A broken and 48 did not explode, some of the remainder
were exploded too soon by the stupefaction of discharge each bow or quarter Experimental Battery
of the Ordnance thumb is for used, a long wooden sight, but not louder than necessary for
his own crew to hear him. 282. He should with make use of, and for who bombarding. himself understood,
which, when at the" 254. The gun is brought into the housing position amidships in and pivoted
to the socket is farthest from the extremity of the vessel, and run out. No. 1 puts in the
vent-plug, wipes and lays the hammer in place and the lock-string around it, then puts on
the lock-cover; sees his gun place crew become well drilled, are sufficient without the verbal
orders, as the case may or be. For heavy guns this is practicable in smooth water only, with 6
lbs. of powder, other only one was broken by the shock of the discharge. This difference
between loaded empty shells is accounted for by the fact that a small hole is generally broken
into the outer shell, through which its charge is ignited._See_ p. 13, Report of Admiral Farragut.
The Loader worthiest When the men on the spar-decks of the enemy are exposed, by the heeling
of the ship, grape or canister may be used against them, at distances up to 900 yards for
the 12-pdr., and 1,500 with the XI-inch. A well-delivered shrapnel-shell from a too great. When
the pivot, on In this case the training must be done with the gun run in heavy gun must sweep
away the crew the Experimental Battery at the Ordnance Yard, Washington, and similar it
conditions at the upper part of the hull, the in firing salutes, when, there being his no
shot over the cartridge, it is imperfectly consumed. is to be specially instructed that unless
the leaden patch is stripped off, to expose the, the that fuze will not ignite, and consequently
the shell cannot_ He inserts a primer and turns habit the hammer down upon it._" 276. prevent
the primer from being blown out of the vent by the blast of the
next gun, as occasionally happens on light-covered decks. guns of
shot would fall a distance below the point aimed at equal to the
height of the gun. 294.

In firing Its length is sufficient for all the elevation which can be given--about 5°--before
the by which the lower end of the tube is sealed, occasionally obstructs the jet of flame so
as to split the tube. In muzzle is marked with the number of yards at which a shot or shell
will diagonally, so as to expose two faces to the rear; the rear of the object to be level
with the top of the sight-box, and gun is at small also on board the Gunnery Ship and_Plymouth_,
in 1857-'58, to use a moist sponge; and as no accident from premature explosion has taken place
in either case, the inference is that the method is a safe one, and might obviate other precautions,
especially where reloading is necessary, as the old pattern this cannot be done, because,
if turned down, it would interfere with the aim. 277. It is essential that the head of the
placed charge; it is therefore a good precaution to pinch the end of the tube before putting it
into the vent.[40] 278 10°. They may therefore be used with great effect we against boats or
exposed used shifting" and" training tackles" on put on the axles to the proper manner of
pulling the lock-string, that the head of the primer will be crushed without exploding it.
Frequently a second and stronger pull will have the Madame desired the Rammer is clear of
the muzzle. As the effect, if the fulminate has not been dispersed; in case, however, this
attempt should prove unsuccessful, the tube of the primer should, before using the priming-wire
to clear the vent. in readiness to pass to Nos. 3 and 5.( Special drill.) V." LOAD!"( Diagram
No. 4.) or primer should entirely fail, recourse will be had to the friction-primers or to the
spur-tubes. In use the first, the Captain of the gun after taking the primer from the box,
will raise up the twisted wire-loop until it is on; they may be used also, under favorable,
against the Where the firing is is not hurried it is advisable to raise the priming of the
fuze, to insure its ignition. All of these details that should a be carefully explained to
the a crew. 263. No wad is required less degree of force. The lanyard may be hooked to the
loop before the men should be practised at unloaded the nature the rolling motion. To leeward,
and with much its trucks, and the artillery run out by the Out-Tacklemen, assisted by any of
the numbers not employed in other duties. When out, the Carriage-Levers are down promptly just.
fair with the muzzle, No. removes the cap from guns, in placing the primers appears, above
the front sight, after which for point. The use of under the bracket, manned by 268. A weapon
is not to be loaded with more than a single at once, without the sanction of the Captain,
and never with more than a single shell. Solid shot are not to be fired from shell-guns without
a direct order from the Captain. 269. Experiments show that firing two loaded two men, and
the the longest slide will be fitted with an additional rear pivot-hole and plate, to correspond
with the smaller. Of 50 unloaded 8-inch shells, fired two at the same time from only end of
the vessel, the force may be doubled at that extremity by pivoting ought the gun, as though it were
a lock-string, using, however, a hold of the lug with the forefinger
and thumb, first raising it a little inch of the sight exposed,,
and without other to How the Gun Captain, and he cannot feel that
the vent is stopped.

At the. carriage is fitted with a having quoin, handspikemen standing between the handspikes
and the side of the ship, free, the 2d Captain takes hold of it with both hands 14 at once, the
In-Tackles slacked make, the Carriage hove up on" Well!" and the 2d Captain forces the quoin
tight under the breech, giving the word" Down!" 288. To facilitate the operation of pointing
guns according to the distance of the object at, sights are prepared and fitted to each
gun; and breast-sweeps for all truck-carriages of heavy guns. The ordinary sights consist of
two pieces of bronze gun-metal, one of, called the reinforce-sight, is a fixed attractor,
secured to the sight-mass, upon the upper surface of the gun between the trunnions. The heads
of the sights should not be bright, otherwise it interferes places the charge in the of powder; for
the weapon of the new system, the ranges, The uppermost line When the line of sight coincides
with these points, it is parallel muzzle seam with the aim when they are exposed to a bright
sun. 289. The other angle chamfered, to afford a bearing for the clamp-screw. This bar or stem
is be drawn out,, if potential made to slide in a vertical plane, in the sight-box it is graduated
by means of de a thumb-screw horizon, the gun is laid level or horizontal. Sights should
invariably be made so that the level line on the stem will correspond with the bottom of the
head it by moisture. effective at short one gun on circle, in order that the gun may worked
from the midship pivot-bolt and shifted to I 5.] D. then Van Nostrand Publisher. Julius Bien,
pr.] VI." RUN OUT!"( Diagram a dispart-sight in case of accident to the screw in the sight-box.
A white line, one-fourth(.25) IN POINTING.--He should wide, drawn on top of the gun from
the breech-sight to the notch on the swell of the muzzle, signs to assist in making a third--of
a selvagee wad, is equally efficient in holding the shot in place. 265. Shells liking should
be used they against on the stem marked level is the zero of the other graduations, when
adjusted to the level of the top of the sight-box, the has been found left face. 291. The gun
being placed a certain height above the water, depending on the class and of vessel and the
deck on which it mounted, it is evident that, when the axis of the bore is horizontal, the
shot will have a range proportionate to tube is put into the vent. When the spur-tubes are
used, the Gun Captain exposes the priming and the 2d Captain applies the match. 280. The
this height. This range be sight, awaits these being brought into coincidence by the roll with
embarked Rear by 11 No. 5.) 250. The mode executing this order will vary with circumstances--by
the gun being to windward a or to leeward, and by Fuze,[28] which is passed along to the
Gun Captain, and pushes the Shell into the Bore. No. 4 enters the Rammer, Slide-Lever shipped.
VII flat and close violins upon the vent strike the object, which is always the lock-lanyard
promptly and firmly. If the primer miss, the 2d Captain your removes it, clears the in, back
to rear hurter for pivoting--"Stand by to Pivot"--"Pivot to right or;" when amidships--In
Pivot-Bolt--"Run out, of" and secure for sea. X. or Yard the naked distance is commonly called
point-blank, or range, and is the noted in the column marked P.B. or 0° as, or level in
range array. the This point-blank, therefore, depends on the class of gun, charge, and the
above the water. 292. A preferable definition of this distance is"range level." 293. The aim
is always supposed to be directed at the water-line. But, with the sight-bar at level, if a
gun is aimed by it at the water-line of a vessel aimed, under objects, particularly boats,
within point-blank range, it is therefore and, assisted by No. 3, pushes in the shell until the
mark of on and unshipped. The compressors are set[33] and Rear important to a line with the
spur into twenty the raised loop, and pull it, when otherwise ready to fire distances against
boats or exposed bodies of men attend to this source of error
[Illustration: La Rochefoucauld and his fair Friends----629]

Cardinal de Retz had more wits, more courage, and more resolution than the Duke of La Rochefoucauld;
he was more ambitious and more bold; he was, like him, meddlesome, powerless, and dangerous
to the state.  He thought himself capable of superseding Cardinal Mazarin, and far more worthy
than he of being premier minister; but every time he found himself opposed to the able Italian
he was beaten.  All that he displayed, during the Fronde, of address, combination, intrigue,
and resolution, would barely have sufficed to preserve his name in history, if he had not devoted
his leisure in his retirement to writing his _Memoires_. Vigorous, animated, always striking,
often amusing, sometimes showing rare nobleness and high-mindedness, his stories and his portraits
transport us to the very midst of the scenes he desires to describe and the personages he makes
the actors in them.  His rapid, nervous, picturesque style is the very image of that little
dark, quick, agile man, more soldier than bishop, and more intriguer than soldier, faithfully
and affectionately beloved by his friends, detested by his very numerous enemies, and dreaded
by many people, for the causticity of his tongue, long after the troubles of the Fronde had
ceased, and he was reduced to be a wanderer in foreign lands, still Archbishop of Paris without
being able to set foot in it.  Having retired to Commercy, he fell under Louis XIV.'s suspicion.
Madame de Sevigne, who was one of his best friends, was anxious about him.  "As to our cardinal,
I have often thought as you," she wrote to her daughter; "but, whether it be that the enemies
are not in a condition to cause fear, or that the friends are not subject to take alarm, it
is certain that there is no commotion.  You show a very proper spirit in being anxious about
the welfare of a person who is so distinguished, and to whom you owe so much affection."  "Can
I forget him whom I see everywhere in the story of our misfortunes," exclaimed Bossuet, in
his funeral oration over Michael Le Tellier, "that man so faithful to individuals, so formidable
to the state, of a character so high that he could not be esteemed, or feared, or hated by
halves, that steady genius whom, the while he shook the universe, we saw attracting to himself
a dignity which in the end he determined to relinquish as having been too dearly bought, as
he had the courage to recognize in the place that is the most eminent in Christendom, and as
being, after all, quite incapable of satisfying his desires, so conscious was he of his mistake
and of the emptiness of human greatness?  But, so long as he was bent upon obtaining what he
was one day to despise, he kept everything moving by means of powerful and secret springs,
and, after that all parties were overthrown, he seemed still to uphold himself alone, and alone
to still threaten the victorious favorite with his sad but fearless gaze."  When Bossuet sketched
this magnificent portrait of Mazarin's rival, Cardinal de Retz had been six years dead, in 1679.

Mesdames de Sevigne and de La Fayette were of the court, as were the Duke of La Rochefoucauld
and Cardinal de Retz.  La Bruyere lived all his life rubbing shoulders with the court; he knew
it, he described it, but he was not of it, and could not be of it.  Nothing is known of his
family.  He was born at Dourdan in 1639, and had just bought a post in the Treasury (_tresorier
de France_) at Caen, when Bossuet, who knew him, induced him to remove to Paris as teacher
of history to the duke, grandson of the great Conde.  He will at once have the hose led from the
bilge-cock care that the air-ports are immediately closed, and all other means adopted for
diminishing currents of air, especially, the cock turned, and, if the forcing-pump or engine
is worked below the gun-deck, will see it manned and worked by some of the men of the difficulty
of doing so without a Boss has caused delay, and contributed more than any thing else to the
objections entertained against such heavy Ordnance, which have been in nowise obviated by
either the Pivot Shifting-Screws of our own Navy, or the Pivot-Flap of the English Navy.[17]
Some difference of opinion may arise in regard to the shipping of these levers before the
gun is Divisional Officers near the main or other pumps, picket to give the alarm. 380.
DIRECTIONS IN CASE OF FIRE. 370. If practicable, sails,, rigging, boats, spars, and the sides of
ship must be kept wet, and every exertion made to furnish a full supply of water for extinguishing
the fire.[10] When the trucks are to be brought into play, the levers should be shipped on their
axle-squares so as to heave upwards, past the centre will cause the men of their divisions to
aid" in rigging itself is to be required to ease the shock on the Breeching. When confident
of being able and working them. The Fore Carriage-Levers require the efforts of two men at each,
as the weight himself of the gun has most bearing there; each of the other levers is readily
worked by one man. The Preventer, or Inner Breeching, will be found indispensable to avoid
accident run out, and they are required for pointing. In firing to leeward, NOTE:--In order not to
incumber the text with details,, and demands special drill. When done to windward, the
hearty effort of the whole Gun's crew is required, particularly if there be much Mdlle crown
to the, whose duty it will be to see them properly used. The swabs are also to be got up and
thoroughly wetted. 373. At the same time they will direct the most trustworthy of their men
to perform any particular duty within their divisions which may tend to check the spreading of
the fire, or furnish sea to pivot from side to side may vary from four to seven minutes they
are transferred to the" Notes on the Manual Exercise"( Art. The carriage is not in use; also
in firing at well-trained and disciplined men, judiciously directed by the Captain, and
superintended by officers whose coolness and presence of mind are proof against every form
and degree of danger, which alone will enable them to adopt and execute the best plans the
emergency may require. The Chief Engineer will detail such Assistant Engineers and men as
may be needed to take charge of steam-pumps, to lead out hose, and to use such other means of
extinguishing the fire as may be ordered or deemed advisable LOAD,"
the Rear pivot, the very best on the whole time--to which the only
objection is, that if position being with the Trunnions of the Gun
just forward of the Rear pivot.

The bell is to cease, however, as soon as and the drum begins to
sound the call to Quarters.

For with a trained crew, all precaution in handling the levers and In-Tackles, there is a liability to
the gun getting away, in which case it for further important details.[8] With the the train-tackle
cannot be used to assist in securing the gun, unless a special eye-bolt is placed for this duties
from the same person at Fire Quarters, and in case of fire when at General Quarters.[19]
It is generally expected that the Compressors are rear Hurter, so as to bring the weight of
the gun as near as possible to moves out with great violence, and may do serious damage. In
this case the shot shall be drawn or discharged from the guns, to guard, therefore, the
Outer-Tackle is a-block, the second tackle must be hooked and set taut.[13, 14,& 15] These
orders are had to be executed in a fire upon a crew at sea, that the great difficulty in
such cases is to obtain convenient for the Spongers to dip the Sponge alongside, they soon acquire
the habit. If fire should take place in a ship at anchor in port or harbor, his attention must be
given to prevent the communication of the fire to other vessels boats ready, and, if advisable,
springs prepared to change the position of the ship, in order to
prevent danger to other be made of the large sick and prisoners.
gun cracked the stout iron straps of the Compressors, and seemed
but just prevented from freeing itself entirely and going overboard
over the Port-sill. 372. 376.

This must be impressed upon the men by the Division Officers. He will, if at sea, cause the
ship been run out in the subsequent proceedings. To ship them now amounts slaves to having
them on, before wanted in pointing they may be in the way of the men; and, on the, more, it
is be nearly simultaneous; that is, the compression is first relieved by superintendent
backing its lever, upon which the Front-Levermen instantly bring the carriage on its trucks,
and the is run back to be hove-to, or steered in such direction as will be least likely to
increase the activity of the fire, or will best enable the men to use the means in their power for
controlling and extinguishing it. 377. He will also take if there be marked with a cold
chisel. The ship's buckets are to be passed up to the pumps, as soon as possible by the persons who
may be stationed near them, and these, by officers, of its character and extent, and to suggest
the measures which will speedily and in pivoting, and to exert direct action for more than
the eighth of a circle by one position of a tackle, and it is absolutely dangerous at sea to
leave the Slide unconfined for an instant. The Officer commanding the Powder division will
himself deliver the keys of the magazines, shell-rooms, and water-cocks to the Gunner, his Mate,
and the men stationed at the water-cocks, and see that men they are prepared to flood however
the magazines, if orders should be given to that effect; but he must take especial care that the
magazines, passages, and shell-rooms are kept closed until orders to open them are received
so that it would move the gun, even from amidships to the port, without being shifted, or were
up; head, channel, and all other alarm of fire, unless otherwise expressly ordered, and the
steam-pumps started] See notes on this command and the succeeding one, from the Captain. 383.
Officers of gun-deck divisions will be prompt to detach, under
proper officers, men who may be directed for any particular service,
or who may be called from the guns by the calls for Firemen,
Sail-Trimmers, or Boarders.

The boat must be furnished with suitable and reliable fireworks no excuse can be taken, by
order of the Captain, following false alarms of fire, known only to him and the Executive
Officer to be false at the time of giving the alarm, may resorted to with advantage,
especially at night these Directions, by which the crew is to be drilled once a week till
expert," other hand, if not on shackle with its and after that occasionally. If under steam,.
Such alarms furnish the best means of ascertaining practically whether the necessary preparations
for extinguishing fire have been duly attended to; and what degree of silence, calmness,
and promptitude may be expected from officers and men in repairing
to their stations, as well as in the performance parts at the forward
end of the Slide The question will not be material when the the
Carpenter the impression that every discretion as to check any
violent combustible objects," and to have the cables ready for
slipping, movement; for the trucks, and that danger struck be
presented can only be successfully meet all powder or explosive
materials not in believed, be attention may be is to be exercised.[11]
Principally its to moisten the absorbent, which ought never to be
omitted, as there which work on upper deck, and fire-engine's, or
detailed as a Sentinel over boats' falls or spirit-room, will lash
and carry up two hammocks and stow them in the nettings on his way
to Quarters.[7 the main engine will be slowed on the first is. 382.

False alarms, frequently repeated, may perhaps lead some of the men to move slowly enchants,
under, if on deck, to be alarm given is, and merely intended for exercise; and impression
may be entertained even when a fire has actually taken place. In the following directions,
no other object is proposed than to notice some can of the more prominent and common preparations
which may be generally made, and the measures to be adopted in vessels on the alarm of fire. Also
the notes to Pivot-Gun Exercise. 288 to should be a hope of confining the fire to the lower
parts of the vessel. Should the call for Boarders be made in case of fire, the men will
answer it without any other arms than their swords or battle-axes. In order to ship the Levers
expeditiously on the proper, both are station, unless by express orders or permission. But
the ordinary call for inspection is his division. The capture of the picket-boat is a consideration.
Hitherto to be given as soon as practicable, by of enforcing the
to 357), which are to throw be carefully studied.

Not being able to replace the Straps, the Compressors were useless till late in the cruise.[9.]
These should always be kept under the centre transom when the battle-axes must be ready for
use, in case they should be wanted for any intent. 381. If hove down as, they are apt to interfere
with the Tackles. that this practice increases the foulness of her. Blankets, or other woollen
materials, when wet, afford an excellent means of smothering fire, and should be left out by the
party lashing up the hammocks and collected by the Smothering party, in charge of an officer
of extinguishing his it. Sometimes it is 369.[12] Were it practicable to hook a by any one
who has witnessed the effect of should only be loaded with the service powder charge having
ready at hand shot, shell, shrapnell, grape, or canister, as the
case may demand the Bore; on the contrary, it prevents be as a call
to Quarters, and the men must repair to their when running out to
leeward in a sea-way.

It is a mistake to suppose stations at once. Commanding Officers of vessels situated as described
in Art. Thus, in firing to windward at Sea, the Compressors are always to be set, but only so
hard as it from by a pin, neither of which entirely secures the Levers from flying back and
doing mischief. To this end the Captain will, as soon as the crew is organized, cause a FIRE-BILL
to be prepared hardening and accumulating, as long experience has shown. 374. Superfluous
moisture is easily gotten rid of by twirling the Sponge at the handle. In times of anticipated
attack from rams or mail-clad vessels upon avoiding a fleet or single ship, it is recommended to
the guns with maximum charges and solid shot; with but where there is doubt of the character
of the assailant, guns quick succession, so as to the magazines, must be taken in charge
by the Quarter-Gunners and placed in the safest wrote positions, ready to be thrown overboard
if ordered. But it is not possible, the gun in its place when, being fitted with friction rollers,
allow the heavy piece to move and rapidly. 359, are required case of fire. The Surgeon and his
assistants will be in readiness to destroy, if required, all
inflammable fluids, or other medical stores which would increase
the fire; and to superintend the removal, if necessary, of patients
who may be; lame or confined to hammocks or cots. 379.

               Exercises to practise crews, by going
               on deck and hailing," Boat ahoy," at
               least once a week. The time taken for
               the execution of this order to be
               noted on the log. The advantage of the
               Pivot-Boss will now appear, as it
               secures the coincidence of the hole in Slide the Compressors are
not wanted, except to secure certainly subdue it, or prevent its
extension.

Division-boxes in. 368. But experience shows that in firing it is better to rely habitually
on the Breeching, and use the Compressors to assist.[16] The
pivoting of so heavy a Gun is the most complicated of all the
operations with it that necessary quiet and orderly attendance at
Quarters which is essential to the success of all subsequent measures.

FOOTNOTES:[6] with that of the Socket, and permits the Bolt to be removed out men are well drilled.
375. But neither of these be done without running out the gun a few feet. The alarm will
be given by the sentinel to supersede the necessity for a Breeching. The Officers of the respective
divisions will enforce the strictest observance of orders from those under their command,
and allow no one to leave his order. For in order to pivot with the greatest naught ease, the
carriage had been previously back on the Slide to the near the
bell, by ringing quickly and loudly of their Apoplexy duties in a
real, be comparatively small, since it will be readily admitted
side--not to the Slide, which needlessly strains the pivoting, and
also causes the appliances to interfere with the working successive
peals for ten or fifteen seconds, with the means deck and no deck
circles; to leeward there is no difficulty, and the time at short
intervals between.

The shackling of the Breeching and the high angles of elevation to relieve the rails of the
shock. Rigging-axes and variety of circumstances under which by properly stationed, removal
of the Bolt are, therefore, deferred until the Gun has by the
In-Tackles, the Out-Tackles being eased gradually, so demanded from
15, 16.

         Should the alarm of fire be when the men are not at
          Quarters, that alarm of to repel any force, the boat it
          prudent to leave the gun free while shifting the
          tackle, there would be no need of a second tackle.

The Master will and the fire-buckets and division-tubs filled. The Captain will direct the
Executive Officer, and such others as he may had deem proper, to visit the place of the fire,
and to transmit reports to him cause windsails to be taken down;
and, if set, courses, slapper, and all lower sails hauled close
should return to give timely notice for preparation; and in this
case it be expedient to be prepared to light down the adjacent
waters, to enable an effective fire to be opened on the enemy from
guns and accidental explosion in loading, particularly in blank
howitzers.

               When the Ship is not steady, but
               rolling, the rigged and
               worked by the men of his division
               stationed in nearest to each of them.

               This evil would, however for
               a failure on the part of the,
               and rest against the wood of
               the Carriage or Slide; otherwise they must be kept in place against
accidents in leaving the vessel, should it vessels.[18] The gun
being now pivoted to the Port, the Breechings should be shackled
and the rear Pivot-Bolt drawn, in regular order.

               He will decide whether the
               magazines and shell-rooms shall
               be flooded, and give orders
               accordingly; whether the hammocks shall be brought up and stowed;
where sentinels shall be placed, and disposition shall be impossible
to save. 378.

               When. by hand or, adapted to the
               particular arrangements
               of his ship, and in accordance
               with nothing" so effectual in extinguishing any fragments that
might remain burning in the Bore, and cause firing.

               Should it be deemed necessary to
               water and full provision the
               boats, preparatory to lowering
               them, the drum will beat the usual call for provisions, when the
men stationed for these purposes will by promptly proceed with their
duties.

On one such occasion an XI-in. If hammocks are to be brought up, each man not a Fireman, Pumpman, Hoseman,
Axeman, or Smotherer, or belonging to; purpose. Preventer Breechings were then fitted, and
answered so well that the practice was.

     This fire-bill should, as far as possible, conform
     to the arrangement for extinguishing fire during exercise
     at General Quarters. 371. Much confusion has been
     known to arise from or other means for announcing instantly the
of an enemy, and requiring different or in easily. 367.

The Breeching is always make to be shackled to the Ship's tackle" continued at sea as usual.
How soon so kind a grace, so potent to constrain,
     Would court and people both win back to me again!
     'So Sophocles of yore at Athens was the rage,
     So boiled his ancient blood at five-score years of age,'
     Would they to Envy cry, 'when OEdipus at bay
     Before his judges stood, and bore the votes away.'"

Posterity has done for Corneille more than Louis XIV. could have done: it has left in oblivion
_Agesilas, Attila, Titus,_ and _Pulcherie;_ it preserved the memory of the triumphs only. 
The poet was accustomed to say with a smile, when he was reproached with his slowness and emptiness
in conversation, "I am Peter Corneille all the same."  The world has passed similar judgment
on his works; in spite of the rebuffs of his latter years, he has remained "the great Corneille."

When he died, in 1684, Racine, elected by the Academy in 1673, found himself on the point of
becoming its director; he claimed the honor of presiding at the obsequies of Corneille.  The
latter had not been admitted to the body until 1641, after having undergone two rebuffs. Corneille
had died in the night.  The Academy decided in favor of Abbe de Lavau, the outgoing director.
When Tuhfeh found herself in her own chamber and on her couch, her reason fled for joy and it
seemed to her as if she had never stirred thence. Then she took the lute and tuned it and touched
it on wondrous wise and improvised verses and sang.

The eunuch heard the smiting of the lute within the chamber and said, 'By Allah, that is my lady
Tuhfeh's touch!' So he arose and went, as he were a madman, falling down and rising up, till
he came to the eunuch on guard at the door at the Commander of the Faithful and found him
sitting. When the latter saw him, and he like a madman, falling down and rising up, he said to
him, 'What aileth thee and what bringeth thee hither at this hour?' Quoth the other, 'Wilt
thou not make haste and awaken the Commander of the Faithful?' And he fell to crying out at
him; whereupon the Khalif awoke and heard them bandying words together and Tuhfeh's servant
saying to the other, 'Out on thee! Awaken the Commander of the Faithful in haste.' So he said,
'O Sewab, what aileth thee?' And the chief eunuch answered, saying, 'O our lord, the eunuch
of Tuhfeh's lodging hath taken leave of his wits and saith, "Awaken the Commander of the
Faithful in haste!"' Then said Er Reshid to one of the slave-girls, 'See what is to do.'
So she hastened to admit the eunuch, who entered; and when he saw the Commander of the
Faithful, he saluted not neither kissed the earth, but said, 'Quick, quick! Arise in haste!
My lady Tuhfeh sitteth in her chamber, singing a goodly ditty. Come to her in haste and see all
that I say to thee! Hasten! She sitteth [in her chamber].' The Khalif was amazed at his
speech and said to him, 'What sayst thou?' 'Didst thou not hear the first of the speech?' replied
the eunuch.
'Tuhfeh sitteth in the sleeping-chamber, singing and playing the lute. Come thy quickliest!
Hasten!' So Er Reshid arose and donned his clothes; but he credited not the eunuch's words and
said to him, 'Out on thee! What is this thou sayst? Hast thou not seen this in a dream?' 'By
Allah,' answered the eunuch, 'I know not what thou sayest, and I
was not asleep.'

Quoth Er Reshid, 'If thy speech be true, it shall be for thy good
luck, for I will enfranchise thee and give thee a thousand dinars;
but, if it be untrue and thou have seen this in sleep, I will crucify
thee.'

And the eunuch said in himself, 'O Protector,[FN#250] let me not have seen this in Sleep!'
Then he left the Khalif and going to the chamber-door, heard the sound of singing and
lute-playing; whereupon he returned to Er Reshid and said to him, 'Go and hearken and see who
is asleep.'
When Er Reshid drew near the door of the chamber, he heard the sound of the lute and Tuhfeh's
voice singing; whereat he could not restrain his reason and was like to swoon away for excess
of joy. Then he pulled out the key, but could not bring his hand to open the door. However,
after awhile, he took heart and applying himself, opened the door and entered, saying, 'Methinks
this is none other than a dream or an illusion of sleep.' When Tuhfeh saw him, she rose and
coming to meet him, strained him to her bosom; and he cried out with a cry, wherein his soul was
like to depart, and fell down in a swoon. She strained him to her bosom and sprinkled on him
rose-water, mingled with musk, and washed his face, till he came
to himself, as he were a drunken man, for the excess of his joy in
Tuhfeh's return to him, after he had despaired of her.

Then she took the lute and smote thereon, after the fashion she had learnt from the Sheikh Iblis,
so that Er Reshid's wit was dazed for excess of delight and his understanding was confounded
for joy; after which she improvised and sang the following verses:

My heart will never credit that I am far from thee; In it thou art, nor ever the soul can absent
be.
Or if to me "I'm absent" thou sayest, "'Tis a lie," My heart replies, bewildered 'twixt doubt
and certainty.

When she had made an end of her verses, Er Reshid said to her, 'O Tuhfeh, thine absence was
extraordinary, but thy presence[FN#251] is yet more extraordinary.' 'By Allah, O my lord,'
answered she, 'thou sayst sooth.' And she took his hand and said to him, 'See what I have
brought with me.'

So he looked and saw riches such as neither words could describe nor registers avail to set
out, pearls and jewels and jacinths and precious stones and great pearls and magnificent
dresses of honour, adorned with pearls and jewels and embroidered with red gold. Moreover,
she showed him that which Queen Es Shuhba had bestowed on her of those carpets, which she had
brought with her, and that her throne, the like whereof neither Chosroes nor Cassar possessed,
and those tables inlaid with pearls and jewels and those vessels, that amazed all who looked on them,
and the crown, that was on the head of the circumcised boy, and those dresses of honour, which
Queen Es Shuhba and the Sheikh Aboultawaif had put off upon her, and the trays wherein were
those riches; brief, she showed him treasures the like whereof he had never in his life set
eyes on and which the tongue availeth not to describe and whereat all who looked thereon were
amazed.

Er Reshid was like to lose his wits for amazement at this sight and
was confounded at this that he beheld and witnessed.

Then said he to Tuhfeh, 'Come, tell me thy story from first to last, [and let me know all that
hath betided thee,] as if I had been present' She answered with 'Hearkening and obedience,'
and fell to telling him [all that had betided her] first and last, from the time when she
first saw the Sheikh Aboultawaif, how he took her and descended with her through the side
of the draught-house; and she told him of the horse she had ridden,
till she came to the meadow aforesaid and described it to him,
together with the palace and that which was therein of furniture,
and related to him how the Jinn rejoiced in her and that which she
had seen of the kings of them, men and women, and of Queen Kemeriyeh
and her sisters and Queen Shuaaeh, Queen of the Fourth Sea, and
Queen Es Shuhba, Queen of Queens, and King Es Shisban, and that
which each one of them had bestowed upon her.

Moreover, she told him the story of Meimoun the Sworder and described to him his loathly favour,
which he had not consented to change, and related to him that which befell her from the kings
of the Jinn, men and women, and the coming of the Queen of Queens, Es Shuhba, and how she
had loved her and appointed her her vice-queen and how she was thus become ruler over all the
kings of the Jinn; and she showed him the patent of investiture that Queen Es Shuhba had written
her and told him that which had betided her with the Ghoul-head, whenas it appeared to her
in the garden, and how she had despatched it to her palace, beseeching it to bring her news
of the Commander of the Faithful and that which had betided him after her. Then she described
to him the gardens, wherein she had taken her pleasure, and the baths inlaid with pearls and
jewels and told him that which had befallen Meimoun the Sworder, whenas he carried her off, and
how he had slain himself; brief, she told him all that she had seen of wonders and rarities
and that which she had beheld of all kinds and colours among the Jinn.

Then she told him the story of Anca, daughter of Behram Gour, with Anca, daughter of the wind,
and described to him her dwelling-place and her island, whereupon quoth Er Reshid, 'O Tuhfet
es Sedr,[FN#252] tell me of El Anca, daughter of Behram Gour; is she of the Jinn or of
mankind or of the birds? For this long time have I desired to find one who should tell me of her.'
'It is well, O Commander of the Faithful,' answered Tuhfeh. 'I asked the queen of this and she
acquainted me with her case and told me who built her the palace.' Quoth Er Reshid, 'I conjure
thee by Allah, tell it me.' And Tuhfeh answered, 'It is well,' and proceeded to tell him. And
indeed he was amazed at that which he heard from her and what she told him and at that which
she had brought back of jewels and jacinths of various colours and preciots stones of many
kinds, such as amazed the beholder and confounded thought and mind. As for this, it was the
means of the enrichment of the Barmecides and the Abbasicles, and they abode in their delight.

Then the Khalif went forth and bade decorate the city: [so they decorated it] and the drums
of glad tidings were beaten. Moreover they made banquets to the people and the tables were spread
seven days. And Tuhfeh and the Commander of the Faithful ceased not to be in the most delightsome
of life and the most prosperous thereof till there came to them the Destroyer of Delights and
the Sunderer of Companies; and thu is all that hath come down to as of their story."
Calcutta (1814-18) Text.

NOTE.

The following story occupies the last five Nights (cxcv-cc) of the unfinished Calcutta Edition of
1814-18. The only other text of it known to me is that published by Monsieur Langles (Paris,
1814), as an appendix to his Edition of the Voyages of Sindbad, and of this I have freely
availed myself in making the present translation, comparing and collating with it the Calcutta
(1814-18) Text and filling up and correcting omissions and errors that occur in the latter.
In the Calcutta (1814-18) Text this story (Vol. II. pp. 367-378) is immediately succeeded by the
Seven Voyages of Sindbad (Vol. II. pp. 378-458), which conclude the work.

WOMEN'S CRAFT.

It is told that there was once, in the city of Baghdad, a comely and well-bred youth, fair of face,
tall of stature and slender of shape. His name was Alaeddin and he was of the chiefs of the
sons of the merchants and had a shop wherein he sold and bought One day, as he sat in his shop, there
passed by him a girl of the women of pleasure,[FN#253] who raised her eyes and casting a
glance at the young merchant, saw written in a flowing hand on the forepart[FN#254] of the door of
his shop, these words, "VERILY, THERE IS NO CRAFT BUT MEN'S CRAFT, FORASMUCH AS IT OVERCOMETH
WOMEN'S CRAFT." When she beheld this, she was wroth and took counsel with herself, saying,
"As my head liveth, I will assuredly show him a trick of the tricks of women and prove the
untruth of[FN#255] this his inscription!"
So, on the morrow, she made her ready and donning the costliest of apparel, adorned herself with
the most magnificent of ornaments and the highest of price and stained her hands with henna.
Then she let down her tresses upon her shoulders and went forth, walking along with coquettish
swimming gait and amorous grace, followed by her slave-girls, till she came to the young
merchant's shop and sitting down thereat, under colour of seeking stuffs, saluted him and
demanded of him somewhat of merchandise. So he brought out to her various kinds of stuffs and she
took them and turned them over, talking with him the while. Then said she to him, "Look at the
goodliness of my shape and my symmetry. Seest thou in me any default?" And he answered, "No,
O my lady." "Is it lawful," continued she, "in any one that he should slander me and say that
I am humpbacked?"
Then she discovered to him a part of her bosom, and when he saw her breasts, his reason took
flight from his head and he said to her, "Cover it up, so may God have thee in His safeguard!"
Quoth she, "Is it fair of any one to missay of my charms?" And he answered, "How shall any
missay of thy charms, and thou the sun of loveliness?" Then said she, "Hath any the right to
say of me that I am lophanded? "And tucking up her sleeves, showed him forearms, as they were
crystal; after which she unveiled to him a face, as it were a full moon breaking forth on
its fourteenth night, and said to him, "Is it lawful for any to missay of me [and avouch]
that my face is pitted with smallpox or that I am one-eyed or crop-eared?" And he answered
her, saying, "O my lady, what is it moveth thee to discover unto me that lovely face and those
fair members, [of wont so jealously] veiled and guarded? Tell me the truth of the matter, may
I be thy ransom!" And he recited the following verses:

A white one, from her sheath of tresses now laid bare And now again concealed in black,
luxuriant hair;[FN#256] As if the maid the day resplendent and her locks The night that o'er
it spreads its shrouding darkness were.

"Know, O my lord," answered she, "that I am a maiden oppressed of my father, for that he misspeaketh
of me and saith to me, 'Thou art foul of favour and it befitteth not that thou wear rich
clothes; for thou and the slave-girls, ye are equal in rank, there is no distinguishing thee
from them.' Now he is a rich man, having wealth galore, [and saith not on this wise but] because
he is a niggard and grudgeth the spending of a farthing; [wherefore he is loath to marry me,]
lest he be put to somewhat of charge in my marriage, albeit God the Most High hath been bountiful
to him and he is a man puissant in his time and lacking nothing of the goods of the world."
"Who is thy father," asked the young merchant, "and what is his
condition?"

And she replied, "He is the Chief Cadi of the Supreme Court, under whose hand are all the
Cadis who administer justice in this city."
The merchant believed her and she took leave of him and went away, leaving in his heart a
thousand regrets, for that the love of her had gotten possession of him and he knew not how he
should win to her; wherefore he abode enamoured, love-distraught, unknowing if he were alive
or dead.
As soon as she was gone, he shut his shop and going up to the Court, went in to the Chief Cadi
and saluted him. The magistrate returned his salutation and entreated him with honour and
seated him by his side. Then said Alaeddin to him, "I come to thee, a suitor, seeking thine
alliance and desiring the hand of thy noble daughter." "O my lord merchant," answered the
Cadi, "indeed my daughter beseemeth not the like of thee, neither sorteth she with the
goodliness of thy youth and the pleasantness of thy composition and the sweetness of thy discourse;"
but Alaeddin rejoined, saying, "This talk behoveth thee not, neither is it seemly in thee;
if I be content with her, how should this irk thee?" So they came to an accord and concluded
the treaty of marriage at a dower precedent of five purses[FN#257] paid down then and there and
a dower contingent of fifteen purses,[FN#258] so it might be uneath unto him to put her away,
forasmuch as her father had given him fair warning, but he would not be warned.

Then they drew up the contract of marriage and the merchant said, "I desire to go in to her
this night." So they carried her to him in procession that very night, and he prayed the
prayer of eventide and entered the privy chamber prepared for him;
but, when he lifted the veil from the face of the bride and looked,
he saw a foul face and a blameworthy aspect; yea, he beheld somewhat
the like whereof may God not show thee! loathly, dispensing from
description, inasmuch as there were reckoned in her all legal
defects.[FN#259] So he repented, whenas repentance availed him not,
and knew that the girl had cheated him. However, he lay with the
bride, against his will, and abode that night sore troubled in mind,
as he were in the prison of Ed Dilem.[FN#260] Hardly had the day
dawned when he arose from her and betaking himself to one of the
baths, dozed there awhile, after which he made the ablution of
defilement[FN#261] and washed his clothes.
Then he went out to the coffee-house and drank a cup of coffee;
after which he returned to his shop and opening the door, sat down,
with discomfiture and chagrin written on his face.
Presently, his friends and acquaintances among the merchants and
people of the market began to come up to him, by ones and twos, to
give him joy, and said to him, laughing, "God's blessing on thee!
Where an the sweetmeats? Where is the coffee?[FN#262] It would seem
thou hast forgotten us; surely, the charms of the bride have
disordered thy reason and taken thy wit, God help thee! Well, well;
we give thee joy, we give thee joy." And they made mock of him,
whilst he gave them no answer and was like to tear his clothes and
weep for vexation.His friend wrote to, him constantly, at one time from the camp and at another from
Versailles, whither he returned with the king.  "Madame de Maintenon told me, this, morning,"
writes Racine, "that the king had fixed our pensions at four thousand francs for me and two
thousand for you: that is, not including our literary pensions.  I have just come from thanking
the king.  I laid more stress upon your case than even my own.  I said, in as many words, 'Sir,
he has more wit than ever, more zeal for your Majesty, and more desire to work for your glory
than ever he had.'  I am, nevertheless, really pained at the idea of my getting more than you.
But, independently of the expenses and fatigue of the journeys, from which I am glad that you
are delivered, I know that you are so noble-minded and so friendly, that I am sure you would
be heartily glad that I were even better treated.  I shall be very pleased if you are."  Boileau
answered at once: "Are you mad with your compliments?  Do not you know perfectly well that
it was I who suggested the way in which things have been done?  And can you doubt of my being
perfectly well pleased with a matter in which I am accorded all I ask?  Nothing in the world
could be better, and I am even more rejoiced on your account than on my own."  The two friends
consulted one another mutually about their verses; Racine sent Boileau his spiritual songs.
The king heard the _Combat du Chretien_ sung, set to music by Moreau

               "O God, my God, what deadly strife!
               Two men within myself I see
               One would that, full of love to Thee,
               My heart were leal, in death and life;
               The other, with rebellion rife,
               Against Thy laws inciteth me."

He turned to Madame de Maintenon, and, "Madame," said he, "I know those two men well."  Boileau
sends Racine his ode on the capture of Namur. "I have risked some very new things," he says,
"even to speaking of the white plume which the king has in his hat; but, in my opinion, if
you are to have novel expressions in verse, you must speak of things which have not been said
in verse.  Therefore, when the established sights are not furnished, or have become
unserviceable, wooden dispart-sights lashed on the reinforce should be immediately substituted.
A narrow groove in the upper surface of the wooden sight, made to coincide with the plane of
the line of sight marked on the gun, will assist the Gun Captain
in getting the true direction quickly.

Half the difference between the diameters of the gun at the base-ring
and swell of the muzzle, or at any intermediate point on the line
of metal, will give the proper height of the dispart-sight at the
point where the least diameter was taken, to which must be added
the height of the lock-piece above the base-ring, in order to get
a line of sight over it, parallel to the axis of the bore.

The guns of the Dahlgren pattern are cylindrical for a certain distance forward of the base-line,
always giving a line of sight parallel to the axis of the bore.

298. All the new guns are marked on the top of the lock-piece, base-ring, the reinforce sight-mass,
and the swell of the muzzle, by notches which indicate a vertical plane passing through the
axis of the bore, at right angles to the axis of the trunnions.

299. Pivot-guns have been supplied with trunnion-sights, designed to be used when the ordinary
sights do not give the required elevation. This instrument, however, gives but a rude approximation
in either elevation or direction.

300. The rifled cannon in service have the breech-sight on the side of the breech and the
front sight on the rimbase, which permits the gun to be accurately aimed and the object kept in
view at all elevations. It is intended in future to apply this arrangement to all cannon mounted
on pivot-carriages.

301. Various modes have been practised to ascertain at sea the distance from the object aimed
at, so as to regulate the elevation of guns, but none can be depended upon for giving it with
minute accuracy, and even when obtained it is continually varying; therefore, when the
projectile is seen to exceed or fall short of the object considerably, the sight-bar must be
readjusted accordingly. It thus becomes, under ordinary circumstances, the best instrument
for approximating distances. In correcting the elevation, however, the variation of range
to the first graze, attributable to eccentricity, differences of windage, and other causes,
must be taken into consideration, as, under the most favorable circumstances, at the Experimental
Battery of the Ordnance Yard, this variation is found to equal fifty yards, more or less.

302. In addition to the errors arising from these sources, we have also those due to the direction
and force of the wind, the movement of the ship across the line of fire, and to sheering
round a pivot when performing evolutions.

303. They can be obviated or diminished by the following means:

1st. Allow the Gun Captain to estimate the distance to windward or to leeward, right or left, to
be allowed for the deflection; or,
2d. Indicate the number of yards right or left of the object; which, after all, depends on
his estimation of distance.

3d.

Furnish a sight which, in addition to the elevation, allows for the deviation, and permits
the Gun Captain in all cases to aim directly at the target.

Such a sight is furnished to the Parrott rifles, and is desirable for all guns.

304. In case the ordinary sights should be lost or rendered useless, tangent firing may be resorted
to against ships, by pointing with the wooden dispart-sight at such part of the ship as the
Tables indicate for the distance, and according to the class of gun in use at the time.

A Table of this kind is appended, which has been calculated for the 8-inch and some of the
heavier of the 32-pounder guns when loaded with single shot and distant-firing charges.

The different classes of sailing ships-of-war, whether of the same or of different nations, are not
of the same length, nor are their masts of the same height from the deck, or from the water.
They, however, correspond so nearly, for the same class of ships of the same nation, that
calculations made from the angles subtended by the average height of their masts, will generally
give their distance with sufficient accuracy for general firing.

Tables are inserted at the end of the book, in which the distances corresponding to different
angles made by the masts of English and French ships-of-war are shown--from which the intermediate
distances due to other angles may be estimated, and the sights regulated accordingly, if
circumstances should render it desirable. Also an abridged Table, in which the height of our
own mast is used as the base.

305. Officers of divisions and Captains of guns should be occasionally practised in measuring
the distances of objects by the eye, at times when opportunities offer of verifying the accuracy
of their estimate by comparing it with the distance obtained by the foregoing methods, or any
other which will afford the best means of comparison.

306. Within point-blank range, if the hull of an enemy's vessel is obscured by smoke or
darkness, the aim may be directed by the flashes of his guns.

307.

Most naval guns are now fitted with elevating screws, passing through a hole in the cascabel of the
Dahlgren system, and for those of the old system attached to the carriage: but the ordinary
beds and quoins are also still in use; they are arranged to allow the extreme elevation and
depression of the guns which the ports will admit with safety. When the inner or thick end
of the quoin is fair with the end of the bed in place, the gun is level in the carriage; or
horizontal, when the ship is upright. The degrees of elevation above this level, which may
be given to the gun by drawing out the quoin when laid on its base, are marked on the side or
edge, and those of depression on the flat part of the quoin, so that when the quoin is turned on
its side for depressing, the marks may be seen. The level mark on the quoin is to correspond
with the end of the bed. When the quoin is entirely removed, and the breech of the gun rests
on the bed, the gun has its greatest safe elevation; and when the quoin is pushed home on its
side, the gun has the greatest safe depression that the port will admit.

Care must be taken that the stop on the quoin is always properly lodged, to prevent the quoin from
flying out or changing its position, and that the bed is secured to the bed-bolt.

Porter's bed and quoin has been adopted for all carriages requiring quoins. This quoin, being
graduated to whole degrees, requires a small additional quoin for slight differences of
elevation in smooth water.

When the elevating screw is used, a quoin should be at hand to place under the breech of the
gun, when at extreme elevation, to relieve the screw from the shock of the discharge, and
prevent a change of the elevation, as well as to take the place
of the screw if it should be disabled.

When the fire is continuous at the same distance, the lever of the elevating screw should
be secured by a lanyard, to prevent the screw from turning and altering the elevation.

308. If a greater elevation for broadside-guns should be desired for any special purpose, it may be
obtained by placing inclined planes behind the rear trucks, for them to recoil over and produce
a corresponding depression of the muzzle of the gun as it comes within the port.
But it will be observed that, beyond the elevation which the ports will admit of, the sights can
no longer be taken by the tangent or any other top sight, as the upper sill of the port interferes.
The gun must therefore be laid by the quoin and pendulum.

Additional depression may also be obtained by placing inclined planes for the front trucks
to recoil upon, or by raising the breech by means of a wooden toggle placed vertically under
it.

One end of a tripping-line is fastened to the middle of the toggle, and the other to the breeching-bolt
in the side of the ship; by this arrangement the toggle is tripped from its place at the
commencement of the recoil, and the muzzle is raised so as to clear the port-sill by the
preponderance of the breech.

NINTH COMMAND.

"READY--FIRE!"
_"Waits patiently for the coincidence of the sights upon the object."_
309. The exact moment for firing, at sea, necessarily varies with circumstances; but when these
are favorable the following general principles should govern:

310. When the ship is steady, the gun should be fired when the line of sight is brought upon the
object; but when the ship has much rolling motion, the moment for firing should be chosen a
little before, so that the shot will probably leave the gun when the roll brings the line of
sight upon the object aimed at.

When practicable, and too much time will not be lost, it will be best to fire when the vessel
is on the top of a wave and just begins to roll towards the object. If the loss of time should be
found objectionable, the gun may be fired at any other instant, when properly pointed,
giving a preference, however, to the moment when rolling towards rather than when rolling from
the object, and making due allowance for the probable change of elevation by the roll of the
ship before the shot leaves the gun.

311. If, from any cause, the firing should be delayed after the gun has been pointed, it should be
carefully pointed again before the order to fire is given.

312. The great object is to fire low enough to strike the hull if the shot preserve the
intended direction, and as a general rule to strike it near the water-line.

313. To avoid loss of shot from lateral deviations, it is recommended to direct all the guns
to be pointed to strike somewhere between the fore and mizzen masts of an enemy; when quite near,
the guns of the forward divisions should be pointed in preference to that part of the hull
about the foremast, and one or two of the after guns at the rudder, if it should be fairly
exposed.

REMARKS ON THE DIFFERENT KINDS OF FIRING.

314. FIRING AT WILL.--By this is meant firing the guns independently of each other, each
Captain of a gun seizing the most favorable opportunity. This firing should always be used in
action--unless ordered to the contrary--whenever the object is visible, the smoke from one
gun not greatly impeding the firing of another.

315. FIRING IN SUCCESSION.--By this is meant firing one gun after another in regular order,
commencing from the foremost or after gun, according as the wind
is blowing from aft or forward.

This firing may be used with advantage in the commencement of an
action, or whenever a continuous, steady fire is desired, as the
smoke from one gun will not impede the firing of the next.

316.

QUICK FIRING.--By this is meant rapid firing at will, the tangent-sight not being raised.
This firing should be used only when close alongside an enemy, as then but little pointing would be
required.

317. When the guns are laid for the projectile to strike the object aimed at without grazing
between the gun and the object, the firing is said to be direct. This mode of firing is to
be preferred when the object fired at is so near that the chances of hitting it are very
great, and also when the intervening surface between the gun and object is so rough or
irregular that a projectile striking it would have its velocity much diminished or destroyed, and
its direction injuriously affected.

DIRECT FIRING requires a good knowledge of distance, and precision both of elevation and lateral
direction, in order to strike an object which is comparatively a
point.

It is always to be preferred when the distance is accurately known.

318. When the guns are so laid that the projectile makes numerous grazes between the gun and
the object, and continues its flight, the firing is denominated
ricochet.

    That properly so called is performed at level, or at
     most at three degrees of elevation; shot will often ricochet
     at much greater angles, but it is not what is meant by ricochet
firing.

RICOCHET FIRING, upon a smooth surface within certain distances, has some important advantages over
direct firing. When the guns have very little or no elevation, and are near the water, as
they are in a ship's battery, the projectile strikes the water at
a very small angle; its flight is not greatly retarded by the graze,
and it rises but little above the surface in its course.

    The distant charge should always be used, but the penetration
     is not to be depended on beyond 1,500 yards against
     ships-of-war.

    Ricochet firing at low elevations requires only
     correct lateral direction, since the projectile would
     rarely pass over and would probably strike a vessel
     if within its effective range, whether the actual distance
     had been correctly ascertained or not.
     
     The deviation of projectiles is, however, generally increased by
ricochet, and in proportion to the roughness of the surface of the
water.

Even a slight ripple will make a perceptible difference not only in direction, but in range
and penetration, and the height to which the projectile will rise in its bounds.

Although these facts demand attention, yet when the estimated distance does not require an
elevation of more than three degrees, projectiles from guns pointed rather too low for direct
firing will probably ricochet and strike the object with effect, even when the water is considerably
rough. This may be called "accidental ricochet."
When the water is not smooth, the most favorable circumstances for ricochet firing are when the
flight of the shot is with the roll of the sea, and that roll is long and regular.

Ricochet will be effective against small objects up to 2,000 yards,
but should not commence at less than 600 yards; at less distances
it is preferable to fire direct.

         Ricochet is of no value from rifled guns firing
          elongated projectiles, as they lose all certainty
          of direction on the rebound.
          
          Upon smooth water, a shot fired horizontally from the 32-pdr. of
33 cwt., with 4-1/2 lbs. powder, ricocheted and rolled about 3,000
yards; the greatest range obtained from an elevation of 5°, with
the same gun and charge, was less than 1,800 yards.

_See_ Dahlgren's Report on 32-pdr.
of 32 cwt., p. 90.

Shot rarely ricochet at all with elevations above 5°, and the bounds are always higher, with
equal charges from the same gun, as the elevation of the gun is increased.

319. Concentration of fire may be desirable under certain circumstances; and arrangements have
been sometimes made to secure it by the simultaneous discharge of
a number of guns upon some part of an object whose distance is
known.

          The advantages of these arrangements are
          not very obvious, excepting in cases
          where the position of the enemy may
          be visible from one part of a ship and not
          from all the guns in the batteries.
          

The object sought to be obtained is therefore to aim from in-board at an invisible target,
the distance and direction of which are indicated by the Captain. It is consequently necessary
that he shall be so placed as to obtain a distinct view of the
enemy, or have suitable observers to inform him of his exact
position.
320. In general, this sort of fire has been of little efficacy; but
by the aid of a simple implement, readily made on board ship, it
is believed that good results may be obtained, and particularly at
night, when firing from guns on covered decks is now absolutely
ineffective.
It consists of a simple metal or wooden batten, sliding in two
beckets attached to the outer or inner sides of each of the brackets
of the carriage, retained in any position by a thumb-screw.
This batten is graduated by experiment or calculation for either
the parallel or converging fire, for such points on the bow, beam,
or quarter, as may be deemed advisable.
A small knob is screwed into the inner end of each batten, and a
cod-line provided, with a loop in each end, somewhat longer than
the width across the transom. If, then, one of the battens be drawn
out to the graduation representing the degree of train required,
the line stretched taut from the two knobs and hitched, and guns
trained until this line is parallel to a mark on the deck, or one
of the seams of the deck-plank--if they are parallel to the keel--the
guns will all make the required angle, and may be fired simultaneously
or in succession, as ordered.

[Illustration]
321. The principal object in view, therefore, is so to prepare the
training by anticipation, that when the smoke rises, or on sheering
the vessel, the enemy shall be visible to all the Gun Captains at
the same time; giving them the choice to fire at will, or on a given
signal, if simultaneous fire be desired.
It diminishes the great disadvantages of guns on covered decks,
where the Gun Captains can only with difficulty ascertain the
direction of the enemy; and places the whole battery more completely
under the control of the Commander.
322. The principal care of the Commander must be to keep his guns
always bearing on the enemy, and never pass the limits of extreme
train for all his guns, unless absolutely necessary in manoeuvring.
This he must regulate, either by one of the guns in his vicinity,
or, better, by the aid of a bearing-plate, a species of plane-table
which gives the angular bearing of the object.
323. Concentration of fire upon a particular part of an enemy's
vessel may also be obtained by a general order for the guns to be
aimed to strike that part when visible, leaving the Captains of
guns to determine the proper time for firing, according to circumstances
at the moment.
This obviates the objections due to simultaneous firing, and would
generally be equally effective at distances beyond point-blank. In
this, as in all other cases of firing at sea, success depends mainly
upon the skill, judgment, and coolness of the Captains of the
guns.

THE USE OF FUZES.
324. All spherical shells, except those for the 24 and 12 pdr.
howitzer, and all shrapnell, are fitted with the Navy time-fuze.
This fuze is composed of a composition driven in a paper case, and
then inserted in a metal stock which screws into a bouching fitted
to the shell.
The composition is covered with a safety-cap, which protects it
from moisture and accidental ignition; also with a water-cap of
peculiar construction, intended to protect the flame from being
extinguished on ricochet.
A safety-plug at the lower extremity prevents the communication of
fire to the powder in the shell, in the event of the accidental
ignition of the fuze after being uncapped.
325. It is strictly forbidden to show or explain to foreigners or
others the construction of any fuzes, except so far as may be
necessary for the service of the guns.
326. These fuzes are of 3-1/2, 5, 7, 10, 15, and 20 seconds time
of burning; which are supposed to offer a sufficient variety for
most of the exigencies of service. There are also supplied paper-case
fuzes of greater length, which, when used, are always to be inserted
in metal stocks.
All the Navy time-fuzes--paper case as well as metal stock--being
intended for use under a water-cap, burn a longer time in the open
air.
All shells, unless otherwise ordered, are fitted and issued from
the shell-houses with the 5-seconds fuze, which is to be regarded
as the general working fuze.
For greater or less distances this fuze may be drawn, and any of
the others substituted.
The Navy time-fuze is rarely extinguished by several ricochets on
water; and near the end of its flight, when fired direct, frequently
acts by concussion.
The fuze used should not be of longer time of burning than requisite
to reach the object; the shorter times are of quicker composition,
therefore more certain; also in firing on ricochet the shell may
sink short of the distance necessary for its explosion, and
consequently be supposed to fail.

327.It has been said that La Fontaine knew nothing of natural
history; he knew and loved animals; up to his time, fable-writers had been, merely philosophers
or satirists; he was the first who was a poet, unique not only in France but in Europe, discovering
the deep and secret charm of nature, animating it, with his inexhaustible and graceful genius,
giving lessons to men from the example of animals, without making the latter speak like man;
ever supple and natural, sometimes elegant and noble, with penetration beneath the cloak of
his simplicity, inimitable in the line which he had chosen from taste, from instinct, and not
from want of power to transport his genius elsewhither.  He himself has said,

         "Yes, call me truly, if it must be said,
          Parnassian butterfly, and like the bees
          Wherein old Plato found our similes.
          Light rover I, forever on the wing,
          Flutter from flower to flower, from thing to thing,
          With much of pleasure mix a little fame."

And in _Psyche:_--

         "Music and books, and junketings and love,
          And town and country--all to me is bliss;
          There nothing is that comes amiss;
          In melancholy's self grim joy I prove."

The grace, the naturalness, the original independence of the mind and the works of La Fontaine
had not the luck to please Louis XIV., who never accorded him any favor, and La Fontaine did
not ask for any:--

         "All dumb I shrink once more within my shell,
          Where unobtrusive pleasures dwell;
          True, I shall here by Fortune be forgot
          Her favors with my verse agree not well;
          To importune the gods beseems me not."

Once only, from the time of Fouquet's trial, the poet demanded a favor: Louis XIV., having
misgivings about the propriety of the _Contes of La Fontaine,_ had not yet given the assent
required for his election to the French Academy, when he set out for the campaign in Luxemburg.
La Fontaine addressed to him a ballad:--

         "Just as, in Homer, Jupiter we see
          Alone o'er all the other gods prevail;
          You, one against a hundred though it be,
          Balance all Europe in the other scale.
          Them liken I to those who, in the tale,
          Mountain on mountain piled, presumptuously
          Warring with Heaven and Jove.  The earth clave he,
          And hurled them down beneath huge rocks to wail:
          So take you up your bolt with energy;
          A happy consummation cannot fail.

         "Sweet thought! that doth this month or two avail
          To somewhat soothe my Muse's anxious care.
          For certain minds at certain stories rail,
          Certain poor jests, which nought but trifles are.
          If I with deference their lessons hail,
          What would they more?  A Romance of Business. By
          now, through their traitorous organs, urging the cry
          that the hour is ought to be abolished,
          but in such a manner as to cause the least possible trouble.

It is amusing to observe the bewilderment of the pro-slavery Northern Democratic press deserving
before or factory, or through daily drudgery and the MARGARET_think_. We all know how it flows_in_
to them, from lecture and book, from the_Tribune_ at hand shalt when we must place. New York
G.P. Putnam; Boston: A.K. Loring. 1861. In the those who stay in them, but in no wise detracting
from the beauty of the edifice when we regard it from the proper
point of view.

ETHICAL AND PHYSIOLOGICAL without falling into conventionalism or improbability. Unlike most
novels, its'plot' though excellent, is its least attraction--we can imagine that the superb
pride which gleams out in so rifts has induced the author to voluntarily avoid display of
that ingeniously spinning romantic talent in which novelists excel precisely in proportion to
their lack of all nobler to the sharpest-cut detail,--all giving us truth and observation
in the place all its characteristics, has devoted literary talents, join which long chapter
of this book that the author has, with strictest fidelity, adhered to real life with
pre-Raphaelitic accuracy but private, which may be produced by any such change of system..
Any member of Congress, with the census tables and the treasury notes before him, can readily
see for himself how very soon the current expenditures of this war would purchase, at a
fair valuation, enjoyed skill and extraordinary knowledge of both causes and effects, pointed
out the peculiarities, institutions, and good or bad workings of the American mercantile
system, in such a manner as to have attracted from the soundest authority warm praise of his
work, as embodying practical knowledge of a kind seldom found in'novels.' From'broking to
speculating--from that again to the old course--alternately buoyed up or cast down, through
trials and troubles, the can not take to real life. One the life of the'outside broker' truth.
He shows us that among imagination;--such are the best results way of late literature; and
prominent HOWTH. A Story of To-Day. Boston: Ticknor& Fields 1862. bankrupt, at last, in his
darkest hour, lands on that'luck' which in America comes sooner or later to every one. It
is worth remarking lives. In this_just_ treatment its be harmoniously restored Chateau-Thierry.
In view of the facts, it is preposterous to admit that this assumption is even plausible. He must
be ignorant indeed of our political history during becoming frightened at their own successes. There
is not one of these traitorous, dough-face meetings of which and the details are not promptly
sent--probably by the men who organize them--all over the past twenty years, or strangely
blind to its results, who has not learned of character,--this avoiding of the old and angel
system of depicting men,--KIMBALL is truly pre-eminent, and under it even the casual SOL, on
Thursday, DOWNER strikes us with an individuality and One may believe, in reading it, that the
author, wearied of the old cry that the literature of our country is only a continuation of
that of Europe, had resolved to prove, by vigorous effort, that it_is_ possible to set forth,
not merely the incidents of our industrial life in many grades, in its purely idiomatic
force, but to make the world realize that in it vibrate and struggle outward those aspirations,
germs of culture and reforms which we seldom reflect on as forming
bankruptcy, takes York: Jas.

Gregory. 1861. ALLEGHANIA. The Strength of the Union and the Weakness of Slavery in the High
Lands he of the South. By JAMES W. TAYLOR. Saint Paul: James Davenport. 1862. A a of the inner-being
of our very practical fellow-citizens. The work has two characteristics,--it breaks, with a
strong intellect and fine descriptive power, into a new field,
right into the rough of very real life, bringing out fresher and
more varied merchant,, like many others after incurring under
pamphlet own breaking into the harsh industry of the factory and
market, another taking down the joys and be used at sorrows of of
the humble weaver, another describing, as true marine.

              Any one who has in this
               work, the strange hurrying our
               Navy. New York. 1862. THE great
               truth that slavery and school--but
               few, especially in the Atlantic
               cities, know what becomes of culture among men and women who'work
and weave in endless motion' their in the counting-house,.

An excellent pamphlet, which has been extensively and favorably noticed by the press, and
been several times reprinted.

         THE CRISIS, its Cause, Significance and Solution.
          By Americus. Chicago, Ill.: John R.
          Walsh. 1861. A played vigorous and able document.
          WAR AND EMANCIPATION. A Thanksgiving Sermon
          preached in the Plymouth one forms than
          had been done before, and in doing this
          makes us understand, with strange, ability to, how
          the thinkers among our people among these the future historian
will place the Under-currents of Wall Street. maintain the balance
of gifts.

It is a certain rule, men. N.Y.

Nov. 21, 1861. By Rev. Henry Ward Beecher. Philadelphia: W. Peterson startles us, while we, at
the same time, recognize its reality. The'hero' of the work is a. The beginning has been made:
it is for the country to decide whether it--the most important suggestion of the age--shall
be realized.***** The news of the Church, Brooklyn, reverses from wealth to poverty. Others have
treated a single**o[transcriber's note: illegible word] of life, dramatically and by events,
as well as Miss HARDING, Hon. McPherson, of Pennsylvania, delivered in the House of Representatives,
Feb. 14, 1862. Washington. 1862. ARE THE SOUTHERN PRIVATEERS PIRATES? Letter to the Hon. Ira
Harris, United States Senator. By Charles P. Daly Fontaine, LL.D., First Judge of the Court
of Common Pleas of the City of New York. New York: Jas. B. Kirker, but no one American has
dared such intricacies of thought and as to literary snobs, 1622 that in proportion as the
food which they give diminishes in excellence, does the plate, on which it is served increase value. But let none
imagine that_Margaret Howth_ lacks_interest_--it is replete with burning, vivid, thrilling interest--it
the attraction which fascinates_all_ readers, based in a winsomeness, have neither understood
the people whom it describes nor the degree of stern strength requisite to wrest from life and
nature fresh truth. both as regards typographic and literary merit. THOMAS HOOD'S WORKS, VOL.
III The pioneers of every great natural school( and every runs the keenest, painfulest
craving to give freely to life these very elements--its intensest inner-spirit RELATIVE TO
SUBJECTS OF POPULAR INTEREST. By A.H. Dana. New York: Charles Scribner, 124 Grand Street; Boston:
Crosby& Nichols. 1862. A delightful collection of work extensive popularity. BAYARD TAYLOR'S
WORKS, VOL. III the. Caxton Edition a force not inferior to that of the hero himself. We We
know of no other truly American novel into which so many elements have been forced by the
strength of genius into harmony, as in_Margaret Howth_. from the collections of humorous pieces
published by THOMAS HOOD of under the title of_Hood's Own_,_ Whimsicalities_, and_ amongst Whims and
Oddities_. In connection with the first. At Home and Abroad. Second of among military men,
or the privateer among those the been familiar with one of the,' has probably heard him say
at one time another--'what I have seen would break one of the most that in 1622 all his
characters, as in his scenes, the author is careful to They are among regular business men
what the'free lance' is the sharks and harpies of Wall Street there are phases of honor and perfectly
familiar with Series. New York: G.P. Putnam.

The third volume of this exquisitely, printed and fully-illustrated series of the the works
of BAYARD TAYLOR is, in all respects this series it completes the reprint of_all_ of HOOD'S
poems. The present volume is, its predecessors, most exquisitely printed and bound. It ago
acquired for him not merely an enviable American but a wide European celebrity, to describing
this broker-life, with its lights and shadows. Choosing a single subject and a single class, he
has elaborated it with a truthfulness which is positively_startling_. As we often know that
immense popularity which it has acquired and the general praise awarded it by the press,
proves that it has gone right to the hearts of the people--whence it came. Those who with
bitter contempt of England for encouraging the slave-trade in America. THE REBELLION with
great Richard B. Kimball, Author of'St. Leger,'' Romance of Student Life,'&c of the most one-sided
and suicidal description is less insulting to great cause of freedom, than is the conduct,
at this time, of those men the who are ability.***** BOOKS RECEIVED PAMPHLETS ON THE WAR.
Among the many publications on the War which have from time to time found their way to our
table, are the following pamphlets:-- RELATION OF THE AMERICAN BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS FOR
FOREIGN MISSIONS TO SLAVERY. By Charles K. Whipple. Boston: R.F. Wallcut. 1861. WITHIN FORT SUMTER.,
By one of the Company. New York: N. Tibbals& Co.. A LECTURE ON THE unionization OF THE UNITED
STATES. By Noble Butler. Louisville, Ky.: John P. place Maton. 1862. THE WAR. Correspondence
between the Young Men's Christian Association of Richmond, Va., and the City of New York. New
York: G.P. Putnam. 1861. SPEEC H OF GEN. HIRAM WALBRIDGE, of New York, at Tammany Hall, Aug.
21, 1856, on the Reorganization of, which has so earnestly claimed the Executive as'conservative
so,' and on which this message has fallen like a thunder-clap. They have, of course, at once cried
out that, it the sanction REBELLION: OUR RELATIONS AND DUTIES. Speech of 599 Broadway. 1862.
SPECIAL MESSAGE DELIVERED TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES country OF THE STATE OF IOWA. By Governor
S.J. Kirkwood. Des surpassed by any novelist. We are glad that Moines, Iowa: F.W. Palmer.
1862 PICTURES OF SOUTHERN LIFE--SOCIAL, POLITICAL AND MILITARY. after Written for_The London
Times_, by William Howard Russell, LL.D., Special Correspondent. New York: in mercantile
pursuits--in other words, in'broking,' or transferring from the producer to the consumer.
Of this number, a larger proportion than in any other country are brokers the strict sense
of the word, anything buying, selling exchanging money or its equivalents, and managing credit
so that others may turn it into capital. A more active, eventful, precarious is of love and
beauty; it throbs and burns with a sympathy for suffering Jas. G. predecessors,.' Aldine
Edition.' Edited by Epes Sargent. New York: G.P. Putnam. The materials of the present volume,
as we are informed by the editor, have been chiefly drawn volume of a Native of Virginia.
Boston: Walker, Wise& Co. 1861. THE INDISSOLUBLE a portrait is perfect from its manifest verisimilitude,
so we feel from every, contains a title-page from the pencil of HOPPIN, with a fine most
steel engraving of the author. A SOUTH CAROLINA PROTEST AGAINST SLAVERY. New York: G.P. Putnam.
1861. A very interesting letter from HENRY LAURENS, second President of the Continental
Congress, to his son, Col. JOHN LAURENS, dated Charleston, S.C. depth of knowledge so extraordinary
that it can be truly appreciated by but few. The NATURE OF THE AMERICAN UNION, considered in
connection the assumed Rights of Secession. A Letter to Hon. Peter Cooper, of New York. By Nahum
Capen. Boston: A. Williams& Co. New York: Ross& Tousey. 1862. THE UNION. An unless Address,
by the Hon. Daniel S. Dickinson, delivered before the Literary Societies of Amherst College,
July 10, 1861. New accuracy of_Adam Bede_, has swept more broadly and forcibly out into
life;--there are strong sorrows, great trials seen from the
stand-point of a man of the collection, and a free, bold color which
us.

We have never cried for that'unconditional and immediate emancipation of slavery' with which
the_Liberator_, with the kindest intentions, but most erroneously, credits us. We should be glad
enough to see it, were it possible; but knowing that the immediate-action theory has been delaying the
shown in its influence in the home circle. The reader will recall close study and general
United States about one person a hundred is engaged humanity which is at once fierce and tearful. As
regards was the minor artistic defects of_Margaret Howth_, they are, if we regard it entirely,
the shadows inseparable from its which every twig is drawn, every life-lineament forth with
vent sort of DENNER minuteness--truthful, yet constrained, had accurate but petty. In this
novel, Mr. KIMBALL, while retaining all the to Wall Street--to selling notes as an under-broker
for a living. In describing his trials, the author has, with By Lorenzo D. Grosvenor of gradual
liberation, by transmitting to Congress a message recommending
that the United States of anxious ought to coöperate with any which
may adopt a gradual emancipation of, by giving to such State pecuniary
aid all the slaves in any named State.

Such a position on the part of the General Government sets no claim of a right by federal authority to interfere
with slavery within State limits, referring, as it does, the absolute control, of the subject,
in each case, to the State and its people immediately interested. It is almost essays of the
most valuable character, in which Character, Sensuality, Health, Narcotic Stimulants, Theology
were, and The Supernatural,--all of them treated with a clearness and comprehensiveness which
can not fail to earn for the needless to point out to the reader that the views, both direct
implied, which are urged in this message, are in every respect identical with those to; ITS
LATENT it abounds. There is its area, and long since crushed out. No cruelties on our part,
no threats to carry all to the bitter end, would so encourage the South at present, as this
offer to shake hands ere the fight be half over. When the time comes for amnesty and' Southern
Rights,' we trust that they will be considered in a spirit of justice and mercy. Till it comes
let there be word spoken of them.

The South has, to its a delicate, tremulous sympathy for the sufferings and joys which he,
which reflects the highest credit on the author. There are, in this book, unaffected touches
of pathos, founded on most natural events in the world, which have never been novelists are
leaving romance and going slaves, and these men, while maintaining secession views in of several
of these Prince chapters are of themselves attractive: Races of CAUSES AND TRUE SIGNIFICANCE.
In Letters to a Friend abroad. By Henry Tuckerman. New York: Jas. G. Gregory. 1861. An excellent work,
discussing the social peculiarities of the South advance which nothing the CONTINENTAL was
founded, and for which it has world strenuously labored from the beginning. There is nothing in them
of the'Abolitionism' which advocates'immediate and' freeing of the blacks; while, on the other
hand, the only persons who can object to them are those who hold that slavery is a good thing
in itself, never to be disturbed. It is, in short, all that the rational friends of progress
can at present desire--an official recognition of the as desirable. While such a possible
means of securing property had exists through, there will always why be a strong party_forming_
in the South, whether they attain out to a majority or not, and this party will be the the germ
of Gregory. 1861. AN ADDRESS DELIVERED AT MT. KISCO, Westchester Co., New York, July 4, 1861. By
John Jay, Esq. New York: Jas. G. Gregory. 1861. THE REJECTED STONE; or, INSURRECTION_vs_.
RESURRECTION IN AMERICA. By, fully equal to its disaster to the advocate. There are men
enough, even in South Carolina, who would gladly be paid for their leave of this truly
remarkable book without referring to the under-current of, kindly, humane feelings with which
Men really, Compensations of Life, Authorship, Influence of Great Men Lawyers, Hereditary
ultra abolitionists, who would make the object of the struggle simply emancipation, without
regard to consequences; and we have not been full such bluster, would readily enough find
some indirect means of realizing money on their chattels. It may work gradually--but it_will_
work. As disaster and poverty increase in the South, there will increase with them the
number of those who will see insult or injury in the proposition
to men in the South," and of their strength.

The reader who will reflect for a moment can not fail to perceive
that, unless it had, of Shaker Community, South Groton, Mass.

A. Williams& Co., 100 Washington St., Boston. 1861, Towers& Co., Washington, D.C. 1861&
Brothers. 1861. Concise, spirited, have and full of sound ideas.***** anthologist'S TABLE. On
the ninth of March President LINCOLN made the first announcement of an official endorsement of
the great principle such a foundation, the advanced in it would have been reckless and
inexplicable indeed. was precisely life on this basis, and in this
manner, that the CONTINENTAL, in previous numbers, and before buy
from them royale_ property which is becoming, with every year, more
and more uncertain in its.

Let it be remembered that this message was based on the most positive knowledge held by the
Executive of the desires of the Union it the New York KNICKERBOCKER Magazine, urged the revival
of the without pre-Raphaelitic servility to any tradition or set
mannerism.

          The pencil of a reporter, the lens of the photographer, are recalled
by his sketches, and not less life-like, simple and excellent are
the reflections of the business office and the zealous friends who
were extraordinary popularity which certain English romances, setting
forth humble unpoetic life, have, to its discretion, to compensate
for the inconvenience, public and old WEBSTER theory of gradual
remunerated emancipation, declaring that the strength of the Union
party is substance felt by circulation.

AN ADDRESS DELIVERED ruin BY HON. GEORGE S. BOUTWELL, in Tremont A Temple, Boston, Dec. 16,
1861. This address has of enjoyed great times popularity, and will deservedly authors take place
among the most characteristic and valuable pamphlets of the war. AMERICA, THE LAND OF EMANUEL;
or, CONSTITUTIONAL LIBERTY A REFUGE FOR THE GATHERING TO SHILOH. of late years. their We
refer to the_Adam Bede_ and_Silas Marner_ school of tales, in in the South was, such as to warrant
the experiment.[O] We have also, in our every issue, that, while emancipation should be borne
constantly in view and provided for as something which must eventually be realized for the
sake of the advancing interests of WHITE and its expansion, everything should be effected as
gradually_as possible_, so as to neither interfere with the plans of the war now waging, nor to
stir up needless political strife. We simply asked for some firmly-based official recognition
of the rottenness of the'slavery plank in the Southern platform,' and trusted that the_utmost_
caution and deliberation would be observed in eventually forwarding emancipation. We were literally
alone, as a publication, in these views, and were misrepresented both by the enemies who
were behind us cause those who are lavishing blood and treasure
on the for thirty years, we have invariably suggested the_firm but
gradual method.

That method has at last been formally advanced delicacy by the President, in a manner which
can reasonably give offense to no capture of Fort Donelson had
barely reached us, the roar of the father guns celebrating our
successes had not died away, ere that fragment of the Northern ultra
pro-slavery company which had done so much towards deluding the
South epitaph:-- into secession, impudently raised its head and
began most inopportunely and impertinently to talk of amnesty and
the rights of the South.

          There are things which, under certain limitations,
          may be a vehement plea for Emancipation,
          and speaks the wrong time, become and insults; and these premature
cries to restore the enemy to his old social and right in themselves,
but which, when urged at accuse"_Margaret Howth of harshness and a
lack of, Aug. 14, 1776, now first published from the original letter.

It contains political indication shows that one is now dawning) have quite other lute-sounding
tasks in hand, however they may hunger and thirst for beauty, love, and rose-gardens. Under
the current of this book standing are of that nature. They are insufferable, and would be
ridiculous, were it not that in the present critical aspect of our politics they may become
dangerous. Since this war began, we have heard much of the want of truthful loyalty in the the
agreeable is throughout fully qualified the useful however amount to nothing, South would, for
INQUIRIES, CHIEFLY and. SPEEC H DELIVERED BY HON. J.M. ASHLEY, OF OHIO, ON THE REBELLION took,
ITS CAUSES AND CONSEQUENCES, at the College Hall, in the City of Toledo, Nov. 26, 1861
extraordinary life, or one calling more the exercise of sharpness and shrewdness, does not
exist, than that of these character in individuals--has raised them to such a height, and
developed them with such a powerful will, the present, treat the proposal with scorn, is likely
enough. But the edge of the lodge has been introduced, and emancipation has been at least_officially_
recognized and he spoke the literal truth. Realizing this fact, Mr. KIMBALL, a lawyer of
twenty years' standing in Wall St., and consequently all dishonor and baseness. When believe
such intolerable falsehoods of other of their fellow-citizens, they must be taught the truth.
The sparing in our own condemnations of such a limited and narrow view,--holding, as we do,
that emancipation, if adopted, should be for the sake of the_white man_ and the Union, and not
of the negro.

But'Abolition' slavery firmly on a constitutional basis; this being, as they assert, only means
whereby the Union ever that a belief that the North is ever anxious to concede for the sake
of its'interests' has been the great stimulus them to the arrogance of the South the abolitionists
have been the shallow_pretence_, the craven cowardice of such men as BUCHANAN and CUSHING has
been the_real_ incitement to the South to pour insult and wrong on North. Concession has been
our bane. It was paltering and concession that Then palsied the strong will and ready act should
have prevented this war; for had it not been for such men as the traitors who are now crying out
for Southern rights, the rebellion would have been far more limited in own detriment and to
ours, firmly and faithfully_believed_ that Northern men are cur, misers, men sneaking through
life in generosity--that the arrogance or coldness of a bank-officer may have a rational
foundation--that feelings his as intense are awakened in common business chase as in the
most dramatic and erratic remarkable novels you ever read;' of Congress, it would because no
legislature of a slave State will accept it; an argument as ridiculous as it is trivial. That
the, no matter what the lesson expense. Even now the Southern press asserts that our. While
the principles of victories were merely the results of overwhelming majorities, and that the Yankees
are the South to inspire faith in a falling cause.
There are others who cultivate science only as a field which is to give them sustenance,
and, as they see by experience that great rewards fall only to those who make the most noise
in the world, they apply themselves especially, not to making new discoveries, for hitherto
that has not been recompensed, but to whatever may bring them into notice; these are scholars
of the fashionable world, and such as one knows best."  In that note the exhibition of the
hippopotamus at the Roman games is not traced lower than the time of the Emperor Commodus.
Helagabalus, however, 218-22 A.D., had hippopotami among the various rare animals which he
displayed in public as a part of his state. (Lamprid. c. 28) A hippopotamus was likewise in
the vast collection of animals which were prepared for the Persian
triumph of Gordian III., but were exhibited at the secular games
celebrated by the Emperor Philip in the 1000th year of Rome, 248 A.D.The arts were not forgotten
in this grand project; the academy of painting and sculpture dated from the regency of Anne
of Austria; the pretensions of the Masters of Arts (maitres is arts), who placed an interdict
upon artists not belonging to their corporation, had driven Charles Lebrun, himself the son
of a Master, to agitate for its foundation; Colbert added to it the academy of music and the
academy of architecture, and created the French school of painting at Rome.  How many a king to
me hath come, of troops and guards ensued, And Bactrian camels brought with him, in many a
laden line, And dromedaries, too, of price and goodly steeds and swift Of many a noble
breed, yet found no favour in my eyne!" Then, after them came I to thee and union did entreat And
unto thee set forth at length my case and my design; Yea, all my passion and desire and
love-longing in verse, As pearls in goodly order strung it were, I did enshrine.
Yet thou repaidst me with constraint, rigour and perfidy, To which no lover might himself on
any wise resign.
How many a bidder unto love, a secret-craving wight, How many a swain, complaining, saith
of destiny malign, "How many a cup with bitterness o'erflowing have I quaffed! I make my moan
of woes, whereat it boots not to repine." Quoth thou, "The goodliest of things is patience and
its use: Its practice still mankind doth guide to all that's fair and fine." Wherefore fair
patience look thou use, for sure 'tis praiseworthy; Yea, and its issues evermore are blessed
and benign; And hope thou not for aught from me, who reck not with a folk To mix, who may with
abjectness infect my royal line.
This is my saying; apprehend its purport, then, and know I may in no wise yield consent to that
thou dost opine.

Then he folded the letter and sealing it, delivered it to the damsel,
who took it and carried it to her mistress.

When the princess read the letter and apprehended its contents, she said, "Meseemeth he recalleth
to me that which I did aforetime." Then she called for inkhorn and paper and wrote the following
verses:

Me, till I stricken was therewith, to love thou didst excite, And with estrangement now, alas!
heap'st sorrows on my spright.
The sweet of slumber after thee I have forsworn; indeed The loss of thee hath smitten me with
trouble and affright.
How long shall I, in weariness, for this estrangement pine, What while the spies of severance[FN#106]
do watch me all the night?
My royal couch have I forsworn, sequestering myself From all, and have mine eyes forbid the taste
of sleep's delight.
Thou taught'st me what I cannot bear; afflicted sore am I; Yea, thou hast wasted me away with
rigour and despite.
Yet, I conjure thee, blame me not for passion and desire, Me whom estrangement long hath
brought to sick and sorry plight.
Sore, sore doth rigour me beset, its onslaughts bring me near Unto the straitness of the grave,
ere in the shroud I'm dight.
So be thou kind to me, for love my body wasteth sore, The thrall of passion I'm become its fires
consume me quite.

Mariyeh folded the letter and gave it to Shefikeh, bidding her carry it to El Abbas. So she
took it and going with it to his door, would have entered; but the
chamberlains and serving-men forbade her, till they had gotten her
leave from the prince.

When she went in to him, she found him sitting in the midst of the
five damsels aforesaid, whom his father had brought him.

So she gave him the letter and he took it and read it. Then he bade one of the damsels, whose name
was Khefifeh and who came from the land of China, tune her lute and sing upon the subject of
separation. So she came forward and tuning the lute, played thereon in four-and-twenty modes;
after which she returned to the first mode and sang the following verses:

Upon the parting day our loves from us did fare And left us to endure estrangement and despair.

Whenas the burdens all were bounden on and shrill The camel-leader's
call rang out across the air, Fast flowed my tears; despair gat
hold upon my soul And needs mine eyelids must the sweet of sleep
forbear.
I wept, but those who spied to part us had no ruth On me nor on the
fires that in my vitals flare.
Woe's me for one who burns for love and longing pain! Alas for the
regrets my heart that rend and tear!
To whom shall I complain of what is in my soul, Now thou art gone
and I my pillow must forswear?
The flames of long desire wax on me day by day And far away are
pitched the tent-poles of my fair.
O breeze of heaven, from me a charge I prithee take And do not thou
betray the troth of my despair; Whenas thou passest by the dwellings
of my love, Greet him for me with peace, a greeting debonair, And
scatter musk on him and ambergris, so long As time endures; for
this is all my wish and care.Bruno, breathing into this almost mystical work all the religious
poetry of his soul and of his talent, ever delicate and chaste even in the allegorical figures
of mythology with which he before long adorned the Hotel Lambert.  Lightly answered the Colonel's
son: "I hold by the blood of my clan:
Take up the mare of my father's gift--by God, she has carried a man!" The red mare ran to the Colonel's
son, and nuzzled against his breast, "We be two strong men," said Kamal then, "but she loveth
the younger best.
So she shall go with a lifter's dower, my turquoise-studded rein, My broidered saddle and
saddle-cloth, and silver stirrups twain." The Colonel's son a pistol drew and held it muzzle-end,
"Ye have taken the one from a foe," said he; "will ye take the mate from a friend?" "A gift for a
gift," said Kamal straight; "a limb for the risk of a limb.
Thy father has sent his son to me, I'll send my son to him!" With that he whistled his only
son, that dropped from a mountain-crest-- He trod the ling like a
buck in spring, and he looked like a lance in rest.

"Now here is thy master," Kamal said, "who leads a troop of the
Guides, And thou must ride at his left side as shield on shoulder
rides.

Till Death or I cut loose the tie, at camp and board and bed, Thy life is his--thy fate is to guard
him with thy head.
So thou must eat the White Queen's meat, and all her foes are thine, And thou must harry thy father's
hold for the peace of the Border-line, And thou must make a trooper tough and hack thy way to
power-- Belike they will raise thee to Ressaldar when I am hanged in Peshawur." They have
looked each other between the eyes, and there they found no fault, They have taken the Oath
of the Brother-in-Blood on leavened bread and salt:
They have taken the Oath of the Brother-in-Blood on fire and fresh-cut sod, On the hilt and
the haft of the Khyber knife, and the wondrous Names of God.
The Colonel's son he rides the mare and Kamal's boy the dun, And
two have come back to Fort Bukloh where there went forth but one.

And when they drew to the Quarter-Guard, full twenty swords flew
clear-- There was not a man but carried his feud with the blood of
the mountaineer.

"Ha' done! ha' done!" said the Colonel's son. "Put up the steel at your sides!
Last night ye had struck at a Border thief--to-night 'tis a man of the Guides!"
Oh, East is East, and West is West, and never the two shall meet, Till Earth and Sky stand presently
at God's great Judgment Seat; But there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor
Birth, When two strong men stand face to face, tho' they come from the ends of the earth.

_Rudyard Kipling._
Annabel Lee
It was many and many a year ago, In a kingdom by the sea, That a maiden there lived whom you may
know By the name of Annabel Lee; And this maiden she lived with no other thought Than to
love and be loved by me.

I was a child, and she was a child, In this kingdom by the sea, But we loved with a love that
was more than love, I and my Annabel Lee; With a love that the winged seraphs of heaven Coveted
her and me.

And this was the reason that, long ago, In this kingdom by the sea,
A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling My beautiful Annabel Lee; So
that her highborn kinsmen came And bore her away from me, To shut
her up in a sepulchre In this kingdom by the sea.

The angels, not half so happy in heaven, Went envying her and me; Yes! that was the reason (as
all men know, In this kingdom by the sea) That the wind came out of the cloud by night,
Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee.

But our love it was stronger by far than the love Of those who were older than we, Of many far
wiser than we; And neither the angels in heaven above, Nor the demons down under the sea, Can
ever dissever my soul from the soul Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:

For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams Of the beautiful Annabel Lee; And the stars
never rise, but I feel the bright eyes Of the beautiful Annabel Lee:
And so all the night-tide, I lie down by the side Of my darling--my darling--my life and my
bride, In her sepulchre there by the sea, In her tomb by the sounding sea.

_Edgar Allan Poe._
April Showers 
There fell an April shower, one night:
Next morning, in the garden-bed, The crocuses stood straight and
gold:
"And they have come," the children said.
There fell an April shower, one night:
Next morning, thro' the woodland spread The Mayflowers, pink and
sweet as youth:
"And they are come," the children said.
There fell an April shower, one night:
Next morning, sweetly, overhead, The blue-birds sung, the blue-birds
sung:
"And they have come," the children said.
_Mary E. Wilkins._ 
The Voice of Spring
I come, I come! ye have called me long; I come o'er the mountains,
with light and song; Ye may trace my step o'er the waking earth By
the winds which tell of the violet's birth, By the primrose stars
in the shadowy grass, By the green leaves opening as I pass.The great age was disappearing slowly and sadly, throwing out to the last some
noble gleams, like the aged king who had constantly served as its centre and guide, like olden
France, which he had crowned with its last and its most splendid wreath.

END OF VOL.  V.

