"Hearken, Mísha," said I; "wilt thou settle down with me?... Thou shalt have everything provided
for thee, clothes and under-linen shall be made for thee, thou shalt be properly fitted out,
and thou shalt receive money for tobacco and so forth, only on one condition: not to drink
liquor!... Dost thou accept?"

Mísha was even frightened with joy. He opened his eyes very wide, turned crimson, and suddenly
falling on my shoulder, he began to kiss me and to repeat in a spasmodic voice:--"Uncle ...
benefactor.... May God reward you!..." He melted into tears at last, and doffing his kazák
cap, began to wipe his eyes, his nose, and his lips with it.

"Look out," I said to him. "Remember the condition--not to drink liquor!"

"Why, damn it!" he exclaimed, flourishing both hands, and as a result of that energetic movement
I was still more strongly flooded with that spirituous odour wherewith he was thoroughly impregnated....
"You see, dear uncle, if you only knew my life.... If it were not for grief, cruel Fate, you
know.... But now I swear,--I swear that I will reform, and will prove.... Uncle, I have never
lied--ask any one you like if I have.... I am an honourable, but an unhappy man, uncle; I have
never known kindness from any one...."

At this point he finally dissolved in sobs. I tried to soothe him and succeeded, for when we
drove up to my house Mísha had long been sleeping the sleep of the dead, with his head resting
on my knees.

VII

He was immediately allotted a special room, and also immediately, as the first measure, taken
to the bath, which was absolutely indispensable. All his garments, and his dagger and tall
kazák cap and hole-ridden shoes, were carefully laid away in the storehouse; clean linen was
put on him, slippers, and some of my clothing, which, as is always the case with paupers, exactly
fitted his build and stature. When he came to the table, washed, neat, fresh, he seemed so
much touched, and so happy, he was beaming all over with such joyful gratitude, that I felt
emotion and joy.... His face was completely transfigured. Little boys of twelve wear such faces
at Easter, after the Communion, when, thickly pomaded, clad in new round-jackets and starched
collars, they go to exchange the Easter greeting with their parents. Mísha kept feeling of
himself cautiously and incredulously, and repeating:--"What is this?... Am not I in heaven?"--And
on the following day he announced that he had not been able to sleep all night for rapture!

In my house there was then living an aged aunt with her niece. They were both greatly agitated
when they heard of Mísha's arrival; they did not understand how I could have invited him to
my house! He bore a very bad reputation. But, in the first place, I knew that he was always
very polite to ladies; and, in the second place, I trusted to his promise to reform. And, as
a matter of fact, during the early days of his sojourn under my roof Mísha not only justified
my expectations, but exceeded them; and he simply enchanted my ladies. He played picquet with
the old lady; he helped her to wind yarn; he showed her two new games of patience; he accompanied
the niece, who had a small voice, on the piano; he read her French and Russian poetry; he narrated
diverting but decorous anecdotes to both ladies;--in a word, he was serviceable to them in
all sorts of ways, so that they repeatedly expressed to me their surprise, while the old woman
even remarked: "How unjust people sometimes are!... What all have not they said about him ...
while he is so discreet and polite ... poor Mísha!"

It is true that at table "poor Mísha" licked his lips in a peculiarly-hasty way every time
he even looked at a bottle. But all I had to do was to shake my finger, and he would roll up
his eyes, and press his hand to his heart ... as much as to say: "I have sworn...."

