This vow, and many others, she made to St. Clare; then her thoughts wandered to the city moat,
to the Pegnitz, the Fischbach, and all the other streams in and near Nuremberg, where it was
possible to drown and thus escape the terrible disgrace which threatened her. But in so doing
she had doubtless committed a heavy sin; for while recalling the Dutzen Pond, from whose dark
surface she had often gathered white water lilies after passing through the Frauenthor into
the open fields, and wondering in what part of its reedy shore her design could be most easily
executed, a brilliant flash of lightning blazed through her room, and at the same time a peal
of thunder shook the old mansion to its foundations.

That was meant for her and her wicked thoughts. No! For the sake of escaping disgrace here
on earth, she dared not trifle with eternal salvation and the hope of seeing her dead mother
in the other world.

The remembrance of that dear mother, who had laboured so earnestly to train her in every good
path, soothed her. Surely she was looking down upon her and knew that she had remained upright
and honest, that she had not defrauded her employers of even a pin, and that the little fault
which was to be so grievously punished had been committed solely out of love for her countryman,
who in his truth and steadfastness meant honestly by her. What Biberli requested her to do
could be no heavy sin.

But the powers above seemed to be of a different opinion; for again a dazzling glare of light
illumined the room, and the crash and rattle of the thunder of the angry heavens accompanied
it with a deafening din. Katterle shrieked aloud; it seemed as if the gates of hell had opened
before her, or the destruction of the world had begun.

Frantic with terror, she sprang back from the window, through which the raindrops were already
sprinkling her face. They cooled her flushed cheeks and brought her back to reality. The offence
she had just committed was no trivial one. She, whom Herr Ortlieb, with entire confidence,
had placed in the service of the fair young girl whose invalid mother could not care for her,
had permitted herself to be induced to persuade Eva, who was scarcely beyond childhood, to
a rendezvous with a man whom she represented to the inexperienced maiden as a godly, virtuous
knight, though she knew from Biberli how far the latter surpassed his master in fidelity and
steadfastness.

"Lead us not into temptation!" How often she had repeated the words in the Lord's Prayer, and
now she herself had become the serpent that tempted into sin the innocent child whom duty should
have commanded her to guard.

No, no! The guilt for which she was threatened with punishment was by no means small, and even
if her earthly judge did not call her to account, she would go to confession to-morrow and
honestly perform the penance imposed.

Moved by these thoughts, she gazed across the courtyard to the convent. Just at that moment
the lightning again flashed, the thunder pealed, and she covered her face with her hands. When
she lowered her arms she saw on the roof of the nuns' granary, which adjoined the cow-stable,
a slender column of smoke, followed by a narrow tongue of flame, which grew steadily brighter.

The lightning had set it on fire.

Sympathy for the danger and losses of others forced her own grief and anxiety into the background
and, without pausing to think, she slipped on her shoes, snatched her shawl from the chest,
and ran downstairs, shouting: "The lightning has struck! The convent is burning!"

Just at that moment the door of the chamber occupied by the two sisters opened, and Ernst Ortlieb,
with tangled hair and pallid cheeks, came toward her.

Within the room the dim light of the little lamp and the fiery glare of the lightning illumined
tear-stained, agitated faces.

After Heinz Schorlin had called to her, and Els had hurried to her aid, Eva, clad in her long,
plain night robe, and barefooted, just as she had risen from her couch, followed the maid to
her room. What must the knight, who but yesterday, she knew, had looked up to her as to a saint,
think of her now?

She felt as if she were disgraced, stained with shame. Yet it was through no fault of her own,
and overwhelmed by the terrible conviction that mysterious, supernatural powers, against which
resistance was hopeless, were playing a cruel game with her, she had felt as if the stormy
sea were tossing her in a rudderless boat on its angry surges.

Unable to seek consolation in prayer, as usual, she had given herself up to dull despair, but
only for a short time. Els had soon returned, and the firm, quiet manner with which her prudent,
helpful friend and sister met her, and even tried to raise her drooping courage by a jest ere
she sent her to their mother's sick room, had fallen on her soul like refreshing dew; not because
Els promised to act for her--on the contrary, what she intended to do roused her to resistance.

She had been far too guilty and oppressed to oppose her, yet indignation concerning the sharp
words which Els had uttered about the knight, and her intention of forbidding him the house,
perhaps forever, had stimulated her like strong acid wine.

Not until after her sister had left her did she become capable of clearly understanding what
she had felt during her period of somnambulism.

While her mother, thanks to a narcotic, slept soundly, breathing quietly, and in the entry
below something, she knew not what, perhaps due to her father's return, was occurring, she
sat thinking, pondering, while an impetuous throng of rebellious wishes raised their voices,
alternately asking and denying, in her agitated breast.

How she had happened to rise from her couch and go out had vanished utterly from her memory,
but she was still perfectly conscious of her feelings during the night walk. If hitherto she
had yearned to drain heavenly bliss from the chalice of faith, during her wanderings through
the house she had longed for nothing save to drink her fill from the cup of earthly joy. Ardent
kisses, of which she had forbidden herself even to think, she awaited with blissful delight.
Her timorous heart, held in check by virgin modesty, accustomed to desire nothing save what
she could have confessed to her sister and the abbess, seemed as if it had cast off every fetter
and boldly resolved to risk the most daring deeds. The somnambulist had longed for the moment
when, after Heinz Schorlin's confession that he loved her, she could throw her arms around
his neck with rapturous gratitude.

If, while awake, she had desired only to speak to him of her saint and of his duty to overthrow
the foes of the Church, she had wished while gazing at the moon from the stairs, and in front
of the house door, to whisper sweet words of love, listen to his, and in so doing forget herself,
the world, and everything which did not belong to him, to her, and their love.

And she remembered this longing and yearning in a way very unlike a mere dream. It seemed rather
as if, while the moon was attracting her by its magic power, something, which had long slumbered
in the depths of her soul, had waked to life; something, from which formerly, ere her heart
and mind had been able rightly to understand it, she had shrunk with pious horror, had assumed
a tangible form.

Now she dreaded this newly recognised sinful part of her own nature, which she had imagined
a pure vessel that had room only for what was noble, sacred, and innocent.

She, too--she knew it now--was only a girl like those on whose desire for love she had looked
down with arrogant contempt, no bride of heaven or saint.

She had not yet taken the veil, and it was fortunate, for what would have become of her had
she not discovered until after her profession this part of her nature, which she thought every
true nun, if she possessed it, must discard, like the hair which was shorn from her head, before
taking the vow of the order.

During this self-inspection it became more and more evident that she was not one person, but
two in one--a twofold nature with a single body and two distinct souls; and this conviction
caused her as much pain as if the cut which had produced the separation were still bleeding.

Just at that moment her eyes fell upon the image of the Virgin opposite, and the usual impulse
to lift her soul in prayer took possession of her even more powerfully than a short time before.

With fervent warmth she besought her to release her from this newly awakened nature, which
surely could not be pleasing in the sight of Heaven, and let her once more become what she
was before the unfortunate ramble in the moonlight.

But the composure she needed for prayer was soon destroyed, for the image of the knight rose
before her again and again, and it seemed as if her own name, which he had called with such
ardent longing, once more rang in her ears.

Whoever thus raises his voice in appeal to another loves that person. Heinz Schorlin's love
was great and sincere and, instead of heeding the inner voice that warned her to return to
prayer, she cried defiantly, "I will not!"

She could not yet part from the man for whom her heart throbbed with such passionate yearning,
who was so brave and godly, so ardently devoted to her.

True, it had been peacefully beautiful to dream herself into the bright glory of heaven, yet
the stormy rapture she had felt while thinking of him and his love seemed richer and greater.
She could not, would not part from him.

Then she remembered her sister's intention of driving Heinz--Eva already called the knight
by that name in her soliloquy--from her presence, and the thought that she might perhaps wound
him so keenly that knightly honour would forbid his return alarmed and incensed her.

What right had Els to distrust him? A godly knight played no base game with the chosen lady
of, his heart, and that, yes, that she certainly was, since she had named her colour to him.
Nothing should separate them. She needed him for her happiness as much as she did light and
air. Hitherto she had longed for bliss in another world, but she was so young she probably
had a long life before her, and what could existence on earth offer if robbed of the hope of
his possession?

The newly awakened part of her nature demanded its rights. It would never again allow itself
to be forced into the old slumber.

If her sister came back and boasted of having driven away the dangerous animal forever, she
would show her that she had a different opinion of the knight, and would permit no one to interpose
between them. But, while still pondering over this plan, the door of the sick-room was softly
opened and her father beckoned to her to follow him.

Silently leading the way through the dusky corridor, no longer illumined by the moonlight,
he entered his daughter's room before her. The lamp, still burning there, revealed the agitated
face of her sister who, resting her chin on her hand, sat on the stool beside the spinning wheel.

Eva's courage, which had blazed up so brightly, instantly fell again.

"Good heavens! What has happened?" she cried in terror; but her father answered in a hollow tone:

"For the sake of your noble sister, to whom I pledged my word, I will force myself to remain
calm. But look at her! Her poor heart must be like a graveyard, for she was doomed to bury
what she held dearest. And who," he continued furiously, so carried away by grief and indignation
as to be unmindful of his promise to maintain his composure, "who is to blame for it all, save
you and your boundless imprudence?"

Eva, with uplifted hands, tried to explain how, unconscious of her acts, she had walked in
her sleep down the stairs and out of the house, but he imperiously cut her short with:

"Silence! I know all. My daughter gave a worthless tempter the right to expect the worst from
her. You, whom we deemed the ornament of this house, whose purity hitherto was stainless, are
to blame if people passing on the street point at it! Alas! alas! Our honour, our ancient,
unsullied name!"

Groaning aloud, the father struck his brow with his clenched hand; but when Els rose and passed
her arm around his shoulders to speak words of consolation, Eva, who hitherto had vainly struggled
for words, could endure no more.

"Whoever says that of me, my father," she exclaimed with flashing eyes; scarcely able to control
her voice, "has opened his ears to slander; and whoever terms Heinz Schorlin a worthless tempter,
is blinded by a delusion, and I call him to his face, even were it my own father, to whom I
owe gratitude and respect--"

But here she stopped and extended her arms to keep off the deeply angered man, for he had started
forward with quivering lips, and--she perceived it clearly--was already under the spell of
one of the terrible fits of fury which might lead him to the most unprecedented deeds. Els,
however, had clung to him and, while holding him back with all her strength, cried out in a
tone of keen reproach, "Is this the way you keep your promise?"

Then, lowering her voice, she continued with loving entreaty: "My dear, dear father, can you
doubt that she was asleep, unconscious of her acts, when she did what has brought so much misery
upon us?"

And, interrupting herself, she added eagerly in a tone of the firmest conviction: "No, no,
neither shame nor misery has yet touched you, my father, nor the poor child yonder. The suspicion
of evil rests on me, and me alone, and if any one here must be wretched it is I."

Then Herr Ernst, regaining his self-control, drew back from Eva, but the latter, as if fairly
frantic, exclaimed: "Do you want to drive me out of my senses by your mysterious words and
accusations? What, in the name of all the saints, has happened that can plunge my Els into
misery and shame?"

"Into misery and shame," repeated her father in a hollow tone, throwing himself into a chair,
where he sat motionless, with his face buried in his hands, while Els told her sister what
had occurred when she went down into the entry to speak to the knight.

Eva listened to her story, fairly gasping for breath. For one brief moment she cherished the
suspicion that Cordula had not acted from pure sympathy, but to impose upon Heinz Schorlin
a debt of gratitude which would bind him to her more firmly. Yet when she heard that her father
had given back his daughter's ring to Herr Casper Eysvogel and broken his child's betrothal
she thought of nothing save her sister's grief and, sobbing aloud, threw herself into Els's arms.

The girls held each other in a close embrace until the first flash of lightning and peal of
thunder interrupted the conversation.

The father and daughters had been so deeply agitated that they had not heard the storm rising
outside, and the outbreak of the tempest surprised them. The peal of thunder, which so swiftly
followed the lightning, also startled them and when, soon after, a second one shook the house
with its crashing, rattling roar, Herr Ernst went out to wake the chief packer. But old Endres
was already keeping watch among the wares entrusted to him and when, after a brief absence,
the master of the house returned, he found Eva again clasped in her sister's arms, and saw
the latter kissing her brow and eyes as she tenderly strove to comfort her.

