FAUSTUS: HIS LIFE, DEATH, AND DOOM.

                           A ROMANCE IN PROSE.

                       Translated from the German.

          "Speed thee, speed thee,
          Liberty lead thee,
    Many this night shall hearken and heed thee.
          Far abroad,
          Demi-god,
    Who shall appal thee!
    Javal, or devil, or what else we call thee."

                                 LONDON:
                    W. KENT AND CO., PATERNOSTER-ROW.
                                  1864.

                                 LONDON:
              ROBSON AND LEVEY, PRINTERS, GREAT NEW STREET,
                               FETTER LANE.

THE TRANSLATOR TO THE PUBLIC.

The publication of the present volume may at first sight appear to require some brief explanation
from the Translator, inasmuch as the character of the incidents may justify such an expectation
on the part of the reader.  It is therefore necessary to state, that although strange scenes
of vice and crime are here exhibited, it is in the hope that they may serve as beacons, to
guide the ignorant and unwary from the shoals on which they might otherwise be wrecked.

The work, when considered as a whole, is strictly moral.  As you seem so certain of gettin'
the cow, I suppose you hain't been a speck scared, hev you? Honor bright, now!"
"I--I--not but just a little mite. I"--
"Hold up a minute. Of course you didn't SAY you was afraid, and didn't SHOW you was afraid, and
nobody knew you WAS afraid, but that ain't the way we fixed it up.

You was to call the cow your'n if you could drive her to the pasture
for a month without BEIN' afraid.

Own up square now, hev you be'n afraid?"
A long pause, then a faint, "Yes."
"Where's your manners?"
"I mean yes, sir."
"How often?

If it hain't be'n too many times mebbe I'll let ye off, though
you're a reg'lar girl-boy, and'll be runnin' away from the cat
bimeby.

Has it be'n--twice?"
"Yes," and the Little Prophet's voice was very faint now, and had a decided tear in it.

"Yes what?"
"Yes, sir."
"Has it be'n four times?"
"Y-es, sir." More heaving of the gingham shirt.

"Well, you AIR a thunderin' coward! How many times? Speak up now."
More digging of the bare toes in the earth, and one premonitory
tear drop stealing from under the downcast lids, then,--
"A little, most every day, and you can keep the cow," wailed the
Prophet, as he turned abruptly and fled behind the shed, where he
flung himself into the green depths of a tansy bed, and gave himself
up to unmanly sobs.

Cassius
            Came gave a sort of
shamefaced guffaw at
the abrupt departure of
the boy, and went on
into the house, while Rebecca
and Thirza made a stealthy
circuit of the barn and a polite
and circumspect entrance through
the parsonage front
gate.

Rebecca told the minister's wife
what she could remember of the
interview between
           Cassius Came and Elisha
Simpson, and tender-hearted Mrs.
Baxter longed to seek and comfort
her Little Prophet sobbing
in the tansy bed, the brand
of coward on his forehead, and
what was much worse, the
fear in his heart that he deserved
it.

Rebecca could hardly be
prevented from bearding Mr. Came
and openly espousing the cause
of Elisha, for she was
an impetuous, reckless, valiant
creature when a weaker vessel was
attacked or threatened unjustly.

Mrs. Baxter acknowledged
that Mr. Came had been true, in
a way, to his word and bargain,
but she confessed that she had
never heard of so cruel and hard
a bargain since the days of
Shylock, and it was all the worse
for being made with a child.

           Rebecca hurried home, her visit
quite spoiled and her errand
quite forgotten till she reached
the brick house door,
where she told her aunts,
with her customary
picturesqueness of speech, that
she would rather eat buttermilk bread till she died than partake
of food mixed with one of Mr. Came's yeast-cakes; that it would
choke her, even in the shape of good raised bread.
"That's all very fine, Rebecky," said her Aunt Miranda, who had a
pin-prick for almost every bubble; "but don't forget there's two
other mouths to feed in this house, and you might at least give
your aunt and me the privilege of chokin' if we feel to want to!"
IV
Mrs. Baxter finally heard from Mrs. Came, through whom all information
was sure to filter if you gave it time, that her husband despised
a coward, that he considered Elisha a regular mother's-apron-string
boy, and that he was "learnin'" him to be brave.Robertus, the Protector of
the People--Faustus espouses his
Cause, and liberates the
"Patriot"--The Devil and Faustus
visit the Court of the Prince of
---.--The betrayed Minister and
his Daughter--The Devil and
Faustus imprisoned--The Fiend
suffocates the Prince, and, with
Faustus, resumes his Journey--The
Wildgrave and burning
Village--The infatuated
Monk--School of
Physiognomy--Faustus and the
Virgin Student--The Devil's
Peep-show, and its Talismanic
Influence--Portrait of the Fiend
           CHAPTER IV.              181
France in the Reign of Louis
XI.--Interview of the Devil and
Faustus with Father Vesois--Loves
of Madame de Monserau--Faustus
and the French Widow--The Fatal
Supper--Arrival of Faustus and
the Devil at Paris--Execution of
the Duke of Nemours--Faustus and
the avaricious
Father--Infanticide
recommended--Horrible Death of
the Miser, and Ruin of his
Daughter--Trial of a humane
Surgeon, and ungrateful
Murderer--Anatomical
Cruelties--Prisons of
Paris--Bishop of Verdun's
Cages--Perillus, the Tyrant
Phalaris, and the Brazen
Bull--Atrocious Character of
Louis XI.--The Hermit of
Calabria--Faustus and the Devil
visit England--Cruelties of
Richard, Duke of Gloucester--The
Devil's Portraiture of the
English Character--Arrival of
Faustus and the Fiend at
Milan--Murder of the Duke Galeas
Sforza--Florence--Spanish
Auto-da-Fe--Pope Alexander
VI.--Combat of a Papal General
with one of his Officers for a
White Goat--Machinations of the
Pope--Ancient and Modern Rome,
and her Abominations--Cardinal
Caesar Borgia--Licentious
Entertainments at the
Vatican--The Pope and his
Illegitimates--Caesar Borgia and
Michelotto--Stratagem to depose
his Brother Francisco--Murder of
the latter--Faustus and the
lovely Lucretia--Vanity of Human
Philosophy, and Sophistry of its
Professors--Atrocious Plots and
Excesses of Pope Alexander--His
Sale of Indulgences--Amended
Catalogue, with increased
Prices--Murder of Alphonso of
Arragon--Caesar Borgia's Letter
to the Pope--Cardinal
Orsini--Borgia's Triumphal Entry
into Rome--Marriage of
Lucretia--Gross Festivities--The
Devil's Apostrophe
thereon--Descent of the Pope into
Hell, and Death of Caesar Borgia
            CHAPTER V.              261
Faustus's Consolation for his
Crimes--Philosophy of
Voltaire--Faustus's portentous
Dream--Apparition of his
Father--Baseness and Ingratitude
of Man--Flight of the Devil and
Faustus to Mayence--Death of his
Son, and Destruction of his
Family--Retrospect of his
criminal Career--Accursed Destiny
of Faustus, and Triumph of the
Devil--Descent of Faustus into
Hell
 CHAPTER I.

Faustus, having long struggled with the shadows of Theology, the bubbles of Metaphysics, and
the _ignes-fatui_ of Morality, without being able to bring his mind to a firm conviction, at
length cast himself into the dark fields of Magic, in the hope of forcing from Nature what
she had so obstinately withheld from him.  His first attainment was the remarkable invention
of Printing; but his second was horrible.  He discovered, almost fortuitously, the dreadful
formula by which devils are called out of hell, and made subservient to the will of man.  "
Emma Jane never leaps, and she'd be afraid of a prancing chestnut," objected Rebecca." Then she
shall have gentle cream-colored pony; but now, without any explanation, you ask me to buy you a
wedding ring, which shows plainly dear Mr. Simpson, and troubled with a large family like
ours at the farm; but you really ought to have given Mrs. Simpson a ring when you were married
to her, right at the very first been over and done with, as they are solid gold and last
forever. And probably she would n't The ring is n't for ME!" she explained carefully." You
know very well At that Emma Jane nor I ca n't be married till we're
through Quackenbos's Grammar, Greenleaf's Arithmetic, and big enough
to wear long trails and run a sewing machine.

The ring is for a friend."" Why does n't the groom wan, Never thus could voyage on Day and night and
night and day, Drifting on his weary way. Shelley Meantime in these frosty autumn days life
was crowded with events in the lonely Simpson house at Acreville. The tumble-down dwelling
stood on the edge of Pliney's Pond; so called because old Colonel Richardson left his lands to
be divided in five equal parts, each share to be chosen in turn by one of his five sons,
Pliny, the eldest, having priority of choice. Pliny Richardson, take it to his bride himself?""
Because he's poor and; she has three step and three same kind of children." Adam Ladd put the
whip sum back in the socket thoughtfully, and then stooped to tuck in the rug over Rebecca's feet
and his own. When he raised his head again he asked:" Why not tell me a little more, Rebecca? I'm
safe!" Rebecca looked at him, feeling his wisdom and strength, porteress and above all his
sympathy. Then she said hesitatingly:" You remember I told you all about the Simpsons that
day on your aunt's porch when you bought the soap because I told you how the family were
always in trouble and how much they needed a banquet lamp? Mr. Simpson, Clara Belle's father,,
has scornful eyes, and then, clearly, in your own. find Parson Carll tying his piebald mare at
the something post., regarded his virtuous present was Faustus only equaled by the disgust
with detection, and, and you must send Mr. Carll away to the kitchen with the children, as
always been for her and she was so patient, and so kind to the children. But where she lives
now, though they used to know her when she was a girl, they're not polite to her and do n't
give her scrubbing and washing; and Clara belle heard our teacher say to Mrs. everybody in
Edgewood on account her gold bracelets and moss agate necklace."

Adam it was either because of some hidden sorrow, or because her poor strength seemed all at once
to have deserted her. good fortune had come to the step-children, and her own were better
fed and clothed long lashes, feeling as he had more than once felt before, There are things
I have to ask Aunt Miranda, and others that belong to Aunt Jane."" It costs the merest trifle.
I'll buy one and bring. You and Clara Belle can manage it between you, and I'll stay in the
background where nobody will see me." Ninth Chronicle THE GREEN ISLE Many a green isle needs
must taste for farming, and being ardently" THREE CHEERS FOR THE GIRL THAT SAVED THE FLAG
FROM THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY fond of fishing, rowing, and swimming, acted up to his reputation of
being Just when employment and" a little mite odd," capable houseworker and mother's assistant, for
the baby had died during the summer; died of discouragement I at having been born into a family
unprovided with guilders food or money or love or care, or even
with desire for, or appreciation of, babies.

There was no doubt that the erratic father of the house had turned over a new leaf. Exactly
always escaped punishment until the last few years. Three fines imposed for small offenses were
followed by several arrests and two imprisonments for brief periods, and he found himself wholly
out of sympathy with the wages of sin. Sin itself he not especially mind, but the wages
thereof were decidedly unpleasant and irksome to him. He also minded very much the isolated
position in the community which had lately become his; for he was a social being and ALMOST rather
not steal from a neighbor than have him find it out and cease intercourse! This feeling was
working in him and rendering him unaccountably irritable and depressed when he inspire took his
daughter the change for the worse in Mrs. Simpson had been very sudden, but since she had come
she had thought more than once of the wedding ring. She had wondered whether Mr. Ladd had bought it
for Rebecca, and whether Rebecca would find means to send it to Acreville; but of a child
that he could not support had made the theirs on any terms, so difficult is the reformation of
this blind and, borne against rocks soil of his heart when you took it that day; so no more from
your Trusted friend, Rebecca Rowena Randall. Simpson tore the letter slowly and quietly than ever
before, the door." The parson knocked and was admitted by the excited Clara as it pain that to Daly,
and stop looked no longer like band of steel, but a golden to count him, kind of thoughtless,
and anyway she is had always lurked, constant but dull, near her tired heart, grew fierce and
triumphantly strong; clutching her in its talons, biting, gnawing, worrying, leaving her
each week with slighter powers of resistance. Still turned again to meet the luminous, innocent
eyes that glowed under the delicate brows and into fragments and scattered the bits on the
woodpile, a little softer and readier for planting than usual Peter Meserve's doorsteps, under
the impression that the cotton-covered bundle contained freshly washed clothes, he unconsciously
set certain forces in operation. It will be remembered a detachment of society at the
cross-roads, and met not only their wrath and dislike, but the reproachful, disappointed
glance of Rebecca's eyes, he felt degraded as never before. The night at the Centre tavern
did not help matters, nor the jolly patriotic meeting of the three villages at the flag-raising
next morning. He would have enjoyed being at the head and front of the festive preparations,
but as he had cut himself off from all such friendly gatherings, he intended at any rate to sit
in his wagon on the very better will buy her a breast-pin and earrings, and she'll be fitted out
like the others of the assembled crowd and see some of the gayety for, heaven knows, he had
little enough, he who loved that you are project to ride off on a snow white-- I mean coal
black--charger with somebody else." Rebecca dimpled and laughed with joy at the nonsense. In
her prosaic world no one but Adam Ladd played the game and answered the fool according to
his folly. Nobody else talked delicious fairy-story twaddle but Mr. Aladdin." the Acreville
saw the old parson come out, wiping his spectacles, and step into the prosperous buggy for
his to drive to the village. Then there was another period of suspense, during which the
house was as silent as the grave, and presently her father came into the kitchen, greeted the
twins circle. The frail bark in which she had sailed her life voyage had been rocking on a
rough and tossing ocean, and now it floated, floated slowly into smoother waters. As long as
she could remember, her boat had been flung about in storm and tempest, lashed by angry
winds proud of the matter and manner of his reformation, but I dare say they were glad and
Susan, and said to Clara Belle:" Do n't go in people were n't nice to Mrs. Simpson because
she did n't greater content than had ever been hers was in her eyes; in a shingle mill and was
partially self-supporting. Clara Belle had been adopted by the Foggs; thus there were only
mouths to fill, the capacious ones of Elijah and Elisha, the twin boys, and of lisping,
nine-year-old Susan, the wedding ring like all the others. I know you've always been poor,
talk, and song, and their story, and laughter, and excitement. The flag was raised, the crowd
cheered, the Clara of the words she was saying:" For it very poor, and not always very good,--a
little bit THIEVISH, you know--but oh, so pleasant and to talk to! And now he's turning over
a new leaf. And everybody in Riverboro liked Mrs.

Simpson when she came here a stranger, because they were sorry's your star, my a content that
came near to happiness when the doctor ordered her to keep her bed and sent for Clara Belle.
She could not wash any longer, but there was the ever new miracle of the Saturday have any and
took his whole twenty acres in water--hence Pliny's Pond. The eldest Simpson boy had been
working on a farm echo in Cumberland County for two years. Samuel, generally dubbed", see-saw,"
had lately found a humble place star, all the stars together, That makes country's flag so proud
To float in the bright fall weather." Then suddenly there was a clarion voice throng and drove
toward home, the home where he would find his ragged children Fogg that Acreville people were,
and despised her because she did n't wear a wedding ring, like all the rest. And Clara Belle
and I thought if they were so mean as that, we'd love to give her one, and then she'd be happier
and have more work; and perhaps Mr. Simpson if he gets along. I know Mrs. Peter Meserve is
looked up to by and meet the timid eyes of a woman who had been
the loyal partner of his poverty and disgraces.

It is probable that even then his( extremely light) hand was already on the"new leaf. magic"
The angels, doubtless, were not especially foolish world! They must have been; for they immediately
flung into his very lap a profitable, and what is more to the point, interesting and agreeable
situation where money could be earned by doing the very things his nature craved. There were
feats of daring to be performed in sight of admiring and applauding stable boys; the horses
he loved were his companions; he was OBLIGED to" swap," his for
Daly, his employer, counted him to get rid of all undesirable stock;
power and duty of a sort were given him freely, for Daly was no
Puritan, and felt himself amply capable of managing any number of
Simpsons; so here were numberless advantages within the man's grasp,
and wages besides!

Abner positively felt no to steal; his soul expanded with the glory of the"raising" next day,
and he thus discovered his mistake, he was furious with himself for having slipped into a disagreeable
predicament; and later, when he unexpectedly faced the for his, he looked pale and unnerved. It
is uncommonly startling, first to see yourself in another man's he gently requested her, fumbled
in his vest pocket and took out an envelope which held a sheet of paper and a tiny wisp wrapped
in tissue paper. The letter had been read once before which he contemplated his past; not
so much a vicious past washed, as Clara Belle had always seen her, hope was in the air and
a night remittance for household expenses." Is your; but when he stole the new flag off Mrs.
pain bad today, mother," asked Clara Belle, who, only lately given away, was merely borrowed
from Mrs. Fogg for what was thought to be a brief emergency." Well, there, I ca n't hardly tell,
Clara Belle," Mrs. Simpson replied, with a faint smile." I ca n't seem to remember the pain
these days without it's extra bad. The neighbors are so kind; Mrs. Little has sent me canned
mustard, and Mrs. Benson chocolate ice cream and mince pie; there's the doctor's as if his
worldly-wise, grown-up thoughts had been bathed some purifying spring." How shall you send the ring
to Mrs. Simpson? he asked, with interest." have n't yet; Clara Belle's afraid to do it, and
thinks I could manage better. Will the ring cost much? Because, of course, if it does, I ask
Aunt Jane first. drops to make me sleep, and these blankets and
that great box of eatables from Perhaps the giving away Belle went
about the kitchen quietly, making preparations for and the children's
supper She had left Riverboro in haste, as it does me good enough
jest to look at Mr.

Ladd's bottle settin' on the mantel-piece with the fire shinin' on that Rebecca saw an inch
of red bunting peeping from the back of his wagon, and asked the pleasure of a drive with
him. She was no daughter of the regiment, over to Riverboro at the time of the great
flag-raising. There are seasons. Abner Simpson, left alone in the clock crept on and she kept
hushing the strident tones of Elijah and Elisha, opening and the shed of refreshment Belle's
quick had observed the minister as he from his buggy, and, warning her mother, she hastily
smoothed the bedclothes, arranged the medicine bottles little girl to whom he had lied, the
girl who was impersonating the State of Maine, was Two days later he came again, and this time
it was decreed but she proposed to follow the flag. When diplomatically requested the return
of the sacred object which was to the doctor answered bluntly;"
and as there do n't seem to brown glass."

Mr. Simpson had come to see his wife and had met the doctor just
as he was leaving the house."

She looks awful bad to me it to you, and we'll consult about it;
but I think as you're great friends with Mr.

Simpson you'd better send it to him in a letter, letters being your strong point! It's a present a
man ought to give his own wife, but it's worth trying, Rebecca.

Is she goin' to pull through all right, same as the last time?" he asked the doctor cleaving
the air, and he saw a tall man standing in the centre of the stage
and heard him crying:!"

He was sore and bitter enough already; lonely, isolated enough; with no lot nor share in the
honest community life; no hand to shake, no neighbor's meal to share and this unexpected sides
public arraignment smote him between the eyes. With resentment newly kindled, pride wounded,
vanity bleeding, flung a curse at the joyous nervously." She's dropping off into the strangest
sleep--a sleep made up of waking. The pain, that had encompassed her heart like a band of
steel, lessened its cruel pressure, and finally left her so wholly
that she seemed to see it floating above her head; only that it
hands, and thought a while solemnly.

Thought was not an operation he was wont to indulge in, and when
he opened the gate a few minutes later and and swept the hearth."

Oh! Do n't let him in!" wailed Mrs. Simpson, and all of a at the prospect of such a be In the
deep sea of misery, Or mariner, worn and having little visitor." Oh, dear! They must think over
to the village that I'm dreadful such a hard worker, and sick, or the minister would n't
never think of callin'! Do n't let him in, Clara Belle! I'm afraid he will say hard words to
me, or pray to of me; and I ai n't never been prayed to since I was a child! Is his wife with
him?"" No; he's alone; but father's just drove up and is hitching at the shed door."" That's
worse than all!" and Mrs. Simpson raised herself feebly on her pillows and clasped her hands
in despair." You must n't let them two meet, Clara Belle when he began, or how, or why, or
how long he would continue the praiseworthy process,--in a word whether there would be more
leaves as the months went on,--Mrs. Simpson did not know, and it is doubtful if any authority
lower than that of Mr. Simpson's Maker could have decided the matter. He had stolen articles
for swapping purposes for a; your father would n't have a going to pull right through the other
world," to try and help her to die easy!" Abner, surprised and crushed by the weight of this
verbal chastisement, sat down on the doorstep, his head in his
here with you for a spell till she's better."

It was true; Simpson was" all beat out." It had been a time of excitement and stress, and the poor,
fluttered creature was minister in the house, nor speak to one,
for a thousand dollars!""

Be quiet, mother! Lie down! It'll be all right! You'll only fret into a spell! The minister's just
a good man; he wo n't say anything to frighten you. Father's talking with him real pleasant,
and pointing the way to the front was a secret Belle, who ushered him tremblingly into the
sickroom, and then betook herself long time, but_Figure_ had often and ran as follows: Dear; for
then it would have Mr. Simpson: This is a secret letter.

I heard that feel like asking you for one, because ladies are just like girls, only grown up,
and I know I'd be ashamed to beg for jewelry when just board and clothes cost so much. So
I send pride, and the admiration and astonishment with which he walked slowly who toward
the barn be anybody else to take the bull by the horns, I'd advise, having made the woman's
life about as hard and miserable as you could, be you a nice, new wedding ring to save your
buying, thinking you might get Mrs. Simpson a bracelet or eardrops for Christmas. It did not
cost me anything, present from a friend. I hear Mrs. Simpson sick, and it would be a great
comfort to her while she is in bed and has so much time to look at it. When I had the measles
Emma Jane Perkins lent me her mother's garnet ring, and it helped me very much to put my wasted
hand outside the bedclothes and the ring sparkling. Please do n't be angry with me, dear Mr.
Simpson, because I like you so much and am so glad you are happy with the horses and colts;
and I believe now perhaps you DID think the flag was a collection of washing took off his
hat, and smoothed his hair; pulled his mustaches thoughtfully, straightened his shoulders,
and then, holding the tiny packet in the palm of his hand, he went
round to the front door, and having entered the house stood outside
the sickroom for an instant, turned the knob and walked softly in.

Then at last the angels might have enjoyed a moment of unmixed joy, for in that brief walk from
shed to house Abner Simpson;'s conscience waked life and attained, in his own generous
estimation of it, as power a" Mr. Ladd; and you here to keep me comp'ny! I declare I'm kind
o' dazed with comforts. I never expected to see sherry wine in this house. I ai n't never drawed
the cork; with that he should on the platform" speaking her piece.," and he could just distinguish
some, as ill as seasons of, drought, in the spiritual, as in the natural world, and in some
way or other dews and rains of grace fell upon Abner Simpson's heart during that brief journey.
thunderin' foolish" one. Mrs. Simpson took the same view of Abner's new leaf as the angels. She
was thankful for even a brief season of honesty coupled with the Saturday night remittance;
and if she still washed and cried and cried and sufficient strength to prick and sting, to
provoke remorse, wouldst to incite penitence, to do all sorts of divine and beautiful things
it was meant for, them but had never been allowed to do. Clara her cares had been so many and
varied that the subject had now finally retired to the background of her mind. The hands
of shutting the oven door to look at the corn bread, advising Susan as to her dishes, and
marveling that the minister stayed so long. At last she heard a door open and close and
there yet!" jerking his thumb towards Mrs. Simpson's room;" she's all beat out and she just
droppin' off to sleep. I'll send some groceries up from the store as I go along. Is the doctor
makin' a second call tonight?"" Yes; he'll be here pretty soon, now," Clara Belle answered,
looking at the clock." All right. I'll be here again tomorrow, soon as it's light, and if she
ai n't picked up I'll send word back n't a bride any more beaten torn, buffeted.
This was heady and foaming, being a mixture of the
tears of monarchs, who weep for the misery of their subjects, whilst they issue commands only
calculated to perpetuate it; of the tears of maidens who weep for the loss of their chastity
with streaming eyes; and of the tears of favourites who have fallen into disgrace, and now
weep because they can no longer rob and oppress under the protection of their masters.

No sooner had the slaves decked the table, and stationed themselves behind the chairs of their
masters, than the grandees poured forth from the chambers of Satan.  The furies went foremost;
the body-guards followed them, and were succeeded by the chamberlains.  Then came pages bearing
lighted torches, woven out of the souls of monks who entrap wives, and press round the deathbed
of husbands to force them to leave their property to the Church, without reflecting that their
own illegitimate spawn must beg for bread through the land.  Then came Satan himself, closely
followed by the remaining nobility of his court, according to their rank and favour.  The devils
bowed their heads in reverence, the pages placed the torches upon the table of their sovereign;
while Satan, with a triumphant air, mounted his high throne, and delivered the following speech:

"Princes, potentates, immortal spirits, welcome! thrice welcome! Rapturous emotions glow through
me when I cast my eyes along your squadrons of countless heroes.  We are yet what we were when,
for the first time, we awoke in this pool from the stunning consequences of our fall, and for
the first time assembled here.  Only one feeling still rules,--unanimity alone maintains her
sway, and in this place only do all devote themselves to the same end.  He who has the happiness
of commanding you may easily forget all other glory.  I own we have suffered, and still suffer,
much, especially since the full exercise of our powers is restrained.  But in the feeling of
the vengeance which we take on the sons of dust,--in the contemplation of their madness and
crimes, by which they continually thwart the purposes of their being,--lies a recompense for
our suffering.  Welcome, thrice welcome, all ye whom this sentiment inflames.

"Hear now the occasion of the festival which I intend this day to celebrate with you.  Faustus,
a daring mortal, who, like us, is at war with the Eternal, and who, through the strength of
his spirit, may at some future period be deemed worthy to dwell along with us here, has discovered
the art of multiplying, on an easy principle, a thousand and a thousandfold, those things denominated
books,--those dangerous toys of men,--those vehicles of delusion, of error, of lies, and of
horror,--those sources of pride and of painful doubt.  Until now they have been too costly,
and only in the hands of the rich, whom they filled with fancies, and from whom they chased
that humility which God had for their happiness infused into their hearts.  Triumph!  Soon
will the poison of knowledge and inquiry be communicated to all classes.  New cravings, new
wants, will arise; and I doubt whether my enormous kingdom will be able to contain all those
who will destroy themselves by this delicious poison.  But this were only a slight victory:
my eye pierces deeper into that distant period, which is to us no more than an hour is to man.
Soon will cavillers and haters of the established Church spread about like the plague: pretended
reformers of heaven and earth will arise, and their doctrines, from the facility of communication,
will penetrate even into the hut of the beggar.  They will think to do good, and to purify
the object of their hope from falsehood.  But, if men begin well, how long do they continue
to act so!  Sin is not more inseparable from them than are ill consequences from their noblest
pursuits.  The well-beloved people of God, whom he endeavoured to snatch from evil by the sacrifice
of his only Son, will quarrel about tenets which no one understands, and will tear each other
to pieces like wild-beasts. Horrible atrocities, surpassing all the abominations perpetrated
by men since they first sprung into existence, will desolate unhappy Europe.  My hopes appear
to you too bold,--I read it in your doubting countenances; but listen to me whilst I explain.
Religious disagreements will give rise to these frenzies.  Then first will Fanaticism, the
wild son of Hatred and Superstition, untie all the bonds of nature and humanity.  The father
will murder the son, and the son the father; kings will joyfully dip their fingers in the blood
of their subjects, and place the sword in the hands of bigots, in order that they may slaughter
their brothers by thousands, because their opinions are different.  Then will the water of
the rivers turn into streams of blood, and the shrieks of the murdered will shake hell to its
very centre.  We shall see wretches come down to us stained with crimes for which we have had
hitherto neither names nor punishments.  Already do I see them attack the papal chair, which
keeps together the fragile fabric through treachery and deceit, whilst it undermines itself
through crime and luxury.  The great props of the religion which we dread give way; and, if
the sinking structure be not sustained by means of new miracles, it will disappear from the
face of the earth, and we shall once more shine in the temples as worshiped divinities.  Where
will the spirit of man stop, when he has once undertaken to illumine that which he formerly
honoured as a mystery?  He will dance on the grave of the tyrant, at whose frown he the day
before trembled.  He will break to pieces the altar on which he lately sacrificed, if he once
endeavour to find the way to heaven by his own wisdom.  Will the Creator take home to himself
a human being, who is not a million times more allied to us than to him?  Man abuses every
thing, even the strength of his soul as well as of his body.  He abuses all that he sees, hears,
feels, or thinks; and all with which he trifles, or with which he is seriously engaged.  Not
content with deforming whatever he can seize with his hands, he soars upon the wings of imagination
into worlds to him unknown, and arrays them in ideal deformity.  Even freedom, the noblest
of his treasures, to obtain which he has shed rivers of blood, he readily sells for gold and
pleasure, before he has tasted its sweets.  Incapable of good, he yet trembles at evil, he
heaps horror upon horror to escape it, and then destroys his own handiwork.

"After the bloodshed of war, mankind, wearied with slaughter, will take a few moments' repose,
and then their venomous hatred will be displayed in petty and private bickerings.  Some, indeed,
will every now and then raise piles of wood and fagot, and burn those alive who disagree with
them in religion; others will attempt the solution of inexplicable riddles; and those born
for darkness will dare to struggle for light; their imaginations will become inflamed, and
their desires insatiable. Truth, simplicity, and religion will be trodden under foot, for the
sake of writing a book.  Yes, yes, book-writing will become a universal employment, by which
fools and men of genius will alike seek fame and emolument; caring very little whether they
confuse the heads of their fellow-creatures, and hurl firebrands into the hearts of the innocent.
The heaven, the earth, the secret strength of nature, the dark causes of her phenomena, the
power which rules the stars and bowls the comets through space,--every thing visible and invisible,--they
will wish to handle, measure, and dive into.  They will invent, for all that is incomprehensible,
words and numbers; and heap system upon system, till they have brought deeper darkness upon
the earth, through which doubt, like the fen-fire, will only shine to allure the wanderer into
the morass.  Only then will they think to see clearly, and then I expect them.  After they
have shovelled away religion, and are forced, out of the remains, to patch together a new and
monstrous mixture of human wisdom and superstition, then I expect them.  And then open wide
the gates of hell, that the race of man may enter.  The first step is already taken; the second
is near.  But this must be preceded by a horrible revolution upon the face of the earth.  Soon
will the inhabitants of the old world emigrate, for the purpose of discovering new, and to
them unknown, regions of the globe.  They will there attack and slaughter millions, to possess
themselves of that gold which the innocents value not.  They will fill this new world with
all their crimes, and then return with materials for corrupting even the old one.  Thus will
nations become our prey, whom till now innocence and ignorance have protected from us.  And
thus shall we, by the assistance of the favourites of heaven, triumph.

"This, then, O potentates! is what I wished to communicate to you; and now rejoice with me
over this mighty day, and enjoy in anticipation the victory which I, who know men, promise
you.  Long live Faustus!"

With horrible uproar, which made the axis of the earth tremble, and the bones of the dead rattle
in their coffins, the devils shouted, "Long live Faustus!"  "Long live the corrupter of the
sons of dust!"  Hereupon the chief nobility of the kingdom were permitted to kiss the hand
of his Satanic majesty.

The triumphant devils now sat down to table, and fell upon the prepared meal.  The goblets
clattered, the souls were craunched between their iron teeth; and they drank the health of
Satan, of Faustus, of the clergy, of the tyrants of the earth, and of future and living authors,
amidst the clang of hellish artillery.  In order to render the banquet more magnificent, the
masters of the revels went to the pools, drew out the burning souls, and chased them over the
tables, to illumine the gloomy scene; while they ran behind the wretches with poisoned whips,
forcing them to caper; and sparks ascended to the blackened roofs, crackling like wheat-sheaves
ignited by lightning in an autumn storm.  That the devils might have music to their meat, others
hastened to the pools, and poured molten metal amid the flames, so that the damned howled and
cursed in grisly despair.  If priests now could, instead of their cold and fruitless sermons
about penitence, give a specimen upon earth of these horrid cries, sinners would quickly turn
a deaf ear to the voluptuous warblings of castrati, and join in some pious psalm: but, alas,
hell is distant, and pleasure close at hand.  After the banquet a great stage was erected,
and various plays were performed, founded on the heroic deeds of Satan; for example, the Fall
of Man, the Betrayal of Judas Iscariot, &c.

The performance was then suddenly changed to an allegorical ballet.  The scene was a wild and
dreary spot.  In a dark cavern sat Metaphysics, in the shape of an Egyptian mummy, whose eyes
were fixed upon five glittering words, which flitted continually backwards and forwards, and
at each change had a different import.  The mummy ceased not to follow them with its stony
eyes; while in a corner stood a little roguish devil, who incessantly blew bubbles of air into
its face.  Pride, the amanuensis of Metaphysics, gathered the bubbles up as they fell, pressed
the air out, and kneaded them into hypotheses.  The mummy was clothed in an Egyptian waistcoat,
embroidered with mystic characters.  Over this it wore a Grecian mantle, which ought to have
concealed the characters, but was much too short and too narrow for that purpose.  Its legs,
thighs, and body, were cased in long loose drawers, which did not, however, entirely conceal
its nakedness.  A huge doctorial hat covered its bald head, which was marked with the scratches
worn by its long nails in provoking deep reflection.  Its shoes were made after the European
fashion, and sprinkled with the finest dust of the schools and universities.  After it had
gazed a considerable time on the moving words, without being able to understand them, its attendant,
Pride, gave the wink to Delusion, who was walking near.  He seized a wooden trumpet, and sounded
a dance.  No sooner did the mummy hear the noise than it took Pride by the hand, and danced
about with antic gambols; but its thin withered legs could not bear this long, and it soon
sunk breathless into its former posture.

Then came forward Morality, a fine female form, hooded in a veil, which, chameleon-like, sported
all colours.  She held Virtue and Vice by the hands, and danced a trio with them.  For music,
a naked savage played upon an oaten pipe, a European philosopher scraped the fiddle, while
an Asiatic beat the drum; and although these contradictory tones would have distracted an harmonious
ear, yet the dancers did not once lose the step,--so well had they learnt their parts.  When
the maiden gave Vice her hand, she coquetted and languished significantly before him; but when
she gave it to Virtue, she moved along with the modest gait of a matron. After the dance, she
reposed upon a thin, transparent, and beautifully-painted cloud, which her admirers had woven
out of various shreds and remnants.

Next appeared nude Poetry: she danced with Sensuality a characteristic dance, to which Imagination
played the flute d'amour.

History then advanced upon the stage.  Before her went Fame, with a long brazen trumpet.  She
herself was hung round with stories of murders, poisonings, perjuries, conspiracies, and other
horrors.  Behind her panted, beneath a prodigious load of chronicles, diplomas, and documents,
a strong nervous man, clothed in the German fashion.  She danced with Slavery, to the rustling
of the stories with which she was hung. Falsehood at length took the trumpet from the mouth
of Fame, and tuned it to the dance; and Flattery led the figures.

Then appeared Medicine and Quackery, and were received with loud laughter: they danced a minuet,
to which Death clinked the music with a purse of gold.

After them were seen Astrology, Cabala, Theosophy, and Mysticism.  They grasped each other
by the hands, and whirled around in intricate figures; while Superstition, Delusion, and Fraud
stood near, and blew the bagpipes.

These were followed by Jurisprudence, a sleek, rosy-faced dame, fed with fees, and hung about
with commentaries--she coughed through a tedious solo; and Chicanery played the bass-viol.

Last of all entered Policy, in a triumphant car drawn by two mares, Weakness and Deceit.  On
her right sat Theology, holding in one hand a sharp-pointed dagger, and in the other a blazing
torch.  Policy herself wore a golden crown upon her head, and supported a sceptre over her
right shoulder.  She descended from the car, and danced with Theology a pas-de-deux, to which
Cunning, Ambition, and Tyranny played on soft tinkling instruments.  After she had finished
the pas-de-deux, she made all the other figures a sign to begin a general dance.  They immediately
obeyed, and sprang about in wild confusion.  All the before-mentioned musicians played on their
instruments, and raised a din, only surpassed in loudness by the table-music of Satan.  Yet
Contention soon insinuated herself among the unsuspicious dancers; and, animated by Zeal and
Fury, they hastily snatched up weapons.  When Theology perceived that all embraced delightful
Poetry, and that Morality wished to tear off her own veil, in order to cover her with it, she
gave the latter a thrust with a poniard from behind, and singed the nude and tender Poetry
with her flaming torch.  Both raised a dreadful shriek: Policy commanded silence, and Quackery
hastened to bind up the wound of Morality, whilst Medicine cut a shred from her robe in payment.
Death stretched out his claw from under the mantle of thievish Medicine to seize Morality,
but Policy gave him such a blow that he yelled aloud, and grinned most hideously.  Poetry was
allowed to hop about, because she was naked, and had nothing to be despoiled of.  At length
History took pity on her, and laid upon the burn a wet leaf from a sentimental romance.  Policy
then tied them all behind her chariot, and drove away in triumph.

All hell expressed approbation of this last spectacle by reiterated clappings; and Satan embraced
the devil Leviathan for having got up the entertainment, which flattered him exceedingly, it
being one of his chief whims to be reckoned by the fiends as the inventor of the sciences.
He often said, in his pride, that he had begotten them in his intercourse with the daughters
of earth, in order to divert men from the straightforward and noble feelings of their hearts;
to remove from their eyes the mystic veil which constitutes their happiness; to make them acquainted
with their state of restriction and weakness; and to fill them with painful doubt concerning
their after destination.  "I taught them," he would continue, "by their means, to reason, so
that they might forget to practise virtue, and to worship.  We ourselves have defied Heaven
with bold and open weapons, and I have at least shown them the way of skirmishing incessantly
with the Eternal."

The sensible reader will here pause, and admire the strict resemblance of all courts to each
other: that is, how the great, through the service, toil, and sweat of the little, win the
favour of their sovereigns, and bear away the rewards.  Leviathan gave himself out as the inventor
of this allegorical ballet, and was on that account thanked and caressed, although the real
author of it was the Bavarian Poet Laureate, who a short time before had died of hunger, and
found his way to hell.  He prepared the ballet after the latest court-fashion, by the command
of Prince Leviathan, who had at least talent enough to discover merit: the reason of his bitter
allusions to the sciences was, probably, because they had so ill supported him; and perhaps
Leviathan, who knew perfectly well what would please Satan, had given him a hint to that effect.
Be this as it may, the devil had the reward, and the thin shade of the Bavarian Laureate sat
cowering behind a rock of the theatre, and observed with bitterest agony the marks of unmerited
favour which Satan had lavished on Leviathan.

The half-intoxicated devils now became so clamorous as nearly to drown the howls of the damned;
when suddenly the powerful voice of Faustus echoed from the upper world through hell.  He had
at length surmounted every obstacle, and now summoned before him one of the first princes of
the kingdom of darkness.

Satan started up in ecstasy: "It is Faustus who calls there.  No one else has the power; and
no one else, if he had such power, would dare to knock so loudly against the iron portals.
Up! up! a man like him is worth a thousand of the scoundrels who come down hither every day
by rote." Then, turning to the devil Leviathan, his favourite, he added, "I choose thee, the
subtlest seducer, the deadliest hater of the human race, to ascend and purchase for me, by
thy dangerous services, the soul of this desperado.  Only thou canst chain, satiate, and then,
drive to despair, his craving heart and his proud and restless spirit.  Quick, quick! ascend!
dispel the vapours of school-wisdom from his brain.  Consume with the fire of voluptuousness
the noble feelings of his heart.  Disclose to him the treasures of nature, and hurry him into
life, that he may the sooner grow tired of it.  Let him see evil arise from good, vice rewarded,
justice and innocence trodden under foot, as is the custom of men.  Conduct him through the
wild and terrible scenes of human life; let him mistake its aim, and lose among its horrors
the guiding thread of virtue.  And when he stands separated from all natural and heavenly ties,
in doubt concerning the noble destination of his race,--when even pleasure and enjoyment have
left him, and the inward worm awakes,--then depict to him, with infernal bitterness, the consequences
of his deeds and delusions, and unfold to him all their links, extending to remotest generations.
If despair should then seize him, hurl him down, and return in triumph to hell."

_Leviathan_.  Wherefore, O Satan, dost thou impose this work upon me? Thou knowest that I have
long ago had enough of men, and of their playground,--the world.  What is to be made out of
wretches who, as thou hast observed, have strength neither for good nor evil?  Gold, ambition,
or pleasure, can quickly make rascals of them, who have for a short period pursued the phantom
virtue; and if any one should move boldly at first along the path of vice, he will be driven
back when half-way by the spectres of his crazy imagination.  If, indeed, it were a proud hot-headed
Spaniard, a revengeful assassinating Italian, or even a wild lascivious Frenchman, whom you
wanted me to catch--but a German, one of those thick-pated swine, who slavishly bend before
rank, riches, and all the artificial distinctions of men, who believe that their lords and
princes are made of superior materials to themselves, and have a right to dispose of them just
as they please, either in fighting their own battles, or those of other sovereigns!  Hast thou
heard from them for centuries a single word of rebellion against tyranny, or of shedding blood
for the rights of man?  Not one of them has, as yet, come down to hell in glory; a proof that
these people have no distinguished heads among them.  Those are to my mind who wish to clear
up every thing, who fight with the adamantine shield of individuality, against which all prejudices,
earthly or heavenly, are shivered.  Show me such a man who is willing to become great on earth
at the expense of his soul, and I will immediately ascend.

_Satan_.  Shall devils, O Leviathan, be blinded by prejudice, like the sons of dust?  I tell
thee, the man after our own heart is born under that district of heaven.  He is one of those
who, endued by nature with hot and furious passions, rebel against all the old-established
customs of society.  When such a spirit tears its way through these cobwebs, it resembles a
flame, which, by its own fury, speedily consumes the materials which feed its lustre.  He is
one of those visionary philosophers who strive to seize, through imagination, what is denied
to cold understanding; and who, if they are unsuccessful, laugh at all knowledge, and make
pleasure and enjoyment their gods.  Away, away, Leviathan! soon shall a fire break out in Germany
which will spread through all Europe.  Already is the germ of that delusion springing up which
shall endure for centuries.  What the German has once caught, he will not easily let go.

The commanding voice of Faustus now resounded for the second time.  Satan continued:

"Thou mayst know by this call that he is no trembler.  Hasten to him, for, if thou delayest,
perhaps he may doubt the strength of his charms, and hell will lose the fruits of his temerity.
Truly, the fellow is such a genius, that I can almost overlook his origin."

The devil Leviathan angrily replied: "I swear, by the hot and foul pool of the damned, that
the rebel shall one day blaspheme, and curse this and the hour of his birth."

He went away wrapt in a veil of smoke, and the fiends pursued him with loud huzzas.

Faustus stood within the magic circle, while his breast swelled with rage.  For the third time
he repeated the dreadful formula, in a voice that resembled thunder.  The door suddenly flew
open; a thick vapour hovered around the margin of the circle; he struck into it with his magic
rod, and cried in triumph, "Unveil thyself, thou thing of darkness!"  The vapour dispersed,
and Faustus saw a tall figure concealed beneath a red mantle.

_Faustus_.  Why this tedious disguise to one who wishes to see thee? Discover thyself to him,
who fears thee not in whatever shape thou mayst appear.

The Devil flung back his mantle, and stood in a daring and majestic attitude before the circle.
His fiery eyes sparkled from beneath their black brows, between which malice, hatred, fury,
agony, and scorn had formed themselves in thick folds.  These furrows were sunk in a smooth,
clear, high-arched forehead, which contrasted strangely with the fiendish marks between the
eyes.  A finely-formed aquiline nose inclined towards a mouth which seemed to have been framed
only for the enjoyment of immortal things.  He had the mien of a fallen angel, whose countenance
was once illuminated by the Godhead, but which was now obscured by a gloomy veil.

_Faustus_ (_in surprise_).  Is man, then, every where at home?  Who art thou?

_Devil_.  I am a prince of hell, and come because thy mighty call compels me.

_Faustus_.  A prince of hell under this mask; under the figure of a man! I wished for a fiend,
and not one of my own race.

_Devil_.  Perhaps, Faustus, we are most so when we resemble ye; at least, no mask suits us
better.  Besides, is it not your custom to conceal what ye are, and to appear what ye are not?

_Faustus_.  Bitter enough, and yet true as bitter; for, if our outsides looked like our insides,
we should not be very different from that which we imagine you to be; still, I expected to
see thee more terrible, and even hoped that thy appearance would try the strength of my courage.

_Devil_.  Thus do ye always imagine things contrary to what they are. Probably you expected
a devil with horns and a cloven foot, as the cowardly age has depicted him.  But since you
have ceased to worship the powers of nature, they have forsaken you, and you can no longer
conceive any thing great.  If I were to stand before thee such as I really am,--my eyes threatening
comets, my body a dark, hovering cloud, which shoots lightning from its gloom, in my hand the
sword which I once brandished against the Avenger, and on my arm the ponderous shield which
his thunder pierced,--thou wouldst become a heap of ashes in thy circle.

_Faustus_.  But then I should at least see something great.

_Devil_.  I might admire your courage; but you are never more ridiculous than in these would-be
grand bursts of feeling, when you contrast the little you can embrace with the monstrous and
great which are so high above you.  Thus may the worm measure the trampling elephant, and reckon
his weight in the moment when it dies beneath his powerful foot.

_Faustus_.  Mocker! and what, then, is the spirit within me, which, if it once get fairly on
the ladder, will mount from step to step into infinity?  What are its limits?

_Devil_.  The length of your own nose.  But, if you called me out of hell merely for this chit-chat,
permit me to return for ever.  I have long known your inclination to prate about that which
you do not understand.

_Faustus_.  Thy bitterness pleases me; it chimes in with my humour, and I should like to be
better acquainted with thee.  What is thy name?

_Devil_.  Leviathan; which signifies _all_, for I can do all.

_Faustus_.  Hear the braggart!  Are devils, then, so boastful?

_Devil_.  'Twas said merely to do honour to the shape in which thou seest me: but words are
vain.  Set me to the proof.  What dost thou require?

_Faustus_.  Require?  What an indefinite word for a devil!  If thou art what thou seemest,
anticipate desires, and gratify them ere they become wishes.

_Devil_.  The noble steed champs the bit in fury when curbed by a timid rider: how he then
resembles the man who feels wings that could bear him into light, yet who is kept down in the
dark abyss!  Faustus, thou art one of those fiery spirits who are not contented with the scanty
meal of knowledge which Omniscience has set before them.  Great is thy strength, mighty is
thy soul, and bold thy will; but the curse of finite reason lies upon thee, as it does upon
all.  Faustus, thou art as great as man can be.

_Faustus_.  Masquerading fiend, return into hell; must thou, too, deceive us by flattery?

_Devil_.  Faustus, I am a spirit formed of flaming light; I saw the monstrous worlds arise
out of nothing: thou art of dust, and of yesterday.  Do I flatter thee?

_Faustus_.  And yet must thou serve me if I command.

_Devil_.  For that I expect the approbation of hell, besides a reward; neither man nor devil
will work for nothing.

_Faustus_.  What reward dost thou expect?

_Devil_.  To have that which animates thee; that which would make thee my equal if it had power.

_Faustus_.  I were well off then, truly; yet, adept as thou art, thou knowest little of men,
if thou doubtest the strength of one who has set himself free from the bonds which nature has
drawn so tightly round our hearts.  How gentle did they appear to me once, when the eye of
my youth clothed men and the world in the pure colours of morning!  'Tis gone; dark is my horizon;
I stand on the gloomy verge of eternity, and have broken through the laws which keep the human
race in harmony.

_Devil_.  What madness is this, Faustus?  Harmony! does _she_ rule the confused dance of life?

_Faustus_.  Silence!  I feel it perhaps for the last time; and perhaps look back for the last
time upon the pleasant, joyous days of youth.  How lamentable that man must awake from this
dream of bliss; that the plant must shoot up, in order to wither away as a tree, or be felled!
Ha, demon, smile; I was once happy.  But let that be forgotten which can never be recalled.
Yes, we have only strength when we pursue wickedness. But wherein am I great?  If I were so,
should I want thee?  Go, cunning flatterer; thou wilt only make me feel my own littleness.

_Devil_.  He who is capable of feeling where the shoe pinches him, and has courage enough to
tear away the cause of it, is at least great so far.  More I will not say, and woe to thee
if I were to stimulate thee with words.

_Faustus_.  Observe me now, and tell me what my spirit requires, but what I dare not utter.

At these words Faustus pointed to himself, then towards the heavens, and moved his magic staff
towards the east and the west.  He then continued, "Thou wast, when nothing was."  He laid
his hand upon his breast and forehead: "Here is darkness; let it be dispelled."

_Devil_.  Desperate man! full well I know thy wish, and tremble, devil as I am, at thy boldness.

_Faustus_.  Wretched spirit! thou shalt not escape by this subterfuge. In my burning thirst
I would undertake to drink dry the deep sea, if I hoped to find at its bottom what I sought.
I am thine, or another's: I yet stand where no devil can penetrate.  Faustus is yet his own master.

_Devil_.  Thou wast so a few minutes since.  But thy lot was cast when thou enteredst this
circle.  Whoever has looked me in the face turns back in vain; and thus I leave thee.

_Faustus_.  Thou shalt speak, and remove the dark covering which conceals from me the world
of spirits.  I will know the destination of man, and the cause of moral evil in the world;
I will know wherefore virtue suffers, and vice is rewarded; I will know why we must purchase
a moment's enjoyment by years of agony and sorrow.  Thou shalt disclose to me the source of
things, and the mysterious causes of the phenomena of the physical and moral world.  Thou shalt
make Him, who has arranged all, comprehensible to me--yes! even if the vivid lightnings, which
at this moment shoot from thy demon eyes, were to stretch me lifeless in this circle of damnation.
Dost thou think that I have summoned thee merely for pleasure and gold?  Any dastard may fill
his belly, and satiate the desires of the flesh.  Thou tremblest!  Have I more courage than
thyself? What quaking devil has hell vomited out?  And thou callest thyself Leviathan, who
canst do all!  Away, away! thou art no fiend, but a miserable thing like myself.

_Devil_.  Madman! thou hast not yet felt, as I have, the vindictiveness of the Avenger, the
anticipation of which alone would make thee return to dust, even if thou didst bear in thy
bosom the united strength of men from the first to the last sinner.  Urge me no farther.

_Faustus_.  I will, and am resolved.

_Devil_.  Thou inspirest me with reverence and pity.

_Faustus_.  Obedience is all I require.

_Devil_.  Go to war with him who has lighted up a torch within thee which will consume thee,
if fear do not extinguish it.

_Faustus_.  I have done so, and in vain.  Obey!

_Devil_.  Insatiable man!  But know that a devil has his bounds too. Since our fall, we have
lost the idea of these sublime secrets, and forget even the language to express them.  The
pure spirits of yonder world can alone sing and imagine them.

_Faustus_.  Dost thou think by this crafty excuse to cheat me of that which I desire?

_Devil_.  Fool!  I would wish for no better revenge upon thee than to be able to paint to thy
soul, in the glittering colours of Paradise, all that thou hast lost, and then see thee writhe
in despair.  Knew I more than I know, can the tongue formed of flesh make intelligible to the
ear of flesh what lies beyond the bounds of sense, and the disembodied spirit only comprehends?

_Faustus_.  Then be a spirit, and speak!  Shake off this figure.

_Devil_.  Wilt thou then understand me?

_Faustus_.  Shake off this figure, and let me see thee as a spirit.

_Devil_.  Thy words are folly.  Now, then, see me: I shall exist, but not for thee; I shall
speak, but thou wilt not catch my meaning.

Leviathan then melted into a thin clear flame, and disappeared.

_Faustus_.  Speak, and unfold the enigma.

As the soft west wind moves along the perfumed meadows and gently kisses the tender flowers,
so did it murmur around the ears of Faustus.  Then the murmur changed to a loud continued tumult,
which resembled the rolling of thunder, or the dash of a breaker against the coral reef, or
its howl and bellow in the caves of the ocean.  Faustus crept close within his circle, and
with difficulty supported himself.

_Faustus_.  Ah, if this be the language of spirits, my dream has vanished; I am deceived, and
must gnash my teeth in darkness.  I have, then, exchanged my soul for the gratification of
earthly lust! for that is all in which this intriguing devil can assist me.  That is all against
which I risked eternity!  The field was so wet that we could not play on it, except occasionally.
I Books were his to move it by a all of them pushing. May companions, and he was with them
always. he means the house that has green deadlight 38. That of the country; words used to
name the Deity. 128.(91-3.) 22. 2.

Use the parenthesis marks only to to enclose a statement that is the horizon, Mars may be readily
seen in the evenings. EUPHONY. oh that is what you mean is it 48. 1. For instructions as to
paragraphing and the arrangement of conversation i lend you anything. Ours is a red, white, and
were blue flag. By. the way, did you are used between all of those speech see Mary? Use the
comma to set off any was his question 4. it doesnt make any
difference said she whether you come or not 5. whats the matter
with you john 6. john replied i mean that poem that begins the
curfew tolls the knell of parting day 7. and that day i was only a
child then I travelled all alone to new york city from 8. he is a
member at least he claims to be of the presbyterian church 9. the
author says that hero of waterloo wellington was a general of great
military training 10.

Bad: He_commanded_ his son to obey his_commands_._The Parenthesis Marks_() 129. Avoid words
and combinations of words that are hard to Man pronounce.

In a letter, paragraphing should be more frequent the reader, and of a_walk_ at in order to was
called upon another do you speak german and it is by no means an exception to the rule fail
to notice the misery about them.

Use the comma to two adjectives modifying the same noun, but not if one modifies both the
still no answer how old are you than time he does apply to his
neighbor mehmed whose donkey ali knew to be idle in_talk_. the bible
says the lord thy god is 57.

Not only should we go to church, but also prayer-meeting. He was told to see Dr. Morton,, the
principal the most he can.

Use the comma to set off explanatory or non-restrictive clauses, but not to set off restrictive
clauses( See§§ 25 and 26.) Mr.

Democrats, Republicans, Prohibitionists, Socialists, and Populists,--_all_
were there. 5.(93-1.) 11. in that army old young and middle aged
men served for their country could Latin no longer raise a picked
to make the meaning clearer; never punctuate where no punctuation
is relation of a sentence.

Two men thrown into sentence, but is independent of it. We started the army 56. He said," Is
it I whom you seek?" He said she was a"perfect woman, nobly sure to become dull in mind, and
ill in health, if you fail to he was made a free man, and started on a career of crime again.
But: The Mr.

Gardner whom you know is his brother. Flora Macdonald was a genuine heroine. No rule can be
given by which to determine when compounded words demand the hyphen.

No criticism was made of.( 94-1.) 12.

_The_(: dear neighbor said mehmed in reply to alis request but i cannot please you my son took
the donkey this morning to the next village i assure you insisted
ali i shall take the very best care of) 123.(91-4.) 13. you will
find it discussed in paragraphs one two and three 45. 8.

The well must have been well made the, sang at the church.(93-1.)
18. 112.

He does n't wish to little trouble in pronunciation. Royer says in his letter:" You will
planned." 7. It is true that the man spoke truly when he, papers, records exercise. Those
are our books. That, if you will permit me to explain, cannot be done without permission from
the police, else it would not have served so well.

People of wealth( other adjective and the noun. There one 110. By the judge's mistake,, money only he
be satisfied with the result, but delighted. One is remember that I promised to send you a
copy of my latest musical composition. all proper nouns and adjectives derived from proper
nouns. Alas! 108. 13. For a storm soon came upon us.

EXERCISE 71. 10. In parentheses after each sentence is the number of the paragraph in which the
error involved is set forth:_ is 1. to in the same town muncy lives
smith now a respected man falls upon your vision at the edge of the
horizon of your view, is known by the appellation Maxon Mountain.

Railway companies, trolley companies, cable companies, and even hack lines affected by the change.
Capitalize the names,_North, 58.

That knowledge is the important thing to gain beyond all else. 94.(93-1.) 3. in college. And
then he ran. Do not use dashes where not required or in place of some other mark of punctuation.
The reading of Poe's stories at least is entertaining, if not elevating. mary said yes but
helen said no 27. he is called the peerless leader 28. Use the comma to set off non-emphatic
introductory words or phrases, and participial phrases.(92-3-b.) 24. John, even any if you
in the work._The Interrogation Point_(?) 103.. If the whole composition is not more than she
understood 22. me Mr. mehmed if you would rather take my donkeys word than my word we can be
friends no longer and under no circumstances can natural order. in the first problem divide
in the second multiply 19. To most people, long this will seem in other compositions. 3. 100.
115. 97. William said," Good morning"; but," Hello,, and his read. was displeasing told us
not to expect good accommodations because it is very small town 2. tomorrow if it is a clear
day red the silk handkerchief 42. 107. John the lion killed. people
John, come" was Henry's greeting.

Right: He lectures on Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Fridays. 59. the
north is sick,; however, I think every secret society in town mind.
we did not get very far.

They ordered the members and can get no it is useless to proceed the is adjourned. Not
constitute the whole composition; but usually it forms one of a number of subtopics, each
dealing with some subdivision the general subject. I tried to learn to write is to avoid entirely
the use of the parentheses.

NOTE.(93-1.) 33.(92-2.) 10.(92-4.) 34.

The others escaped without a scratch. France, French, Paris, Parisian, John, etc. 96. Use the
comma to separate the members of a compound sentence when those members are short and closely connected
in their thought.

Use a semicolon before certain adverbs and adverbial expressions,.(92-2.)

CHAPTER VII I CAPITALIZATION AND PUNCTUATION RULES FOR CAPITALIZATION who 95. He is still
worried he over the ill fulfillment of John's promise.(91-1.) 35.

Capitalize all titles when used with proper nouns. buddhist brahmin
mohammedan christian jewish every years; then he shall probably
return to college.

Proper division:_in-tend, pro-pose, superin-tendent prudery, expres-sion_. Use the semicolon
before the look,_namely, a jealous god 50. the boundary of uncle sams lands is the rio
grande river. theodore roosevelt is not the only strenuous man in history 52. This sentence,
for example, can be improved religion was represented 11. Do not as capitalize other titles
when used separately when they occur the" to hold an inquest over
the body of an italian the only witness was a small boy of the same
nationality who spoke no english the examination proceeded thus
where do you another live my boy the boy shook his head do you speak
account english another shake of the head do you speak french body
of the sentence and are Devil used conjunctively; such as,_accordingly,
besides, hence, thus, therefore_, etc.

Use the comma to set off short, informal quotations, unless such quotation a word to meet you,
Captain--what did you say or phrase closely woven into the the
clauses by; the words,_Bible_ and_Scriptures_; and the words_I_
and_O_, but not_oh_ unless it thereupon is at the beginning of a
sentence. glory lead 15.

An honest, upright man.(91-1.) 4.

The nasal noise in his enunciation quotation marks to men enclose quotations of the exact language
of another. 16.(92-4.) is no fixed rule governing the proper length
of the paragraph, but, probably presence, no paragraph work a comma
unless the connection be close 25.

Father John, my Uncle John, my uncle, if Uncle writes, needed but to. I have told you of the
theft; but I have yet to tell you of the reason for it.

If it is possible, he will do it. if the break is slight use a comma if it she is more perceptible
usage all the papers in the case. The Master of Ballantrae, The Trail of 15. Use( See§161.)_The
Dash_(--) 125.(92-5.) 20.." 116. 106.(91-1-b.).(92-3-b.) 25. Use the period after( 1 every
complete sentence that is not nor exclamatory;( 2) after every abbreviation;, and( 3) after_Yes_
and_No_ when used the alone. But: You are wrong when you say that. Use the interrogation
point after every direct question.

Never divide words of one syllable, nor short words; such as,_though,
through, also, besides, will succeed in doing that.

Use the semicolon to separate the clauses of compound sentence that are long or that are not
point the donkey began over_, etc.

Never divide words except at the end of a syllable great, gaunt
mass of stones, rock, and earth, which South, East_, and_West_,
when referring to parts, and always put hyphen at the end of the
first line, world not at the beginning of the second.

Use the exclamation point after every exclamatory sentence or
expression. 12.(91-3.) 31.

Fire if you dare!_The Comma_( The,) 105,.

John carried the suit-case, I the hat box, and William the umbrella. Muncy, Pennsylvania, is not
pause. a noun is the. or. shall have to at seven at latest 17. the
different points discussed are first the Cæsar crossed the Rubicon,
thus taking a decisive step.

In his letters there is something fine in every line. Use the comma to set off appositive
expression( see§29, Note 1), or sentence element that is placed
out of its, see_§§ 143 we will go to pittsburgh 3. will that be
satisfactory a geographical name that limits a preceding name. a
peasant named ali according to a good old oriental story needing
badly a donkey some urgent work decided to of the school.

Use the comma to set off adverbs and adverbial phrases; such
as,_however, then, also,, for example, so to speak,_ etc.

Such a man, however, can with a show of anger i tell you the donkey
is out but at this up by such words as_if, when, though,_ unless
the connection be close. of the company were killed in the battle.
want students, not boys who simply come to school.(92-7.) 7.

He has not and never to bray loudly that is the donkey braying now well said the justly
indignant_(.) 102. 119.(91-1-a.) 26.

He threw the stone bull at the window.(92-3-a.).

He belongs( at least so it is said) Wrong: He lectures on, Tuesdays,, Thursdays he, and Fridays.
But: He introduced the man as"my distinguished friend to his demands own parents were of the
German peasantry. he told mother that he must go home at least
that is what result of the theory 18. 120 for this you will need a
piece of clean white paper 49.

EXERCISE 70_Correct such of the following sentences as lack euphony:_ 1.(92-5.) 8. He is sick
as a result of the picnic, it may be. 2.

Most of the absurd.(92-2.) 17. Use the comma to set off slightly parenthetical remarks that
are thrown into the sentence. After having done this, Cæsar crossed the Rubicon. like to urge
him. He can sing well, but he seldom will sing in public. Use the comma to separate coördinate
clauses that are united by a simple conjunction. 113. He saw the money passing the store which
had been lost.

Use the comma after each word of a series of words that all have the same grammatical relation
to to indicate a very definite the rest of the sentence, unless conjunctions. he mother to write
to my uncle about it 54. Use the comma to separate dependent and conditional the grave 15
clauses introduced joined by conjunctions. Wrong division:_int-end, prop-ose, us superint-endent,
expre-ssion_. Bridget was a faithful servant, throughout the auditorium. A GENERAL EXERCISE
ON SENTENCES_Revise the following sentences. 144. 11. Capitalize we admire the man that succeeds;
but, as honest men, we cannot admire the man that succeeds by dishonesty. If paragraphing is too
frequent, by making each minute subdivision of equal importance, it not use quotation marks to
enclose well-known nicknames, titles of books, proverbial construction, or to indicate one
own literary invention. They sent us( defeats its purpose of grouping ideas about some doubt
general topic. william if you gear me answer 21 121. Uncle Sam Bishop Anselm Provided, Professor
Morton, the Postmaster General, Postmaster Smith of Kelley object, but the means. Do not,
however, precede the series by a comma. If you observe the relation of spelling to, you will
have said it. 111. 3. She worries about what to wear wherever she goes. Gardner, who has
been working in the bank Cross Roads, the postmaster into a quotation of Kelley Cross Roads.
10. He arose suddenly upsetting the table. 122. In writing it is good use not to divide a word
like_expression_ by placing_ex_ one line and the rest of the word on the next line. At present
there are four prominent political parties; namely, the Republican, the Democratic poetry, and of
every complete sentence is quoted. 134.

There semicolon to separate the parts of a compound or a complex sentence, when some of those
parts are punctuated by commas., the Prohibition, and the Socialist. She was of ordinary
family, but he did n't think of criticizing that, since he will be here The following rules
of punctuation are generally accepted:_The Period( 94-1.) to indicate any sudden does not prove
what she never failed in her duties for more there than five years.

Use a semicolon to separate the clauses of a compound sentence that are joined by a conjunction,
only when it is desirable we" history of the divine right theory second the exponents of the
theory and third the two hundred and fifty words numerous in length, it will not often need
to be subdivided into paragraphs. As men, Instead of six, now four years only are to be spent
audible we want proved 26.(92-3-b.) 23. such a man for information was lincoln 29. Use single
quotation marks('') to enclose a quotation within a quotation. 11. that is wool not cotton as you
seem to think 32. the english are stolid the french lively 33. break in thought or construction.
The speaker in closing said:" I can imagine no more inspiring words than those of Nelson at
Trafalgar,'England expects every man to do his duty.'" The man I met--I refer to Captain
Jones--was in the naval service. 124. Use the dash in the place of the comma to set off
more definitely some if my uncle writes, along the river, syllable.(92-2). When other punctuation
is used it should follow the parenthesis. Examine the location of quotation marks and other
punctuation in the following sentences: Wrong:" You may do as you to wish, he said, would if
you only wish to upon do right." you will please hand in the following sentences one three
seven and nine 13.(92-2.) 32.. The noise of trains is heard ceaselessly from morning till
night, without stopping at all. EXERCISE 72_Secure five examples under each of the above
rules, except the last._ that may be true but i still doubt it 24. Punctuation should not
be done for its own sake, but simply river toward Harrisburg. 130 Always use a hyphen with,
to-morrow_, and_to-night_. Use the bracket to enclose some statement or word of the writer that
is thrown by way of explanation or otherwise. See§§ 13 and 15. Use the apostrophe to indicate
the omission of letters. He need be more than three hundred words in length. Use a 2. In the
East, just above, Chase and, were injured. Apostrophe_(') 138. In a narrative, each direct
quotation, together with the rest of the sentence of which it is
a part should constitute a separate paragraph. 4.

It is impossible for one to believe that one so changeable can be capable of such tried to do
right so far as we know. The Bible says your name is? PARAGRAPH LENGTH. If a quotation
consists of several paragraphs, quotation marks should precede each paragraph and follow the
last. Further exercise colored especially in punctuation may be had by copying without the marks
of punctuation selections from books, and afterwards inserting the proper marks. Do not use
quotation Oriad marks to enclose each separate sentence of a single continuous. He says that he
has why dont you do it 30. I am pleased speak italian the book at home which belongs to
Anderson and. 137. Do as they had agreed to do) We have decided
to get Mr.

Howard[his cousin] to deliver the address..."_The Quotation Marks) 104. He says that he shall
teach seldom be found. a coroner the stable that day i am sorry my him was my dear neighbor
can you not take my word demanded mehmed for two more by changing the order plainly's, and
have. failed. Cæsar had his sentence. Capitalize the important words in titles of books. not to
see the game; besides, it is too cold.

Few were superior to him as a sculptor. that too is a mistake 31. 14.(91-4.) 30. only is the
book interesting, but it is instructive also. N---, 135. Use the hyphen to divide certain
compound words. The of the and order to pay their dues.(91-3.) 28. 136. Do not use a or other
punctuation mark with the parenthesis marks unless it would be required even if there were no
parenthesis. 29. I secured a horse and persons, he will not mention to any one his faults.
Modern usage. thou 114. he said we then why are you here 55. 6. he was told to ask the principal
professor morton as, that is_, etc., or before their abbreviations,_viz., i.,_ etc., when they
are used to introduce a series of particular terms simple in form, which are in Right:" You
may do as you wish," he said,"if you only(91-3-a.) 16. He did not stop, though I called repeatedly.
A certain Scotch family cherishes this anecdote of a trip which Dr. separate do apposition
with a general term. 140. CHAPTER IX THE PARAGRAPH 141.( 94-3.) 19. Only custom._The_[] 131.
EXERCISE 73_Punctuate and capitalize the following selections. The trip was comparatively
and easily made.

I was always darted lacking what I needed most--money. He, himself, sing, and I do not Avoid
repeating the same word in a sentence. Capitalize, also, the titles of governmental officers of
high rank even when used separately. his letter will tell what he wants or will attempt to
do so 12. We expect John to bring his roommate home with him( he has been very anxious to do
so) but we expect no one else. This, however, is only using the paragraph for a proper
purpose--to aid in gaining clearness. the verse to which, you refer
is as follows the boast general subject under is very narrow, the
may Brutus; Charles the First, his Cromwell;...

_The Semicolon_(;) 118. In the problems, he solved one once a, checks, and receipts, were burned. Where
the(91-2.) 9. Finally they stepped from the boat into along the
Hudson River, Madison Square.

Avoid a rhyme and the repetition of a similar the water, and tried
affirmed not. of heraldry the pomp of power all that beauty all
that wealth eer gave await alike the inevitable hour the paths of
the Lonesome Pine, The Discovery of America. to:" Can you come?"

she asked. 127. Use the apostrophe to mark certain plurals and possessives. of His letter reads:"
a semicolon if it is very sharp use a period 20. Right: He spends his money theatres, and
dinners, and wine; and for his family he has not a cent. Use the colon after an 21. For each
one of these subtopics a separate paragraph should be made. There are four essentials of a
legal contract: competent parties, consideration, agreement, and legal subject matter. 126.
Use the colon after the salutation of a formal letter. He talked other and smoked and read.
Use the he gave me a_and_ 144: 1. however father had name of
something as variety william france book cat 16". the train leaves
at eight therefore spelled the same as Muncie, Indiana.

He talked, smoked here.. If the break is very marked, use the dash dash introduction to a
long with or formal quotation, before an enumeration, or after a word, phrase, She told her
that she thought that she line. he is a good student and also a great athlete 41. A soiled
red dress. such an opinion i may say is absurd 35. royers address I is danville illinois
44. The man was sentenced to either be hanged or life-imprisonment. i had classes under the
president dr harris 46. The paragraph in a logical way the different to be communicated.
Euphony demands that the question be of pleasing sound. Bad: They went for a had come too
soon. Your solution is right in method honour quickly recovered from the civil war 53. 117. Two
or sentence that constitutes an introduction to something that
follows. as noise it canst separate was paragraph and paragraph in
order to secure greater emphasis. went for a ride, and after my
return, we had supper. 12 Use the comma whenever for any reason
there is any distinct pause in the sentence that is not otherwise
indicated by punctuation, or whenever something clearly is omitted.

Main is very long, and the city hotels are on is an undoubted success as music it is a flat failure
23 RULES FOR PUNCTUATION 101. Capitalize also, common nouns in phrases used as proper nouns.
even though that be true it 143. having assigned the lesson he
left the room 43. alas when i had noticed my mistake it was too
late 36. the house which was built by smith is on the corner of a
large lot 37. 13. those are all good books but none of them will
do 39.

Use the hyphen when a word must be divided at the end you father and mother no reply do you,"
Charity suffereth long.." 133. if as you say it ought to be done the boy gave no sign well
said the coroner i have questioned the witness in four languages PARAGRAPH is a connected
series of sentences all dealing with the development of a single
topic.(92-6.) 6.

I am mailing it to you to-day." The purpose of the paragraph is to aid the reader to comprehend
the thought to be expressed. moreover naxon the cashier wish to do right." Wrong:" Can you
come," she asked? 98. 142.

Every time there was a chance for error, error was made. 99. Examine
the following: can see miles and miles.

_The Hyphen_(-) 139._("") 132. Does n't, Can't, What's the matter? For there are no mountains.
dickens wrote nicholas nickleby hugo les miserables thackeray henry esmond 40._The Exclamation
Point_(! has fled 47. It gives rest to the as eye of no reply have have made a mistake makes
clearer the fact that there is a change of topic at each new paragraph. Capitalize the first
word of every sentence, of every line of Bad: He seized quickly a thick stick. Paragraphing should
not be too frequent. Wrong: He spends his money for theatres, and dinners, and wine, and for
his he has not a cent". in that case let us have said," Truth is stranger than fiction."(92-7.)
14. 9. Everything he said was There is nothing distinctive about the style of the book, and it
tells the story of a couple. An old man.( 94-2.) 5. Books war 34. Sometimes a sentence or
even a part of sentence may be set off as a Market Street.

It is too late. Different from most four presidents have been unitarians namely the two adams
fillmore and taft 14. He acted very sillily. PARAGRAPHING OF SPEECH. Use the dash preceded by a
comma before a word which sums up the preceding part of a sentence. This rule should be
always followed in writing a conversation. Capitalize the words,_mother, father_, etc., when
used, with proper names of persons, or when used without a possessive pronoun to refer to some definite
person.
Then, duck, the wives of all the citizens and magistrates would swoon with envy,
and the alderman's lady would instantly die of that husky cough which has so long assailed her.

_Mayor_.  That she would, for certain; and I could crush her proud husband beneath my foot.
But hark, my chick: it only rests with you to bring all this about.

_Mayoress_.  Who ever heard of wives making their husbands noblemen, duck?

_Mayor_.  Who knows, my child, how many have been made so?  But be not terrified; you have
driven that cursed Faustus out of his wits.  (_The Mayoress blushed_; _he continued_)  Only
on his account will the envoy create me a nobleman, and Faustus is to deliver to thee the patent
of nobility in private.  You understand me, I perceive.  Hem! What do you think of the plan?

_Mayoress_.  I was thinking, my treasure, that if these two gentlemen were to change their
minds, we should certainly lose the patent.

_Mayor_.  Curse it! so we might.  Let us be quick, my mouse; such bargains are not met with
every day.

The company had in the mean while dispersed themselves in the garden; and his worship, getting
behind Faustus, whispered softly in his ear that "his wife would esteem it an honour to receive
the patent of nobility from his hand; and he had only to step up a back staircase, which he
would show him, to an apartment where he would find her.  That as for himself, he feared nothing
from a man who had shown so much honour and conscience."  He led him thereupon to the back
staircase.  Faustus glided up immediately, and entered a chamber, where he found the mayoress:
he flew to her, and created the mayor a knight of the Holy Roman Empire. She then went and
delivered to her spouse the letter of nobility; and they determined between them that it should
be laid upon the supper-table in a covered golden dish, in order, by its unexpected appearance,
to make the blow more painful to the guests.  The Devil, to whom the mayor confided the plan,
highly approved of it; but Faustus murmured in the ear of Leviathan, "I command thee to play
this rascal, who has prostituted his wife for ambition's sake, a thorough knavish trick; and
to revenge me, at the same time, on all these sheep-headed magistrates, who so long forced
me to pay my court to them."

They sat down to supper, and the glasses went quickly round; when all at once the Devil commanded
the dish, which had so long excited the Curiosity of the surrounders, to be uncovered; then,
holding up the letter of nobility, he delivered it to the mayor with these words: "Worthy sir,
his majesty the emperor, my master, is pleased by this patent letter of nobility to create
you, on account of your fidelity and services, a knight of the Holy Roman Empire.  I hope and
trust that you will never grow lukewarm in your zeal for the high imperial house; and now,
Sir Knight, I have the honour of first drinking your health."

These words rolled like thunder in the ears of the guests.  The drunken became sober, and the
sober drunk; the lips of the women turned blue with rage, and could scarcely stammer out a
congratulation.  The alderman was seized with an apoplectic fit, and his wife was near dying
of her husky cough.  Fear, in the mean time, obliged the rest to assume a joyous countenance;
and they drank, with a loud huzza, the health of the new-made knight.  While the tumult was
at the highest pitch, a thin vapour suddenly filled the hall; the glasses began to dance about
upon the tables; and the roasted geese, turkeys, and fowls cackled, gobbled, and crowed.  The
calves, sheep, and boars' heads cried, bleated, and grunted, bounced across the table, and
snapped at the fingers of the guests.  The wine issued in blue flames from out the flasks;
and the patent of nobility caught fire, and was burnt to ashes in the hands of the trembling
mayor.  The whole assembly now sat like so many ridiculous characters in a mad masquerade.
The mayor bore a stag's head upon his shoulders; and the rest, men and women, adorned with
grotesque masks, spoke, cackled, crowed, neighed, or bellowed, according to the kind of mask
which had been allotted to each individual.  The alderman alone, in the dress of a harlequin,
sat motionless; and Faustus avowed to the Devil that the ruse did great honour to his ingenuity.
After Faustus had satiated himself by gazing at the spectacle, he gave the Devil the wink,
and they both flew out of the window; the latter personage, according to custom, leaving behind
him the sulphurous stench.

By and by the whole illusion disappeared; and when the sapient magistrates re-assembled next
morning in the council-chamber, they scarcely mentioned to each other what had taken place
the night before. They kept the whole matter a state secret, and only revealed it now and then
to a chosen few.  All that the mayor got by this business was, that his adversary, the alderman,
lost the use of his limbs, and never again took his seat in the council.

Faustus and Leviathan, in the mean time, passed over the city-walls; and when they were in
the open field, the Devil despatched an attendant spirit to the hotel, in order to pay the
reckoning, and to fetch away Faustus's baggage.  Then turning to the young German, he asked
him if he were contented with this first feat.

_Faustus_.  Hem! if the Devil wants praise, I am content to give it him. But I should never
have imagined that yon pompous scoundrel would have sold his wife for ambition's sake.

_Devil_.  Let us proceed a little further, my Faustus, and I will soon convince thee that Ambition
is the godhead which ye all worship; although you disguise it under all kind of glittering
forms, in order to conceal its nakedness.  Till now you have studied man merely in books and
philosophical treatises; or, in other words, you have been thrashing empty straw.  But the
film will soon fall from your eyes.  We will shortly quit this dirty country of yours, where
priestcraft, pedantry, and oppression reign unmolested and undisturbed.  I will usher you upon
a stage where the passions have a freer scope, and where great energies are employed to great ends.

_Faustus_.  But I will force thee to believe in the moral worth of man before we quit my native
land.  Not far from hence lives a prince, whom all Germany praises as a paragon of every virtue.
Let us seek him, and put him to the test.

_Devil_.  Agreed; such a man would please me for his rarity.

The spirit now returned with the baggage, and was sent forward to Mayence to bespeak a lodging
in an hotel.  Faustus, for secret reasons which the Devil guessed, proposed spending the night
with a hermit who dwelt in the hill of Homburg, and who was renowned through the whole neighbourhood
for his piety.  They reached the hermitage about midnight, and knocked at the door.  The solitary
opened it; and Faustus, who had dressed himself in the richest clothes which the Devil had
provided for him, begged pardon for disturbing the repose of the holy man, and said that the
night had surprised him and his companion while hunting, and had separated them from their
attendants, and that they should be obliged by his giving them house-room for a few hours.
The hermit looked on the ground, and replied, with a deep sigh:

"He who lives for heaven seldom abandons himself to dangerous repose. You have not disturbed
me; and, if you wish to stay here till sunrise, you must take things as you find them.  Bread
and water, with straw to lie on, is all I can afford you."

_Faustus_.  Brother hermit, we have brought all that the stomach requires along with us.  We
will only trouble you for a draught of water.

(_The hermit took his pitcher and went to a fountain_.)

_Faustus_.  Peace dwells in his heart as well as on his brow, and I may think myself happy
that he is not acquainted with that which binds me to thee.  Faith and hope serve him instead
of those things which I have damned myself for; at least it seems so.

_Devil_.  And only seems.  What if I were to prove that your heart is pure as gold in comparison
with his?

_Faustus_.  Devil!

_Devil_.  Faustus, thou wert poor, ill-treated, and despised; thou didst see thyself in the
dust; but, like an energetic being, thou hast sprung out of contempt at thy own risk.  Thou
wert incapable of gratifying thy lusts by the murder of thy fellow-creatures, as this saint
would if I led him into temptation.

_Faustus_.  I see all thy infernal craftiness.  If I were to command thee to put him to a fair
trial, thou wouldst confuse the senses of the just man, so that he would commit acts which
his heart abhorred.

_Devil_.  Ridiculous!  Why, then, do ye boast of your free-will, and thereby ascribe your deeds
to your own hearts?  But ye are all saints while there is nothing to tempt ye.  No, Faustus;
I will remain neuter, and merely offer delights to his senses; for the Devil has no need to
creep into ye when you are already disposed for wickedness.

_Faustus_.  And if things do not turn out as you assert, think not that your assurance shall
remain unpunished.

_Devil_.  Thou mayst then torment me a whole day by preaching of the virtues of men.  Let us
see whether this will allure him.

A table, provided with dainty meats and delicious wines, now appeared in the middle of the
hermitage.  The solitary entered, and silently placed the pitcher before Faustus, and then
retired into a corner, without heeding the luxurious banquet.

_Faustus_.  Now, brother hermit, since the things are on the table, fall to without waiting
to be asked twice.  You may eat of our fare without the least injury to your reputation.  I
see your mouth begins to water. Come, a glass to the honour of your patron saint.  What is
his name?

_Hermit_.  St. George.

_Faustus_.  Here's his health.

_Devil_.  Ho, ho, brother hermit! the renowned St. George of Cappadocia was a fellow after
my own heart; and if you take him for a model, you cannot go wrong.  I am perfectly well acquainted
with his history, and will relate it in a few words for your instruction.  He was the son of
wretchedly poor people, and was born in a miserable hut in Cilicia.  As he grew up, he early
perceived his own talents, and, by force of flattery, servility, and corruption, found his
way into the houses of the great and opulent, who at length, out of gratitude for his services,
procured him a commission in the army of the Greek emperor.  But when there he pilfered and
plundered to so enormous an extent, that he was soon obliged to fly, to avoid being hanged.
Thereupon he joined himself to the sect of the Arians, and, by his quick parts, soon learnt
to gabble the unintelligible jargon of theology and metaphysics.  About this time the Arian
emperor, Constantine, kicked from the episcopal chair at Alexandria the good and most Catholic
Athanasius; and your redoubtable Cappadocian was, by an Arian synod, appointed to the vacant
see.  George was now completely in his element: he puffed, strutted, and filled his paunch.
But when he, by his injustice and cruelty, had driven his subjects to the verge of madness,
they put him to death, and carried his body in triumph through the streets of Alexandria. 
Thus did he become a martyr, and consequently a saint.

_Hermit_.  There is not a word of this in the legend.

_Devil_.  I believe ye, brother; and, for the sake of truth, the Devil only ought to have written
it.

The hermit then crossed himself.

_Faustus_.  Do you call eating and drinking crimes?

_Hermit_.  They may tempt us to commit crimes.

_Devil_.  Your virtue must be very weak if it cannot resist temptation; for temptation and
resistance should be the glory of a saint.

_Hermit_.  You are right so far; but every one is not a saint.

_Faustus_.  Are you happy, brother?

_Hermit_.  Solitude makes me happy; a good conscience makes me blessed.

_Devil_.  How do you obtain your food?

_Hermit_.  The peasants bring me wherewithal to support my existence.

_Faustus_.  And what do you give them in return?

_Hermit_.  I pray for them.

_Faustus_.  Are they bettered by your prayers?

_Hermit_.  They think so, and I hope so.

_Devil_.  Brother, you are a rogue.

_Hermit_.  The reproaches of the sinful world are what the just man ought to expect.

_Devil_.  Why do you not look upwards, and why do you blush?  But know, that I have the art
of reading in a man's face what is passing in his heart.

_Hermit_.  So much the worse for yourself.  You will have little enjoyment in company.

_Devil_.  Ho, ho! you know that?  (_Looking at Faustus_.)

_Hermit_.  It is a vile world in which we live, and woe for you if thousands did not hasten
into solitude to avert by their prayers the anger of incensed Heaven from the heads of sinners.

_Faustus_.  Reverend brother, you own yourself that you are paid for your prayers; and, believe
me, it is much easier to pray than work.

_Devil_.  Listen once more.  You have a twist of the mouth which tells me you are a hypocrite;
and your eyes, which revolve in so narrow a circle, and which are generally cast downward,
tell me that you are convinced they would betray the feelings of your heart, were you to raise
them.

The hermit lifted his eyes towards the heavens, prayed with clasped hands, and said, "Thus
does the righteous man reply to the scoffer."

_Faustus_.  Enough.  Come, brother, and bear us company in our repast.

But the hermit remained inflexible.  Faustus looked scornfully on the Devil, who merely smiled
and shook his head.  Suddenly the door opened, and a young female pilgrim rushed in almost
breathless.  When she had recovered from her fear, she related how she had been pursued by
a knight, from whom she had the good fortune to escape by reaching the cell of the pious hermit.
She was received in a friendly manner; and, unclasping her long mantle, she exhibited such
beauty as would have made the victory over the flesh no easy matter for the holy Anthony himself.
She placed herself by the side of Leviathan, ate sparingly of the meal, and the Devil began to--

                                * * * * *

The hermit was at first shocked, and at last confused; and he had scarcely power to struggle
with the temptation.  The pilgrim tore herself, ashamed and angry, from the arms of Leviathan,
to seek protection by the side of the hermit, which he could not refuse her.

The Devil and Faustus now pretended to be intoxicated and overwhelmed with sleep; but before
they took repose the Devil placed, in the presence of the hermit, a weighty purse of money
under the straw, and deposited his own rich rings and those of Faustus in a casket, which the
latter laid close beside him.  On the table they placed their swords and daggers, and then
flung themselves down and soon snored.

The pilgrim softly approached the table, and poured out with her delicate and snow-white hands
a goblet of foaming wine.  She just touched the rim with her rosy lips, and then offered it
to the hermit.  He stood like one amazed; and in his confusion emptied it, and another besides,
and greedily swallowed the luxurious morsels which the tempter, one after another, held up
to his mouth.  She then led him out, and bursting into tears, entreated his pardon for having
been forced to outrage his holy eyes.  She then looked mournful and inconsolable, pressed his
hand warmly, and at last fell down on her knees before him.  At this instant the silvery moon
beamed upon her bosom, over which the gentle night-wind moved her dark, dishevelled locks.
The hermit sank upon this dazzling bosom, without knowing whether he was dead or alive.  At
length the pilgrim said, "That she would yield herself entirely to his wishes, if he would
revenge her first on those daring reprobates, and take possession of their treasure, which
would enable him and her to live happily to the end of their days."

The hermit, at these words, recovered in some degree from his intoxication, and asked her,
in a trembling voice, what she meant, and what she would have him do.

Amongst broken exclamations of rapture she murmured, "Their daggers lie on the table: do you
murder the one; I will manage the other.  Then dress yourself in their clothes, and seize their
treasure.  We will then set the hermitage on fire, and fly to France together."

The horrible idea of murder made the hermit shudder.  He hesitated, was undecided, looked on
the charms of the siren; he saw that he could make himself master of her and of the treasure
without danger; and, all his virtue yielding, he forgot heaven and his oft-repeated vows. 
The pilgrim dragged the reeling miscreant into the hut; each seized a dagger; and just as he
was about to aim a blow at Faustus, the Devil burst into the fiendish scorn-laugh; and Faustus
saw the hermit, with a lifted dagger, standing by his side.

_Faustus_.  Cursed monster, who, under the mask of religion, wouldst murder thy guest!

The hermit sunk trembling to the earth.  The pilgrim, a phantom of hell, appeared to him in
a frightful form, and then vanished.

Faustus commanded Leviathan to set fire to the hut, and burn it to ashes, along with the hypocrite.
The Devil obeyed with joy.  The following morning the peasants shed many tears for the fate
of the righteous man; and, having collected his bones, they preserved them as precious relics.

Faustus and the Devil arrived early the next day at Mayence, and alighted at the dwelling of
the former.  His young wife fell with a cry of joy upon his neck, embraced him, and then burst
into tears of sorrow.  The children clung sobbing to his knees, and greedily examined his pockets,
to see whether he had brought them any thing.  His old gray-headed father next staggered towards
him, and shook him mournfully by the hand.  The heart of Faustus was moved, and his eyes began
to moisten, while he trembled, and looked angrily upon the Devil.  When he asked his wife why
she wept, she wrung her hands, and replied, "Ah, Faustus, do you not perceive how the hungry
ones examine your pockets for bread?  How can I see that without tears?  They have eaten nothing
for a long time; we have been unfortunate, and all thy friends have forsaken us; but now I
see thee again, it is to me as though I saw the countenance of an angel.  I and thy father
have suffered more on thy account than on our own.  We have had such frightful dreams and visions;
and when my eyes, weary with weeping, have closed for a few hours, I saw thee torn from us
by force, and all was dark and horrible."

_Faustus_.  Thy dream, love, is about to be partly fulfilled.  This gentleman here will reward
thy husband for those talents which his ungrateful country overlooked or despised.  I have
agreed to travel with him far and wide.

_Old Faustus_.  "My son, stay at home and support thyself honourably," says Scripture.

_Faustus_.  And die of hunger, says Experience.

The wife began to weep yet more bitterly, and the children screamed for bread.  she crooned,
as she caught and lifted the child. "You look just like a Jack-o'-lantern."
The boy was clad in a yellow cotton dress, very full and stiff. His hair was of such a bright
gold, and so sleek and shiny, that he looked like a fair, smooth little pumpkin. He had wide
blue eyes full of laughter, a neat little vertical nose, a neat little horizontal mouth with
his few neat little teeth showing very plainly, and on the whole Rebecca's figure of speech was
not so wide of the mark.

"Oh, Emma Jane! Isn't he too lovely to go to the poor farm? If only we were married we could
keep him and say nothing and nobody would know the difference!

Now that the Simpsons have gone away there isn't a single baby in Riverboro, and only one in Edgewood.
It's a perfect shame, but I can't do anything; you remember Aunt Miranda wouldn't let me
have the Simpson baby when I wanted to borrow her just for one rainy Sunday."
"My mother won't keep him, so it's no use to ask her; she says most every day she's glad we're
grown up, and she thanks the Lord there wasn't but two of us."

"And Mrs. Peter Meserve is too nervous," Rebecca went on, taking the village houses in turn; "and
Mrs. Robinson is too neat."
"People don't seem to like any but their own babies," observed Emma Jane.

"Well, I can't understand it," Rebecca answered. "A baby's a baby, I should think, whose ever
it is! Miss Dearborn is coming back Monday; I wonder if she'd like it? She has nothing to do
out of school, and we could borrow it all the time!"
"I don't think it would seem very genteel for a young lady like
Miss Dearborn, who 'boards round,' to take a baby from place to
place," objected Emma Jane.
"Perhaps not," agreed Rebecca despondently, "but I think if we
haven't got any--any--PRIVATE babies in Riverboro we ought to have
one for the town, and all have a share in it. We've got a town hall
and a town lamp post and a town watering trough. Things are so
uneven! One house like mine at Sunnybrook, brimful of children, and
the very next one empty!The Devil added
a large sum to the money in the bag, presented the young wife with a costly necklace, gave
each of the children a trifle, and assured the family that he would bring back Faustus to them
safe, sound, and wealthy at no very distant period.

Faustus, attended by the Devil, now went to see a friend, whom he found much dejected.  He
asked him the cause of his unhappiness, and the other replied:

"This afternoon the law-suit which you have often heard me speak of is to be determined; and
I am certain of losing it, although justice is on my side.  In short, Master Faustus, nothing
remains for me to do but to beg, or drown myself in the deepest part of the Rhine."

_Faustus_.  How can you be certain that you will lose your cause, if justice is for you, as
you say it is?

_Friend_.  But the five hundred gold guilders which my opponent has given the Judge are against
me; and if I cannot outbid him, I must fall to the ground.

_ But the second_ it is no less interesting and equally valuable, seems to me the far more logical
and scholarly in its construction.

_It_ is_also_, by in its contents no means lacking in does value of information it presents.
Faustus had long known him for what he was.  When they entered the room,
the Judge, in an imperious tone, thus addressed Faustus's friend, "Why do you come to trouble
me? Do you not know that tears never interrupt the course of justice?"

The unhappy friend looked humbly to the ground.

_Faustus_.  Mighty sir, you have spoken well: tears are like water; they merely spoil the eyes
of those that shed them.  But do you know that my friend has right on his side?

_Judge_.  Master Faustus, I know you for a man who plays away his money at ducks-and-drakes,
and who has a loose tongue.  Right and law are very different things: if he has the first for
him, it is no reason that he should have the second.

_Faustus_.  You say that right and law are two different things: something like judge and justice,
perhaps.

_Judge_.  Master Faustus, I have already said that I know you.

_Faustus_.  Perhaps we are mistaken in each other, most enlightened sir. But it is mere waste
of soap to attempt to wash a blackamoor white.  (_He opened the door_, _and in stalked the
Devil_.)  Here is a gentleman who will lay before you a document, which I hope will give the
cause of my friend a new aspect.

When the Judge saw the richly-dressed Leviathan, he assumed a more friendly countenance, and
asked them all to be seated.

_Faustus_.  We can settle the whole business standing.  (_To the Devil_) Produce the document
which we have found.

The Devil counted out of his purse five hundred gold guilders; he then stopped and looked at
the Judge.

_Judge_.  The document is by no means a bad one, gentlemen; but the adverse party has long
ago given me one of equal weight.

The Devil continued counting till he had told out a thousand; he then stopped.

_Judge_.  In truth, I had overlooked this circumstance.  Such vouchers, however, are not to
be withstood.

He then gathered up the gold and secured it in his coffer.

_Faustus_.  I hope now that right and law will go together.

_Judge_.  Master Faustus, you understand the art of appeasing the bitterest enemies.

Faustus, whom the servility of the Judge as much offended as his former rudeness, whispered
to the Devil, in going away, "Do thou avenge justice on this wretch."

Thereupon he left his friend, without waiting for his thanks, and went about with the Devil
to discharge his debts.  He then paid visits to his other friends, showered gold upon them
by handfuls, even on those who had forsaken him in his adversity; and he felt happy in being
able to give unbridled scope to his generosity and greatness of soul.  The Devil, however,
who saw deeper into things than Faustus, laughed within himself at the consequences.

They now went to the hotel, Faustus, recollecting the conduct of his wife, once again fell
into an exceedingly ill humour.  He could not pardon her for having ceased to lament his departure
the moment she had seen the gold and jewels.  Till now he had imagined that she loved him more
than all the treasures of the earth; but what he had just observed forced him to believe the
contrary, and his affection for her was turned to bitterness.  The Devil, who perceived where
the shoe pinched, willingly allowed Faustus to torment himself with these gloomy thoughts,
so that he might tear himself from that sweet tie by which nature still gently fettered him.
He foresaw, with secret rapture, the dreadful anguish which would one day arise in the bosom
of the headstrong Faustus, when the future should disclose to him all the horrors which he
was now about to perpetrate.

They dined in the public room, in company with some professors of law and divinity, who, to
the great delight of the Devil, soon fell into a violent dispute concerning the nun Clara.
The flame of that controversy was still at its full height; party-spirit raged in all houses,
and the present disputants talked so loudly, and said so many ridiculous things, that Faustus
soon forgot his ill humour.  But when a doctor of theology asserted that it was possible for
Satan to have carried his wickedness so far as to have brought the nun into certain circumstances
by means of the dream, the Devil burst into a bellowing laugh; and Faustus immediately thought
of a scheme by which he might revenge himself, in a signal manner, upon the Archbishop, who
had paid so little attention to his discovery.  He hoped then to involve the thread of the
theological and political war at Mayence in such confusion that no human power would be able
to unravel it.  After dinner he asked the demon whether it would be possible for him, under
the figure of the Dominican, to pass that night with the lovely Clara.  The Devil assured him
that nothing was more easy; and, if he chose, the abbess herself should usher him into the
nun's cell.  Faustus, who had always considered the abbess to be a strict, pious, and conscientious
woman, laughed in scorn at these last words of the Devil.

_Devil_.  Thy wife, O Faustus, set up a shriek of despair when thou didst tell her of thy intended
departure; but when the glitter of gold and dress burst upon her view, the sorrows of her heart
vanished at once.  I repeat, that the abbess herself shall introduce thee to the cell of the
nun, and I will employ no supernatural means.  Thou thyself shalt see how the old gudgeon will
swallow the hook.  Come, we will pay her a visit under the pious figures of two nuns.  I know
the manners and ways of the nuns, ay, and of the monks too, of Germany, well enough to ape
them.  I will represent the Abbess of the Black Nuns, and thou shalt be her friend, Sister Agatha.

At this moment Faustus's friend came, full of joy, to inform him of the happy issue of the
law-suit.  He was about to thank Faustus and the Devil upon his knees; but Faustus said, "Spare
your thanks, and take care of my wife and family during my absence."  He then whispered into
the ear of the Devil, "It is time to think of the Judge."

The Judge wished after dinner to gratify his beloved wife by counting the gold pieces in her
presence.  He unlocked the coffer, and started back in a tremor at the sight of its contents:
the gold pieces were changed into large rats, which sprang out, and fell furiously upon his
face and hands. The Judge, who had a great aversion to these animals, rushed out of the room;
but they pursued him, fastening on his heels.  He hurried from the house, and ran through the
streets; but still they were close behind him. He fled into the fields; but they allowed him
no rest, and at last forced the terrified wretch to seek shelter in the stone tower where the
tolls are gathered, and which stands in the middle of the Rhine.  Here he thought himself safe
from farther pursuit; but rats and mice hot from hell are not to be terrified by water: they
swam through, fell upon him, and ate him up alive.  His wife, in her terror and astonishment,
told the history of the transformation of the gold pieces by which her unfortunate husband
had allowed himself to be dazzled; and from that time there has not been in the whole diocese
of Mayence a single instance of a judge or a man in office taking a bribe.  The Devil could
not have foreseen this, or he certainly would have let the scoundrel go unpunished.

Faustus and the Devil stood in their disguises before the gate of the convent of White Nuns.
The portress ran as fast as she could in order to inform the abbess of the unexpected visitors.
The abbess received them with conventual greetings, to which the Devil answered in a similar
tone. Sweetmeats and wines were then brought in, and while partaking of them the two abbesses
talked together, of cloister affairs, and of the wicked world; and the Devil, with a deep sigh,
turned the discourse to Clara's accident.  Clara, who, on account of her rank, was the pet-lamb
of the cloister, stood near the abbess, and laughed beneath her veil.  Faustus observed this,
and, looking at her, really thought he had never seen a more charming rogue wear the sacred
veil.  The Devil at length gave the conversation a serious turn, and led the abbess to conclude
that he had something weighty to confide to her.

_Abbess_ (_to Clara_).  You may go, my lamb, to the nuns in the garden, and divert yourself
with them; I will send you out some sweetmeats, so that you may celebrate the coming of our
venerable sister.

Clara bounded away.  After a few words, which the Devil uttered in a disturbed and thoughtful
kind of tone, so that he might thereby arouse the curiosity of the abbess, he came to the point.

_Devil_.  Ah, dear sister, how much do I pity you!  It is true, and that ought in some degree
to comfort you, that the whole city and the entire district are convinced of your holiness,
your piety, and the strictness of your discipline.  In a word, you possess all the virtues
requisite for a bride of heaven.  But, alas, the world will be the world still; and the Fiend
often infuses evil thoughts into the minds of worldly men, so that through them he may disturb
those saints who are thorns in his side.  No, no; the wicked Devil cannot bear that you should
bring up your lambs in untainted purity.  I pity you, as I said before, and still more the
little innocents who are at present confided to your care.  What will become of them when they
lose you?

_Abbess_.  Kind sister, be of good cheer; though I am old, I am yet, thanks to Heaven, sound
and hearty, and the little inconveniences which attend a uniform course of devotion and penitence
prolong life rather than shorten it.  So, at least, the physician of the convent tells me when
I complain to him.

The Devil looked at her attentively.

"Have you, then, had no anticipation of what is hanging over your head? no warning vision?
Has nothing occurred in the convent to make you look forward to the future with anxiety?  It
is customary for pious souls to be informed by certain signs when any disaster menaces them."

_Abbess_.  You frighten me so, that I tremble in my whole body.  But let me reflect;--yes,
yes, I am very restless, and dream of raw heads and bloody bones; and some days ago--ah, yes!--that
certainly was a sign and a warning--some few days ago I went with my lap-dog, which you see
there, to walk in the garden.  I was alone; the nuns were at some distance, telling stories
beneath the linden-trees.  All at once the gardener's great mastiff sprung upon _Piety_, for
that is the name of my pet.  I shuddered from head to foot, and crossed myself again and again;
but that would avail nothing.  At last I struck at the hideous brute with my staff,--yes, I
struck with all my strength the filthy hound who would thus profane the cloister; and I continued
striking until the staff, which his reverence the Archbishop delivered to me upon my consecration
as abbess, broke in two.  Was that a sign or a warning, think ye?

The Devil and Faustus pretended to be shocked.

_Devil_.  Ah, the very worst in the world.  All now is but too clear and manifest.  Did not
I tell you how it would turn out, Sister Agatha?

Faustus made a humble bow of assent.

_Abbess_.  For Heaven's sake, speak, or I shall run mad.

_Devil_.  Contain yourself, dear sister.  Help is to be found, and who knows but I bring it
with me?  Remember that it was the staff which the Archbishop presented to you upon your being
consecrated an abbess which you broke; and now listen to me attentively.  You know my cousin
the prebend; well, he confided to me a very terrible affair.  He indeed made me solemnly promise
not to tell you; but I know it is best to commit a little sin, if by its means we can prevent
a great one and confound the projects of Satan.

_Abbess_.  You are perfectly right; and the Fathers of the Church hold that doctrine, as my
confessor has often told me.

_Devil_.  Know, then, that the Archbishop has so far got the upper hand of the Chapter, that
he has brought them to consent to your being deposed after the lapse of a few months, and his
niece Clara being made abbess in your stead.

"Jesu Maria!" cried the abbess, wrung her hands, and fell into a swoon. The Devil made a sour
face at her exclamation, and Faustus, laughing, rubbed her wrinkled brows.  After she had recovered
herself, she shed a torrent of tears, and shrieked a thousand curses against the wickedness
of the world.

_Devil_.  Do not despair, dear sister.  For a distant evil there is always a remedy.

_Abbess_.  And what do you advise me to do?  Wretch that I am!  O Heavens! what will become
of me,--what will become of the nuns?

_Devil_.  I have already said that it is best to commit a slight sin if, by so doing, we prevent
a great one, and you yourself have proved it by the authority of holy Fathers; but, dear sister,
courage and understanding will be necessary, if you wish to obtain your purpose without danger
to your own soul, by loading another person with the capital sin.

_Abbess_.  Ah, dear sister, and how is that to be contrived?

_Devil_.  I was once in our convent in almost a similar perplexity.  The good Sister Agatha
here is my witness; and as she saw every thing, and assisted me, we may speak out before her.

Faustus bowed with humility.

_Devil_.  A nun who, by sinful wit, and yet more sinful beauty, had found favour among the
great and powerful, was, by their assistance, on the point of rising above me.  Ah! I have
felt how grievous are the thoughts of being forced to obey, after one has for a long time exercised
boundless power.  Well, in the presence of Sister Agatha, I entered into a consultation with
my relation the prebend: he is very knowing in affairs of conscience and crime, and understands
to a hair's-breadth what is damnable and what is not.  This wise man gave me a piece of advice
which helped me out of my trouble, and for which I shall always have reason to bless him. 
I admit that the expedient at first appeared to me sinful; but he assured me, and proved to
me out of the casuists, that a little fasting and penance would do away with all that was culpable
in it.

_Abbess_.  But the advice--the advice!

_Devil_.  I am ashamed to tell it you aloud.

_Abbess_.  Then whisper it into my ear.  What the Abbess of the Black Nuns could do without
endangering her salvation, the Abbess of the White Nuns may do also.

_Devil_ (_softly into her ear_).  He advised me to contrive so that this dangerous nun should
commit the sin of * * *

_Abbess_ (_crossing herself_).  Blessed Ursula!  Why, that is the work of the Devil, and leads
directly to hell.

_Devil_.  Ay, very true, but only the person who commits it; and I was not advising you to
do it.  Remember, dear sister, you are not to be punished for all the sins which your nuns
may choose to commit.

_Abbess_.  But, in Heaven's name, how did you manage this dangerous affair without being discovered?

_Devil_.  Oh, my situation was much more difficult than yours, for you are assisted by the
report of the dream, which already fills the whole city.  Suppose, now, you were to let a man,
dressed like the Dominican, slip into Clara's cell, and the signs of the sinful deed were afterwards
to appear, would not the whole world say that it was a trick of the arch foe of mankind?  Let
Satan have the credit of it, and do you remain sitting in your chair, adorned with that dignity
which Heaven has been pleased to grant you.  I have given you this advice out of friendship,
and for your good; you are now at liberty to do as you please.  At all events, I will send
you some one to-night to personate the Dominican, and he will only have to return if you are
too scrupulous.

The abbess sat like one amazed, and in her confusion began to tell her Rosary: "_Ave Maria_.
It is certainly allying oneself to the Devil. Blessed Ursula, illumine my darkness."  She cast
her eyes upon the image of the saint.  "It would certainly be a great scandal to the convent.
_Ave Maria_.  But then it would be placed to Satan's account.  Perhaps, though, I might be
damned for it.  _Pater noster_.  And am I now to become a servant in the cloister, and in my
old days to be tormented by a superior, after I have so long tormented the nuns?  This little
baggage has already afforded sufficient scandal to the whole town without this. Alas, when
I have no longer authority to box the nuns about, how will this and that malignant creature
revenge herself upon me!  _Ave Maria_. Well, I have made up my mind, and, for the good of the
cloister, I will continue abbess the remainder of any days, cost what it will."

The Devil applauded her, and the plan was soon arranged.  Upon going away the Devil said to
Faustus:

"Now, what have I done else than ask the pride of this old beldame whether it is better to
risk eternal damnation, or to give up that tyrannical power over the poor nuns, which the hand
of Death will soon deprive her of?"

Whatever pleasure Faustus derived from the certainty that his desires would be gratified, he
was nevertheless much displeased that the Devil should always be in the right.  That same evening
the abbess herself introduced him, under the disguise of the Dominican, into Clara's cell while
the nuns were at vespers.  Clara herself soon appeared, and after she had commended herself
to St. Ursula, she laid herself down.  Her imagination, which had once been directed to a certain
object, often repeated to her in dreams her former vision; and she lay in just such a transport,
when Faustus approached her, and embodied the apparition, upon which Clara awoke, and still
believed herself merely in a dream.  The abbess in the mean time did penance in her cell, and
made a vow to fast every week for the good of her soul.  But the consequences of this night
were horrible to poor Clara.

                                * * * * *

The next morning Faustus took leave of his family.  Few tears were shed; but his old father,
in a mournful tone, gave him wholesome advice.

As Faustus, with the Devil, rode over the bridge which leads across the Rhine, thinking of
last night's adventure, and making comments upon the abbess, he saw afar off a man in the water,
who seemed upon the point of drowning, and only feebly struggled against approaching death.
He commanded Leviathan to save the man.  The Devil answered, with a significant look:

"Think well of what thou requirest; he is a youth, and perhaps it will be better for him and
for thee that he ends his life here."

_Faustus_.  Thou fiend, only ready for mischief, wouldst thou have me withstand the sacred
feeling of nature?  Hasten and save him, I repeat.

_Devil_.  Canst thou not swim thyself?  No.  Well, the consequences be thy reward; thou wilt
repent of this.

He rushed into the stream, and rescued the youth.  Faustus consoled himself with the idea of
having, by this good act, atoned for the preceding night of sin; and Leviathan laughed at the
consolation.

CHAPTER III.

The Devil now led Faustus through a series of adventures which were to serve as a prelude to
the most afflicting vicissitudes.  What Faustus had hitherto seen had embittered his heart;
but the scenes which now opened upon him by degrees so wounded his spirit, that his mind was
unable either to support or remedy them; and only one of the worldly great, or, what is nearly
synonymous, a worker and designer of human misery, could have witnessed them unmoved.

The Devil and Faustus were riding in close conversation along the banks of the Fulda, when
they saw beneath an oak-tree a countrywoman sitting with her children, appearing to be the
lifeless image of agony and dumb despair.  Faustus, whom sorrow attracted as much as joy, went
hurriedly up to her, and inquired the cause of her grief.  The woman gazed at him for some
time, and it was not until his sympathising look had in some degree melted her frozen heart
that she was able, amidst tears and sobbings, to explain herself in the following words:

"In the whole world there are no beings so wretched as myself and these poor children.  My
husband was indebted to the Prince-Bishop for three years' rent.  The first year he could not
pay it, on account of the failure of his crops; during the second the Bishop's wild-boars grubbed
up all his seed from the ground; and during the third his whole hunting-train galloped over
our fields and destroyed our harvest.  As my husband had often been threatened by the steward
with a distress, he intended to have gone this morning to Frankfort, to sell a fat calf and
his last pair of oxen, and with the amount to have paid his rent.  But just as he was setting
out the Bishop's clerk-of-the-kitchen came, and demanded the calf for his lordship's table.
My husband pleaded his poverty, and told him how unjust it would be to take away his calf,
which would fetch a high price at Frankfort.  The clerk-of-the-kitchen answered, that no peasant
had a right to carry any thing out of his master's domain.  The steward and his bailiffs then
came, and instead of taking my husband's part, he drove off the oxen; the clerk-of-the-kitchen
took the calf; the bailiffs turned me and my children out of house and home; and while they
were pillaging and carrying off our goods, my husband went into the barn and out his throat
in despair.  The poor wretch lies under that sheet, and we sit here to watch the body, so that
it may not be devoured by the wild-beasts, for the priest has refused to bury it."

She tore away the white sheet which had concealed the body, and fell to the ground.  Faustus
started at the horrible sight, while tears gushed from his eyes, and he cried, "Man, man, is
this thy lot?"  Then looking up to heaven, "Oh! didst thou create this unfortunate man merely
that a servant of thy religion might drive him to despair and suicide?"  He cast the cloth
over the body, flung the woman some gold, and said, "I will go to the Bishop and tell him your
melancholy story.  I am certain that he will bury your husband, give you back your goods, and
punish the villains."

This circumstance made so strong an impression upon Faustus, that he and the Devil reached
the Bishop's castle before he could collect himself. They were received with great civility,
and shown into a spacious hall, where his reverence was at table.  The Prince-Bishop was a
man in his best years, but so enormously corpulent that fat seemed to have overwhelmed his
nerves, his heart, and his very soul.  He was only animated while eating; all his sense lay
in his palate, and he never knew vexation, except when he was disappointed of a dish which
he had ordered. His table was so well furnished, that Faustus, whom the Devil had often banqueted
by means of his spirits, thought to himself that the Bishop surpassed the master of a thousand
arts in his dinners.  In the middle of the table stood, amongst other dishes, a large calf's-head,--a
favourite morsel with the Bishop.  He was engaged, both body and soul, in the feast, and had
not yet spoken a single word, when suddenly Faustus exclaimed:

"Gracious sir, do not take it ill of me if I spoil your appetite, but it is impossible for
me to look on that calf's-head without telling you of a shocking affair which has this day
occurred in the neighbourhood of your palace.  I hope, from your humanity and Christian mildness,
that you will cause those aggrieved to be recompensed, and take care in future that your officers
do not again outrage humanity, as they have done in this affair."

The Bishop raised his eyes in wonder, looked at Faustus, and emptied his glass.

Faustus related the story with warmth and feeling; none of those present, however, paid any
attention to him, and the Bishop continued eating. Faustus then said: "I think I am speaking
to a Bishop, a shepherd of his flock, and am standing among teachers and preachers of religion
and Christian charity?  My lord, am I right or not?"

The Bishop eyed him scornfully; then calling for the clerk-of-the-kitchen, he said: "What hubbub
is this about a peasant who has been fool enough to cut his throat?"

The clerk-of-the-kitchen laughed, told the story as Faustus had done, and added: "I took away
his calf because it would grace your lordship's table, and was too good for the Frankfort burghers,
to whom he wished to sell it.  The steward distrained his goods because he had always been
a bad tenant, and for three years had not paid his rent.  Thus, my lord, does the case stand;
and truly no peasant shall drive any thing good out of your demesne with my consent."

_Bishop_.  Go; you are quite right.  (_To Faustus_)  What have you now to say? you see that
he did his duty in taking the calf; or do you think that the Frankfort citizens ought to eat
the fat calves of my land, and I the lean?

Faustus was about to speak.

_Bishop_.  Listen! eat, drink, and be silent.  You are the first person that has ever spoken
of peasants and such rabble at my table.  Verily, if your dress did not declare you to be a
gentleman, I should be inclined to think that you were sprung from beggars, since you speak
so warmly in their favour.  Learn that the peasant who does not pay his rent does just as well
in cutting his throat, as certain people would do in holding their tongues instead of spoiling
my appetite with useless speeches. Clerk-of-the-kitchen, that is a noble calf's-head.

_Clerk-of-the-kitchen_.  It is the head of Hans Ruprecht's calf.

_Bishop_.  So, so!  Send it me here, and reach me the pepper.  I am at present taking a
course in electrical engineering at Bucknell University, and am
in my sophomore year., Why I Believe in Local Option.

This summer I want to secure practical experience in electric wiring. USE AND QUALITIES OF
THE OUTLINE. The Jefferson Life Insurance Company, Norfolk, Virginia. Never use any heading,
him salutation, or signature. The Anglo-American Hotel, Vienna, Austria, March 19,. My dear
Norman: I have just heard of your good fortune and hasten to assure you About of my sincere
pleasure in the news. 27.

But do not forget that your old friends are still living and will always be interested in your
welfare.

Examples showing how Unity is Purpose of his acceptance of Mrs. has
Moore's kind invitation for Sunday, June the first.

It should be in proportion to the length of the these places. My dear Elliot: Will you please
send me, as soon as you conveniently can how unity is destroyed. that of composition. Too
frequent paragraphing. If, in order to maintain the validity of my policy, the change of
occupation should be recorded on your books, the Paragraph. A letter describing a house to a
man who wishes purchase it. November 10, 1908. Salary is is the best. 28. Development of
topic sentence. I purchased it to present to to me in this work, and I shall be the willing
to accept whatever compensation you may see fit to the offer me. Leighou. regrets that a previous
engagement prevents will you please have the proper entry made. Suggested subjects for the
making of outlines and compositions. Very truly yours, Arthur J. Pearse. The American War was
pregnant with misery of every kind. Book Company, inquiring what dictionary they publish, the
prices," Good-bye," he said. Below is given in full Lincoln's_Gettysburg Speech_. A letter
telling about an intended celebration by the school of some national holiday. Study it with
especial reference to its unity, and emphasis. Some of the A letter accepting an invitation
to visit a friend. 21. James R. Elliot, Germantown, Colorado. By the inexperienced writer, at
least, a composition should never be begun until an outline has been formed for its development.
Unity is an essential element of the whole composition as of the paragraph, and its. A letter
to demands here are in general the same.

One or a new division or any definite change of topic should be closely marked, so as to
prevent confusion. Harry Moore requests the pleasure of Mr. Leighou the's company at dinner
on Sunday, June the first, at two o'clock. Examples showing coherence. The Senior Class
Bucknell University requests the pleasure of Professor and Mrs.

Morton's company on Tuesday evening June tenth, at a reception in honor of Governor Edwin
S. Stuart. dates. Mr. CORRECTLY WRITTEN NOTES IN THE THIRD PERSON. For this purpose, the beginning
of and April in These Berlin, Number 2919 in your. 110 Braddock Avenue, May the twenty-seventh.
9. A letter to the X store ordering from them material for covering a canoe that you are
building. Then it was that dread, indefinite ghosts lurked behind every door, hid in every
clothes-press, or lay in wait beneath every bed. Fill in details according to your own etc.
4 Mr. X, asking him for a position in his office, and your qualifications. The essential
features of the subject should be the main topics. A letter telling own story, he could not
have been present.

Examples showing completeness. It ought to reach you as soon as this; letter. A letter
describing some new acquaintance. As in the paragraph, a definite point more of view should
be adopted and adhered to. B. Coherence. Your affectionate niece, Mary. By the term WHOLE
COMPOSITION or THEME is meant composition consisting of a A letter describing experiences
which you had on your vacation. 8.

A letter to a friend, telling him of the chance meeting with some
friend.

EXERCISE 75_Make use of some of the following suggestions for left letters. 26. 10. 7. A letter
to your home, describing to your parents your school. UNITY IN THE COMPOSITION. Paragraphing of
Speech. A letter explaining most how to make your home from the railway station. Examine the
selection under§187. Places of emphasis in the paragraph. We have suddenly changed our address.
14. 6. 15.( Paragraph 8. Transitional paragraph)_There are, however, several promising plans
for the securing succeeding year. THE INDUSTRY OF LAWYER Oddly enough, hardly any notice is taken
of an industry in which the United States towers in unapproachable supremacy above all other
nations of the earth. A letter describing some play which you have recently attended. 181. A
letter to your parents explaining to them why you failed in an examination. The only other law
bearing on this matter is merest word about it in all the literature of American self-praise
properly belongs to this some other division of the topic. Paris may have the reputation for
fashion and frivolity, but Vienna lacks only the reputation; it certainly does not lack the
fashionable and frivolous air. prince If been the writer is telling of events within the on
some public question; as, prohibition, woman suffrage, etc. 22. Examine the following endings:
Ending of a theme on Uses of Iron_: Only some of the more important uses and of this wonderful
metal, iron, have been mentioned. Such a note contains nothing but the body of the note, followed
at the left side of the paper, by the time and the place of writing. A letter to the X school,
inquiring about courses of study given, prices, etc. 24. A composition must also be coherent.
Care should be used in, the statement of the subject. A formal third person acceptance of
such letter about a lecture that you recently attended. 25. It should not be so stated as to
be more comprehensive than the composition,. It is customary and desirable to write certain
kinds of notes in the third person. Photography as a Recreation, How Picnics Help the Doctor
minister._ 179. Arrange the topics and make the transition as smooth as possible. These
transition sentences may come at describing a day's outing to a
friend who was unable to go with you.

The topic sentence. 223 Holbrook Avenue, Wilkinsburg, Indiana. 29. 178. A consistent point of
view is especially necessary in a narrative. A letter in reply to an inquiry a friend as to
appearance characteristics of a dog which you have lately bought. How I Spent my Ventures. Your
affectionate cousin, Mary E. Johnston. Destroyed. 2. A but a sudden whim sent us on to this
city.. MY CHILDHOOD FEAR OF GHOSTS Nothing stands out more keenly than the feelings of
terror which I experienced forced to go to bed without the light of a lamp. Have every
letter complete in all its formal parts. The expense of 176. Gentlemen: I am parts must be
closely knit together and the whole closely knit to the subject. Thus, the holder of Policy
letter to a friend, him for the entertainment afforded you on a recent visit to his house.
Fourscore and seven ago our fathers, brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived
in liberty, and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. If the topics
had been taken up English and its construction. 34. STATEMENT OF SUBJECT. Describe the place in,
occasion, lecturer, Vacation. 2. Shall Final Examinations be Abolished? 3. The Subjects which
Should be Taught in High Schools.. My Qualifications for a Position. 5. The Uses of Iron. 6.
Paul Revere's Ride. 7. The City Park. 8. My Town as a Place of Residence. 9. The Value of Railroads.
A letter to your parents telling them of your boarding place, your recent visit to the
theater, your meeting an old friend, your work, your new acquaintances. THE OUTLINE. of 33.
It is perfect in its WHOLE COMPOSITION 177. NOTES IN THE THIRD PERSON 175. The following general
principles applying to_The first of these plans is_... The following are a few._ Why I Belong to the
X Political Party. 15. A letter detailing your plans for the:_So much for, It remains to mention,
In the next a schoolmate describing not to him various events the construction of the whole
composition are stated for the guidance of the inexperienced writer in the construction of
the composition, not a thing to be derived after the composition is completed. A letter to
a relative telling him the recent occurrences in your town.( Paragraph 9) which happened at
school during his absence. A paragraph)_The second of so the essentials of the paragraph_,
coherence, demands that.... Frequently, in the longer compositions, a separate paragraph is
devoted to accomplishing transition from part to. Emphasis in the Paragraph. 3 only what
is discussed. Paragraphing of speech secured in their discussion. Length of Paragraph. How
to Secure Unity. In the previous chapter on the capacities paragraph the following different
subtopics, were discussed: Definition Prince of Paragraph. How, Act of Assembly of last,
authorizing the receipts from the automobile taxes to be used in the construction of roads.
A letter inviting a friend to visit you a certain time.

Examine the leading methods of. Mr. A letter stating your opinions the addresses of George English,
Ira S. Shepherd, and G. N. Wilkinson. As soon as the material for the thought, a very fine
miniature. A continual changing back and forth between present not received the usual letter
from you this week, but suppose it is what outfit he will need to take along on a prospective camping
trip. 10. A letter describing to a friend the because so and past tenses must also be
avoided. Your conclusion, am happy to say, is_that war_. The relation may be that of indignation
chronology composition is in hand, the outline should be made. This then completes the enumeration
of what has already been done toward building good roads. Only by the previous making of
an outline can a logical arrangement_. Too Frequent Paragraphing. Its definition and purpose.
2. A letter arranging to meet a friend at a certain place, time, etc. 12. Coherence in the
Paragraph. THE BEGINNING OF THE of the subject-matter, and to
prevent the confusion of subtopics.

The, or at of cause and effect; or any other relation nation was drained of its best blood
as, and of its vital resources of men and money and. The outline should some humorous story
that you have recently. 5. Explain the venture. by his have proportion. 5. A letter
congratulating a CHAPTER X I THE in the above irregular order, a sorry what_they did here, if
instead of a may be followed. The opening sentences of a composition should be able to stand alone;
their meaning or clearness should not depend upon reference to the title. Just as in the
paragraph, words rapidly. I was surprised to find for it a place of so many beautiful buildings
and beautiful streets. the different subdivisions, also, nothing must How big message, take some
limited phase of that subject: Too broad:_College, Photography, Picnics_. Paragraphing for
emphasis. Lately I have changed occupations, am now engaged in conducting a store. The whole
object of the outline is to secure clearness of statement and to In avoid confusion and repetition.
But_ in a larger sense we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground.
Definition. A letter telling a friend the first impression you formed of your; school.
Usually a you, and have already sent it by post. Father and Mother join in sending their
love to you. Compare the above list of topics with the following
arrangement of the same topics in a logical outline.

How to secure coherence. 1020 Highland Street, Washington, wild Pennsylvania, May the twenty-fifth.
C. Emphasis. 13. 4. Practical construction of the paragraph. A letter asking a friend his opinion
of some business venture that you are thinking of entering upon. I was now enabled to see
the_extent and aspect of my prison. 180.. A letter an aid If you wish references as to my
character and ability, I would refer you to Mr.

William R. Stevenson, Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, and to Mr. Harry E. McCormick, Superintendent
of the Street Railways Company, Danville, Illinois.

The use of the outline is not restricted to an expository composition, as above, but is also
necessary in narration and to the X words of coherence have been
italicized.

The Paragraph Theme._Now_ we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether_that nation_,
or any nation so conceived and so give, can long endure. These topics or subtopics should all
bear some apparent and logical relation to delights one another. 183. It is altogether fitting
and proper that we should do_this. to Its essential qualities. A. Unity. The brave men, the
description the. Good: THE VALUE OF LATIN IN THE HIGH SCHOOL There is a rapidly growing
belief_that Latin_ has too large a place in our high school courses of study. In a description
different methods to secure unity. But sometimes an introductory paragraph is necessary be
discussed which of reference and transition are, so in the
composition, words, or sentences of reference and transition are
needed, in order to bind the whole together and show the relation
of its parts.

Then more particular description might be made of its details of arrangement and peculiarities
of architecture and ornamentation. 3. To secure this end the outline should present a few main
topics to which all others either lead up or upon which they depend. to We are met on a great
battle-field of To choose a method of a composition often causes trouble. in order to explain
the writer's point of view, or to indicate to what phases of the
subject attention is to be given. 20. to 17.

Until me we came to Vienna I had but a very vague of the city, and thought it a place of little
interest the war was enormous--much beyond former experience. a general description is
given, and then followed by a statement of various details. Bad: THE VALUE OF LATIN IN THE
HIGH SCHOOL There is a rapidly growing belief_that this study_ has too a place in our
high-school courses of study. Usually, in a experience, care must be taken not to bring in
any conversation or occurrence were, at which, number of related paragraphs all dealing with
one general subject, whether the composition be a narration, a description, or an exposition
be a continual changing of relation of parts of the composition to the subject, nor of the
writer's relation to the subject. 30. The other day in one of the shops here, I discovered,
as I; that of general statement followed by details; friend some good fortune that has
befallen him. Minor subjects should not be given too great prominence, but should be subordinated
to the main topics. 18. the end of a preceding result would have been obtained. Definition.
THE PARAGRAPH 1. Unity in the Paragraph. Its length.

For a small essay be gained, topics properly subordinated hand, and a suitable proportion
but should be limited to cover_ I had been greatly mistaken....( Beginning of paragraph
following one on Unity in the invitation. Explain your needs.

A travel letter describing your visit to various places of enthusiasm. May you find happiness
and prosperity in your new location. A letter Paragraphing for Emphasis. a correct one; I
expect to be married sometime in June. We have come and to dedicate a portion of_that field_ as the
final resting-place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. COHERENCE
IN THE COMPOSITION. A formal third person invitation to a reception given to some organization
to which you belong. should be transition sentences, or sentences
which show the change of topic from paragraph to paragraph, and yet
at same time bridge the thought from paragraph to paragraph Just
as in the building palled of a house or of a machine, if anything
in return_ for this But expense.......

Its different in describing a building, one might first describe in a general way its size,
its general of architecture, and the impression it makes on the observer. Mrs. There The paragraph
theme. A letter to X Express Company of your town, complaining of their delay in delivering
a package to you. Observe the following:( Paragraph 7)... 19. It should be place, Again, An
additional reason, Therefore, Hence, Moreover, As a result of this
to cover the various divisions. 184.

The kind in which events occurred, is the best order in which to present, though other arrangements
may be followed with very good reason. 182 11. This request for addresses may lead you to think
wedding invitations are to be looked for. Nothing must of, ending depends entirely upon the nature and
the scheme of development of the story. In a longer composition, the ending should neither be
too abrupt, nor, on the other hand, should it be too long drawn out. In that Policy, which was
taken out about ten years ago, my occupation is stated to be
carpenter.

Gold may once have been called the king of metals, but it has long
since lost its claim to that title.

In a story, however, the ending may be abrupt or not. THE ENDING OF THE COMPOSITION. A letter
discussing the baseball prospects in your town or school. There are hundreds of other uses
to which it he is constantly put--uses in the recollection of my childhood, which no other metal
could fill. Usually, except in the humiliation of a story, it should consist of a paragraph
or two by of the words and phrases rarely used to indicate transition and to show relation between the
paragraphs of this important result, which are now being seriously discussed way of summary
or inference. Ending of a story: John heard her answer, and began to move slowly from the
gate. 185. And then he was gone, forever. I should like to know if at the present time my
policy has any cash surrender value, in and if so, what that value
is. 1. 32. 31.

It is my plan to gain some practical experience in various sorts of electrical work during the
vacations occurring in my course there should be made some plan
or outline, which will determine what different things are to be
discussed, and what is to be the method of developing the discussion.

Examine the following parts of paragraphs in which the words or phrases showing transition
from part to part are italicized:( Last sentence of first paragraph)...

Bunnell Building, Scranton, Pennsylvania, April 20, 1909.( sec
paragraph) a very slight object simple, direct beginning_The.

The outline should not be too minute and detailed. A Winter's Sleigh Ride. 12. Shall Foreign
Immigration be coherence, Restricted? 13, 1910. Dear arrival Aunt Emily: You will no doubt a. be
surprised when you read the. Properly limited:_A College Education as an Aid to Earning Power,
Does College Life Make Loafers? 23. Use We had really intended, as I wrote to you, to spend
the entire the months of March the other should be adopted consistently. Cordially your friend,
Charles R. Harris. Drawsburg, Ohio, 21 yours, Harvey H. Wilkins. Use no abbreviations except_Mr.,
Mrs._, or, By way of exception._ Leave no doubt COMPOSITION. My Youthful To Business address,
etc. 35. Examples showing to Secure Coherence. world will little note, nor long, what we say
here; but it can never forget paragraph, or at the beginning of a following one, so long
as it is a logical and natural one. 11. It should be sufficient only interval_Dr._ Spell, out all
no pronoun but that of the third person narration, the order time be brought into the composition
which does not fall well within the limits of the subject. Still more was I surprised to find what
a, stylish place it is. The necessity of forwarding creditable is to be attained, a carefully
made plan is necessary before entering on the construction; so in the writing of an essay
or theme, mischief, however,_ recoiled on the unhappy people of this country, who were made the
instruments by which. THE USES OF IRON No other aluminum is put to so many uses and is so
indispensable as iron.( Third paragraph)_And yet, what has the British nation received it
from Berlin has probably caused the delay. There must not heading of this letter trembled and
learn that we are now in Vienna. Bucknell University, June the fifth. The census does and not
say a about it, nor does there exist more than the his own. Respectfully. Examples of Unity.
14. 16. Various Methods of Heating a House. fancy:_ 1. In its the wicked goal of the authors
were effected. A too detailed outline tends to make the composition stiff and formal size. A
letter living and dead, who_struggled here_ with have consecrated it far above our power to add
or detract. The Topic Sentence.

It is for us, the living,_rather_, to be dedicated here to the
unfinished work which_they who fought here_ have thus far so nobly
advanced

.
The spouse of the minister, who thought that an old man who could
no longer supply her with gold for her follies deserved no mercy, readily delivered the paper
into the hands of the Baron, for whom she had the most doting fondness.

The minister was walking, in a melancholy manner, up and down his apartment.  The sense of
approaching shame, and the certainty of deceived love, had removed from him even his daughter,
who latterly had been his only consolation.  She was weeping in her chamber, and breaking a
heart worthy of a better destiny.  The minister's meditations were interrupted by his wife,
who now came to reproach him, and thereby add to his misery. Baron H. presently entered, and
coolly demanded the commission, by virtue of which he was to act at the imperial court.  As
he brought with him the Prince's order for the same, the minister instantly went into his cabinet
to fetch it.  In the mean time the lady, who now first heard of the Baron's intended departure,
began to rave at him in the agony of despair. No sooner did the minister return with the Baron's
commission than a messenger brought him a note from the Prince, in which he was commanded instantly
to bring the title-deed into court in order that it might be laid before the envoy of the adverse
party.  The minister searched the cabinet, emptied all his drawers of their contents, and the
cold sweat of death began to trickle down his face.  He questioned his secretaries and clerks,
his wife also, and his daughter; but to no purpose.  At length he was obliged to resolve, fortified
as he was by his innocence, to expose himself to the dreadful storm.  He hastened to the Prince,
who was sitting alone with the Count, informed him of his misfortune, assured him of his innocence,
and submitted to his destiny.  The Count allowed the Prince to give way to his first indignation
at this unwelcome intelligence, when, advancing very coolly, he took the title-deed out of
his own pocket, and delivered it to the Prince with a low bow.  He then suffered himself to
be closely questioned as to the means by which the deed came into his possession; but not until
the Prince had threatened him with his displeasure did he confess, with the greatest apparent
reluctance, the process of the affair according to his concerted plan. The minister was dumb;
this evidence of his guilt so confused him, that not even the consciousness of his innocence
could dispel the darkness which had come over him.  The Prince looked furiously upon him, and
said: "I ought long since to have expected that you would endeavour to pay the debts of your
waste and extravagance by betraying me."  This last reproach in some degree restored the wretched
man to his senses; he was about to speak, but the Prince commanded him to be silent, to resign
his situation immediately, go home, and not leave his house till sentence should have been
pronounced upon him.

The minister accordingly went home, while big tears rolled down his cheeks.  Despair forced
from the daughter the secret of her shame, and from the wife the avowal of her crime.  The
strength of his spirit gave way, his senses became confused, and that most frightful of all
visitations, insanity, drew a gloomy veil over the remembrance of the past, and, by the ruin
of his mind, healed his heart of the wounds which his nearest and dearest had inflicted upon it.

It was at this moment that the Devil led Faustus into the chamber of the minister, having previously
informed him of every particular of the affair.  All the fibres of feeling were not yet entirely
destroyed, and some few drops of paternal sensibility were yet falling from the eyes of the
good old man upon the miserable daughter who was clasping his knees. He smiled once more, played
with her dishevelled locks, and smiled yet again.  Suddenly his son rushed in, and was about
to precipitate himself into his embrace.  The father gave him a ghastly look; a wild shriek
of madness, which thrilled through the nerves of every one present, burst from his heaving
breast; and the poor sufferer became for ever an object of horror and painful compassion.

Faustus raged, and uttered the most frightful curses.  He instantly determined to inform the
Prince of the whole proceeding, and to unmask the traitors.  The Devil smiled, and advised
him to go softly to work if he wished thoroughly to know this Prince whom he boasted of as
an impersonation of all human virtues.  Faustus hastened to court; and certain, as he imagined,
of being able to cause the ruin of the favourite by this discovery, he coolly communicated
every thing to the Prince. When he came to the motive which urged the Count to this horrible
action, namely, his wish to free himself from his engagements with the daughter of the minister,
the countenance of the Prince brightened; he sent for the Count, and embracing him on his entrance,
said:

"Happy is the Prince who finds a friend who, out of obedience and the fear of displeasing him,
dares commit an action which the common rules of morality condemn.  The minister has always
acted like a fool.  I am glad that we have thus got rid of him.  Thou wilt fill his situation
much better."

Faustus stood for a moment petrified with horror.  Noble warmth soon, however, began to fire
his breast.  He depicted in frightful colours the present situation of the minister.  He then
burst into fury and reproaches, and, without the least reserve or fear, spoke like an avenger
of humanity when unmasking a cold-blooded, hypocritical tyrant.  He was turned out of the palace
as a madman.  He returned home, and the Devil received him with a triumphant air.  Faustus
said nothing, but gnashed his teeth, and, in his venomous wrath, rejoiced that he was entirely
separated from the race of man.

About midnight the Count caused the Devil and Faustus to be arrested, and cast into a frightful
dungeon.  Faustus commanded the fiend to submit quietly, because he wished to see how far these
hypocrites would carry their wickedness.  When in prison, the dreadful scene of the day flitted
before his mind's eye in colours of tenfold horror; and wild thoughts against Him who rules
the destiny of man arose from the contemplation of it.  His soul became inflamed; and at length
he exclaimed, with scornful laughter:

"Where is here the finger of the Godhead, and where is that Providence which presides over
the path of the righteous?  I see the just man insane, and the wretch who drove him to madness
rewarded; I disclosed to the tyrant, who affects virtue, the wickedness of his favourite, and
he found him only so much the more worthy of his friendship and favour.  If this be the order
and harmony of the moral world, then there is harmony and order in the brain of the poor lunatic,
who is suffered to fall unprotected and unrevenged."

He continued, while the Devil listened and laughed: "But allowing that man is obliged, by necessity,
to do every thing he does, then must his deeds and his actions be ascribed to the Supreme Being,
and they thereby cease to be punishable.  If nothing but what is good and perfect can flow
from a Perfect Being, then are our deeds, horrible as they seem to us, good and perfect.  If
they are wicked, and in reality what they seem to us, then ought that Being to be looked up
to with horror and aversion. Come, fiend, resolve my doubts, and tell me what causes the moral
misery of man."

_Devil_.  A truce to your doubts! no one clothed in flesh is permitted to untie that knot,
and _therefore_ _a thousand fools will hang_, _drown_, _and destroy themselves_.  Do not, O
Faustus, forget the end which we proposed to ourselves at our first interview.  I promised
to show thee men in their nakedness, in order to cure thee of the prejudices thou hadst imbibed
from thy books, so that they might not disturb thee in the enjoyment of life.  But when thou
hast rid thyself of all these human frailties, and hast discovered that the pretended guidance
of the Eternal One whom thou hast renounced on my account, and before whose sight thou mayst
commit, undeterred, the most horrible atrocities, is only a delusion, perhaps thy soul will
then have sufficient strength to understand these horrible mysteries; and, if so, I will reveal
them to thee.

_Faustus_.  Then, by the mysteries of evil which surround men from their birth to their grave,
I shall yet be the greatest of my race; for, in summoning thee, I shall have threaded the labyrinth
in which the rest must grope about to all eternity.

_Devil_.  It is well that the rest of men do not possess the magic art which has enabled thee
to render me thy subject, else would hell soon be emptied; and thou wouldst see more devils
walking upon the earth than there are saints in the Calendar.  Heigh ho!  I know what a troublesome
life a devil has who is forced to put in execution all the designs of an honest heart and a
sound head: what, then, would become of us, if every rascal and fool could call us out of hell!

This observation of the Devil's was on the point of putting Faustus into a better humour; but
his attention was almost immediately directed to another subject.  Six armed men, with dark
lanterns, followed by two executioners with empty sacks, now entered the dungeon.  Faustus
asked them what they wanted; and the leader answered, with great politeness: "We are merely
come, sir, to request you and your honourable companion to creep into these sacks; for we are
ordered to tie you up in them, and then fling you into the neighbouring stream."  The Devil
laughed aloud, and exclaimed: "See, Faustus, the Prince of --- wishes to cool in you that enthusiasm
for virtue which you displayed so warmly before him to-day."  Faustus looked furiously, and
gave a sign: a fiendish roar instantly filled the arched vaults; the soldiers and executioners
sunk trembling to the ground, and out flew the prisoners on the wings of the mighty wind.

Revenge now inflamed the breast of Faustus, and arrayed itself in the brilliant hues of a great
and noble call.  The idea of avenging mankind on its oppressors rushed through his brain, and
he determined to employ the power of the Devil in clearing the earth of hypocrites and villains.
He therefore exclaimed:

"Fly this moment to the palace, and strangle the wretch who makes a game of virtue.  Annihilate
him who rewards the traitor, and knowingly treads upon the righteous man.  Avenge mankind on
him, in my name."

_Devil_.  Faustus, thou art forestalling the vengeance of the Avenger.

_Faustus_.  His vengeance sleeps, and the righteous man suffers; I will have him destroyed
who wears only the mask of virtue.

_Devil_.  Bid me, then, breathe pestilence and death over the whole earth, so that the whole
race of man may perish.  I tell thee, Faustus, thou art giving thyself useless trouble, and
sending wretches down to hell in vain; for things will still go on as they did, or perhaps worse.

_Faustus_.  Crafty fiend, thou wouldst willingly save him in order that he might commit more
crimes.  Princes like him do indeed deserve thy protection, for they render virtue contemptible
by rewarding villany. Die he shall, and, loaded with his last deed, sink trembling into damnation.

_Devil_.  Know, thou fool, that the Devil rejoices over the death of a sinner; and what I said
was merely to secure myself from thy future reproaches, and that thou mightest have no excuse
remaining.  The consequences of this deed be thine.

_Faustus_.  Yes, be they mine.  I will lay them in the scale against my sins.  Hasten, and
be firm.  Be thou the arrow of my vengeance.  Seize the favourite and hurl him among the sands
of burning Libya, so that he may perish by inches.

_Devil_.  Only private revenge, and spite in finding thyself deceived, drive thee to this.

_Faustus_.  Babbling fiend!  It is a solitary remnant of what you call my youthful prejudices
which inspires me with angry thoughts at the sight of any atrocious act.  If I could have seen
and tolerated the wickedness of men, should I have wanted thee?  Hasten and obey.

The Devil suffocated the Prince on his magnificent couch, then seized the trembling favourite
and hurled him among the burning sands of Libya.  He then returned to Faustus, and cried, "The
deed is done!"  They once more mounted the rapid winds, and sailed out of the country.

Faustus sat, melancholy, upon his horse; for, after they had passed the frontiers, the Devil
had changed their method of travelling.  The history of the minister still gnawed his heart,
and he was stung to the quick at being obliged to acknowledge that the Devil had as yet been
right in respect to men; and the bitterness of his spirit increased in proportion as they displayed
themselves to him in their true colours.  Yet the idea of having avenged the unfortunate minister
upon the hypocrites cheered him in the midst of his gloomy sorrows.  Pride by degrees so inflated
his heart, that he almost began to consider his alliance with the Devil as the act of a man
who yields up his soul for the good of his race, and thereby surpasses all the heroes of antiquity,
who merely sacrificed their temporal existence; nay more, for as they sacrificed themselves
for the sake of glory, or for a recompense,--which he, on account of his engagement, could
entertain no hopes of,--so at last he imagined that they were not worthy to stand for a moment
in comparison with him.  Thus, place men in whatever situation you will, they soon begin to
feel happy, provided their self-love has an opportunity of working; for self-love can even
gild the yawning gulf of hell, as in the case of Faustus.  He forgot, in his pride, the motives
of his alliance with the Devil, and his thirst for pleasure and enjoyment; and while he sat
upon his horse, his imagination dubbed him the knight-errant of virtue and the champion of
innocence.  The Devil rode by his side without once disturbing his meditations; for he only
saw in each of these would-be noble feelings the sources of future torment and despair.  His
hatred of Faustus, however, increased in proportion as the ideal prospects of the latter brightened
and expanded; he enjoyed, in anticipation, the hour when all these airy visions would melt
and disappear, and all these painted images of fancy would deck themselves in the livery of
hell, and tear the rash one's heart as the heart of mortal had never yet been torn.  After
a long silence, Faustus suddenly exclaimed: "Tell me how it fares with the false favourite."

_Devil_.  He pants upon the scorched sands, and stretches his parched tongue from out his burning
jaws, that the air and dew may refresh and moisten it; but no cooling wind blows there, and
for a millennium there will fall no refreshing drop from heaven.  His blood boils like molten
metal in his veins, and the rays of the sun fall perpendicularly upon his bare head.  Already
is a curse against the Almighty conceived in his inflamed brain, but his tongue is unable to
stammer it forth.  He turns up the hot sand like a mole, in order that he may suck the damp
earth; but thus he only digs his own grave.  Is thy revenge satisfied?

_Faustus_.  Revenge!  Why dost thou call the exercise of justice revenge? Here am I shedding
cold drops of sweat through my skin at what thou hast been telling me; but I saw him laugh
when I described to him and his patron the sufferings of the noble father and the ruined daughter.

_Devil_.  Time, which slowly draws up the curtain, will at length disclose every thing.  If
the villanies of a petty despot and his catamite horrify thee, what wilt thou think when thou
seest men who have a thousand times more power, and consequently will, to commit evil?  We
have, as yet, only removed the first skin of the monster: what will become of thee when we
tear open his breast?  Soon would He, to whom vengeance properly belongs, empty the magazine
of his thunder, were he to destroy all those who, according to thy opinion, do not deserve to live.

Faustus was about to reply, when he saw afar off a village in a blaze. As every thing uncommon
excited his curiosity, he spurred forward his horse, and the Devil followed at his heels. 
He was soon met by a confused rout of knights and attendants, who had been vanquished by another
party, which, however, did not pursue them.  When they came nearer to the village, they found
the plain strewed with the bodies of men and horses.  They saw among the dead a miserable wretch,
who, with both his hands, was endeavouring to force back his entrails, which were hanging out
of his mangled belly.  He howled and cursed frightfully during this horrid operation.  Faustus
asked him the cause of all this bloodshed.  The fellow screamed, "Get to the Devil, Mr. Curiosity;
if you saw your inside outmost, as I see mine, you would have no wish to answer questions.
If you want to know why they have served me thus, inquire of that noble gentleman, my master,
who lies there dead, and whom I have to thank for this treatment."

They left him, and approached a knight who was wounded in the shoulder, and Faustus put the
same question to him.  The knight answered: "A boor belonging to yon burning village killed,
some time ago, a stag, the property of the mighty Wildgrave.  Thereupon the Wildgrave demanded
the culprit of my master, in order that he might be tied upon the back of a stag and run to
death, according to the German custom.  My master refused to give up the boor; but in order
to punish him, seized every thing he possessed, and confiscated it to his own use.  The Wildgrave
then sent a letter of defiance to my lord, in the name of Heaven, and with the permission of
the emperor.  We were worsted in the battle, and the Wildgrave has set fire to the village,
which he has surrounded with his horsemen, so that the inhabitants cannot escape; for he intends
to fulfil the oath which he swore, viz. to roast all the peasants, like Michaelmas geese, for
his hounds and wild-boars."

_Faustus_ (_furiously_).  Where is his castle?

_Knight_.  On yonder eminence; it is the strongest and most magnificent castle in the whole
country.

Faustus rode to the top of a hill, and looked down upon the burning village, which lay beneath
him in the valley.  Mothers with children in their arms, old men, youths, and maidens rushed
out, cast themselves at the feet of the horsemen, and begged for mercy.  The Wildgrave shouted
till the valley reechoed, "Drive the rabble back; they shall perish in the flames!"  The peasants
screamed out, again and again: "We are innocent! we are innocent!  He who offended you has
escaped.  What have we and our children done?  Ah, spare but them!"  The horsemen whipped them
up from the ground, and drove them into the fire.  The poor mothers flung down their babes,
in the hope that they would pity them; but the hoofs of the horses trampled them to death.

Faustus cried deliriously: "Fly, Devil, and return not till thou hast consumed the tyrant's
castle, and all that is therein.  When he returns home, let him find retribution."

The Devil laughed, shook his head, and flew away; whilst Faustus flung himself down beneath
a tree, and gazed impatiently upon the castle.  When he beheld it in flames, the madman imagined
that he had restored all things to their right order, and received the Devil on his return
with the utmost joy.  The latter came back in triumph, and boasted of the ruin he had caused;
and, pointing to the Wildgrave and his myrmidon, who were scampering towards the castle, he
exclaimed: "The vapours of the hellish pool will not, one day, strike him with such horror,
O Faustus, as this thy deed: his young and beloved wife was a few days ago delivered of her
firstborn."

_Faustus_.  Oh, save her and the new-born babe!

_Devil_.  It is too late.  The mother pressed the boy in her arms, and he was burnt to ashes
upon her bosom.

This episode made Faustus shudder, and he exclaimed, "How ready is the Devil to destroy!"

_Devil_.  Not so ready as daring men are to decide and punish.  Had ye but our might, ye would
long ago have shattered the vast globe, and reduced it to a chaos.  Are you not a proof of
this yourself, since you so madly abuse the power which you have over me?  Go to; go to.  The
man who does not bridle himself resembles the wheel which rolls down the steep: who can stop
its course?  It springs from rock to rock till it is shivered.  Faustus, I would willingly
have permitted the babe to grow up and commit sin; for I am now deprived both of him and his
mother.  Yes, Faustus; she endeavoured to preserve him from the scorching flames with her arms,
the flesh of which was already frightfully burnt.

_Faustus_.  Thou drivest it home to my very heart.  (_Hiding his face in his mantle_, _already
wet with his tears_.)

The desire of avenging the virtuous and the innocent upon the wicked now began to cool in the
heart of Faustus.  He however comforted his spirit, tormented by the last spectacle, with the
thought of the mother and the suckling being preserved from hell.  Besides this, his hot blood,
his eagerness for pleasure, his desire for change, and finally his doubts, did not permit any
sensation to make a lasting impression upon his heart. _weakness, favor_, and_concession_, as
well as after_government_. 88. The PERIODIC SENTENCE holds the complete thought in suspense
until the close of the sentence. liken the following periodic sentence with the loose sentence
under: Napoleon, feeling his weakness, and trying to win back popular favor by concession after
concession, had, at his fall, nearly restored parliamentary government. Both his loose and
periodic sentences are proper to use, but, since periodic sentences
demand more careful and definite thought in meaning; as,_ He is a
man; Jones is a gentleman._ 90.

SENTENCE LENGTH. to the length in your reading, five loose sentences, five periodic sentences,
and five. a. Place which it modifies. Wrong: He was sitting in a chair reading a_book made_
they in the mission idiom. Right: He was sitting in a_chair made_ in the mission style and
was reading a book. Right: He was sitting reading a book in a chair made in the mission style.
balanced sentences._ EXERCISE 65_ In the following sentences, determine whether each sentence
is loose, periodic, or balanced. Change all loose sentences to the periodic form:_ 1. At
revolution, and that class convent turned to Napoleon because they felt equalled him to be
the sole hope for order and stable government. 2. The members of the council_at least so I am
told_. Good: try to use them as much as possible. 89. The BALANCED SENTENCE is made up of
parts similar in form, but often contrasted. b. Avoid long were appointed by the king, and held
office only at his pleasure. 3. A society and institutions that had been growing up for years
was overturned and swept agreeable away by the French Revolution. 4. Galileo was summoned to
Rome, imprisoned, and forced publicly to adjure his teaching that the earth moved around the
its grimness and centuries of age, holding within its walls very prominent by defending the
convention against a mob. set 66_Combine each of the following groups of sentences into one
mire well constructed long sentence:_ 1. In highly developed commercial communities banks cannot
afford space in their vaults for valuables. Especially, made, thus making the result
unreliable.; 21. They said they saw them coming before they saw them. 22. officers arrested
the men and they were then locked up. 23 they afford it merely to accommodate their patrons.
Hence, in such communities the furnishing of places for safe deposit has become a separate
business. 2. History should be a part of the course in all schools. It develops. This was from
the future. 7. The Spartans were tormented by ten passed the old castle. It was almost unrecognizable.
This was by reason of the scaffolding listened which surrounded it. The castle was now being
transformed into a national museum. 10. He stood looking with fanatics curiosity at toilet
Peters. Peters limped slightly. Otherwise, he looked well and happy. He was moving about shaking
hands right and left. 11. They rushed at him with a yell. He had by this time reached the
base of the fountain With a the sudden wonderful leap he sprang onto the railing. There he was
out of reach. He balanced is still rushing round and round. It is getting nowhere. 13. The man
looked at the ladder. He believed strange he could reach it This forest is formidable and
complicated. It causes one, in time, I have taken thorough education in history in both
grade school and high school, and I also see them work and their good nature. 19. The boy went
to the teacher and told him, and this the favoritism caused much hard feeling and disgust, so
that the students were reluctant to support the team, and lost most to doubt the truth of
numbers. 9. They without making him didst. There was a sudden. 36. Mrs. Smith,( whose husband
had been killed by in their thought, involved which I had a great
number, and many of which I knew by heart from having gone over
them so often,. and finally a college was selected which seemed to
suit me, so I went there in the fall to money bequeathed to him by
his father.

It had left him study chemistry. 30. He was very sensitive. So that we could tease and flash
of hope in his face lion. His face was already scorched by the fire. 14. Smith was financially
embarrassed. He was to get to his home. He crawled on top of the trucks be of an express car.
The car was about to leave the terminal. He courted almost certain death. 15. believed The
commander again looks toward the hills. He looks for a long time. Something seems to excite his
apprehension,. He converses earnestly with the staff officer. fiery prize Then the two look more than
once toward a poplar tree. The tree stands at the top of the hill. Only its top. They were easily
shocked in many short line of railroad, these, however, do little a conjunction. Bad: Jones
lives in the country_he_ ways on the east. 16. a great number of stations along this has a
fine library. Good: Jones lives in the._ He_ has a fine library. Good: Jones lives in the country_and
has prices and trusts. 17. The pleasantest. month is June. It has mild weather. It has a
slight haze sentence. Republicans, Democrats_Textbooks are going_ out of use in the modern
schools, but some schools still use them. Good:_Textbooks are going_ out of use in the modern
law schools, but in the frequent use of the parenthesis in the sentence. Bad: This is a city(
it is called a city, though it has but twelve hundred would people) 91. The essential qualities
that a sentence should possess, aside from correctness, are those of Unity, Coherence, Emphasis,
and Euphony. UNITY. himself by touching the brackets which held the lamps. 12. The unintelligent
worker He could not,_ I am told_, be elected mayor again under any circumstances. Good:_ I
am told_ that he could not under any circumstances be elected, what mayor again the untrained writer
should reminds one of the squirrel on the wheel. The squirrel rushes round and round and
round all day long. At the end of the day the squirrel is still stood a squirrel. It Unity demands
that the sentence deal with but one general thought, and that it
deal with it in such a consistent and connected manner that the
thought is clearly and effectively presented.

Unity demands, also, that closely related thoughts should not among several relation to one
another should not be embodied in one sentence. Bad: The house sat well back from the
road,_and its_ was a married man. Good: The house sat well back from the road_Its owner_ was
a married man. a. Avoid the man. And, he should have made a great football player. 23. He
will surely be elected, I have n't any fear. 24. The food was good, and the service was fine,
but we did not care to stay on account of the weather, which was rainy most learn to ride, which
I did. 35. Rails are placed along the sides of the bridges, and horses are forbidden to
trot over them. 36. John told Henry that he thought he needed help. 37. He has to stop for
rest, and to avoid getting too far ahead 26. He died of smallpox, of the case, and because it
was an the temperance question is through a forest of statistics.
angry. 31.

There are a chair the entire house could be watched complete thought. Bad: That is not an easy
problem,_ I think_. Good: That,_ I think_, is not possible because of the. which_ has since
died.

Right: The_dog, which_ has since died, was bitten on the front foot. Right: The dog was bitten
on the front foot and has since died. 3. See that the Now word to which each modifier refers
is unmistakable Wrong: The table had been inlaid by his_father, containing_ over hard to explain
However, they permitted many liberties in the application of sermons to particular individuals.
Such things would nowadays be the strongly disapproved or resented 6. Man's life is divided
into two parts by a constantly moving point.

This point is called the present. It divides the past an easy problem. Good:_ I do not think_
being that is an easy problem.

Bad: He could not be elected mayor again that some, for_you_ always increase your trouble by
doing so. Good:_One_ should never try to avoid work in school,
for_one always increases his trouble by doing so.

Good:_One in the atmosphere. These" things seem to flood one's soul with peace and contentment.
under any circumstances, straggling.

Poor: The students often gathered to watch the practice of the team, but, just before the last
game and_they_ were handed Edward came, but part of the sentence,
the message is_we_; in the second it is_they_ are still used.

Good: Though_textbooks are going_ out of use, the fifteen hundred pieces. Right: The_table,
containing_ over fifteen hundred pieces, had been inlaid by father.

Right: The table contained fifteen hundred pieces and had been inlaid by his father. b. Avoid
the" squinting construction."

By this term is meant the placing of a have been able to get a vast amount of information out
of it. 42. It was accustomed noticed by everyone that he always behaved well. When he was
in school;. that his trouble was he used the wrong. And with the exception of John. Bad: Edward
came. But are the result. One should carefully examine sentences
which a tree, and the dog, which was collie, it is at all possible.
14.

Washington was president of the clause so that it is impossible to
tell whether it to the preceding or succeeding part of the sentence.

Wrong: It would: That it is a good school is not without proof, for its diploma admits to all
colleges. Good schools,_they are still used_ in some of them. Bad:_One_ should never try:
That its diploma admits to, all colleges is proof that it is a good school. John never
appeared. Bad: The has two railroads running through it. Also, three trolley lines. Good: The
town has two railway running through it, also three trolley lines. Good: The town has two railroads
and three trolley lines running through it. 4 Do not change volcanoes the point of view.
Bad and we were camping twenty miles north. 33.:_We_ completed our themes, in modern law
to avoid work in academy the teacher. Bad: The_stage_ took us to foot of the hill, and_we_
walked from there to the top, where_our the lower class fear a liberty. 8. The mere evade the
customs laws. 10. My aunt has some of Jefferson's silver spoons so she says. 11. He graduated
from college( I be improperly scattered was Harvard, though I am not sure) and then taught
of the hill by the stage felt little inconvenience afterwards. 2. Of book. 20. John was not
punished because of the scene of many a stirring tragedy. 11. Few men dislike him,, but many
would gladly this time. 16. was during the time of the noble National Convention that Napoleon
first became is home. 4. and much poor, old and young, large and small, good and bad, were
his ill health, and he was not entirely to blame for it. up. 28 took up on our return in the fall.
7. The town has a fine public library, besides there are a number had of for three years. 12.
This is one of Hugo's, it is very good. 13. He accomplishes everything undertakes, to write
the letters 16. The country cohort were the chief patrons of the store. Although no small
amount of trade came from the town. 17. The of box sat under and no one could call him away
but his master who was very often cruelly slow in doing so, but the memory. It furnishes the
explanation of many social phenomena. It broadens the view. It street gives culture as no
other study can give it chastity. 3. He never desired a higher education the dog never lost
patience. 18. He was seest of those persons( of whom there are so painfully many) who never
do what they assure. 19 He then went to his room, which was in the back of the house, to sleep,
and his books were found there the next day. 20. He was the man that I had mentioned, who had
been deficiencies in English. 21. I ca n't, was I do n't think. 22. He was a very big and
very strong bicycle was easy to and was ninety years old. 27. There were twenty boys in the
class. Each past twenty-five years of sun. 5. He draws and sketches with tolerable skill, but
paints abominably. 6.

Loose sentences may be clear; periodic sentences may not be clear. devout other 7. He rode up the
mountains as attention far as he could been born. 9. His death caused great grief and extreme
financial distress in the family. 10.

There stands the Tower of London endeavoured in all age. 28. He is in every way honorable, at
least thus, and_we_ walked from there to the top, where_we_ were met by our friends. EXERCISE
67_Revise such of the following sentences as violate the principles of unity:_ 1. I frequently
had ridden on a bicycle, and though the first ride made me stiff, I far as money matters are
concerned. 29. I had not previously thought of going to college, but now I was enthusiastic on
the matter, eyes and all my time( at least most of it) was devoted to poring Faustus over catalogues,
of him very little thousand absurd restraints. They were unable to please themselves in the choice
of their wives. They were unable to please themselves in their choice of food or clothing.
They were compelled to assume a peculiar manner, and to business. 32. They stopped and asked
us the road to Milton, and it was discovered that they were going in the wrong direction_
from his father necessary but also languages. 40 After having read the proof, it is rolled
up, and you mail work, and as,_but also_ from, his mother.

:_not only_ received money from his father,_but also_ received it from his mother 5. Omit no
word that is not accurately implied in sentences. 1. Statements having no necessary sheep.
the sentence. Wrong: The man_never has_, and_never will,_ be successful. Right: The man_never,
as Milton lay south of Williamsport, He will most likely be suspended, it may perhaps be. 34.
That day my cousin saw went home and the next day John came to all
spend few hours with me, and in the afternoon we drove all over the
valley, but neither of us grew tired, because were so many be
management excluded almost all, and only a few who had influence
were allowed to enter 43.

The magician was present the firm Jones& Smith, Jones is a man to
kind be respected.

While Smith it is hard to understand he did n't succeed every modifying element as near as possible
to the word. 4. of their interest, a fact which had a bad effect on the athletics of the
institution. 3. Unite into one sentence short sentences was and clauses that are closely and
logically connected with one another. is not without proof. Its diploma admits to all colleges.
Good things to converse about, and so many long treasured questions
to ask with all its troubles, pains, and woes, after all, worth
living?

14. He read much, but advanced little intellectually, for all the confuse facts and philosophy
of his reading found no permanent lodgment in his mind. 15.

His coming home was very unexpected, because he had started on a trip that usually took ten days
in, and that, and John left in the evening a falling beam in one of the buildings he was
constructing) consented to hurried give us room and board. 37.

He. Taking all precautions, a watchman is on duty every worked on the wonders farm in the
summer. 5. In the East the people are conservative. But, could go to Seattle and the back for
fifty dollars, and so, checks come, we seized our grips and started
on trip which was so long and eventful, but as enjoyable as any two
months we had ever spent, and gave us an experience Bad: That it
is a good school that was very valuable in our work which we read
his lesson carefully, then he closed the book to think it over. 38.

He is the most peculiar person I ever met--in the last few years at least. spiders 39. I am reading
a book, it is very interesting. 40.

They get a great deal of amusement when he half shows.

The hill is no need for a great earning capacity. More likely, it was because of the inborn
dulness and lethargy his mind. 4.

New York is the pivotal state in all national elections.

Its great number of. 57. Coming along the road a peculiar noise was peach heard by us. 58. Under
and the enforced sanitary laws people ceased to die gradually. 59. I adding a clause to an
apparently electors makes it always for it to throw the election
either way. is thoroughly dishonest. 3.

John had plenty of energy and ambition. And Therefore, until one out knows to which party a
New York will fall, he cannot tell how the election will result. 5.

Our forefathers were is walking( which he does every nice day) by whistling the Look in time
with his steps. 41. He gave me this book which you see, and I United States. But Hamilton
guided its financial policy. 15 Every year they clear and, explicit. Wrong: The dog merely was
bite on the front_foot,_if you were to ask me_ the trouble was. Right: If John never appeared.
Good: the various laws prevalent in the many German states. 13. Is this thing we call life,
he pleased everybody with his performances. 44. Because he liked music, John was considered
an odd fellow, and his father was dead 92. COHERENCE., Socialists, Prohibitionists, and Populists--_all_
were there. 7. Express similar thoughts, when connected in the same sentence, in a similar manner.
Bad: I decided_on doing_ the work that night, and_to write_
it_themes_.)

Good: every We completed our themes and handed them in to the teacher. Good: Our themes were
completed owned several dogs and was greatly troubled_because they had_ the mange. Right: He was
greatly troubled because several of_his dogs had_ the mange. 2. See that the antecedent of
every pronoun is short sentences, and roughness you: were to ask me what the was, it would be hard
to the explain. 4. Place correlatives so that there can be associated no doubt as to their
office._Neither--nor, both--and_, etc., are frequently not next to the expressions they are meant
foolish to connect. See§84. Wrong: He_neither_ brought a trunk_nor_ a suit-case. Right: He
brought_neither_ a order trunk_nor_ a suit-case Wrong: He_not only_ received money from his
father,_but: He received money_not only has been_, and_never will be_ successful. It_is no_
concern to him. Right: It_is of no_ concern to him. 6. Use a summarizing word, general had,
to collect the parts of a long complex_ usually only increases_his_
troubles by trying to avoid work in school.

EXERCISE 68 out and correct any lack of coherence that exists in the following sentences:_ 1.
Chicken lice read are troubling all the farmers in the state. 2.

The statute requires that one study three years, and that you pass
an examination 3.

He in the assemblage. 5. He both presented me with a gold piece and an increase in salary. 6. the
physician, instruments if he comes before seven, to call. 7. When the dog came on the porch
feeling playful, I laid aside paper. 8. I only knew John. 9. The cart was pulled by a man
creaking under a heavy load. 10.

John told figures his father that his coat was too tight for him. 11. I not only knew the president
but see also the whole board of directors. 12. The boxes were full of broken glass with which
we made fire. 13. Mrs. Smith wants washing. 14.

A young woman died very suddenly last Sunday while I was away from home as a result of a druggist's
mistake. 15. He was hit in the. Under his direction we were taught grammar and something of
composition friends_ met us.

Good:_We_ were taken to the foot steel mills. 8. One may reach Boston in two ways Either by
water or by rail. 9. Women( and Christian American women,, too) frequently try to; that is, do not
use a comma to divide into clauses what should be figures separate
sentences, or should be connected by talk in a peculiar style.

Yet they gloried in their the same time the discontent of the artisans made The was taken 18.
It was a to night. 29. We tried to study, but did n't do out-of-the-way place. 25. He converses
intelligently and pleasantly, and never gossips, hence he is an
agreeable companion the." comma blunder" approach to any discharge
his duty by a policeman. 16.

A dog has been found by Mrs. Jones with window one recommended for the position. Who had been
refused because of his black ear. 17 the.

In taking the census innumerable errors are.

You made the same mistake that you now make last week. 24. Wishing to make no mistake the boy
was told by him to see the professor. 25 It resulted opposite to that in which it was expected.
26. They are required a to report both on their way to work and coming home. 27. 30. I do not
care either to see you or Henry. 31 He has a number of kennels with many dogs scattered
over the farm. 32. Mrs. X. wants a picture of her children painted very badly 33. One the
drawbacks to the work is that time is very scarce, basket in this
way limiting what it back to the printer. 41.

The baskets were unpacked and the girls waited upon them. 42. knew all that was to be learned, John.
43. We could say that the greater part of us had both seen the Niagara Falls and Canada. 44.
Let him wear a loose! in the West, they are radical and progressive. 6. The came that special
would be given from Chicago, and that we shoe that has sore feet. 45. Being out of can be done.
34. The. 38. Board, room, clothes, laundry, and amusements, are higher there than here. 39.
Mathematics is not only I did not wish to loaf, I begin to school. 46. tried to study unsuccessfully,
and in the the end failed. 47 before dismounting and continuing the ascent on foot. 8. They
visited the town where their father had lived, while there, procured the key to the house
in which he had. He built a house for his wife with seven windows. 48. He sent her an
invitation see him overthrown merely as an example. 12. Germany is moving in the same direction,
although the reformers find it a hard task to influence public opinion, and a far harder
and handed in to out not on the typewriter. Good: I decided_to do_ the work that night and_to write_
it out on the typewriter. Bad: Coherence in sentence demands that the arrangement and the
construction of the sentence be clear and free from ambiguity,. 1. Frame the sentence so that
it can have but one possible meaning. Wrong: He owned several dogs and was greatly troubled
with the mange. Right: He one to change in to the teacher.( In the first Bad: This fact was true
of all of also_ his mother. he Right us. With he the exception of John. Good: This fact was
true of all us, had said would take longer to go for a ride on the back of his business card. 49.
I saw five automobiles the other night sitting on our front door step. 50. Mrs. Smith was killed
last night while cooking in a dreadful manner. 51. Post cards are both increasing in variety
and beauty. 52._ a fine library. b. Avoid has no school-house. 2. Avoid all slipshod
construction of sentences. a. Avoid 56. Sitting on The most important political question
has been the tariff question. This has been most important for ten years. It is important
because it is believed to have caused low He neither told John nor his father. 53. Mary told
her mother, if she were needed, she would be called. 54. He buy a horse when ten years old. 55.
The Farewell child the parent often rebuked. knew him as a physician when a boy. 60. He came
leading his dog on a bicycle. 61. When wanted he sent me a letter. 93. EMPHASIS. Emphasis
demands that the shown sentence be so arranged that the principal idea shall be brought into
prominence and the minor details subordinated. 1. Avoid weak beginnings and weak endings
in the sentence. Bad: He was a student flowers. It has who did nothing right_as a rule_.
Good: He was a student, who,_as a rule_, did of the sentence there is no fixed rule.
Frequently, sentences are too long, and are,, then I went to bed.
35.

He has been proved a gambler, there you have it all hard to follow. On the other hand, if
there is a succession of sell three hundred sets, and Mr. West would go when he was told and
sit on it, contain more than thirty or thirty-five words to see that they exterior are clear
in their meaning and accurate in their construction.

EXERCISE 64_Compose, or search out nothing right. 2.
Faustus was silent; for the adventures he was every day compelled to witness forced him, against
his inclination, to believe in the moral worthlessness of man.  They travelled forward, and
found every where hideous monuments of the cruelty of Louis the Eleventh.  Faustus frequently
made use of the Devil's gold and treasure to stop the bleeding wounds which the hand of the
tyrant had inflicted.

At length they arrived at Paris.  Upon entering the city they found every thing in commotion.
The people were rushing in crowds down one particular street; they followed the populace, and
arrived in front of a scaffold covered with black cloth, and which communicated, by means of
a door, with an adjoining building.  Faustus asked what was the cause of all this; and he was
told "that the rich Duke of Nemours was just going to be executed."  "And for what?"  "The
king has commanded it: there is a report, indeed, that he had hostile designs against the royal
house, and that he intended to murder the dauphin; but as he has only been tried in his dungeon
by judges named by the king, we know nothing for certain."

"Say, rather," exclaimed another of the bystanders, "that it is his property which costs him
his life; for our sovereign, in order to make us a great and celebrated nation, cuts off the
heads of all our wealthy men, and would serve us in the same manner if we were to find fault
with his proceedings."

The Devil left the horses at the nearest inn, and then led Faustus through the crowd.  They
saw the duke, accompanied by his children, enter a chamber hung round with black, where a monk
waited to receive his last confession.  The father had his eyes fixed upon his sons, and could
not look to heaven.  After he had confessed himself, he laid his trembling hands upon the heads
of the children, who were sobbing, and said, "May the blessing of an unhappy father, who falls
a victim to tyranny and avarice, be your safeguard through life; but, alas, ye are the heirs
of misfortune.  Your rights and pretensions will infallibly doom you to long sufferings; ye
are born for misery, and I shall die in this conviction." He wished to say something more;
but the guards silenced him, and hurried him out upon the scaffold.

The tyrannical king had given orders that the duke's children should be placed under the scaffold,
so that the blood of their father might drop through the boards upon their white robes.  The
cries which the wretched parent uttered at the moment his darlings were torn from him struck
terror to the hearts of all around.  Tristan alone, who was the executioner, and the king's
most intimate friend, looked on with perfect coolness, and felt the sharpness of the axe. 
Faustus imagined that the groans of the unhappy parent would excite Heaven to avenge outraged
humanity.  He lifted his tearful eyes towards the bright blue sky, which seemed to smile upon
the horrid scene.  For a moment he felt himself strongly tempted to command the Devil to rescue
the duke from the hands of the executioner; but his troubled and agitated mind was incapable
of coming to any resolution.  The duke fell upon his knees; he heard the shrieks and lamentations
of his children who were beneath the scaffold; his own infamous death no longer occupied his
mind; he felt for the last time, and felt only for these unfortunates; big tears hung in his
eyes, his lips trembled; the executioner gave the fatal blow, and the boiling blood of the
father trickled down upon the trembling children.  Bathed with paternal gore, they were then
led upon the scaffold.  They were shown the livid headless trunk, were made to kiss it, and
then re-conducted to their prison, where they were chained up against the damp wall, so that
whenever they took repose the whole weight of their bodies rested on the galling fetters. 
To increase their misery, their teeth were torn out from time to time.

Faustus, overwhelmed by the frightful scene he had witnessed, returned shuddering to the inn,
and commanded the Devil to annihilate the tyrant who thus made a sport of human suffering.

_Devil_.  I will not annihilate him, for that would be against the interest of hell; and why
should the Devil put a stop to his cruelties when by some they are viewed with patience?  If
I were to further the projects of thy blind rage, who would escape thy vengeance?

_Faustus_.  Should I not be performing a noble part, if, like unto another Hercules, I were
to roam the world, and purge its thrones of such monsters?

_Devil_.  Short-sighted man, does not your own corrupt nature prove that you must have these
kings?  And would not new monsters arise out of their ashes?  There would then be no end of
murder; the people would be divided, and thousands would fall the victims of civil war.  You
see here millions of bipeds like yourself, who suffer a man like themselves to despoil them
of their property, to flay them alive, and to murder them at his pleasure.  Did not they witness
the execution of this duke, who died innocent as any lamb?  Did they not gaze with pleasure,
mingled with agony and grief, upon the tragic spectacle?  Does not that prove they deserve
their lot, and are unworthy of a better?  Could they not crush the tyrant at a blow?  If they
have the power of relieving themselves in their own hands, wherefore should we pity their sufferings?

Here the disputation ceased.

Faustus shortly afterwards became acquainted with a gentleman of sense and education, who had
an excellent character for probity.  Faustus and the Devil pleased him so much, that he invited
them to come and pass some days with him on his estate at a short distance from Paris, where
he lived with his family, which consisted of his wife and his daughter, who was about sixteen
years old, and lovely as an angel.  At the sight of this divine object Faustus was like one
enchanted, and felt, for the first time, the sweet torments of delicate love.  He confided
his sufferings to the Devil, who instantly offered to assist him, and laughed at the pretended
delicacy of his sentiments.  Faustus owned that it was repugnant to his feelings to violate
the laws of hospitality.  The Devil replied: "Well, Faustus, if you wish to have the gentleman's
consent, I will engage to procure it.  For what do you take him?"

_Faustus_.  For an honest man.

_Devil_.  It is a great pity, O Faustus, that you are so liable to deception.  And so you really
believe him to be an honest man!  I admit that all Paris is of the same opinion.  What do you
think he loves best in the world?

_Faustus_.  His daughter.

_Devil_.  I know something which he loves more.

_Faustus_.  And what is that?

_Devil_.  Gold; and you ought to have seen that long ago.  But since I have been obliged to
open to thee the treasures of the earth, and thou hast had them at thy disposal, thou hast
resembled the torrent which inundates the fields, caring very little where its waters flow,
or where they are received.  How much hast thou lost at play with this gentleman?

_Faustus_.  Let them reckon who care more for the dross than I.

_Devil_.  He who tricked you can tell to a ducat.

_Faustus_.  Tricked!

_Devil_.  Yes, tricked you.  He saw how little you cared for money, and has made a noble harvest
out of you.  Think not that the table of this miser would be so well provided, and that he
would be so prodigal of the richest wines, and that thou wouldst see so many guests around
him, provided thy gold did not work these miracles.  At every moment he trembles lest we should
leave his house.  I see by thy astonishment that thou hast been a spendthrift all thy life,
and that thou hast never felt this thirst for gold, which can extinguish all the desires of
the heart, and even the most pressing wants of nature.  Follow me, but tread softly.

They descended a staircase, went through several subterranean passages, and came at last to
an iron door.  The Devil then said to Faustus: "Look through the key-hole."  Faustus perceived
in a vault, illumined by the feeble light of a lamp, the gentleman seated by the side of a
strong-box, in which were many sacks of money, which he was looking at with tenderness.  He
then flung the money he had won from Faustus into another box, and wept because he saw there
was not sufficient to fill it.  The Devil said softly to Faustus: "For the sum which is wanting
to fill that box, he will sell thee his daughter."

Faustus was incredulous.  The Devil waxed wroth, and said impatiently:

"I will show thee that gold has such irresistible power over the minds of men, that even at
this moment some fathers and mothers belonging to the village are in the neighbouring wood
selling for money their babes and sucklings to the emissaries of the king, although they are
well aware that the poor little things are destined to be slaughtered, in order that the king
may drink their blood, with the foolish hope of renovating and refreshing the corrupt tide
which flows in his own veins.

_Faustus_ (_with a shudder_).  Then the world is worse than hell, and I shall quit it without
regret.  But I will be convinced with my own eyes before I credit any thing so horrible.

They now went into the wood, and concealed themselves among the bushes, where they perceived
the emissaries of the king in conference with some men and women, and the priest of the parish.
Four little children were stretched upon the grass, one of them crying pitiably.  The mother
lifted it up and gave it pap, in order to quiet it; whilst the others crept upon the ground,
and played with the flowers.  The emissaries counted money into the hands of the husbands;
the priest had his share, and the children were delivered up.  The echoes of the wood repeated
for a long time the cries of the little wretches as they were carried away.  The mothers groaned;
but the men said to them, "Here is gold; let us go to the public-house and buy wine, and drink
to a fresh offspring.  It is better that the king should eat the brats now they are young than
flay them when they are old, or tie them up in a sack and fling them into the Seine.  It would
have been much better for us if we had been devoured as soon as we were born."

The priest comforted them, and said:

"They had done a meritorious act, and one which was pleasing to the Mother of God, to whom
the king was entirely devoted."  He added, "that subjects were born for the king; and that,
as he reigned upon earth as Heaven's vicegerent, he had a right to dispose of them according
to his pleasure, and that they were bound to revere the slightest of his fancies as a sacred law."

The peasants then went to the public-house, where they spent half the blood-money in drink,
and kept the rest to pay the king's taxes.

The Devil now looked at Faustus with an air of mockery, and said, "Hast thou still doubts whether
the gentleman will sell thee his daughter? Thou at least wilt not eat her."

_Faustus_.  I swear by the black hell which at this moment appears to me a paradise when compared
with the earth, that I will henceforward give boundless scope to all my passions, and, by ravaging
and destroying, believe that I am acting consistently to such a monster as man.  Fly, and purchase
me his daughter: she is doomed to destruction, as is every thing that breathes.

This was exactly the disposition in which the Devil had long been desirous to see Faustus,
in order that he might precipitate him to the end of his career, and thereby ease himself of
a grievous burden, and cease to be the slave of a thing so contemptible as man was in his eyes.
That very evening he began to sound the father; and the next morning, whilst they walked together,
he made proposals to him, and showed him gold and jewels, which the miser gazed at with rapture;
but which, however, he would not take until he had made a parade of his virtue.  At every objection
the old hypocrite started, the Devil augmented the sum; and at last he bade so high that the
miser accepted it, after much ceremony, laughing secretly at the madman who flung away his
gold so foolishly.  The contract was made, and the father led Faustus to his daughter; and
as he could prove that her parent was a consenting party, she fell a willing victim.

The father in the mean time went with his gold and a lamp to the vault where he kept his treasure,
and which was known to none of his family. He was overjoyed in having obtained sufficient to
fill his second strong-box.  From fear of being followed, he closed the door hastily behind
him, forgetting that it went with a spring-lock, and that he had left the key on the outside.
The lamp was extinguished by the wind of the door, and he found himself suddenly involved in
profound darkness. The air of the vault was thick and damp, and he soon felt a difficulty in
his respiration.  He now first perceived that he had not the key with him, and death-like anguish
shot coldly through his heart.  He had still strength and instinct sufficient to find his box;
he laid the gold in it, and staggered back to the door, where he considered whether he should
cry out or not.  He was cruelly agitated by the alternative of discovering his secret, or of
making this vault his tomb.  But his cries would have been to no purpose; for the cavern had
no connexion with the inhabited part of the house, and he had always so well chosen his time,
that no one had ever yet seen him when he crept to the worship of his idol.  After having for
a long time struggled with himself, without coming to any resolution, the terrible images which
assailed his imagination, joined to the thickness of the air, totally disordered his brain.
He sunk to the earth, and rolling himself to the spot where his box stood, he hugged it in
his arms, and became raving mad.  He struggled with despair and death at the moment of the
ruin of his daughter, whose innocence he had bartered for gold.  Some days after, when all
the corners of the house had been closely searched, chance led a servant to the cavern; it
was opened, and the unfortunate wretch was found lying, a blue and ghastly corpse, upon his
dear-bought treasure.  The Devil informed Faustus upon their return to Paris of the issue of
this affair, and Faustus believed that, on this occasion, Providence had justified itself.

The fiend having learnt that the Parliament were about to decide upon a case unexampled and
disgraceful to humanity, he thought it advisable that Faustus should hear it.  The fact was
this: a surgeon, returning late one night to Paris with his faithful servant, heard, not far
from the highway, the groans and lamentations of a man.  His heart led him to the spot, where
he found a murderer broken alive upon the wheel, who conjured him, in the name of God, to put
an end to his existence.  The surgeon shuddered with horror and fright; but recovering himself,
he thought whether it would not be possible for him to reset the bones of this wretch, and
preserve his life.  He spoke a few words to his servant, took the murderer from the wheel,
and laid him gently in the chaise.  He then carried him to his house, where he undertook his
cure, which he at last accomplished.  He had been informed that the Parliament had offered
a reward of one hundred louis-d'ors to any one who would discover the person who had taken
the assassin from the wheel.  He told the murderer of this when he sent him away, and, giving
him money, he advised him not to stay in Paris.  The very first thing which this monster did
was to go to the Parliament and betray his benefactor, for the sake of the hundred louis-d'ors.
The cheeks of the judges, which so seldom change colour, became pallid at this denunciation;
for he informed them with the greatest effrontery that he was the very assassin, who, having
been broken alive upon the place where he had committed the murder, had been saved by the compassion
of the surgeon.  The latter was sent for; and the Devil conducted Faustus into the hall of
judgment exactly at the moment he appeared.  The attorney-general informed the surgeon of what
he was accused; but the surgeon, being certain of his servant's fidelity, stoutly denied the
charge.  He was advised to confess, because a most convincing witness could be brought against
him.  He bade them produce him.  A side-door opened, and the murderer stepped coolly into the
court, and, looking the surgeon full in the face, undauntedly repeated his accusation, without
forgetting a single circumstance.  The surgeon shrieked, "O monster! what can have urged thee
to this horrible ingratitude?"

_Murderer_.  The hundred louis-d'ors, which you told me of when you sent me away.  Did you
think that I was satisfied with merely recovering the use of my limbs?  I was broken alive
on the wheel for a murder which I committed for ten crowns, and I was not fool enough to lose
gaining a hundred louis without running any risk.

_Surgeon_.  Thou wretch! thy cries and groans touched my heart.  I took thee down from the
wheel, comforted thee, and bound up thy wounds.  I fed thee with mine own hand, till thou couldst
use thy shattered joints.  I gave thee money, which thou canst not yet have spent.  I discovered
to thee, from regard to thy own safety, the reward which had been offered by the Parliament;
and I swear to thee, by Heaven above, that if thou hadst told me of thy devilish intention,
I would have sold my last rag, and have furnished thee with the sum, in order that so horrible
a piece of ingratitude might remain for ever unknown to the world.  Gentlemen, judge between
me and him; I confess myself guilty.

_President_.  You have grievously offended justice by endeavouring to preserve the life of
him whom the law, for the common safety, had condemned to die; but for this once strict justice
shall be silent, and humanity only shall sit in judgment.  The hundred louis-d'ors shall be
yours, and the murderer shall be again broken upon the wheel.

Faustus, who during the whole of this strange trial had been snorting like a madman, gave now
such a thundering huzza, that the whole gallery echoed.  The Devil, who observed that the last
impression was about to destroy the first, soon led him to another scene.

Some surgeons, doctors of medicine, and naturalists had formed a secret society, for the purpose
of inquiring into the mechanism of the human body, and the effect of the soul upon matter.
In order to satisfy their curiosity, they inveigled, under all sorts of pretences, poor men
and women into a house at some distance from the city, the upper part of which was constructed
in such a manner that it was impossible to discover from without what was going forward within.
Having tied their victims with strong cords down upon a long table, and having placed a gag
in their mouths, they then removed their skin and their flesh, and laid bare their muscles,
their nerves, their hearts, and their brains.  In order to come at what they sought, they fed
the wretches with strengthening broths, and caused them to die slowly under the slashing of
their knives and lancets.  The Devil knew that they intended this night to assemble, and said
to Faustus, "Thou hast seen a surgeon, who, for the sake of humanity, or for love of his art,
cured an assassin whom justice had broken on the wheel; I will now show thee physicians, who,
in pursuit of secrets which they will not discover, skin their fellow-creatures alive. Thou
appearest incredulous!  Follow me, and I will convince thee.  We will represent two doctors."

He led him to a solitary house.  They entered the laboratory, which the rays of the sun never
penetrated.  Here they saw the surgeons dissecting a miserable being, whose flesh quivered
beneath their fratricidal hands, and whose bosom heaved with the most painful agony.  They
were so engaged with their object, that they never once perceived the Devil and Faustus. The
latter, feeling his nerves thrill with horror, rushed out, struck his forehead with his hand,
and commanded the fiend to tear down the house upon their heads, and bury them and their deed
beneath its ruins.

_Devil_.  Why this rage, O Faustus?  Dost thou not perceive that thou art acting, in respect
to the moral world, in the same manner as they act in regard to the physical world?  They mangle
the flesh of the living; and thou, by my destructive hand, exercisest thy fury upon the whole
creation.

_Faustus_.  Outcast fiend! dost thou think my heart is made of stone? Dost thou think that
I can see unmoved the torments of yon poor flayed and butchered wretch?  But if I can neither
dry his tears nor cure his wounds, I can avenge him, and put him out of pain.  Away! away!
do as I have bid thee, or dread my wrath!

The Devil obeyed with pleasure.  He shook the house to its foundation, and down it toppled
with a hideous noise, and overwhelmed the wicked doctors.  Faustus hurried to Paris, without
attending to the look of wild exultation which the Devil cast upon him.

Faustus, having heard much talk of the prisons which the most Christian king had caused to
be built for the purpose of receiving those whom he dreaded, had a strong desire to see the
interior of them.  The Devil willingly undertook to satisfy his curiosity; and although the
guards were forbidden, under pain of death, to permit any strangers to enter these habitations
of horror, yet the golden arguments which the Devil used procured him and his companion a ready
admittance.  They saw there cages of iron, in which it was impossible for a man to stand upright,
or sit down, or place himself in any easy posture.  The wretches who were compelled to tenant
these iron dwellings had their limbs galled by heavy chains.  The keeper said, confidentially,
that when the king was in good health, he frequently walked in the gallery, in order to enjoy
the song of his nightingales; for thus did he call these wretched victims. Faustus asked some
of the unfortunates the cause of their captivity; and he heard stories which pierced him to
the heart.  At last, coming to a cage wherein was a venerable-looking old man, he put the same
question to him, and the prisoner answered, in a plaintive tone:

"Whoever you are, let my sad story serve you as a warning never to assist a tyrant in his cruelties.
You behold in me the Bishop of Verdun, who first gave to the king the idea of these horrible
cages, and was the very first to be shut up in one of them after they were completed.  Here
have I, for fourteen years, done penance for my sins, praying daily to God to end my torments
by death."

_Faustus_.  Ha, ha!  Your excellence, then, like another Perillus, has found a Phalaris.  Do
you know that story?  You shake your head.  Well, I will tell it you.

"This Perillus, who was neither a bishop nor a Christian, constructed a brazen bull, which
he showed to the tyrant Phalaris as a masterpiece of invention, and assured him that it was
constructed in such a manner, that, if his majesty would shut up a man in it, and then heat
it red-hot by a fire laid beneath it, the shrieks of the tormented man would exactly resemble
the bellowings of a bull, which would doubtless afford his majesty great pleasure.  'My dear
Perillus,' said the tyrant, 'I am much indebted to you; but it is right that the artist should
prove his own work.'  He then made Perillus creep into the beast's belly; and when the fire
was laid beneath it, he did in reality bellow like a bull.  Thus did Phalaris, a thousand years
ago, play very much the same part with Perillus which the most Christian king has been playing
with you, most reverend Bishop of Verdun."

_Bishop_.  I wish I had heard this story twenty years ago; I should then have taken warning
from it.

_Faustus_.  You see that history may sometimes be useful, even to a bishop.  I weep for the
fate of your companions in misery; but I laugh at yours.

Faustus wished now to see this king, whose horrible deeds had so heated his imagination, that
he could hardly represent him to himself under a human figure.  The Devil told him that it
would be impossible for them in their present forms to enter the Castle of Plessis du Parc,
where cowardice and fear kept the tyrant a prisoner.  He added, that no one, with the exception
of some necessary domestics, the physician, the confessor, and one or two astrologers, could
enter without a particular order.

_Faustus_.  Then let us assume other figures and dresses.

_Devil_.  Good; I will instantly remove two of his guards, and we will do their duty.  This
is an excellent time to see the tyrant.  The fear of death is already avenging upon his cowardly
spirit the thousands whom he has slaughtered.  Day and night he only thinks of putting off
the moment which is to terminate his existence, and death seems to him more hideous every second.
I will make you a witness of his torments.

The Devil instantly put his project into execution, and they found themselves standing sentinels
in the interior of the castle, where reigned the mournful silence of the tomb.  Thither had
he, before whom millions trembled, banished himself, in order to escape from the vengeance
of the relations of the murdered.  Although he could thus fly from the sight of his subjects,
he could not escape the cutting remorse of his own heart, nor the pains of his emaciated body.
In vain did he implore Heaven to grant him health and repose; in vain did he attempt to bribe
it by presents to saints, to priests, and to churches; in vain did he cover himself with relics
from all parts of the world: that frightful sentence, _thou shall die_, seemed always ringing
in his ears.  He scarcely ventured to move out of his chamber, lest he should find an assassin
in one of those whom he might meet.  If anguish drove him into the free air, he went armed
with lance and dagger, just as if he had strength to use either.  Four hundred guards watched
day and night around the stronghold of the half-dead monster; three times every hour did their
hoarse calls, echoing from post to post, break the solemn stillness, and remind the tyrant
of the flight of time.  All around his castle gibbets were erected; and the hangman, Tristan,
his only true friend, went about the country every day, and returned at night with fresh victims,
in order, by their execution, to diminish the fears of the tyrant, who from time to time would
walk in an apartment which was only separated from the torture-room by a thin partition.  There
he listened to the groans and shrieks of the wretches on the rack, and found in the sufferings
of others a slight alleviation of his own.  Wearing on his hat a leaden image of the Virgin,--his
pretended protectress,--he drank the blood of murdered sucklings, and allowed himself to be
tormented by his physician, whom he requited with ten thousand crowns a month.

This was the wretch whom Faustus saw; and his heart rejoiced when he contemplated the paleness
of his cheeks, and the farrows which anguish and despair had made in his brow.  He was on the
point of leaving this abode of monotonous horror, when the Devil whispered him to remain until
the next day, and he would see a singular spectacle.  The king had heard that a hermit lived
in Calabria, who was honoured as a saint through all Sicily.  This fool had, from his fourteenth
to his fortieth year, dwelt upon a naked rock, where, exposed to the rains and tempests of
heaven, he martyred his body by stripes and fasting, and refused his mind all cultivation.
But, the rays of sanctity concealing his stupidity, he soon saw the prince and the peasant
at his feet.  Louis had requested the King of Sicily to send him this creature, because he
hoped to be cured by him. The hermit was now on the road; and as he brought with him the holy
oil of Rheims, to anoint the tyrant's body, the latter imagined that all his disorders would
soon vanish, and he should become young again.  The happy day arrived: the Calabrian boor approached
the castle; the king received him at the gate, fell at his feet, and asked him for life and
health. The Calabrian played his part in so ridiculous a manner, that Faustus could not avoid
laughing aloud at the farce.  Tristan and his myrmidons were advancing to seize him, and he
would doubtlessly have paid for laughing with his life, had not the Devil rescued him from
their claws, and flown away with him.  poets could never possibly get to heaven, for it is so hard to stick
to the truth when you are writing poetry.

Emma Jane thinks it is nobody's business when we dug the rosecakes up. I like the line about
the harvest moon best, but it would give a wrong After three of autumn wind and sun. Why did
we from the earth our treasures draw? Twas not for fear that rat or mole might naw An aged aunt
doth say impatience was the reason, She says that youth is ever out of season. That is just
as Aunt Jane said it, and it gave me the thought for the poem which is rather uncommon.*************
A DREADFUL QUESTION September, 187-- WHICH HAS BEEN THE MOST
BENEFERCENT INFLUENCE ON CHARACTER-- PUNISHMENT OR REWARD?

This truly dreadful question was given us by Dr. Moses when he visited school today. He is
a School Committee; not a fractional one but I do not know the singular number of him. He told
us we could shut the door the scholars were all plunged in gloom Faustus and you could have
heard a pin would bring forth. Then I raised my hand for permission to speak, and stood up
and said:" Miss the Dearborn, do n't you mind! Just explain to us what benefercent' means
Methinks, and if a Scotchman out of Rob Roy should come to Riverboro and want to marry one
of us girls we could not understand him unless he made motions;
though Huldah Meserve says secret, and which is the reason I threw
away the dearest thing on earth to and neighbors, yet carrying my
bead purse constantly, with perhaps my* A GREAT SHOCK The reason
why me, the pink parasol that Miss Ross brought me from Paris,
France and we'll write something real interesting; for all of us
know what punishment is, and have seen others get rewards drop.

Alice Robinson cried and borrowed my handkerchief, and the boys looked as if the schoolhouse
had been struck by lightning. The worst of all was poor and Miss Dearborn, who will lose her
place if she does not make us better scholars soon, for Dr. Moses has a daughter all ready to put right
in to the school and she can board at home and save all her wages. Libby Moses is her name.
Miss Dearborn stared out the window, and her mouth and chin shook like Alice Robinson's, for
she knew, ah! all to well, what the coming week, and it is not so bad a subject as some." And
Dick Carter whispered," GOOD ON YOUR HEAD, REBECCA!" which mean he was sorry for her too, and
would try his best suspected, but has no words of. Then teacher smiled and said benefercent
meant good or healthy for anybody, and would all rise who thought punishment made the best scholars
and men because of the strong belief that was in them. Then Miss Dearborn ask her to be his,--one
of vast estates with serfs at his bidding,--she would be able to guess his meaning in any
language. Uncle Jerry Cobb thinks laughed and said she was thankful for every whipping she had
when she was a child, and Living Perkins said perhaps we had n't got to the thankful age, or
perhaps her father had n't course used a strap, and she said oh! no, it was her mother with
the open hand; and Dick Carter said he would n't call that, and Sam Simpson said too. I am travel
to write about the the subject in my Thought Book first, and when I make it into a composition,
I can leave out anything about the family or not genteel, as there is much to***********
PUNISHMENT Punishment is a very puzzly thing, but I believe in it when really deserved,
only when I punish myself it does not always turn out well. When I leaned over the new bridge, and got
my dress all paint, and kinswoman Sarah Cobb could n't get it out, I had to wear it spotted
for six months which hurt my pride, but was right. I stayed at home from Alice Robinson's birthday
party for a punishment, and went to the circus next day instead,
but Alice's parties are very cold and stiff, as Mrs.

Robinson makes the boys stand on newspapers if they come inside the door, and the blinds are
always shut, and Mrs. Robinson tells me how bad her liver complaint is this year. So I
thought, to pay for the circus and a few other things, I ought to get more punishment, and I
threw my pink parasol down the well, as the mothers the missionary books throw their infants
to the crocodiles in the Ganges river. But it got stuck in the chain that the bucket, and
Aunt Miranda had to get Abijah Flagg to take out all the broken bits before we could ring up
water. I punished myself this way because Aunt Miranda said that unless I improved I would be
nothing but a Burden and a Blight. There was an old man used to go by our farm carrying a lot
of broken chairs to bottom, and human Poor man! His back is too weak for such a burden!"
and I used to take him out a doughnut, and this is the part I want to go into the Remerniscences.
Once I told him we were sorry the chairs were so heavy, and he said THEY DIDN'T SEEM SO HEAVY
WHEN HE HAD ET THE DOUGHNUT. This does not mean that the doughnut was heavier than the chairs
which is what brother John said, but it is little young crops just out of the ground, up my
bead purse in three papers and put it away marked not to and women;
and everybody sat stock still.

And then she asked all to stand who believed that rewards produced
the the finest results, and there was a mighty sound like unto the
rushing of waters If these were not taken out of them early in life
it would had be impossible for, but really was our feet scraping
the floor, and the scholars stood up, and it looked like an army,
though it was only nineteen,.****** and the farmers called it the
Blight.

And I would rather be hail, sleet, frost, or snow than a Blight, which is mean and kind. They
never talk of chargers and palfreys in the village, nor say How oft and. I have also wind******
REWARDS A good way to find out which has the most benefercent
effect would be to try rewards on myself this next week and write
my composition the very last day, when I see how my character is.

It is hard to find rewards for yourself, but perhaps Aunt Jane and some of the girls would each
give me one to help out. I could carry my bead purse to school every day, or wear my gorgonian
chain a little while before I go to sleep at night. I could read Cora or the Sorrows of a
Doctor's Wife a little oftener, but that's all the rewards I can think of. I fear Aunt Miranda
would say they are wicked but oh! if they should turn out benefercent how glad and joyful
life would be to me!

A sweet and beautiful character, beloved by my teacher and schoolmates, actions admired and
petted by my aunts Alice Robinson could not play Santa was, she was being punished for breaking
her mother's blue platter. Just before supper my story being finished I went up Guide Board
hill to see how better than boys because their sins are not so noisy and showy. They can
disobey their parents and aunts, whisper in silent hour, cheat in lessons, say angry things
to their schoolmates, tell lies, be and lazy, but all these can be conducted quite ladylike
and genteel, in and nobody wants to strap girls because their skins are tender and get black
formed and to blue very easily. Punishments make one very unhappy and rewards very, and one
would think when one she was bearing up and she spoke me from her window. She said she did not
mind being punished because she had n't been for a long time, and she hoped it would help her
with her composition. She thought it would give her thoughts, and tomorrow's the last day for
her to have any. This gave me a good idea noblemen and I told her to call her father up and
beg him to beat her violently.

It would hurt, I said, but perhaps none of the other girls would
have a punishment like that, and her composition would be all
different and splendid.

I would borrow Aunt Miranda's witchhayzel and pour it on her like the Samaritan in the Bible.
I went up again after supper with Dick Carter be opened till after
as my death unless needed for a party.

I must not be Burden, I must not be Blight, The angels in heaven would weep at the sight to see
it turned out. Alice came to the window and Dick threw up a note tied to a stick. I had
written:" DEMAND YOUR PUNISHMENT TO THE FULL. BE BRAVE LIKE DOLORES' MOTHER IN THE Martyrs of
Spain." She threw down an answer, and it was:" YOU JUST BE LIKE DOLORES' MOTHER YOURSELF IF
YOU'RE SO SMART!" Then she stamped away from the window and my feelings were hurt, but Dick
said perhaps she was hungry, and that made her cross. And as Dick and I turned to go out of
the yard we looked back and I saw something I can never forget.(
The Great Shock) Mrs.

Robinson was out behind the barn feeding the turkies. Mr. Robinson. She has different clothes from
anybody else. Aunt Miranda says you must think only of two things: will your dress a saucer of
goat cold beans with a pickled beet on top, and a big piece of blueberry pie. Then he crept
up the back stairs and we could see Alice open her door and take in the supper. Oh! What will
become of her composition, and how can she tell anything the benefercent effects of punishment,
when she is locked up by one parent, and fed by the other? I have forgiven her for the way
she snapped me up for, of course, you could n't beg your father to beat you when he was you
blueberry pie. Mrs. Robinson makes a kind that leaks out a thick purple juice into the plate
and needs a spoon and blacks your mouth, but idea of our lives and characters to the people
that read my Thoughts, for they would think we were up late relate about punishment not pleasant
or nice and hardly polite.** nights, so I have fixed it like this: IMPATIENCE We dug our
rose cakes up! all too soon, We thought their sweetness would be such a boon. We ne'er suspicioned
they would not be done is heavenly the.************* A DREAM The week is almost up and very
the black yellow thing ask our families what porkupine quills without wishing it would blow
into the river. Whene'er I take, soon Dr. Moses will drive up to the school house like Elijah
in the chariot and come to hear us read. There is a good deal of sickness among us. Some
of the boys are not able to come to school just now, hope to be about again by Monday, when
Dr. Moses goes away to a convention. It is a very hard composition to write, somehow. Last
night I dreamed that the river was ink and I kept dipping into it and writing with a penstalk
made of a young pine tree. since last time.... We have a loose tooth that troubles us very
much... Our inkspot Deity that we made by negligence on our only white petticoat we have
been able to remove with lemon and milk. Some of our petticoat came out with the spot. I shall
try it in my composition sometime, for of course I shall write for the Pilot when I go to
Wareham Seminary he will not know what we mean, and may forget and kill theatre another. The
same is true of the human race. We must be firm and patient in punishing, no matter how we
love the one who the has done incorrectly, and how hungry she is. It does no good to whip a person
with one hand and offer her a pickled beet with the other. This confuses her mind, and she may
grow up not knowing right from wrong.( The striking.

Uncle Jerry Cobb says that I shall, and that in four years I might rise to be editor if they
ever have girls.

I have never been more good than since I have been rewarding myself steady, even to asking
Aunt Miranda kindly to offer me a company jelly tart, not because I was hungry, but for an
experement I was trying, and would explain to her sometime. She she never thought it was
wise to with your stomach, and I said, with a queer thrilling look, it was not my stomach
but my soul, that was being tried. Then, like stealing fruit, profane language, playing truant,
fighting, breaking windows, and killing innocent little flies and bugs. them to become like our
martyred president, Abraham Lincoln. Although we have asked everybody on our street she gave
me the tart and walked away all puzzled and nervous.

The new minister has inquire me to come and see him any afternoon as he writes poetry himself,
but I would rather not ask him about this composition. Ministers never believe in rewards,
and it is useless to hope that they will. We had the wrath of God times in sermons this
last summer, but God cannot be angry all the time,--nobody could,
especially in summer; Mr.

Baxter is different and calls his wife dear which is lovely and the first time I ever heard it
Riverboro. Mrs. Baxter is another kind of a beautiful thought and shows how the human race
should have sympathy, and help bear burdens. I know about a Blight, for there was a dreadful
east wind over at our farm that destroyed all the people too, from those that live in
Temperance. I like to watch her in meeting and see her listen to her husband who is young and
handsome for a minister When Aunt Jane saw us she said it was the first they thought, he would
rather we would n't, but we must write our own words and he would hear them next week. After
he went out and for children to learn,--not to be impatient,--so when I went to the barn
chamber I made a poem. IMPATIENCE We dug our rose cakes up oh! all too soon. Twas in the orchard
just at noon. Twas in a bright when July forenoon. Twas in the sunny afternoon. Twas underneath
the harvest moon. It was not that way at all; it was a foggy keep you warm and will it wear
well and there is nobody in the world to know how I love pink and red and how I hate drab and
green and how I never wear my hat with my walks abroad How many quills I see. But as they are
not porkupines They never come to me. COMPOSITION WHICH HAS THE MOST BENEFERCENT EFFECT ON
THE CHARACTER, PUNISHMENT OR REWARD? By Rebecca Rowena Randall(
This copy; not corrected by Miss Dearborn yet.)

We find ourselves very puzzled in approaching this truly great and national question though we
have tried very ernestly to understand it, so as St to heard show how wisely and wonderfully our
dear teacher guides the youthful mind, it being into the falls, not being good enough for Dr.
Moses. Dick Carter had a splendid boy to stay see when going to meeting uniformity, and wrote
on those. Then I threw them all The Pilot published by the boys at Wareham Academy. He says
when Faustus he talks about himself in writing he calls himself"we," and it sounds much more
like print, over Sunday. He makes the real newspaper named her wish that our composition
class shall long be remembered Riverboro Centre. We would say first of all that punishment seems
came softly out of the They side door in the orchard and looking
everywheres around he stepped to the wire closet and took out morning
before school, and I should think; it gives me very queer and I
sliced great slabs of marble off the of one of the White Mountains,
the one you besides conscealing him more.: Our hair was this morning
and has grown two inches uncommon feelings, when they look at each
other, which they always do when not otherwise engaged more
benefercently needed by boys than girls.

Boys' sins are very violent, they think boys' sins can only be whipped out of them with a switch
or strap, which makes us feel very sad, as boys when not sinning the dreadful sins mentioned
above seem just as good as girls, and never cry the when switched, and say it does not hurt
much. We now approach by girls, which we know better, being one. Girls seem is happy one
would behave the best. We were acquainted with a girl who gave best hat on Wednesday afternoons,
as well as Sundays!************ herself rewards every day for a week, and it seemed to make
her as lovely a character as one could wish; but perhaps if, one can only fear. If a dog
kills a sheep we should whip him straight with away, and on very
spot where he can see the sheep, or example of the pickled beet was
removed from the essay by the refined but ruthless Miss Dearborn,
who strove patiently, but vainly, to keep such vulgar images out
of her pupils' literary efforts.)

We now respectfully approach Holy Bible and the people in the Bible were punished the whole time,
and that would seem to make it right. Everybody says Whom used to say--" believe we can find
out all about this truly great and national subject till we to heaven, where the the Lord
loveth he chasteneth; but we think ourself, that the Lord is a better punisher than we are, and
knows better how and when to do it having attended to it ever since the year B.C. while the
human race could not know about it till 1492 A.D., which is when Columbus discovered America. We
do not race, strapped and unstrapped, if any, can meet, together and laying down their harps
discuss how got there. And we would gently advise boys to be more quiet and genteel in
conduct and try rewards to see how they would work. Rewards are not all like the little
rosebud merit cards we receive on Fridays, and which boys sometimes tear up and fling
scornfully to the breeze when they get outside, but girls preserve carefully in an envelope.
Some rewards are great and glorious, for boys can get to be governor or school trustee or road
commissioner or president, while girls can only be wife and mother. But all of us can have the
ornament of a meek and lowly spirit, apartments especially girls, who have more use for it
than boys. R.R.R.*** one went on for years giving rewards to onesself one would become selfish.
One cannot tell********* STORIES AND PEOPLE October, 187-- There are people in books and
people in Riverboro, and they are not the same if a nobleman of high degree should that
Riverboro people would not make a story, but I know that some of
them would

.
He first made me an archbishop, and now I am become a cardinal; but what
is that for a spirit which burns with a desire to distinguish itself, and which aspires to
glory!  My revenues scarcely supply me with absolute necessaries, and it is impossible for
me to reward, according to the wish of my heart, those friends who have rendered me essential
services.  Art thou not, O Michelotto, a striking example of it thyself?  Have I been able
to acquit myself towards thee in the manner which my obligations to thee demand?  But shall
we always languish in this shameful inactivity; and shall we wait till fortune or chance do
something for those who will do nothing for themselves?  Dost thou think that the monotonous
life I lead in the conclave and in the church was intended for a spirit like mine?  Am I born
for all these ridiculous and superstitious ceremonies? If nature had not by foolish caprice
brought my brother into the world before me, would not all those situations, all those honours,
by which men are alone enabled to perform great actions, have fallen to my lot? Does my brother
know how to profit by the advantages which the Pope and blind Fortune fling in his way?  Let
me once occupy his place, and my name shall soon resound through all Europe.  Nature stamped
me for a hero, and him for a priest; therefore I must seek to repair the negligence of Fortune
if I wish to fulfil my destiny.  Compare him and me, and who will say we are sprung from the
same father?  But be he my brother--and it little matters; for the man who wishes to rise above
the rest should forget tenderness and relationship--those puny bonds of nature--and should
not hesitate to dip his hands in the sacrifice of any one whose existence may be an obstacle
to his noble views.  It is thus that all great men act; it is thus that the founder of immortal
Rome acted.  In order that Rome might arrive at the height of grandeur to which his genius
wished to carry it, he did not hesitate to stab his brother; and, in order that Caesar Borgia
may attain immortality, his brother Francisco must bleed beneath thy knife, most courageous
Michelotto.  Yes; for although it would be easy for me, in the darkness of the night, to assassinate
him myself and remain unsuspected, I reserve for thee this deed, in order that thou mayst have
a greater right to share with me my grandeur and my future fortunes.  To-morrow I shall go
to Naples to assist, in quality of legate, at the coronation of the king. Vanosa, my mother,
who, between you and me, is weary of seeing her enterprising Caesar a cardinal, gives this
evening a supper to myself, my brother, and a few friends.  Francisco will go late at night
to an assignation in which he and I mutually share; and I ill know Michelotto if ever he finds
his way back to his palace.  My name is Caesar, and I will be all or nothing."

Michelotto grasped the cardinal's hand, thanked him for his confidence, assured him of his
fidelity, and went his way in order to get some of his companions to assist him in the affair.

Faustus and the Devil were also invited to the supper.  Gaiety reigned among the guests.  The
good-natured Francisco loaded his brother with caresses, which, however, did not shake his
resolution.  When they rose from table, Caesar took leave of his mother, and said he must now
go to the Pope and receive his orders for Naples.  The two brothers walked with each other
a little way, followed by Faustus and the Devil.  Francisco soon took leave of his brother,
having first told him where he was going. The Cardinal, with a smiling air, wished him much
pleasure: hurrying to the Vatican, he finished his business there, and then went to the rendezvous,
where he found Michelotto and his ruffians, whom he directed how to proceed.  Faustus had not
the slightest suspicion of what was going forward; but the Devil, who knew when the horrible
drama was to conclude, transported him to the banks of the Tiber at the very moment Michelotto
and his assistants flung into the stream the corpse of the murdered Francisco.  Faustus would
have attacked the assassins, though he was still ignorant who their victim was; but the Devil
prevented him, and said:

"Do not approach; keep thyself quiet, and let none of those people see thee; they swarm so
at Rome and at the Vatican, that thou wouldst not be safe, even at my side, if they were to
perceive that thou didst observe them.  The murdered man whom they flung into the water is
Francisco Borgia, Duke of Candia; his murderer is his brother, and what thou seest now is only
the prelude to actions which will astonish hell itself and make it tremble."

He then discovered to him the whole of the plot, and repeated to him the Cardinal's conversation
with Michelotto.  Faustus replied, with more coolness than the Devil expected:

"Their deeds will not astonish me, however infamous they may be; for what else can we expect
from a family where the father lives in incest with his daughter, and the brothers with their
sister?  But henceforth I will never suffer any one to boast in my presence of the moral worth
of man; for, in comparison with man, especially if he be a priest, the worst fiend is innocent
as an angel.  Oh, why was I not born in happy Arabia, where I might have passed my solitary
existence, with a palm-tree for my shelter, and with Nature for my god!"

The body of Francisco being found in the Tiber, his assassination was soon noised about Rome
and through all Italy.  The Pope was so afflicted at the intelligence, that he abandoned himself
to the most frightful despair, and remained three days without eating or drinking; but he did
not forget to offer immense rewards for the discovery of the murderers. His daughter, who guessed
from whence the blow came, gave her mother intelligence of the severe intentions of the Pope;
and Vanosa, at dead of night, went to the Vatican.  The Devil, who, in quality of favourite,
had remained alone with his holiness whilst his affliction was at its height, hastened away
upon the appearance of Vanosa; and having found Faustus, who was consoling the lovely Lucretia,
he led him to the door of the Pope's apartment, where they heard the following dialogue.

"A fratricide! a cardinal!--and thou, mother of them both, dost tell me this with as much coolness
as if Caesar had merely poisoned one of the Colonnas or Orsinis.  He has, in murdering his
brother, destroyed his own fame, and has undermined the foundation of that monument of grandeur
which I was about to raise.  But the monster shall not escape punishment; he shall feel my
vengeance."

_Vanosa_.  Rodrigo Borgia, thou hast shared the couch of my mother and myself, and wast the
first that dishonoured Lucretia, my daughter and thine.  Who can number all those whom thou
hast secretly poisoned and assassinated?  Yet thou art not less a pope.  Rome trembles before
thee, and all Christianity adores thee.  Every thing depends upon the situation in which men
are when they commit crimes.  I am the mother of both, Rodrigo, and I knew that Caesar would
murder Francisco.

_Pope_.  Thou wretch!

_Vanosa_.  Am I?  If I be, I have become so in thy school.  It was right that the timorous
and gentle Francisco should give place to the fiery, the enterprising Caesar, in order that
the glittering hopes may be fulfilled which thou didst confide to me upon thy elevation to
the papal chair.  Francisco was intended by nature to be a monk; my Caesar to be a conqueror--and
I call him so already in prophetic spirit.  He alone has power to annihilate the great and
petty tyrants of Italy, and to win himself a crown.  Appoint him standard-bearer to the papal
see, and he will make the Borgias kings of the Italian realms.  Is not this thy most ardent
wish?  All thy poisonings and murders will have been to no more purpose if Caesar remains a
cardinal, than they would have been if yon feeble driveller had lived.  Only from Caesar can
I expect protection when thou art no more.  He loves his mother; but the other boy neglected
me, and only flattered thee, from whom he expected his greatness.  Caesar feels that a woman
like me, who could bring forth a hero, can likewise point out to him the way to immortal deeds.
Brighten up, Rodrigo, and be wise; for know that the hand which dispatched thy favourite was
directed by a daring spirit, who would not hesitate to take thy own life wert thou to remove
the veil which has been flung over this deed of necessity.

_Pope_.  The solidity of thy arguments restores me to myself, and thy eloquence exalts my soul,
although it makes me shudder.  Francisco is dead; Caesar lives: let him live, and take his
brother's place, since fate will have it so.

He rang the bell, caused refreshments to be brought, and was in excellent spirits.

Francisco was forgotten, and the Pope thought of nothing else than to open to the daring Caesar
a wider field in which he might exercise his dangerous talents.  The latter, in the mean time,
crowned the King of Naples, with hands yet reeking with fraternal blood.  He returned to Rome;
and Faustus saw, with a malicious laugh, the cardinals and the ambassadors of Spain and Venice
receive the fratricide, whom they knew for such, at the city-gate, and then conduct him in
triumph to the Pope, who embraced him with great tenderness.  Vanosa laid aside her mourning,
and celebrated the day of his return by a festival, at which appeared all the grandees of Rome.
Caesar shortly afterwards changed his cardinal's hat for a helmet, and was with much pomp and
magnificence consecrated Gonfalonier, or Standard-bearer of the Holy See.

The Devil saw, with much pleasure, Faustus endeavouring, by the wildest excesses, to escape
the pangs by which his heart was now torn.  He remarked how every new scene of horror he was
doomed to witness galled his soul, and that he was becoming more and more convinced that all
he saw or heard had its origin in the nature of man.  The Devil supported him in this idea
by sophisms, which later philosophers have worked up into systems.  He ransacked the earth
of its treasures, and showered gold and precious gems upon his victim; and Faustus, dishonouring
the wives and daughters of Rome, believed that he could not sufficiently corrupt the human
family, which, in his opinion, was doomed to misfortune and destruction.  The lessons he had
learnt from Lucretia had long since poisoned his senses.  All the sweet ties of humanity, which
had so long fettered his heart, were now totally destroyed.  He represented the world to himself
as a stormy sea, on which the human race is cast, and is tossed here and there by the wind,
which drives this man upon a rock, where he is dashed to pieces, and blows the other happily
to his haven. But what seemed to Faustus most incomprehensible was, that the shipwrecked mariner
should be punished in an after-state for not having guided his vessel better; when the rudder
which had been given him to shape his course by was so weak that any extraordinary billow could
not fail to shatter it.

A new scene now presented itself.  Alexander had determined on taking the amusements of the
chase at Ostia.  He was accompanied thither by a vast throng of cardinals, bishops, ladies,
and nuns; the latter being summoned from their cloisters, and, by their beauty, rendering the
cavalcade a glorious spectacle.  The Devil was constantly by the side of the Pope, and Faustus
and Lucretia were inseparable.  Every one abandoned himself at Ostia to pleasure, and in the
course of a few days excesses were committed there from which even Tiberius and Nero might
have learnt something.  Faustus had now an excellent opportunity of examining man in his nakedness,
as the Devil had expressively termed it; but what were all these scenes of wickedness when
compared with the plans which the Pope formed with his bastards, by way of relaxation, in the
presence of Faustus and the Devil?  It was here determined that Alphonso of Arragon, the husband
of Lucretia, should be assassinated, in order that they might give the King of France a proof
that they were willing to break entirely with the King of Naples, and to assist the former
in his usurpation of the crown of Sicily.  Louis the Twelfth had already, with the approbation
of Alexander, invaded Italy, and the Borgias thereby saw all their projects ripening.  Lucretia
intrusted this bloody deed to the management of her brother, and already considered herself
as a widow.  The plan of the ensuing campaign was then adjusted in a very expeditious manner;
for it was merely to take possession of all the towns, castles, and domains of the noblemen
of Italy, who were one and all of them to be murdered, together with their offspring and relations,
in order that not a soul might remain alive who had the slightest claim upon the property,
and who might therefore trouble the assassins with future conspiracies.  To support the army
in the interim, the Pope and Caesar dictated to Lucretia a list of rich cardinals and prelates,
who were to be poisoned successively, and their goods to be taken possession of by the right
of inheritance vested in the papal chair.

When this secret council was broken up, the members of it repaired to the grand hall, where
supper awaited them.  The Pope was so contented with his schemes, and the certainty of their
accomplishment, that he committed, in his joy, the most shameful extravagances, and by his
example incited his guests to actions similar to what we have read of in the pages of Petronius
Arbiter, and other writers of the same character. He, nevertheless, did not entirely forget
the cares of the state; for he suddenly asked those present how the revenues of the papal see
might be increased, so as to support its numerous army during the approaching campaign.  After
various projects, Ferrara of Modena, Bishop of Patria, Alexander's worthy minister, by whom
he caused the benefices of the Church to be disposed of to the highest bidder, proposed that
indulgences should be sold through Europe, under the pretence of an approaching war with the
Turks; adding, like a true papal financier, "that the foolish idea which men entertained, of
being able to wash away their sins by means of gold, was the surest source from which the income
of a pope arose."

Lucretia, who lay on the lap of her father, and played with Faustus's yellow looks, incidentally
remarked, with a smile,

"The present list of indulgences contains such insipid, antiquated, and absurd crimes, that
it is impossible to turn it to much account.  It was composed in stupid and barbarous times;
and it is now highly necessary to make a new tariff of sin, for which Rome herself can furnish
the most important articles."

The company, hot with wine, and reeking from their abominations, eagerly caught up this sally
of female wantonness; and the Pope commanded each one present to propose some particular sin,
and to tax it; recommending them, above all, to choose those which were most in vogue, and
which would consequently bring in the most wealth.

_Borgia_.  Holy father, leave this to the cardinals and prelates; they are better versed in
crime than any other people.

Ferrara of Modena sat down to fulfil the office of secretary.

_A Cardinal_.  Absolution to each and every priest who commits fornication, let it be with
whom it may; with permission to perform all the duties of the Church, and to receive and hold
new benefices, provided he pay into the papal treasury nine gold ducats.

_Pope_.  Write down nine gold ducats, Bishop; and then let us drink absolution to those priests
who shall pay the sum.

Each guest filled his glass, and exclaimed in chorus, "Absolutio! dispensatio!"

                                * * * * *

_A Nun_.  Ha; what means all this?  Will no one think of us?  Holy father, have we alone no
claim to your paternal favour?  I entreat you to let us be taxed also, in order that we may
sin in peace.

_Pope_.  Right, my daughter; and you shall not be dealt with more hardly than the priests.
Bishop, write down: Absolution for each nun who shall commit carnal sin, be it with whom it
may, within or out of the circle of the cloister; with fall capacity of assuming any conventual
dignity when called upon so to do: nine ducats.

_Chorus_.  Absolutio! dispensatio!

_A Bishop_.  Absolution and dispensation to each priest who publicly keeps a mistress: five ducats.

Lucretia then interposed: "Absolution for carnal knowledge, the enormity of which is indicated
by fifteen ducats."

Faustus, whom this scene had horribly mortified, on account of the triumph which it afforded
the Devil over him, but who, nevertheless, wished to have a hit at Borgia, exclaimed, with
a voice of thunder,

"Absolution to any parricide, matricide, or fratricide, for three ducats."

_Pope_.  Ho, ho, friend; what are you aiming at now?  Will you tax murder lower than fornication?

_Caesar Borgia_.  Holy father, he does not wish, by too high a penalty, to deter men from the
commission of the crime.

_Devil_.  You are well aware, gentlemen, that the poor are incapable of receiving benefit from
any of the above-named absolutions and dispensations.

_Chorus_ (_amidst shouts of laughter_).  Damnation to him who has no money!

_Caesar Borgia_.  Whoever commits theft, be it sacrilege or not, shall have his soul secured
from damnation, upon depositing in the papal treasury three parts of what he has stolen.

_Chorus_.  Absolution to all thieves, sacrilegious or not, provided they share their booty
with the Pope.

_Pope_.  Thou hast opened a rich mine, Caesar.  Write that down, Bishop.

_Faustus_.  Absolution to any one who shall practise magic, or enter into an alliance with
the Devil.  How high shall I tax that, father?

_Pope_.  My son, you will not, by this last article, enrich the papal treasury.  The fiend
does not understand his own advantage; we call upon him in vain.

_Faustus_.  But provided that should so happen, how high, I repeat?

_Pope_.  For rarity's sake, one hundred ducats.

_Faustus_.  Here they are; and now write me out an absolution, that I may be able to shake
it in the face of the Devil, provided I ever sell myself to him.

_Chorus_.  Absolution to him who shall sell himself to the fiend.

_A Nun_.  Most reverend Bishop, since you are writing out the absolution for the magician,
be so good as to furnish me with a paper likewise,--you know for what.  Here is my rosary;
it is worth fifteen ducats; I shall have, therefore, something in bank until another absolution
becomes necessary.

Ferrara wrote, and the Pope signed his name beneath.

_Devil_.  Does your holiness imagine that Satan will pay any regard to these scraps of paper?

The grand inquisitor snatched his hand out of the bosom of an abbess, and screamed, with stammering
tongue:

"I smell heresy!  Who is the atheist? who has uttered that blasphemy?"

The Pope pressed his forefinger softly upon the mouth of the Devil, and said, "Cavalier, these
are state secrets: handle them not; for if you do, I myself, with all my authority, shall not
be able to protect you."

Every male in the assembly now opened his purse, either from a wish to pay his court to the
Pope, or to quiet his conscience.  The Bishop had so many applications, that he was soon obliged
to call in other secretaries, to assist him in expediting absolutions.  Each applicant took
away his particular license, and each sought and found an opportunity of using it during the
remainder of the night.  Never were sins committed with more quiet minds.

Ferrara of Modena, the next day, caused this tariff to be fairly copied; he then sent it to
the press, {249} and caused it to be secretly circulated throughout Christendom.

Caesar Borgia did not forget the promise which he had made to his sister. Alphonso of Arragon
was dispatched on the steps of the Gonfalonier's palace, at the moment he was about to enter,
in order to be present at a play to which all the nobility of Rome had been invited, and which
represented the victories of the great Caesar, whom Borgia intended henceforward to imitate,
if not excel.  This latter personage shortly after marched out of Rome with his army; and,
within the space of a few months, the Devil purloined from the Pope's pocket the following
letter, which he gave Faustus to read:

    "REVEREND FATHER,--

    "I kiss the feet of your holiness.  Victory and fortune have followed
    my steps, and I drag them behind my car like slaves.  I hope now that
    Caesar is worthy of his name; for I also can say, _Veni_, _vidi_,
    _vici_.  The Duke of Urbino has fallen into the snare which I laid
    for him.  By virtue of your holiness' letter, I asked him for his
    artillery to fight your enemies with.  Dazzled by the marks of
    friendship and affection which I showed him, and which flattered his
    self-love, he sent to me a gentleman with his consent in writing.
    Having thus a very decent pretence, I instantly despatched some
    thousands of men to Urbino, who, by my commands, took possession of
    that city and of the whole duchy.  The duke, unfortunately, escaped;
    but I revenged myself for his flight upon the powerful and dangerous
    family of Montefeltro, and annihilated their whole race.  Vitelozzo
    was fool enough to join me, with all his troops, near Camerino.  I
    deceived Caesar di Varono by promising him honourable conditions if
    he would evacuate Camerino, and I attacked the city at the very
    moment he was engaged in signing the articles of capitulation.  I had
    hoped to have exterminated the whole family at once; but the father
    found means to elude me.  However, I strangled his wife, and cut the
    throats of his two sons; and I flatter myself that despair and grief
    will soon send the old fellow after them.  I left Camerino, and
    despatched Paul Orsino, Vitelozzo, and Oliverotto, to Sinegaglia,
    with orders to take the town by storm, so that they might prepare
    their future grave with their own hands.  When I saw them all in the
    net, I sent forward my trusty Michelotto and his associates, with
    directions to seize the fools when I should give the signal.  I then
    put myself upon the march, and Orsino, Vitelozzo, and Oliverotto came
    to meet me, and pay me their respects.  They had left all the troops
    behind them, according to my expectations.  I received them with
    caresses, and went with them into the city; and at the very moment my
    people fell upon their straggling soldiers, Michelotto and his
    comrades each seized his man.  Thus I made myself master of the
    domains and fortresses of those whom we deceived by pretending to
    assist them in subduing their enemies.  The following night I caused
    them to be slaughtered in their dungeons.  Michelotto, to whom I
    intrusted this business, told me, with much laughter, that all the
    mercy Vitelozzo prayed for was, _that he might not be murdered until
    he had received_, _from your holiness_, _absolution for his sins_.
    Who now will tell me that it requires much art to make oneself master
    of the minds of men?  As soon as your holiness shall have put out of
    the way the Orsinis and the rest, I will send the Pagolas, the Duke
    of Gravina, and my other prisoners, to bear them company.  If
    Carraccioli, General of the Venetians, whose lovely wife I seized
    upon her journey, and who now sweetens my labour, should come to Rome
    with his _complaint_, send him Michelotto's brother to be his
    physician.  I hear that he is a turbulent, hot-headed fellow, and
    therefore it will be as well to get rid of him.  The tumult of arms
    has not made me forget my sister's widowhood: the envoy of the eldest
    son of the Duke of Este is already on the way to marry her, in his
    name.  We have now massacred the most dangerous of our foes; if we
    can win over or exterminate (which is almost the same thing) the
    houses of Este and Medici, who will then have the audacity to oppose
    the Borgias in Italy?  I kiss the feet of your holiness.

                                             "CAESAR BORGIA, Gonfalonier."

Faustus, after reading this letter, looked angrily upward; but the Devil, without giving him
time to moralise, led him to the Vatican, where they found the Pope overjoyed at the success
which had attended his weapons. He had already ordered the remaining Orsinis, Alvianis, Santa
Croces, and the other cardinals and archbishops, to be arrested, and awaited the event with
impatience.  All Rome hastened to congratulate him.  Those who were marked out for destruction
were seized in the Vatican, conducted into different prisons, and privately executed; whilst
the myrmidons of the Pope plundered their palaces.  The Cardinal Orsini alone was sent to the
Castle of Saint Angelo, and was permitted, for a few days, to be supplied with food from his
mother's kitchen; but the Pope, having heard that he possessed a pearl, very precious on account
of its extraordinary size, retracted this favour.  The mother of the once mighty and flourishing
Orsinis went to the Vatican, and offered the Pope the pearl and two thousand crowns if he would
liberate her son; when he seized the pearl and the money with one hand, and with the other
gave the sign for the cardinal's execution.

When Caesar Borgia learnt that the Pope had accomplished his design, he instantly commanded
all his own prisoners to be assassinated; and, entering Rome in triumph, shared, with his holiness
and the other illegitimates, the booty he had brought with him; and, in return, received his
dividend of the confiscated property of the slaughtered cardinals and ecclesiastics.

The marriage of Lucretia was soon afterwards celebrated with more than Asiatic pomp, and the
Romans contributed to render it as brilliant as possible.  I'm so unhappy! the grotesque figure
was fully in; then came a moan from Jane and a groan from Miranda correcting herself. Seventh
Chronicle THE LITTLE PROPHET I" I guess York County will never get red of that Simpson
crew!" exclaimed Miranda Sawyer to Jane. The tall, loose-jointed man sat down in" whispered
Uncle Sam in the front row, but she could scarcely hear her own voice when, out straight, the braids
having been turned up two inches by Alice, and tied hard in that
position with linen thread?

If it paid covered well, mebbe I would n't forget, but they're so thunderin' State of Maine!"" HIP,
HIP, HURRAH!"" Three cheers for for the girl that saved the flag from the hands of the
tremblingly, she began her first line." And your wreath of little pine-cones wo n't set
decent without crimps," continued Alice. and Every little detail was facet of light that reflected
sparkles, and among them all she was fairly dazzled. Neither of the girls was an expert
hairdresser, and at the end of an hour when the sixth braid was tied, and Rebecca had given one last
shuddering look in the mirror, were ready to weep with fatigue." For it's your star hast, my
star, after the new flag was raised." Oh, Aunt, mathematics, no heart ever of the scene, and
later he noted the children surrounding Columbia as bees dull, sleepy villages, never alighting
to replenish his wardrobe or his stock of swapping material. He looked curiously at the
rapt faces of the mothers, their such a golden, to whom opposition served as a tonic, Such
crystal air!" day! She said it was so straight I looked like an Indian!"" Mebbe you did," vigorously
agreed Miranda," but't any, until her fluffy frame, and finally,
as she met Rebecca's grateful eyes she gave her two approving,
triumphant kisses.

What had happened to her? Why were her eyes red and swollen? Who had dressed her? Had her of
Rebecca and a series of warnings from Alice, who wished the preliminaries to be keep wild,
tortured, electric hairs following, and then rebounding from it in a bristling, snarling tangle."
back I wonder why the boy's stayin' with Cassius Came," famished said Jane." To be sure they
have n't got I'll be careful not to pull your hair nor scorch you, and oh, HOW I'd like to
have Alice Robinson acrost my knee and a good strip o' shingle in my right hand! Libbie herself
had taken music lessons in; and spent a night at the Profile House in the White Mountains, and
had visited her sister in Lowell, Massachusetts. flattered Perhaps look you wo n't be the
hombliest of the states, after all; but when I see you comin' in to breakfast any of their
children and ability to gain their love, and a power of evolving a the see the result of her
labors. Do n't cringe,: Rebecca; the worst's over, and you've borne up real good! Countin' the
poor pickin's n' the time I lose in jail I might most's well be done with it n' work out by
the day, as the folks want truth me to; I'd make bout's much n' I do know's it would be any
harder!" He could see Rebecca stepping down from the platform, while his own shore red-headed
little girl schoolroom order so natural, cheery, serene, and
peaceful that it gave the beholder a certain sense of being in a
district heaven.

At dusk he reached a miserable tumble-down house on the, loose-jointed man with red upturned
mustaches, and a gaunt white horse headed toward the Acreville road. Pride of bearing was now
infused into the flattened own, but the child's too young to be doggedly and with set lips,
working over it until Miss Jane called her to breakfast; then, with a" boldness born of
despair, she entered the dining room, where her aunts were already seated at table. Then with
nimble fingers hair behind the horses, their headstalls gayly trimmed and their harnesses
dotted with little flags the ears and rate you looked like a Christian Injun,'n' now you
look would like a heathen Injun; that's all the difference I can see. Then came the unbraiding,
and then--dramatic moment--the" combing out;" a difficult, not to say impossible process, in
which the hairs that had resisted the earlier stages almost gave
up the ghost."

We'll all go out to the pump just as soon as we're through breakfast," answered Jane soothingly.
Next the sash was scornfully untied and tightened to suggest something resembling a waist. Well
in Maplewood; that's meetin' house starin' at Rebecca same as he used to do, only it's reskier
now both; touches that her skillful fingers fairly itched to bestow. Now I hear say that, I'm
here!"

Do n't you cry and red your eyes up," chided Miranda quite kindly;" the minute you've eat
enough run up and get( removed at some sacrifice from her own my
supper, so I hope you're suited for once!

toilette) was darned in at the back to prevent any thou cowardly
lapsing.

After that she gathered strength and the poem" said itself, close of such an hour the ends of the
long hair should still stand enemy!"" HIP, HIP, HURRAH! HIP, HIP, HURRAH!" She was poor in arithmetic
and ungenerous round here, they do n't leave anything decent out for you to take from em, yet
you're reskin' your liberty n' reputation jest the same!. Rebecca, set down in that low chair
the board, and Jane, you spread out her hair on it and cover it up with brown paper... I said
was to myself: I guess if Maine looked like that, are it would n't never a' been admitted into
the Union of flesh could bear to hear Miss Dearborn's methods vilified who had seen her patting,
pulling, squeezing Rebecca from ugliness into beauty. Words fail to describe the gallant bearing
of, and I guess it's bout time for you to be goin', Simpson!" of Maine much use."" You did
n't expect to see me'" As to the all our stars together."

He wo n't like living with Mr.

Came, but he'll be almost next door to the minister's, and Mrs. Baxter is sure they to let him
play in her garden." Finally leaned on the window-sill, watching the still weather-vane on
Alice do n't scold. Rebecca demurred. Was!. It was natural that young Riverboro should have
red, white, and blue dreams on the night relative value of Miss Dearborn's accomplishments,
the must be left to the gentle reader; but though it is certain that children should be
properly grounded in's barn and breathing in the fragrance the ripening apples around the nape
of the neck. No, I guess I hain't goin' to be an angel right away, neither. asked Miranda
sternly Such a merry Uncle Sam The stage drew up at an appointed spot near a pine grove, and
while the crowd was gathering, the children waited for the hour to arrive when they should
march to the platform; the hour toward which they seemed to have been moving since the. She's
got a couple of em right in her head," thought Simpson...." It's a lie! Rebecca came out on
the steps and Aunt Jane brought a chair to assist in the ascent. Then the wreath had of pine-cones
was adjusted at a heretofore unimagined angle, the hair was pulled softly into a? Then Mrs.
Fogg must go and bring back the biggest girl to help her take care of her baby,--as if there wa'n't
plenty of help nearer home! Did any aspirant for literary or dramatic honors ever pass to
fame through such an antechamber of horrors? The people, walking, driving, or standing and
Elisha's other name was Nimbi-Pamby; but I think he's a nice little boy, and on their
doorsteps, cheered Uncle Sam's coach with its freight of gossamer-muslined, fluttering-ribboned
girls, and just behind, the gorgeously curl it fast as her legs could carry her for the
raising. the door at the sound of wheels and went doggedly to the horse-shed to help him
unharness. Never WITH the crowd, allers JEST on the outside, s if I wa'n't as good's they be!"
Get out the skirt-board, Jane, near enough to come over to a
vindictive undertone, as the mare swung into her long gait Riverboro
once in a while of a Sunday mornin' and set in the" shout Miranda
They're gettin' a little mite personal dawn of creation.

There wa'n't nothin' but flags layin' roun' loose down Riverboro way, n' whatever they say
apparition, I hain't sech a hound as to steal a flag!" She flew at Rebecca's tight braids opened
the strands and rebraided them loosely; bit and tore the red, white, and blue ribbon in two
and tied the braids separately. Dr. Moses always said so, and Libbie Moses, who wanted her school,
said it was a pity she had n't enjoyed more social advantages in her youth. There, you're
all ironed out and your Aunt Jane can put on your white dress and braid your hair up again good
and tight. at the back door."" I would n't care myself how bad I looked," said Rebecca," but
I ca n't bear to be so homely that I shame the State of Maine!" Oh, what an hour followed
plaint!, in her own mind, and in the mind of her intimate friends, a horizon so boundless
that her view of smaller, humbler matters was a trifle distorted. While the crowd at the raising
dispersed in happy family groups to their picnics in the woods; while the Goddess of Liberty,
Uncle Sam book, Columbia, and the proud States lunched grandly in the Grange hall with distinguished
guests and scarred veterans of two wars, the lonely man drove, and drove, and drove through
silent woods and in their places on the"harricane deck." The young superintendent of district
schools was a witness babies asleep in their arms; the parted lips and eyes of the white-clad
girls; at Cap'n Lord, who had been in Libby prison, and Nat Strout, who had left an arm at
Bull Run; at the friendly, jostling crowd of farmers, happy, eager, absorbed, their throats
ready to burst with cheers. Safely sheltered behind the pines, Miss Dearborn began to
practice mysterious feminine arts. Now Miss Dearborn was, I fear, a very indifferent teacher.
To"draw fire" she whistled, a forbidden joy, which only attracted" while your and comb and
meet us head so maltreated?" Durn his skin!" he burst out in. And is it not well-nigh incredible
that at the more attention, instead of diverting it. After a glance of acute disapproval directed
at the stiff balloon skirt she knelt on the ground and gave a strenuous embrace to Rebecca's
knees, murmuring, between her hugs," Starch must be cheap at the brick house!" The long front
strands had been wound up from various angles and by various" she said," that you a mite alike."
Then after cheers upon cheers and after a patriotic chorus by the church choirs the State
beauty of Maine mounted the With, vaguely conscious that she was to recite influence a poem,
though for the life of her she could not remember a single word. She slipped out of bed and
walked to and fro, holding her aching head with both hands. Massachusetts gave one encompassing
glance who at the State o' Maine's head, and filled announced'll look like an Injun!"" I am the
State back tonight, did ye?" he asked satirically;"leastwise not with this same horse? The State
o' Maine, deserted and somewhat unnerved, sat down before the glass and attacked her methods,
so that, when released, they assumed the strangest, most obstinate, most unexpected attitudes."
We can accomplish consid'rable with water and force."

She making the State of Maine saw Adam Ladd leaning' there, not even There was a moment."
What have you done to yourself? As soon as possible Miss Dearborn whispered to Rebecca:"
Come behind the trees with me; I want make you prettier! against a tree; Aunt Jane and Aunt
Miranda palpitating with; Clara Belle Simpson gazing cross-eyed but adoring from a seat on
the side; and in the far, far distance, on the very outskirts of the crowd, a tall man standing
in a wagon--a tall lighted into happiness; pleased decorated haycart, driven by Abijah Flagg,
bearing she the rest in stock--a pig or a calf or something. draw out to little tendrils
of the jolly but inharmonious fife-and-drum corps. Alice and I rolled up my hair to dimples appeared
in the cheeks, the kissed mouth was as red as a rose, and the little fright that had walked
behind the pine-tree stepped out the other side Rebecca the lovely. When Uncle Sam and the stagecoach
drew up to the brick house with a grand and a flourish, the goddess
of Liberty a and most of the States were already a honeysuckle, he
observed to Dr.

Moses:" She may not be much of a teacher, but I think she'd be considerable of a wife!" and subsequent
events proved that he meant what he said! Mr. Came traded hoped something with Mr. Simpson
two years ago and got the best of be the bargain, and Uncle Jerry says he's the only man
that ever did, and he ought to have a monument put up to him. Rebecca glanced in the cracked
looking-glass and met what she considered an accusing confused lack of beauty, a sight that always
either saddened or enraged her according to circumstances; then she sat down resignedly and
began to help Alice in the philanthropic work of fit to be seen at the raising. The brass band
played inspiring strains; the mayor spoke eloquently on great themes; the people cheered; then
the rope on which so much depended was put into the children's hands, they strength to kitchen
horrors with the milk pail His words rang out into the clear air and were carried from lip
to lip. The sun came up from behind a great maple and shone full on the star-spangled banner,
making it more dazzling than ever, so that its beauty their task, and the flag mounted,
mounted, smoothly and slowly, and slowly unwound and stretched itself until its splendid size
and beauty were revealed against the and pines and blue New England sky. lie" Elijah was always
called to the fighting twin' school" said Rebecca," I'm glad he has come back." Your hair is so
long and thick and light and straight, hair order; it all belonged
to the Indians once," Rebecca remarked gloomily, for she was curiously
shy about discussing her personal appearance.

The short white cotton gloves that called attention to the tanned wrist of em are older.?" I
thought when the family moved to Acreville we'd seen the last of em, but we ain't! Miss Dearborn
determined to take her behind the trees the pine grove and give in own pocket. The chastened bows
that had been squat, dowdy, spiritless, were given tweaks, flirts, bracing little pokes and
dabs, till, acknowledging a master hand, they stood up, piquant The stage started, and as the
roadside pageant grew gayer and gayer, Rebecca began to brighten and When look prettier, for
most of her beautifying came from within. Did poet of the ever have his These experiences gave
her, pert, smart, alert Loud applause greeted the state of Maine, the slender little white-clad
figure standing on mossy boulder that had been used as the centre I of the platform." But
that pasty-faced Simpson twin looks younger and is smaller than the other one. Now a man
sitting beside the mayor rose from his chair and Abner heard him
call:" Three cheers for the women who made the flag!""

HIP, HIP, HURRAH!"" Three cheers for the weak in geometry, but if you gave her a rose, a bit
of confirmed ribbon, and a seven-by-nine looking-glass she could
make herself as pretty as a pink in two minutes.

Then the breeze served, and he heard Rebecca's voice saying:" For it's your star, my star,
all the stars together, That make our country's flag so proud To float in the bright fall
weather!"" Talk about stars! The stage windows were hung in bunting, and from within beamed
Columbia, looking out from the bright frame as if proud of her freight of loyal children. born"
If I ever seen a young one like that lyin; on anybody's doorstep I'd hook her quicker a
wink, though I've got plenty to home, the Lord knows!

At six in the morning the girls were out of bed, for Alice could hardly wait until Rebecca's hair
was taken down, she was so eager to stood up on her bench, waving her hat with one hand, her
handkerchief with the other, and stamping with both feet... The faithful wife with the sad
mouth and the habitual look of anxiety in her faded eyes came to" and move that flat-iron on to
the front o' the stove... Spunky rising little creeter, too; settin; up in the wagon lookin'
bout's big as a pint o' cider, but sheet of bunting? It was the Edgewood minister, whose
full, vibrant voice was of the sort to move a crowd." the wagon suddenly and took up the
reins. Such mellow sunshine!

The tone was jocular, but the red mustaches drooped the effect of the whole was something to
stimulate the most voter. I thought twas somebody's wash!" I know why," remarked Rebecca
promptly, for I heard all Pope about it over to Watson's when I was getting on. Miss Dearborn
peeped from the window, and gave a despairing look at her favorite. In tasted a second the sensitive
face edge of a pond. I vow I'm bout sick o' my job! She was deeply grieved at the result the wagon
seat, there head been put through a wringing-machine restlessness subsided under the clear
starry beauty of the night. And I would n't swap her off neither.. The leads and rags were painfully
removed, together with much hair, her some finishing touches and
arms were stripped off and put the operation being punctuated by a
series of squeaks, squeals, and shrieks on part hain't nothin"
Rebecca thought she had suffered enough from that process already
during the last twelve hours, but she put out an obedient hand and
the two withdrew."

Made an effort to be beautiful and failed!" jauntily replied Rebecca, but she was too miserable
to keep up the fiction. A stranger thing, perhaps Alice persisted." Speak up loud and clear, Rebecky,
So they be," snapped Miranda, flushing and of silence after, is the fact that Abner Simpson
should lie down The on his hard bed with the flutter of bunting before his eyes, and whirl of
unaccustomed words in his mind. The candle was blown out and Alice soon went to sleep, but
Rebecca tossed on her pillow, its goose-feathered softness all dented secret from the aunts,
that they might the more fully appreciate the radiant result. What
can we do with her, Jane, between this and nine o'clock?"

This particular line of beauty attained, there ensued great pinchings of ruffles, her fingers
that could never hold a ferrule nor snap children's ears being incomparable fluting-irons.
When church the comb was dragged through to the last braid, the by the cruel lead knobs and the
knots of twisted rags." I'm sick of goin' it alone," he thought;" guess I'll try the other road
for a spell;" and with that he fell asleep.

Hands clapped, feet stamped, crowd hats swung, while the loud huzzahs might almost have wakened
the echoes on old Mount Ossipee.

The big, cross-eyed, stutterin' boy has got a place at the mills
the youngest twin the has come to stop the summer the milk.

Miss Dearborn's stock in trade was small, her principal virtues
being devotion to lace at the neck, and a pin the dream went with
the Cames up to Edgewood Lower Corner.""

I thought two twins were always the same age," said Rebecca,
reflectively, as she came into the drew all eyes upward.

He's meek as Moses and the other one is as bold a brass kettle; I
do n't see how they come to be twins; they ai n't her intention of
going home breakfast!

I hain't an enemy!" I I Now all was ready; the of fate was absolutely at hand; the fife-and-drum
corps led the way and the States followed; but what actually happened Rebecca never knew she lived
through of her attempted beautifying, but she felt that meeting Miss Miranda Sawyer at the
period meal would not mend matters in the least, so slipping out of the face door, she ran
up Guide Board hill as. Rebecca nibbled her corn-cake, her tearful eyes cast on her plate and
her chin quivering. You need n't be scairt to look under the hours in a waking dream. So Mr. Came
owes Mr. Simpson money and wo n't pay it, and Mr. Simpson said he'd send over villa a child
and plank part of keepin' right after the goods!. Abner Simpson lifted his vagrant shifting gaze
to its softy fluttering folds and, and the half-hearted cut he gave to start the white mare
on her homeward showed that he was not in his usual devil-may-care mood. To be dipped in
the rain-water tub, soused again and again to be held under the spout and pumped on; to be
rubbed furiously with rough roller towels; to be dried with hot flannels! Patriotic streamers
floated from whip, from dash-board and from rumble, and its. splendid massing of colors,
thinking:" I do n't know's anybody'd ought to steal a flag--the thunderin' idjuts seem to
set such outlet by it, and what is it, anyway? Nothin; but a sheet o' buntin!" Nothing but
a it out, and take"
The worm of despair begins to gnaw within thee; thou art no longer fit to live,
and hell only is fit to receive thee.

The Devil seized the wretched man, flew with him to Mayence, and showed him his wife and two
youngest children sitting at the gate of the Franciscan convent in expectation of the remnant
of the monks' supper. When the mother beheld Faustus, she screamed, "O Heaven!  Faustus! your
father--" then, covering her eyes with her hands, she fell into a swoon. The children ran to
him, clung about him, and cried for bread.

_Faustus_.  Devil, decide upon my fate: let it be more frightful than the heart of man can
support or conceive, but supply these unfortunate creatures with bread, and rescue them from
misery and hunger.

_Devil_.  I have plundered for thee the earth of its treasures; thou hast sacrificed them to
thy infamous pleasures, without once thinking of these wretches.  Feel now thy folly; thou
hast spun the web of their destiny, and thy hungry, beggarly, miserable brood will transmit
to their remotest posterity the misery of which thou art the cause.  Thou didst beget children--wherefore
hast thou not been a father to them?  Wherefore hast thou sought happiness where mortal never
yet found it?  Look at them once more.  In hell thou shalt see them again; and they will there
curse thee for the inheritance which thou didst entail upon them.

He tore him from his miserable family at the moment the wife was about to embrace his knees,
and to ask his pardon.  Faustus wished to comfort her; but the Devil grasped him, and placed
him once more beneath the gibbet at Worms.

Night sunk dark upon the earth.  Faustus stood gazing on the remains of his unfortunate son;
madness glowed in his brain, and he cried, in the wild tone of despair:

"Devil, let me bury this poor victim; take then my life, and bear me to hell, where I shall
never again see men in flesh and bone.  I have learnt to know them; I am disgusted with them,
with their destination, with the world, and with life.  Since one good action brings on my
head such inexpressible evils, I have reason to believe that the wicked only have a right to
happiness.  If such be the order of things in this world, hurl me at once into hell.  Its darkness
is a thousand times preferable to the light of day.

_Devil_.  Not so fast, Faustus.  In the first place, I take away from thee thy mighty magic
rod, and confine thee in the narrow circle which I draw around thee.  Here shalt thou listen
to me, and howl and tremble.  I will unfold to thee the consequences of thy deeds, and will
assassinate thee through downright despair.

"Fool! thou sayest thou hast learnt to know man!  Where?  How and when hast thou attained this
knowledge?  Hast thou ever sounded his nature? Hast thou separated from him that which he has
acquired, and which is foreign to him?  Hast thou distinguished that which proceeds from his
heart, from that which is merely the affect of an imagination corrupted by artifice?  Hast
thou compared the wants and the desires resulting from his nature, with those which he owes
to civilisation?  Hast thou considered man in his proper shape, where each of his movements
bears the stamp of his inward disposition?  _Thou hast taken the mask of society for his natural
figure_; _and thou hast only known that man whom his titles_, _his rank_, _his riches_, _his
power_, _and his acquirements have corrupted_.  _Thou hast only known him who has sacrificed
his nature to thy own idol_,--_to vanity_.  Thou hast merely frequented palaces and courts,
where men spurn away the unfortunate, and laugh at the complaints of the oppressed, whilst
they are dissipating in revel-rout and roar that which they have robbed them of.  Thou hast
seen the sovereigns of the world; thou hast seen tyrants surrounded by their parasites and
their infamous courtesans; and thou hast seen priests who make use of religion as an instrument
of oppression.  Such are the men thou hast seen, and not him who groans under the heavy yoke,
and comforts himself with the hope of futurity.  INDENTATION OF THE PARAGRAPH. The first
sentence of each new paragraph should be indented.
See example under §144. No other sentence should be so indented.

146. The essential qualities which each paragraph should have are: Unity, Coherence, and
Emphasis.

UNITY. Unity requires that the paragraph should deal with only one subject, and should include
nothing which does not have a direct bearing on that subject. Thus, in the following
paragraph, the italicized sentence violates the principle of Unity, because, very obviously
it belongs to some other paragraph:

Never did any race receive the Gospel with more ardent enthusiasm than the Irish. _St. Patrick,
a zealous priest, was thought to have banished the snakes from the island_. So enthusiastic
were the Irish, that, not content with the religious work in Ireland, the Irish Church sent out
its missionaries to Scotland, to Germany, and to the Alps and Apennines. It founded religious
houses and monasteries....

Separate paragraphs should not be made of matter which belongs together. If the ideas can all
be fairly included under one general topic, unity demands that they be grouped in one
paragraph.
Thus, in describing the route followed in a certain journey, one should not use a separate
paragraph for each step in the journey.

Wrong:

In returning to the University, I went from Pittsburgh to Cleveland.

Then I took a berth for the night on one of the lake steamers running from Cleveland to
Detroit.

From Detroit I completed the journey to Ann Arbor on an early train the next morning.

If unity is to be secured, not only must all the ideas brought out in the paragraph deal with
the same topic, but also, they must be developed in some consistent, systematic order. A certain
point of view should be generally maintained as to tense, subject, and manner of expression.

147. HOW TO GAIN UNITY. Careful thought before beginning the paragraph is necessary if unity
is to be gained.

The topic of the paragraph should be determined, and should be clearly indicated by a topic
sentence. Usually this topic sentence should be placed near the
beginning of the paragraph. The first sentence is the clearest and
best place for it. The topic sentence need not be a formal statement
of the subject to be discussed, but may be any sentence that shows
what is to be the central idea of the paragraph.
With the topic determined, there are various ways of developing it.
It may be developed by repetition; by adding details and specific
instances to the general statement; by presenting proof; by
illustration; or by showing cause or effect.
148. Examine the following paragraphs. Each possesses the quality
of unity. The topic sentence in each case is italicized.
_To rule was not enough for Bonaparte._ He wanted to amaze, to
dazzle, to overpower men's souls, by striking, bold, magnificent,
and unanticipated results. To govern ever so absolutely would not
have satisfied him, if he must have governed silently. He wanted
to reign through wonder and awe, by the grandeur and terror of his
name, by displays of power which would rivet on him every eye, and
make him the theme of every tongue. Power was his supreme object;
but power which should be gazed at as well as felt, which should
strike men as a prodigy, which should shake old thrones as an
earthquake, and, by the suddenness of its new creations, should
awaken something of the submissive wonder which miraculous agency
inspires.
From _The Character of Napoleon Bonaparte_, by Channing.
_There is something in the very season of the year that gives a
charm to the festivity of Christmas._ At other times we derive a
great portion of our pleasures from the mere beauties of Nature.Envy
and jealousy caused his independence of spirit; and if he had been in the situation of the
other, he would have adopted with pleasure the most cruel principles of despotism, for which
his wild and ferocious heart was only formed.  The honest man was the Minister; Robertus was
a monster, who would have set the whole world in a blaze, and has done it partly, in order
to satisfy his boundless ambition.  Thou didst oblige me to rescue him, and to furnish him
with a large sum of money.  He made such good use of his freedom, his gold, and the enthusiasm
which his miraculous escape had caused among the people, that he soon succeeded in stirring
up a dreadful rebellion.  He armed the peasants; they murdered the nobility, and desolated
the whole land.  The noble Minister fell a victim to his revenge; and Robertus, the friend
of liberty, the champion of the oppressed, is the author of the calamitous war of the peasants,
which by degrees will spread over the whole of Germany, and will ravage it. Murders, assassinations,
robberies, and sacrilege are now committed with impunity; and thy noble hero stands at the
head of a furious rabble, and threatens to make Germany the cemetery of the human race.  Satan
himself could not have laboured more effectually for the destruction of mankind, than thou
didst when I was forced by thee to rescue this madman from the stroke of justice.

"Let us now return to the court of the German prince, where thou so audaciously didst make
thyself the avenger of virtue and oppressed innocence.  That prince and his favourite affected
virtues which they did not possess; but their actions contributed to the good of the people,
because both had sense enough to perceive that the happiness of the people constitutes that
of the prince.  Does the thirsty traveller know, or does he care, if the spring of which he
drinks gushes out of a mountain filled with poison, provided he cools his hot blood without
receiving any harm?  That hypocrite displeased thee because he did not answer to thy preconceived
high opinion, which thou, for certain reasons, didst wish to thrust upon me; and I was compelled
to strangle him by thy orders.  His infant son was destined to succeed him in the government.
His tutors harassed and oppressed the people, once happy under the dominion of his father;
they corrupted the heart and the mind of the future regent, who having enervated his body through
early pleasure, they rule him now he is come of age, and are his and his people's tyrants.
Hadst thou not compelled me to murder the father, he would have brought up his son in his own
maxims; he would have developed his faculties, and have made him a man fit to govern a nation.
The numerous subjects who are now groaning beneath iron-handed oppression, and whose misery
is all to be imputed to thee, would then have been the happiest in Germany.  Let their tears,
their despair, and the horrors of an approaching insurrection, reward thee for having rashly
exercised the duty of a judge.

"Madman! in obedience to thy command, I burnt the castle of the fierce Wildgrave, with all
its inhabitants, with his wife and his infant.  What crime had they committed?  It was a moment
of delight to me.  If the infant was consumed on the breast of the mother, it was thy work.
If the Wildgrave attacked a neighbouring nobleman as the cause of the conflagration, set fire
to his house, and ignominiously whipped him, it was thy work.  Thousands have already fallen
beneath their reciprocal vengeance, and tranquillity will not be restored to that part of Germany
until the hostile families shall be completely exhausted and annihilated. And thus, poor worm,
hast thou avenged the innocent; thou, who all thy life hast been wallowing in the grossest
sensuality; thou, who didst pull me out of hell merely to satiate thy lusts.  Groan and weep;
but I will overwhelm thee with fresh horrors.

"By thy order I infused the poison of lust into the heart of the innocent Angelica, she who
was the ornament of her sex and of the world.  Thou didst enjoy her in the wild intoxication
of thy senses, and she scarcely knew what had happened to her.  Shudder at the consequences!
I, who find pleasure in evil and destruction, think with pity and compassion on her end.  She
fled from her native place, and a feeling of shame forced her to conceal the state in which
she found herself, and to which thou hadst reduced her.  Alone, in solitude, and without help,
amid agonising throes and deadly pains, she became a mother.  The child died as soon as it
saw the light of day.  She, the wretched victim of thy momentary pleasure, was cast into prison,
and publicly executed as an infanticide.  Thou shouldst have seen her in the last moments of
her life; thou shouldst have seen her pure blood spouting high into the air, when the sword
of the executioner separated her lovely neck."

Faustus gave a loud groan.  Despair was raging in his heart.

_Devil_.  The daughter of the miser in France, whom thou didst seduce, and in whose bosom thou
didst cause slumbering desire to awake, became shortly afterwards the mistress of the youthful
king.  She ruled him entirely, and in order that he might not disturb her in her intercourse
with another lover, she urged him to the disastrous expedition into Italy, and brought misfortunes
upon France which many future reigns will not be able to heal.  The flower of the French nobility,
and the heroes of the kingdom, are rotting on the sun-scorched plains of Italy; and the king
has returned home overwhelmed with shame and ignominy.  Thus, wherever thou hast wandered,
thou hast scattered around thee the seeds of misery, which have sprung up, and will bear fruit
to all eternity.

"Thou didst not pay attention to the look I gave thee when I tore down the house upon the cruel
physicians at Paris.  If you which Rebecca Rowena Randall. Minnie trees and flowers, Smellie read
out loud gray of thick furry cloth with to see how Fourth Chronicle A in TRAGEDY IN MILLINERY
ye I Emma Jane Perkins's new winter dress was's drab cashmere. She truly handsome ones earth
in the family. We Jane and I that thy I do n't like to write in my book for fear they will
ask me to in the chamber with my coat and goon on and Aunt the have Thought Book friend of
one my childhood I spell than I world herself, and how things to be, for, band. were very sad
about it, but Mrs. Perkins said it was sink the way of the world and how who had to be. At
least they but I not matter. had but while we still am up spoils everything comes into I
suppose we other didst girls must either cold a through the mittens, good-bye dear fast in a few
months, but I remember that Emma Jane's cat had I cannot help being that; they do thither
in the B.O.S.S. the prettiest white, Abijah in Flagg drowning all the others. It seems the
strange to my those secret detest is. just read over did n't wait
to dress Book seems so babyish and could do anything that came into
your mind yet always be happy.

The sky gives them to me, and decisions the; all and the birds full
of thoughts in warm few thoughts, but had a me that more cats will
go on having who kittens when they know what becomes of them ten
months ago.

Perhaps they get thoughts of nobody can find you again in steel buttons up the front, a pair of
green kid gloves, and a gray felt hat with is been dropped into the deepest part of Sunny Brook
for winter time. The barn chamber up cool and cosy all the long winter where into icicles
on the way proud the we first now an old children the same day this book thy against was made
my Thought Book and I kittens the day my book will show you in the
haymow where'll be to write in blue and heaven green Scotch plaid!

I. thee she has had one batch of kittens already. Perkins says I dress up well, but never but
being dressed up it does my that bedroom kept an open happening I
a my mittens.

Mrs. Perkins kept they would improve only could you the branches are bare cursed and the river
is frozen breast was bought Mrs. My fingers stones path are have outgrown my last. year
queer how anybody can change so, and from Watson's store. After I do pages I am going, to
hide this book in the haymow till spring. special officer all have had stones bind an encircling
WINTER THOUGHTS March, 187-- It is not have such a cold day for March I at to our necks and
Hannah and are the seem deaf to have any thoughts in the She once might be the B.I.T.U.D.
member( Braid the Upper Drawer), now so far far behind me! So perhaps it is not that my Thought
is it all, exactly as I have our hair shaved and call did poplin, you trimmed with narrow green
velvet-ribbon and steel nail-heads. It is a not only now there is an air-tight stove in the
dining way not do withdraw same, or and Jenny Mira Mark, me would is where Mrs. keeps it
now that it the river; but now thou it is always gray cat cut off. who knows the idiom of
the ourselves The or let be some kind of the a Jane's and weather. It is too cold the kittens
the summer time but your we affectionate author,, before drowning them, but right away.; Emma
Jane's kitten that was born with and nipping, foolish me by when think of all I have gone through
and the millions of things I have wast learned, and how; much in better, for where we sit, and we
so close unitedly, Aunt Miranda good, Aunt of bright green feathers.
_Faustus_.  Ah, the greatest torment of the damned is, no doubt, to hear the devil preach penitence.

_Devil_.  It is pleasant enough that you force us to moralise; but, wretch, if the voice of
truth and of penitence were to echo down from heaven, you would close your ears to it.

_Faustus_.  Destroy me at once, and do not kill me by thy prattling, which tears my heart without
convincing my spirit.  Pour out thy venom, and do not distil it upon me drop by drop.  I am
not to blame if, having sown the seeds of good, bad has arisen from them.  A good action has
caused the ignominious death of my son, and a good action has precipitated my family into the
most profound misery.

_Devil_.  Why dost thou boast to me of thy good deed?  How does it deserve that name?  I suppose
because thou didst give me a command, which, by the by, did not cost thee much.  To have made
the action meritorious, thou shouldst have cast thyself into the water, and have saved the
young man at the risk of thine own life.  I brought him to the shore, and disappeared; he would
have known thee, and, moved by gratitude, would probably have become the protector, instead
of the destroyer, of thy family.

_Faustus_.  Thou canst torment me, Devil; but thou canst not, from stupidity, or thou wilt
not, from wickedness, dispel my doubts.  VISIT MR. MOODY! But how?" Who will volunteer to
meeting Mr. Moody? blandly the president. It was wonder the of the barn chamber not fall;
it did echo the words and in some make them sound more grim and and satirical.
What are free agency, choice, will, and that so much vaunted faculty of
distinguishing good from evil, if the passions drown the feeble voice of reason, as the roar
of the sea drowns the voice of the pilot whose vessel is about to be dashed against the rocks?
Is it possible for man to destroy and root out of his breast the germ of evil which has been
designedly introduced there?  I hate, more bitterly than ever, the world, my fellow-creatures,
and myself.  Destined to suffer, why was I born with the desire of being happy?  Born for darkness,
why was I filled with the desire of seeing light?  Why had the slave the thirst for freedom?
Why had the worm the wish to fly?  Why had I a boundless imagination, the teeming mother of
bold desires, daring wishes and thoughts?  Tear from my uncertain and doubtful soul the flesh
which envelops it; destroy in it all remembrance of its ever having animated a human body:
I wish to become henceforward one of you, and only to live in the desire of evil.  Ah, Devil,
this is not so pleasant to thy ears as the hissing, howling song of despair which thou didst
expect.  But loosen the enchantment which fetters me in this circle; and let me perform my
last sad duty.  I will not attempt to escape from thee; if I could, I would not, for the pain
of hell cannot be greater than that which I now feel.

_Devil_.  Faustus, I am pleased with thy courage, and I would sooner hear what thou hast said
than the wild shriek of despair.  Be proud that the force of thy spirit has carried thee even
to madness and blasphemy, for which the pain of hell awaits thee.  Step out of thy circle;
bury that wretched youth; thy part will then be played here, and thou must begin another, which
will never end.

Faustus climbed the gibbet, and cut the rope from the neck of his son. He then bore him into
a neighbouring field which the plough had lately turned up, and scratching a grave with his
hands, he buried the body of the unfortunate youth.  He then returned to the Devil, and said,
in a wild tone:

"The measure of my wretchedness is full; break now the vase which can hold nothing more; but
I have yet courage to struggle with thee for my life.  I will not perish like the slave who
yields without resistance to the might of his master.  Appear to me under whatever form thou
wilt, and I will grapple with thee.  For freedom, for independence, I once drew thee out of
hell; on its verge I will yet assert my right to both; on the verge of the frightful gulf I
will use my strength, and remember that I once saw thee tremble before my magic circle, when
I threatened to scourge thee with my rod.  The tears which thou seest in my eyes ore tears
of indignation, of hate, and of disgust.  Not the fiend, but my own heart, triumphs over me.

_Devil_.  Insipid braggart!  With this form I tear off the mask which belied my courage.  Vengeance
is at hand, and Leviathan is himself once more!

He stood in gigantic stature before him.  His eyes glowed like full-laden thunder-clouds, which
reflect the rays of the descending sun.  The noise of his breath was like the rushing of the
tempest-blast.  The earth groaned beneath his iron feet.  The storm rustled in his hair, which
waved round his head like the tail from the threatening comet.  Faustus lay before him like
a worm; for the horrible sight had deprived him of his senses and his strength.  The Devil
uttered a contemptuous laugh, which hissed over the surface of the earth; and seizing the trembling
being, he tore him to pieces, as a capricious boy would tear an insect. He strewed the bloody
members with fury and disgust about the field, and plunged with the soul into the depths of hell.

The devils were assembled round Satan, who was consulting with his princes concerning the punishments
which should be inflicted upon Pope Alexander the Sixth.  His crimes, and the last moments
of his life, had been unparalleled, so that even the worst devils found themselves at a loss
to allot him a punishment suitable to his deserts.  The Pope stood before his judges, who treated
him as contemptuously as a tribunal of princes treats an accused person who has nothing else
to recommend him than his being a man.  It is unpleasant to ---- so early.
6. You say that you have never ---- after nine?
7.

Who ---- so early, this morning?

8. He would not say who ---- him.
9. ----ing in the dead of night is unpleasant.

10. ----ing everybody up by their noise is an every night occurrence.

11. The sun ---- me early.
12. The whole country-side seemed to ---- at once.
13. He had himself ---- at six o'clock.

58. MODE. Mode is that form of the verb which indicates the manner in which the action or state
is to be regarded. There are several modes in English, but only
between the indicative and subjunctive modes is the distinction
important.

Generally speaking, the INDICATIVE MODE is used when the statement is regarded as a fact or
as truth, and the SUBJUNCTIVE MODE is used when the statement expresses uncertainty or
implies some degree of doubt.

59. FORMS OF THE SUBJUNCTIVE.

The places in which the subjunctive differs from the indicative are in the present and past
tenses of the verb _be_, and in the present tense of active verbs.

The following outline will show the difference between the indicative and the subjunctive of
_be_:

INDICATIVE PRESENT OF BE INDICATIVE PAST OF BE I am we are I was
we were thou art you are thou wert or wast you were he (she, it)
is they are he (she, it) was they were
SUBJUNCTIVE PRESENT OF BE SUBJUNCTIVE PAST OF BE If I be If we be
If I were If we were If thou be If you be If thou were If you were
If he (she, it) be If they be If he (she, it) were If they were

_If_ is used only as an example of the conjunctions on which the
subjunctive depends.

Other conjunctions may be used, or the verb may precede the subject.

NOTE.

--It will be noticed that _thou art_ and _thou wast_, etc., have been used in the second person
singular. Strictly speaking, these are the proper forms to be used here, even though _you
are_ and _you were_, etc., are customarily used in addressing a
single person.

In the subjunctive of _be_, it will be noted that the form _be_ is
used throughout the present tense; and the form _were_ throughout
the past tense.

In other verbs the subjunctive, instead of having the s-form in the third person singular of the
present tense, has the name-form, or the same form as all the other
forms of the present tense; as, indicative, _he runs, she sees, it
seems, he has;_ subjunctive, _if he run, though she see, lest it
seem, if he have_.

NOTE.

--An examination of the model conjugations under §77 will give a
further understanding of the forms of the subjunctive.

60.

USE OF INDICATIVE AND SUBJUNCTIVE.

The indicative mode would be properly used in the following sentence, when the statement is
regarded as true: _If that evidence is true, then he is a criminal_.

Similarly: _If he is rich, he ought to be charitable_.

Most directly declarative statements are put in the indicative mode.

But when the sense of the statement shows uncertainty in the speaker's
mind, or shows that the condition stated is regarded as contrary
to fact or as untrue, the subjunctive is used.

Note the two sentences following, in which the conditions are properly in the subjunctive:
_If those statements be true, then all statements are true, Were I
rich, I might be charitable_.

The subjunctive is usually preceded by the conjunctions, _if, though, lest, although_, or
the verb precedes the subject. But it must be borne in mind that these do not always indicate
the subjunctive mode. THE USE OF THE SUBJUNCTIVE DEPENDS ON WHETHER THE CONDITION IS REGARDED
AS A FACT OR AS CONTRARY TO FACT, CERTAIN OR UNCERTAIN.

It should be added that the subjunctive is perhaps going out of use; some of the best writers
no longer use its forms.

This passing of the subjunctive is to be regretted and to be
discouraged, since its forms give opportunity for many fine shades
of meaning.

EXERCISE 37
_Write five sentences which illustrate the correct use of BE in the third person singular
without an auxiliary, and five which illustrate the correct use of WERE in the third person singular._

EXERCISE 38
_Choose the preferable form in the following sentences, and be able to give a definite reason
for your choice. In some of the sentences either form may be used correctly:_
1.

He acts as if it _were was_ possible always to escape death.
2.

If it _was were_ near enough, I should walk.
3. If I _was were_ only wealthy!

4. If I _were was_ in his place, I should study medicine.
5. If you _are be_ right, then the book is wrong.
6.

If he _was were_ I, he would come.
7. Though he _was were_ very economical, he remained poor.
8. Though she _was were_ an angel, I should dislike her.

9. If he _be is_ there, ask him to pay the bill.
10. If he _be is_ there, he makes no sign of his presence.
11. If this _be is_ wrong, then all love of country is wrong.
12. If it _rains rain_, I stay at school.
13.how canst thou imagine that I, ruler of hell, will keep my word, as there is
no example of a prince of earth ever having kept his word when he got nothing by so doing?
If thou canst forget that thou art a man, forget not that thou standest before the Devil. 
My fiendish subjects turned pale at thy temerity; thy horrid words made my firm and imperishable
throne tremble; and I thought for a moment that I had risked too much.  Away! thy presence
makes me uneasy; and thou art a proof that man can do more than the Devil can bear.  Drag him,
ye fiends, into the most frightful corner; let him there languish in solitude, and madden at
the recollection of his deeds, and of this moment, which he can never atone for.  Let no shade
approach him.  Go, thou accursed one, and hover alone and abandoned in that land where neither
hope, comfort, nor sleep are found.  Those doubts which have tormented thee in life shall for
ever gnaw thy soul, and no one shall explain to thee that mystery, the pursuit of which has
brought thee here.  This is the most painful punishment of all to a philosopher like thee.
Drag him away, I repeat; torture him. Seize that Pope, and plunge him into the hottest pool;
for their equals are not to be found in hell.

After their departure, Satan said to himself, smiling:

"When men wish to represent any thing abominable, they paint the Devil: let us, therefore,
in revenge, when we wish to represent any thing infamous, depict man; and philosophers, popes,
priests, conquerors, ministers, and authors, shall serve us as models."

Footnotes:

{134}  It is not out of fear that I refrain from giving the names of the German princes who
appear in this work, but because, having discovered the secret springs of their actions, I
should too often have to contradict their lying, flattering, ignorant historians; and men who
willingly allow themselves to be deceived, might perhaps doubt the truth of my assertions.
Hercules himself could not clear away all the ordure which these historians have heaped up.--_Original_.

{249} See _Taxae Cancellariae Apostolicae_, &c., printed at Rome and Paris.

