Through the exertions of Sir Charles Newton, to whom every student of classic art should be
grateful, some of the wonderful treasures so long immured in the grimy vaults of the British
Museum have at last been brought to light, and the new Sculpture Room now opened to the public
will amply repay the trouble of a visit, even from those to whom art is a stumbling-block and
a rock of offence.  For setting aside the mere beauty of form, outline and mass, the grace
and loveliness of design and the delicacy of technical treatment, here we have shown to us
what the Greeks and Romans thought about death; and the philosopher, the preacher, the practical
man of the world, and even the Philistine himself, cannot fail to be touched by these "sermons
in stones," with their deep significance, their fertile suggestion, their plain humanity. 
Common tombstones they are, most of them, the work not of famous artists but of simple handicraftsmen,
only they were wrought in days when every handicraft was an art.  The finest specimens, from
the purely artistic point of view, are undoubtedly the two stelai found at Athens.  They are
both the tombstones of young Greek athletes.  In one the athlete is represented handing his
strigil to his slave, in the other the athlete stands alone, strigil in hand.  They do not
belong to the greatest period of Greek art, they have not the grand style of the Phidian age,
but they are beautiful for all that, and it is impossible not to be fascinated by their exquisite
grace and by the treatment which is so simple in its means, so subtle in its effect.  All the
tombstones, however, are full of interest.  Here is one of two ladies of Smyrna who were so
remarkable in their day that the city voted them honorary crowns; here is a Greek doctor examining
a little boy who is suffering from indigestion; here is the memorial of Xanthippus who, probably,
was a martyr to gout, as he is holding in his hand the model of a foot, intended, no doubt,
as a votive offering to some god.  A lovely stele from Rhodes gives us a family group.  The
husband is on horseback and is bidding farewell to his wife, who seems as if she would follow
him but is being held back by a little child.  The pathos of parting from those we love is
the central motive of Greek funeral art.  It is repeated in every possible form, and each mute
marble stone seems to murmur [Greek text].  Roman art is different.  It introduces vigorous
and realistic portraiture and deals with pure family life far more frequently than Greek art
does.  They are very ugly, those stern-looking Roman men and women whose portraits are exhibited
on their tombs, but they seem to have been loved and respected by their children and their
servants.  Here is the monument of Aphrodisius and Atilia, a Roman gentleman and his wife,
who died in Britain many centuries ago, and whose tombstone was found in the Thames; and close
by it stands a stele from Rome with the busts of an old married couple who are certainly marvellously
ill-favoured. The contrast between the abstract Greek treatment of the idea of death and the
Roman concrete realization of the individuals who have died is extremely curious.

Besides the tombstones, the new Sculpture Room contains some most fascinating examples of Roman
decorative art under the Emperors. The most wonderful of all, and this alone is worth a trip
to Bloomsbury, is a bas-relief representing a marriage scene, Juno Pronuba is joining the hands
of a handsome young noble and a very stately lady.  There is all the grace of Perugino in this
marble, all the grace of Raphael even.  The date of it is uncertain, but the particular cut
of the bridegroom's beard seems to point to the time of the Emperor Hadrian.  It is clearly
the work of Greek artists and is one of the most beautiful bas-reliefs in the whole Museum.
There is something in it which reminds one of the music and the sweetness of Propertian verse.
Then we have delightful friezes of children.  One representing children playing on musical
instruments might have suggested much of the plastic art of Florence.  Indeed, as we view these
marbles it is not difficult to see whence the Renaissance sprang and to what we owe the various
forms of Renaissance art.  The frieze of the Muses, each of whom wears in her hair a feather
plucked from the wings of the vanquished sirens, is extremely fine; there is a lovely little
bas- relief of two cupids racing in chariots; and the frieze of recumbent Amazons has some
splendid qualities of design.  A frieze of children playing with the armour of the god Mars
should also be mentioned.  It is full of fancy and delicate humour.

 We hope that some more of the hidden treasures will shortly be
catalogued and shown.  In the vaults at present there is a very
remarkable bas-relief of the marriage of Cupid and Psyche, and
another representing the professional mourners weeping over the
body of the dead.  The fine cast of the Lion of Chaeronea should
also be brought up, and so should the stele with the marvellous
portrait of the Roman slave.  Economy is an excellent public
virtue, but the parsimony that allows valuable works of art to
remain in the grim and gloom of a damp cellar is little short of a
detestable public vice.

L'ENVOI

Amongst the many young men in England who are seeking along with me to continue and to perfect
the English Renaissance--jeunes guerriers du drapeau romantique, as Gautier would have called
us-- there is none whose love of art is more flawless and fervent, whose artistic sense of
beauty is more subtle and more delicate--none, indeed, who is dearer to myself--than the young
poet whose verses I have brought with me to America; verses full of sweet sadness, and yet
full of joy; for the most joyous poet is not he who sows the desolate highways of this world
with the barren seed of laughter, but he who makes his sorrow most musical, this indeed being
the meaning of joy in art--that incommunicable element of artistic delight which, in poetry,
for instance, comes from what Keats called "sensuous life of verse," the element of song in
the singing, made so pleasurable to us by that wonder of motion which often has its origin
in mere musical impulse, and in painting is to be sought for, from the subject never, but from
the pictorial charm only--the scheme and symphony of the colour, the satisfying beauty of the
design:  so that the ultimate expression of our artistic movement in painting has been, not
in the spiritual vision of the Pre-Raphaelites, for all their marvel of Greek legend and their
mystery of Italian song, but in the work of such men as Whistler and Albert Moore, who have
raised design and colour to the ideal level of poetry and music.  For the quality of their
exquisite painting comes from the mere inventive and creative handling of line and colour,
from a certain form and choice of beautiful workmanship, which, rejecting all literary reminiscence
and all metaphysical idea, is in itself entirely satisfying to the aesthetic sense--is, as
the Greeks would say, an end in itself; the effect of their work being like the effect given
to us by music; for music is the art in which form and matter are always one--the art whose
subject cannot be separated from the method of its expression; the art which most completely
realizes for us the artistic ideal, and is the condition to which all the other arts are constantly
aspiring.

Now, this increased sense of the absolutely satisfying value of beautiful workmanship, this
recognition of the primary importance of the sensuous element in art, this love of art for
art's sake, is the point in which we of the younger school have made a departure from the teaching
of Mr. Ruskin,--a departure definite and different and decisive.

Master indeed of the knowledge of all noble living and of the wisdom of all spiritual things
will he be to us ever, seeing that it was he who by the magic of his presence and the music
of his lips taught us at Oxford that enthusiasm for beauty which is the secret of Hellenism,
and that desire for creation which is the secret of life, and filled some of us, at least,
with the lofty and passionate ambition to go forth into far and fair lands with some message
for the nations and some mission for the world, and yet in his art criticism, his estimate
of the joyous element of art, his whole method of approaching art, we are no longer with him;
for the keystone to his aesthetic system is ethical always.  He would judge of a picture by
the amount of noble moral ideas it expresses; but to us the channels by which all noble work
in painting can touch, and does touch, the soul are not those of truths of life or metaphysical
truths.  To him perfection of workmanship seems but the symbol of pride, and incompleteness
of technical resource the image of an imagination too limitless to find within the limits of
form its complete expression, or of love too simple not to stammer in its tale.  But to us
the rule of art is not the rule of morals. In an ethical system, indeed, of any gentle mercy
good intentions will, one is fain to fancy, have their recognition; but of those that would
enter the serene House of Beauty the question that we ask is not what they had ever meant to
do, but what they have done. Their pathetic intentions are of no value to us, but their realized
creations only.  Pour moi je prefere les poetes qui font des vers, les medecins qui sachent
guerir, les peintres qui sanchent peindre.

Nor, in looking at a work of art, should we be dreaming of what it symbolises, but rather loving
it for what it is.  Indeed, the transcendental spirit is alien to the spirit of art.  The metaphysical
mind of Asia may create for itself the monstrous and many-breasted idol, but to the Greek,
pure artist, that work is most instinct with spiritual life which conforms most closely to
the perfect facts of physical life also.  Nor, in its primary aspect, has a painting, for instance,
any more spiritual message or meaning for us than a blue tile from the wall of Damascus, or
a Hitzen vase.  It is a beautifully coloured surface, nothing more, and affects us by no suggestion
stolen from philosophy, no pathos pilfered from literature, no feeling filched from a poet,
but by its own incommunicable artistic essence--by that selection of truth which we call style,
and that relation of values which is the draughtsmanship of painting, by the whole quality
of the workmanship, the arabesque of the design, the splendour of the colour, for these things
are enough to stir the most divine and remote of the chords which make music in our soul, and
colour, indeed, is of itself a mystical presence on things, and tone a kind of sentiment .
. . all these poems aim, as I said, at producing a purely artistic effect, and have the rare
and exquisite quality that belongs to work of that kind; and I feel that the entire subordination
in our aesthetic movement of all merely emotional and intellectual motives to the vital informing
poetic principle is the surest sign of our strength.

But it is not enough that a work of art should conform to the aesthetic demands of the age:
there should be also about it, if it is to give us any permanent delight, the impress of a
distinct individuality.  Whatever work we have in the nineteenth century must rest on the two
poles of personality and perfection.  And so in this little volume, by separating the earlier
and more simple work from the work that is later and stronger and possesses increased technical
power and more artistic vision, one might weave these disconnected poems, these stray and scattered
threads, into one fiery-coloured strand of life, noting first a boy's mere gladness of being
young, with all its simple joy in field and flower, in sunlight and in song, and then the bitterness
of sudden sorrow at the ending by Death of one of the brief and beautiful friendships of one's
youth, with all those unanswered lodgings and questionings unsatisfied by which we vex, so
uselessly, the marble face of death; the artistic contrast between the discontented incompleteness
of the spirit and the complete perfection of the style that expresses it forming the chief
element of the aesthetic charm of these particular poems;--and then the birth of Love, and
all the wonder and the fear and the perilous delight of one on whose boyish brows the little
wings of love have beaten for the first time; and the love-songs, so dainty and delicate, little
swallow-flights of music, and full of such fragrance and freedom that they might all be sung
in the open air and across moving water; and then autumn, coming with its choirless woods and
odorous decay and ruined loveliness, Love lying dead; and the sense of the mere pity of it.

