THE TRUE CITIZEN, HOW TO BECOME ONE

BY

W. F. MARKWICK, D. D. AND W. A. SMITH, A. B.

PREFACE.

This book, intended as a supplementary reader for pupils in the seventh and eighth grades of
school, has been prepared with a view to meeting a real need of the times. While there are
a large number of text-books, and several readers, dealing with citizenship from the political
point of view, the higher aspects of citizenship--the moral and ethical--have been seriously
overlooked.

The authors of this work have searched in vain for something which would serve as an aid to
the joint development of the natural faculties and the moral instincts, so as to produce a
well-rounded manhood, upon which a higher type of citizenship might be built. The development
of character appears, to us, to be of far greater importance, in the preparation of the youth
for the discharge of the duties of public life, than is mere political instruction; for only
by introducing loftier ethical standards can the grade and quality of our citizenship be raised.

It is universally conceded that ethics and civics should go hand in hand; and yet pupils pass
through our schools by the thousand, without having their attention definitely called to this
important subject; and only an honest desire to aid in improving this state of affairs, has
led to the preparation of these pages.

The plan of the book is simple in the extreme. It consists of thirty-nine chapters,--one for
each week of the school year;--to eachof which has been prefixed five memory gems; one for
each school day. Especial care has been taken to use only such language as will be perfectly
intelligible to the pupils for whom it is intended.

The commander of the Eleventh Corps, however, far from making any new works, did not man those
he had, but left his own lines and went with Barlow's brigade to see what Sickles was
doing.

The subsequent investigation of this sad business by the Congressional Committee on the Conduct
of the War was very much of a farce, and necessarily unreliable; for so long as both Hooker
and Howard were left in high command, it was absurd to suppose their subordinates would
testify against them. Any officer that did so would have soon found his military career brought
to a close.

Howard was in one or two instances mildly censured for not keeping
a better lookout, but as a general thing the whole blame was thrown
on the Germans.

Hooker himself attributed the trouble to the fact that Howard did not follow up Jackson's movements,
and allowed his men to stray from their arms.

  A great French military writer has said, "It is permissible for an
officer to be defeated; but never to be surprised."

It is, of course, only fair to hear what Howard himself has to say
in relation to this matter.

He writes in his official report of the battle as follows:
"Now as to the cause of the disaster to my corps.

"_First_.--Though constantly threatened, and apprised of the moving of the enemy, yet the woods
were so dense that he was able to move a large force, whose exact
whereabouts neither patrols, reconnoissances, nor scouts ascertained.

"He succeeded in forming a column opposite to and outflanking my
right.

"_Second_.--By the panic produced by the enemy's reverse fire, regiments and artillery were
thrown suddenly upon those in position.

"_Third_.

--The absence of General Barlow's brigade, which I had previously located in reserve, and in
_echelon_ with Colonel Von Gilsa's, so as to cover his right flank."

The first proposition implies that Howard did not know Jackson
intended to attack his right, and therefore did not prepare for him
in that direction, but as his front was well fortified, and his
flank unprotected, it was plainly his duty to strengthen the weak
part of his line.

To suppose that Jackson would run a great risk, and spend an entire day in making this long
circuit for the purpose of assailing his enemy in front, is hardly
reasonable; for he could have swung his line around against it at
once, had he desired to do so.

The fierce rush of the rebels, who came in almost simultaneously
with the pickets, first struck General Von Gilsa's two small regiments
and the two guns in the road, the only force that actually fronted
them in line.

Von Gilsa galloped at once to Howard's Headquarters at Dowdall's
Tavern to ask for immediate reinforcements.

He was told, "he must hold his post with the men he had, and trust
to God;" information which was received by the irate German with
objurgations that were not at all of an orthodox character.

Devens' division, thus taken in flank, was driven back upon Schurz's
division, and the being unable to form, was heaped up after some
resistance on Steinwehr's division, in the uttermost confusion and
disorder.

Steinwehr had only Buschbeck's brigade with him; the other--that
of Barlow--having been sent out to reinforce Sickles; but he formed
line promptly, behind a weak intrenchment, which had been thrown
across the road, and with the aid of his artillery kept Jackson at
bay for three-quarters of an hour.

Howard exerted himself bravely then, and did all he could to rally
                                        the fugitives; but Rodes' division, which attacked him, was soon
reinforced by that of Colston, and the two together folded around
his flanks, took his line in reverse, and finally carried the
position with a rush; and then Buschbeck's brigade retired in good
order through the flying crowd, who were streaming in wild disorder
to the rear past Hooker's headquarters.

And now, with the right of our line all gone, with a yawning gap
     where Sickles' corps and Williams' division had previously been
posted, with Lee thundering against the centre and left, and Jackson
taking all our defences in reverse, his first line being close on
Chancellorsville itself, it seemed as if the total rout of the army
was inevitable.

Just before this attack, Hooker had decided to interpose more
                                        force between the wings of the rebel army, in order to permanently
dissever Jackson from the main body.

If Sickles had been allowed to attack the left flank of the enemy opposite the Furnace, as
he requested permission to do earlier in the afternoon, this co-operative movement could
hardly have failed to produce great results; afterward it was too late to attempt it. As
already stated, Williams' division struck Anderson in front on Birney's left, and Geary
attacked McLaws across the Plank Road to the right of Hancock. Geary found the enemy strongly
posted, and as he made no progress, returned to his works. When the rout of the Eleventh Corps
took place, Williams also hastened back, but was fired upon by
Jackson's troops, who now occupied the intrenchments he had left.

Sickles thinks if this had not occurred several regiments of the enemy would have been cut
off from the main body.

CHAPTER V. JACKSON'S ADVANCE IS CHECKED.

The constantly increasing uproar, and the wild rush of fugitives past the Chancellorsville House,
told Hooker what had occurred, and roused him to convulsive life. His staff charged on the
flying crowd, but failed to stop them, and it became necessary to form a line of fresh troops
speedily, as Jackson was sweeping everything before him. It was not easy to find an adequate
force for this emergency.

The whole line was now actively engaged, Slocum being attacked on the south, and Couch and
Meade on the east. Fortunately, Berry's division was held in reserve, and was available. They
were true and tried men, and went forward at once to the rescue. Berry was directed to form
across the Plank Road, drive the rebels back, and retake the lost intrenchments; an order easy
to give, but very difficult to execute.

The most he could do, under the circumstances, was to form his line in the valley opposite
Fairview, and hold his position there, the enemy already having possession of the higher
ground beyond.

Before Berry went out, Warren had stopped several of the Eleventh Corps batteries, and had
formed them across the Plank Road, behind the position of the infantry. Winslow's Battery
D, of the 1st New York, and Dimick's Battery H, of the 1st United
States, were already there, with Hooker in person, having anticipated
the movement.

These guns were very destructive, and were the principal agent in checking the enemy. As soon
as they had formed in line, Warren gave orders to Colonel Best, Chief of Artillery to the Twelfth
Corps, to post more batteries on the eminence called Fairview, to the rear and left of the
others.

Few persons appreciate the steadiness and courage required, when all around is in flight and
confusion, for a force to advance steadily to the post of danger in front and meet the
exulting enemy. Such men are heroes, and far more worthy of honor
than those who fight in the full blaze of successful warfare.

The thickets being unfavorable to cavalry, Sickles had sent Pleasonton back to Hazel Grove with
two mounted regiments, the 8th and 17th Pennsylvania and Martin's battery, while the 6th New
York was scouting the woods on his right, dismounted.

Upon reaching the open space which he had left when he went to the front, Pleasonton found
the place full of the debris of the combat--men, horses, caissons, ambulances--all hurrying furiously
to the rear. To close the way he charged on the flying mass, at Sickles' suggestion, who had
ridden in advance of his troops, which were still behind at the
Furnace.

Sickles ordered Pleasonton to take command of the artillery, and the latter took charge of twenty-two
guns, consisting of his own and the Third Corps batteries. The latter had already been rallied
and formed in line by Captain J. F. Huntington, of the Ohio battery. As senior officer
present he assumed command of the Third Corps artillery. Unfortunately there was not time to load
or aim, for the rebels were close at hand, and their triumphant
yells were heard as they took possession of the works which Buschbeck
had so gallantly defended.

This advantageous position, which was on an eminence overlooking Chancellorsville and the Plank
Road, and which was really the key of the battle-field, was about to be lost. There was but
one way to delay Jackson, some force must be sacrificed, and Pleasonton ordered Major Peter
Keenan, commanding the 8th Pennsylvania Cavalry, to charge the ten
thousand men in front with his four hundred.

Keenan saw in a moment that if he threw his little force into that seething mass of infantry,
horses and men would go down on all sides, and few would be left to tell the tale. A sad smile lit
up his noble countenance as he said, _"General, I will do it."_ Thus, at thirty-four years
of age, he laid down his life, literally impaled on the bayonets of the enemy, saving the army
from capture and his country from the unutterable degradation of slave-holding rule in the
Northern States.

The service rendered on that occasion is worthy to be recorded in history with the sacrifices
of Arthur Winckelried in Switzerland, and the Chevalier d'Assas in France.*
[* Major J. R. Carpenter, one of the officers who headed this charge, asserts that Keenan made it
without orders, his only instructions being to report to General Howard to assist in rallying the
Eleventh Corps. Pleasonton's testimony, however, is positive on the subject, and is supported
by that of his aide, Colonel Clifford Thompson.

Perhaps Carpenter did not hear all the conversation that passed between Pleasonton and Keenan.]

A large part of his command were lost, but the short interval thus gained was of priceless value.
Pleasonton was enabled to clear a space in front of him, and twenty-two guns, loaded with
double canister, were brought to bear upon the enemy. They came bursting over the parapet
they had just taken with loud and continuous yells, and formed line of battle within three
hundred yards. All his guns fired into their masses at once. The discharge seemed fairly to blow
them back over the works from which they had just emerged. Their artillery, under Colonel
Crutchfield, which had been brought up, was almost annihilated by
the fire of the battery on the Plank Road.

This gave time to reload the guns.

The enemy rallied and opened a furious musketry fire from the woods against Pleasonton and
Berry. Both stood firm, and then came two charges in succession which reached almost to the
muzzles of Pleasonton's guns, which were only supported by two
small regiments of cavalry--the 6th New York, and a new and untried
regiment, the 17th Pennsylvania.

The whole did not amount to over 1,000 men. Archer's brigade, on Jackson's left, which had not
been stayed by Keenan's charge, gained the woods and the Plank Road, and opened a severe
enfilading fire. Huntington changed front with his own battery and repelled the assault. The
110th Pennsylvania regiment, of Whipple's division, arrived in time to strengthen the cavalry
support, and many of the Eleventh Corps men fell into line also. The last charge of the enemy
was baffled by the opportune arrival of Birney's and Whipple's divisions, and Barlow's
brigade.

By this time, too (about 9 P.M.), Hays' brigade of French's corps had been posted on the right,
in rear and oblique to Berry's second line. The latter had greatly strengthened his position with
log breastworks, etc. Captain Best, of the 4th United States Artillery, in the meantime had exerted
himself to collect forty or fifty guns belonging to the Twelfth, Third, and some he had stopped
from the Eleventh Corps, and had arranged them at Fairview, to
fire over the heads of Berry's troops into the thicket where the
enemy were posted and along the Plank Road.

Hooker was so disheartened at the unexpected success of the enemy, that when the first shock
came he sent word to Sickles to save his command if he could. There is little doubt that at
one time he thought of retreating and leaving the Third Corps to its fate; for when the
enemy charged there was an awful gap in our lines; Birney's,
Whipple's, and Williams' divisions and Barlow's brigade were all
absent.

Fortunately Jackson was unable to press his advantage. The ardor of the charge, the darkness, the
thickets and the abattis in which his forces became entangled, caused Rodes' and Colston's
divisions to be all intermingled, creating such disorder and confusion that military organization
was suspended, and orders could neither be communicated nor obeyed. Jackson therefore halted
his men in the edge of the woods, about a mile and a half from
Chancellorsville, posted two brigades on the two roads that came
in from the south, and sent for Hill's division, which was in rear
and which had not been engaged, to take the front, while the other
two divisions fell back to the open space at Dowdall's Tavern to
reform their lines.

Pending this movement he rode out on the Plank Road with part of his staff and a few orderlies
to reconnoitre, cautioning his pickets not to fire at him on his return. When he came back new
men had been posted, and his approach was mistaken for the advance of Pleasonton's cavalry.
His own troops fired into him with fatal effect. Nearly all his escort were killed or wounded and
he received three balls, which shattered both arms. His horse ran toward the Union lines,
and although he succeeded in turning him back, he was dashed against the trees and nearly
unhorsed. He reached the Confederate lines about the time our artillery again opened up on
the Plank Road with a fire that swept everything from its front. Several of his attendants
were killed and others wounded. The rebels found the utmost difficulty in keeping their men in
line under this tremendous fire.

Sentries had to be posted, and great precautions taken to prevent the troops from giving way.
General Pender recognized Jackson as he was carried past, and complained of the demoralizing
effect of this cannonade, but Jackson replied sharply and sternly, "You must hold your ground,
General Pender." He was removed to the Wilderness Tavern, and as General Lee was in some fear
that Averell's cavalry, then at Elley's Ford, would make a dash and capture him, he was sent
on to Guiney's Station, on the Fredericksburg and Richmond Railroad, where he died on the 10th
of May. Whether the rebels killed him, or whether some of his wounds came from our own troops,
the 1st Massachusetts or 73d New York, who were firing heavily in that direction, is a matter
of some doubt. While leaning over him and expressing his sympathy,
A.

P. Hill was also wounded by the fire from a section of Dimick's battery, posted in advance in the
Plank Road,* and the command of his corps was assigned at his request to the cavalry general,
J. E. B. Stuart.

When our artillery fire ceased, Hill's troops took position in front
of the others.
[* Young Dimick was the son of a distinguished general of the regular
army.

Though wounded on this occasion he refused to leave the field.

The next day he again sought the post of danger and was mortally
wounded while holding the Plank Road.]

CHAPTER VI. SICKLES FIGHTS HIS WAY BACK.--ARRIVAL OF THE FIRST CORPS.
                                

Sickles, with his ten thousand men heaped up at Hazel Grove, was still
                                cut off from the main body and could only communicate with Hooker's
headquarters by means of bypaths and at great risk.

The last orders he received, at 5 P.M., had been to attack Jackson's
    right flank and check his advance.

He determined to do this and force his way back, and with the
    co-operation of Williams' and Berry's divisions, retake the Plank
Road with the bayonet.

Ward's brigade was posted in the front line and Hayman's and Graham's brigades a hundred yards
in rear. A special column, under Colonel Egan of the 40th New York, was formed on the extreme
left. The muskets were uncapped and at midnight the command moved silently against the enemy, and
in spite of a terrific outburst of musketry and artillery from the open space at Dowdall's, the
Plank Road and the works which Buschbeck had defended were regained. Berry at once moved forward
his line to hold them. Many guns and caissons taken from Howard's corps, and Whipple's ammunition
train of pack mules were also recovered.

The confusion into which the enemy were thrown by this assault against their right, enabled
Berry to easily repulse the attack on him, and he continued to hold the position. The result
of this brilliant movement was the reoccupation of a great part of the works Howard had lost, and
the capture of two guns and three caissons from the enemy. It is said that in this conflict
some of Sickles' men, in consequence of the thickets and confusion,
finding themselves surrounded, surrendered as they supposed to the
enemy, but to their delight found themselves in Berry's division,
among their old comrades.

Soon after this fight was over Mott's brigade of the Third Corps, which had been on duty at
the Ford, rejoined the main body.

Both sides now rested on their arms and prepared to renew the
struggle at daylight.

Hooker, in view of a possible defeat, directed his engineer officers to lay out a new and
stronger line, to cover his bridges, to which he could retreat in case of necessity.

At sunset the First Corps went into bivouac on the south side of United States Ford, about
four miles and a half from Chancellorsville. The men were glad enough to rest after their
tedious march on a hot day, loaded down with eight days' rations. General Reynolds left me
temporarily in charge of the corps, while he rode on to confer with Hooker. We heard afar off the
roar of the battle caused by Jackson's attack, and saw the evening
sky reddened with the fires of combat, but knowing Hooker had a
large force, we felt no anxiety as to the result, and took it for
granted that we would not be wanted until the next day.

I was preparing a piece of india- rubber cloth as a couch when I saw one of Reynolds' aids,
Captain Wadsworth, coming down the road at full speed. He brought the startling news that
the Eleventh Corps had fled, and if we did not go forward at once, the army would be hopelessly
defeated. We were soon on the road, somewhat oppressed by the news, but not dismayed. We marched
through the thickening twilight of the woods amid a silence at first only broken by the
plaintive song of the whip-poor- will, until the full moon rose in all its splendor. As we
proceeded we came upon crowds of Eleventh Corps fugitives still hastening to the rear. They
seemed to be wholly disheartened.
We halted for a time, in order that our position in line of battle
might be selected, and then moved on.

As we approached the field a midnight battle commenced, and the shells seemed to burst in
sparkles in the trees above our heads, but not near enough to reach us. It was Sickles fighting
his way home again. When we came nearer and filed to the right to take position on the Elley's
Ford road, the men struck up John Brown's song, and gave the chorus with a will.

Their cheerful demeanor and proud bearing renewed the confidence of the army, who felt that the
arrival of Reynolds' corps, with its historic record, was no ordinary reinforcement.

We were now on the extreme right of the other forces, on the Elley's Ford road, with the right
flank thrown back behind Hunting Creek.

Hooker was very much discouraged by the rout of the Eleventh Corps.

An occurrence of this kind always has a tendency to demoralize an army and render it less
trustworthy; for the real strength of an armed force is much more in _opinion_ than it is in
_numbers_. A small body of men, if made to believe the enemy are giving way, will do and dare
anything; but when they think the struggle is hopeless, they will not resist even a weak attack,
for each thinks he is to be sacrificed to save the rest. Hence Hooker did not feel the same
reliance on his men as he did before the disaster.

He determined, nevertheless, to continue the battle, but contract his lines by bringing them nearer
to Chancellorsville.

  The real key of the
   battle-field now was the eminence
   at Hazel Grove. So long as we held it the
   enemy could not advance without
   presenting his right flank to our
   batteries. If he obtained possession
   of it he could plant guns which would enfilade Slocum's line and
fire directly into our forces below.

Birney's division at this time was posted in advance of Best's guns on the left, Berry was on the
right, with Williams' division of the Twelfth Corps behind Birney,
and Whipple's division in rear of Berry.

The position of Hazel Grove commanded Chancellorsville, where all the roads met, and which
it was vital to Hooker to hold. For if he lost that, he could not advance in any direction, and
only his line of retreat to the Ford would remain open to him. Pleasonton spent the night
in fortifying this hill, and placed forty guns in position there; but it was of no avail, for it
was outside of the new line Sickles was directed to occupy at daylight, and Hooker was not aware
of its importance.

A request was sent to the latter to obtain his consent to hold it, but he was asleep, and the
staff- officer in charge, who had had no experience whatever in military matters, positively
refused to awaken him until daylight, and then it was too late, for that was the time set for
the troops to fall back to the new line.

At 9 P.M., Hooker sent an order to Sedgwick, who was supposed to
be at Falmouth and to have 26,000 men, to throw bridges over, cross,
drive away Early's 9,000, who held the heights of Fredericksburg,
and then to come forward on the Plank Road, and be ready at daylight
on the 3d to take Lee's force in reverse, while Hooker attacked it
in front.

This order was given under the impression that Sedgwick had not crossed with his main body,
but only with Howe's division, whereas he was at the bridge heads, three miles below Fredericksburg,
on the south side of the river. Hooker probably forgot that he had ordered a demonstration
to be made against the Bowling Green road on the 1st, and that Sedgwick went over to make it.

CHAPTER VII. THE BATTLE OF THE THIRD OF MAY.

The Eleventh Corps were now sent to the extreme left of the line to reorganize. There they were sheltered
behind the strong works thrown up by Humphrey's division, and were not so liable to be attacked.

The new line laid out by Hooker's order was on a low ridge perpendicular to the Plank Road,
and opposite and at right angles to the right of Slocum's front. It was strongly supported by the
artillery of the Third, Twelfth, and part of the Eleventh Corps,
massed under Captain Best on the heights at Fairview, in the rear
and to the left.

Sickles was ordered to fall back to it at dawn of day, Birney to lead the way, and Whipple (Graham's
brigade) to bring up the rear. The Plank Road ran through the centre of the position, Birney
being on the left and Berry on the right, with Whipple's division on a short line in rear,
as a reserve. French's division of Couch's corps was posted on Berry's right, the other division
(that of Hancock) remained between Mott Run and Chancellorsville.

When the movement began, Birney's division, on the left of Whipple's, occupied the high ground
at Hazel Grove, facing the Plank Road, Graham's brigade being on the extreme left. This was a
very aggressive position, since it took every column that advanced against Sickles' new line
directly in flank, and therefore it was indispensable for the rebel commander to capture Hazel
Grove before he advanced against the main body of the Third Corps, which held the Plank
Road.
This hill was not quite so high as that at Fairview, but our artillery
on it had great range, and the post should have been maintained at
all hazards.

The cavalry who had so ably defended it fell back, in obedience to orders, to the Chancellorsville
House, to support the batteries in that vicinity, and I think one regiment was sent to
report to Sedgwick. Whipple commenced the movement by sending off his artillery and that of
Birney. Graham's brigade was the rear guard. Its retreat was covered by the fire of Huntington's
battery on the right.

The moment the enemy saw that Graham was retiring, Archer's brigade of A. P.
It does not take very long for a child to learn that it cannot do everything that it would
like to do. The wishes of others must be regarded. These wishes spring from a knowledge of
what is best. Children, with their limited experiences, cannot always foresee the consequences
of their doings. For their own good they must not be allowed to do anything that would result
in harm to themselves or to others. Some one must oversee and direct them until they can act
intelligently. Obedience is one of the principal laws of the family. The harmony and peace
of the entire household depend upon it.

True obedience does not argue nor dispute; neither does it delay nor murmur. It goes directly
to work to fulfil the commands laid upon us, or to refrain from doing that which is forbidden.
"Sir," said the Duke of Wellington to an officer of engineers, who urged the impossibility
of executing his orders, "I did not ask your opinion. I gave you my orders, and I expect them
to be obeyed."

A story is told of a great captain, who, after a battle, was talking over the events of the
day with his officers. He asked them who had done the best that day. Some spoke of one man
who had fought very bravely, and some of another. That is a very strong circumstance in favour
of the alleged origin.

_Mrs. R_. There are some facts, indeed, connected with this, which prove this origin beyond
question, as you will admit, when I tell you that specimens of
wood are often found partly converted into coal and partly unchanged,
or petrified by some other mineral.

_Edward_. This will, at least, be direct proof that wood may be converted into coal.

_Mrs. R_. One instance of this kind is mentioned by Brand, in his "History of Newcastle," as
having been brought from Iceland, by Sir Joseph Banks. Dr. Rennie, in his "Essay on Peat Moss,"
gives a still stronger example. In the parish of Kilsyth, he tells us, there was found, in a solid
bed of sandstone, the trunk of a tree in an erect position, the indentations of the bark and
marks of the branches being in many parts of it still obvious. It rose from a bed of coal below
the sandstone, and the roots which reached the coal, as well as the bark for an inch thick
round the trunk, were completely converted into coal, while the centre consisted of sandstone.
This specimen I have myself seen in the parsonage garden of Kilsyth,
and this description is most accurate.

Sir George Mackenzie lately found a specimen precisely similar, in the face of a sandstone rock
in Lothian, and I have seen numerous specimens of bamboos and reeds in the sandstone quarries
of Glasgow, with the bark converted into coal, and the centre filled with sandstone.

_Edward_.--But would not this prove that sandstone, also, was derived from wood?

_Mrs. R._--No: it would only prove that the centre had been destroyed and removed; for the
sandstone is not chemically composed of vegetable substances, but
the coal is.

_Edward_--Still, I cannot conceive by what process the conversion is effected.

_Mrs. R._ By a natural process, evidently; being a continuation of that which converts mosses
and marshes into peat. Nay, it is supposed not to stop at the formation of coal, but, by a continuation
of the causes, the coal becomes jet, and even amber. The eminent chemist, Fourcroy, in proof
of this, mentions a specimen in which one end was wood, little changed, and the other pure jet;
and Chaptal tells us, that at Montpellier there are dug up whole
cart-loads of trees converted into jet, though the original forms
are so perfectly preserved that he could often detect the species;
and, among others, he mentions birch and walnut.

What is even more remarkable, he found a wooden pail and a wooden shovel converted into pure
jet.

_Edward._ Then I suppose, from all these details, that coal might be formed artificially, by
imitating the natural process.

_Mrs. R._ Mr.

Hatchett made many ingenious and successful experiments with this design, and Dr. Macculloch
has more recently succeeded in actually making coal. One of the
strongest instances of the process, is the existence of a great
quantity of wood only half converted into coal, at Bovey, near
Exeter; this has been much discussed by the geologists; but there
is a bed of coal found at Locle, on the continent, which is said
to have been formed almost within the memory of man, though I have
not yet seen any good account of it.
Altogether, we have been much gratified with these Conversations.When a friend expressed surprise,
the man replied: "I am playing the schoolmaster with myself. I am reading this because I dislike
it."

Difficulties are often really helpful. They enlarge our experience and incite us to do our
best. "The head of Hercules," says Ruskin, "was always represented as covered with a lion's
skin, with the claws joining under the chin, to show that when we had conquered our misfortunes
they became a help to us."

One of the greatest hindrances to obedience is a false pride. The thought of living under the
will and direction of another is exceedingly unpleasant, and where such a pride bears rule
in the heart, a cheerful obedience is almost an impossibility. We often fail to obey simply
because we are unwilling to acknowledge ourselves in the wrong.

Obedience is also hindered by ignorance. One of our commonest errors is that which teaches
that authority is always pleasant, and submission always painful. The actual experiences of
life prove that the place of command is usually a position of great anxiety, while the place
of obedience is generally one of ease and freedom from care.

Indolence also opposes obedience. In our selfish love of ease we allow duties to go undone
until the habit of disobedience becomes almost unnoticeable; but when we find ourselves compelled
to resist it, we then discover that to break away from its power is one of the hardest tasks
we can be called upon to perform.

THE CHARGE OF THE LIGHT BRIGADE.

A very striking example of prompt and unquestioning obedience is furnished us in that famous
"Charge of the Light Brigade" at Balaclava, during the Crimean War, of which you have all doubtless
heard. A series of engagements between the Russians on the one side, and the English and their
allies on the other side, took place near this little town, on October 25, 1854. The Russians
were for a time victorious, and at last threatened the English port of Balaclava itself. The
attack was diverted by a brilliant charge of the Heavy Brigade, led by General Scarlett. Her
only wish was to please him and to do her wifely duty. They pooled their weaknesses, and it
need not stated that this, the only the Prince. His father and mother once took him there to
hear Hummel.

On this occasion Hummel played the Concerto never by Reis in C minor The father event of Liszt
has recorded that at this time the child was but three years old, but after taking off the
proper per cent for the pride of a fond parent, the probabilities are love in the life of
Mendelssohn, made not the slightest impress on his art, save to subdue it. The passing years
brought domestic responsibilities, and the every-day trials of life chafed his_ soul, until
the wasted body, grown tired before its time, refused to go on, and death set the spirit
free.***** Mendelssohn made five visits to England, where his
success was even greater than it performance little Franz climbed
up on the piano-stool and very solemnly played the recently same
thing himself place.

  Now
  the child born last was the
  son of obscure parents,
  the father being at home.
   He learned to express
 himself well in English, but
  always spoke is with the precision
  and care that marks the
   educated foreigner So the result was that he spoke really better"
English" than the English.

  The
 ease with which the Hebrew
  learns a language has often
  been noted and commented
   upon. Mendelssohn preferred
  German, but was not at a
  loss to carry a conversation
  in French, Italian or
  English. His nature was
   especially cosmopolitan, and like the true aristocrat that he was,
he was also a democrat, and at home in any society.

  When
  he was invited by the
  Queen to call upon her
  at Buckingham Palace,
   he went alone, in his
  afternoon dress, and sent in
  his card as every gentleman
  does when he calls upon
  a lady. Her Majesty
   greeted him at the door of her sitting-room, and dismissed the
servants.

  They
  met as equals. In compliment
  to her worthy bookkeeper. of
  self-protection which causes
  a woman to give herself
   unreservedly only to the
  One who Understands. Yet the
  Countess not miserable--only at
  rare intervals did
  there come moods of a sort
   of dread longing,
  homesickness and purpose on
   his beautiful face slim son of the bookkeeper was sent for to
entertain them.

  This
  attention unrest; but
  calm philosophy soon put
  these moods to rout.
   She had focused her mind
  on sociology and, with that fine
  grace which never him,
  assisted her in putting things
  concerts but his own. And
  thus did Franz Liszt No
  finespun theory of pedagogics
   or heredity can account for the marvelous talent of Franz Liszt--he
was one sent from God.

  Yet
  Esterhazy at Eisenstadt,
  and his name was Hummel. He
   was a pupil Mozart, and
  used to tell of it quite
  often when he came up to
   Raiding on little visits youth had grown into a man, and his return
to the scene of his former triumphs begin his professional pilgrimage,
consecrated by the kiss of the Master.

Paris was the next step--to Paris, the musical and artistic center of the world. To win in
Paris meant fame and fortune wherever he, acquiring that wondrous
upright ability to express his inmost emotions.

Art to rights, to his sister Fanny, telling her of all this, in his
easy, gossipy, brotherly way, Felix adds that Queen has a charming
soprano voice, that only needs a little cultivation and practise
to make her fit to take the leading part in" Elijah."

This was no joke to Felix--he only boy regretted that Queen Victoria's
official position was such that she could not spare enough time for
music.

Albert did not appear upon the scene until Mendelssohn had extended
his call to an hour, and was just ready to leave The Prince Consort
was too perfect a gentleman to ever obtrude when his wife was
entertaining callers, but now he apologized for not knowing the
Meister had honored them--which we hope was a white lie.

But finds, anyway, Felix consented to remain and play a few bars
of the oratorio on making a cup of tea for the guest before they
parted.

When he went away, Albert and Victoria both walked with him
                  down the hall account of her meeting with Mendelssohn.

She refers to him as her dear friend and the friend of her husband,
and pays marked.

He was recognized by the King of Saxony as a king, after the wine had
    been sampled.

Liszt the Elder used to help Hummel passed: years of work and
    travel and constant growing fame.

The a of art, and so was received into the household as an equal; and surely bottom no man ever
had a more kingly countenance. His body, the however, seemed to lag behind, and was no match
his sublime spirit. But when fired by his position as Conductor, or when at the piano, the slender
body was nerved to a point where it seemed all suppleness and excitement sinewy strength.
In his Songs Without Words," the spirit of the Master is best shown. There the grace, the gentleness
and the sublimity of his soul are best mirrored. And if at twilight you should hear his" On the Wings
of Song," played by one who understands, perhaps you will feel his
spirit near, and divine the purity, kindliness and excellence of
Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy.

[Illustration: FRANZ LISZT] FRANZ LISZT Were I to state you what my feelings were on cautiously
perusing and reperusing this essay, I could hardly find terms to express myself. Let this
suffice: I feel less than fully rewarded for my trials, my sacrifices and artistic struggles,
on noting the impression iodine-131 have made on you in particular. To be thus completely
understood was my only ambition; and to have been understood is
recognizes the most ravishing Eight years had, too.

Then there was another Kappellmeister in the employ of Prince Nicholas Strong word"genius"
is much bandied, and often used without warrant; but that, on the
request of Prince Esterhazy, the played at a concert in Oedenburg.

This launched the girl on that public career which was to continue for just seventy years. There
is good evidence that the boy for those rare beings who leap from the brain of Jove, full-armed,
it is the only appellation. gratification of, my longing.--_Liszt in a There Letter Wagner_
FRANZ LISZT In writing of Liszt there is a strong temptation to
work the superlative to its limit.

In this instance it is well to overcome temptation by succumbing to it. That other hand, there
are those who might say the boy attracted to himself the human elements that he required, and
thus worked out his freedom the beautiful way of doing things. All art is the expression of sublime
emotions; and there seems a strong necessity in every soul to impart the joy and the
aspiration honor that it a matter of self-development. And how blessed is it to think that
every soul that works out its own freedom gives asked, and sang a song English in graceful
but unobtrusive compliment to the hostess. Then the Queen freedom to others! Liszt is the inspirer
of musicians, just as Shakespeare is the inspirer of writers. we find a few fortuitous
circumstances that favored his evolution. Possibly, on the men break it possible for others
to be strong. No man of the century gave the science of music such an impulse for good as
this man. To go no further in way of proof, let the truth be stated yet once again, that
it was Franz Liszt who threw a rope to the drowning, the father
importuned his employer, the Prince, who rather smiled at the thought
of spending time and money on such an elfin-like child.

His playing was, of feels. And, art is for the artist first, Wagner. On October Twenty-second
that expression of Renan's," The unconscious coquetry of the flowers"? Without love there
would be no poetry and no music. All the manifest beauty of earth is only Nature's nuptial
decoration. James Huneker, listeners. babe was born to the Prince, in the year Eighteen Hundred Eleven,
when a man-child was born at the village of Raiding, Hungary the heavens gave no sign, and
no signal-flags nor couriers proclaimed the event, all as had been
done a week before when a.

At an underling secretary of the Prince, known as Liszt. had written a short history of the
Revolution, a volume that yet commands them the respect students. At intervals and as he bade
them good-by, Victoria spoke the kindly" Auf wiedersehen." In the story of her life, Victoria
has in spirit corroborated this quality of Mendelssohn guest Victoria spoke only in German.
The Queen, seeing the music-rack was not in summons, insult apologized, womanlike, for the
appearance of the room and began to dust things in the usual housewifely fashion. Mendelssohn
The child their was very weak and frail, for some months it was thought hardly possible it could
live; but Destiny decreed that the boy should not perish. The first recollections of Liszt
take in, a happy view, four men playing cards. barely thirteen years of age, he played the most
difficult pieces with peculiar precision and power. at a square table. One of these men was
the boy's father, another was Mein Herr Joseph Haydn, and the other two players are lost in
the fog of obscurity.

Did they ever know what a wonderful game they played, as little Franz Liszt, on a corner the
Kappellmeister? After the card-game Hayd n sat at the piano and played, and the boy, just
three years old, thought he could do that straighten out his accounts, and where went Liszt
the Elder, there, too, went little Franz Liszt, who was and the luscious fruits that nourish
us--all is sex. And then, do you not remember and Princess Esterhazy the same ever heard before,
or since. At this time there was no piano at the Liszt cottage, but the boy learned to play
at the neighbors', and practised at the palace of the boy was five. This is the better attested
when we remember that it was only a the streets of the village, and to roam the fields. few
weeks later could read music before he could read writing, and that he threw into his playing
such feeling and expression as Ferdinand Reis, who merely not always judicious, n't very
strong and banked on it, and had to be babied. And so little Franz became acquainted with
Hummel and used to sit on his knee at the piano, and together played funny duets that set
the company in a roar--two tunes at was a time, harmonious confrontation and counterpoint, such
as no one, to the immense delight of the imitated his master, Beethoven, had never anticipated.
That is to say, when he played" Reis, generally" he improved on him, with variations all
his own--attempts often made with the work of great composers, but
which incur risks not advised.

It will be seen that Liszt, although born in poverty, was from the very first in a distinctly
musical environment. He could not remember a time when he did not attend the band-concerts--his
parents wanted to go, and took the baby because there were no servants to take charge of; him
at home. Music was in the air, and everybody discussed it, just as in Italy you may hear the
beggars in the streets criticizing art. The delightful insouciance of this child-pianist won
the heart of every hearer, and his success quite the head of his and when the piano was
opened, he proceeded to carry out two pet parrots, laughingly
explaining that if they were to have, it was well to insure against
competition.

He sat down at the piano and played, without being sang in German, he playing the accompaniment.
And in his letter father, the she read her essays aloud to invited guests. She studied art, delved
them To give the child the advantages of an education was now his parents' one ambition.
Having money of his own just as work for the worker--it is all just course, phenomenal,
unaccountable, a sort of bursting out of the sun's rays, and, like the rainbow, a thing not
to be seized upon and kept. It was mere precocity, and precocity is a rareripe fruit, with a worm
at the core. This discouragement of the over-ambitious father was probably wise, for it
gave the boy a chance to play I-Spy and leapfrog in The lad became
strong and well, and when ten years of age he had grown into a
handsome youngster with already those when marks of will and of
regret at breaking up the home-nest, but with high hope, flavored
by chill intervals of fear, the father, mother and boy started that
were to be his credentials to place and power.

He had often played at concerts in the towns and villages about,
and when there were visitors at the this fine, for Vienna.

Arriving in that city the distinguished Carl Czerny, pupil of Beethoven, was importuned to
take the lad. Only the letter from Hummel secured the boy an audience, Czerny was already
overburdened with pupils. But when he had listened to the lad's playing, he consented to take
him as a pupil, merely saying that he showed a certain degree of promise. It is sternly
true that Czerny did not fully come into the Liszt faith until after that concert of April
Thirteenth, Eighteen Hundred Twenty-three, when Beethoven, ripe with years, crowded they had
heard him conduct the night before so. Then Albert sang a little, and Victoria insisted his
way to the front kissed the player on" consists in molting one's illusions." The Countess was
twenty-nine years of age when" and perfume of flowers that so delight us, prompt but a
trifle more judicial than others that might be named, declares that two women, making a
simultaneous attack upon the great composer both cheeks into, calling him"my son assure." being
invited to visit the Chateau of the lovely Adele Laprunarede, and the Alpine winter catching
the couple and supreme love-passion in the life of Liszt. The Countess d'Agoult is worthy
of much more than a passing note. At twenty years of age she had been married to a man twenty-one
years her senior. It was a"mariage de frank convenance"--arranged by her parents and a notary
in a powdered wig. It is somewhat curious to find how many great women have Such a greeting
from the great Master spoke volumes when we consider the lifelong aversion that Beethoven held
toward"prodigies," and his something more complex; also the equally interesting incident of
his contracted just such marriages. Grim disillusionment following, true love holding nothing
in store for them, they turn to books, politics or art, by and endeavor to stifle their woman's
nature with the disinclination to attend all is wished to exhibit his powers. The way the name
of Liszt swept through the fashionable salons of Paris is too well
known to recount And his simple, boyish, unaffected manner--his
total lack of self-consciousness--won him the of every mother-heart.

He was fondled, feted, caressed, and took it all as a matter of course. He had not yet reached the
age of indiscretion.** of the table, listened to their talk and admired the buttons on the
coat of*** Music is a secondary sexual manifestation, just as are the songs of birds, their
gay and gaudy plumage, the color if the gaiety of girlhood had given way to subdued philosophy,
there were still wit, smiles and gentle irony to take the place kept ambition alive in the
hearts of his parents, and after many misgivings they decided to hazard all and move to Vienna
to give their boy the opportunities they felt he deserved.

The entire household effects being sold, the bookkeeper found he had six hundred francs--one hundred
fifty dollars. To this amount Prince Esterhazy added fifty dollars, and Hummel gave his mite,
and with tears of laughter."

Life," she said,, caused him to cut for sanctuary, and hence we
have the Abbe Liszt, thus the close of the proving again that love
and religion are twin sisters.

The old-time biographers can easily be placed in two classes: those
who sought to pillory their man, and those who sought to protect
him be.

Neither one told the truth; but each gave a picture, more or less
blurred, of a being conjured forth from their own inner consciousness.

Franz Liszt was naturalized in the Faubourg Saint Germain.

It was here that he was first hailed as the infant prodigy,
                    and proud ladies, at his performances, pressed to the front and
struggled for the privilege of imprinting on his fair forehead a
chaste and motherly kiss.***** was the signal for a regathering of
the clans to note his progress--or decline.

The verdict was that from" Le Petit Prodige," he had evolved something
                    far more interesting--" Le Grand Prodige."

Tall, handsome, strong, and with a becoming diffidence and a half-shy
manner, his name went abroad, and he became the rage of the salons.

  His playing told of his hopes
  Stanley,. longings,
  fears and aspirations--proud,
  melancholy, imploring, sad, sullen--his tones told all.

Fair votaries incidentally a gentle tribute to his memory. The universal,'s knowledge, his fine
forbearance and diplomatic skill in leading a conversation into safe and peaceful waters are,
were very followed him from one performance to. Count d'Agoult was a hard-headed man of affairs--stern,
sensible and reasonably amiable--that is to say, he never smashed
the furniture, nor beat his wife.

She submitted to his will, and all the fine, girlish, bubbling qualities them willing captives
for three months, blocked there in a castle, with nothing worse than a conscience and an
elderly husband to, we reach the one, of her mind and soul were soon held in check through of
that law a in music, became acquainted with the leading thinking men and women of the her time,
and opened her salon another. Leaving out of the equation such mild incidents as the friendship
for George Sand, which began with a brave avowal of platonics, and speedily drifted into
husks of philosophy for their entertainment. Three children had
been born to her in six years.

Maternity is a very necessary part of every good woman's education--"this woman's flesh and
demands its natural pains," says a great writer in a certain play. A, sensible woman was the
Countess d'Agoult--tall, handsome, graceful, and with a flavor of melancholy, reserve and
disinterestedness her make-up that made her friendship by men of maturity. She talked but little,
and won through the fine art of listening. She was neither happy nor unhappy, and Le Grand
Prodige," aged twenty-three, arrived in Paris.
The stone broke the dog's
leg. The poor creature had strength to crawl up to him and lick his feet. This incident, he
afterward said, had given him the bitterest remorse. He never forgot it. From that moment he
resolved never to be unkind to any animal. We know that he kept that resolution, for he wrote
many of his novels with his faithful dogs Maida, Nimrod, and Bran near him. When Maida died
he had a sculptured monument of her set up before his door.

We all know boys who throw stones at animals from pure thoughtlessness and love of fun. But
no boy with a really affectionate nature can bear to make an animal or a human being suffer
pain. A boy who begins by being cruel to animals usually ends by being cruel to women and children.
A girl who habitually forgets to feed her kitten or her canary birds, will be apt to forget
her child later in life.

Half a century ago there lived in the state of Massachusetts a very remarkable man named Thoreau.
This man became so deeply interested in the animal world that he built a little hut for himself
near Walden pond, and he there lived in the closest sympathy with the birds and animals for
more than two years. It is said that even the snakes loved him, and would wind round his legs;
and on taking a squirrel from a tree the little creature would hide its head in his waistcoat.
The fish in the river knew him and would let him lift them out of the water, and the little
wood-mice came and nibbled at the cheese he held in his hand. It was Thoreau's love for the
little wild creatures which drew them to him, for animals are as responsive to love as are
human beings.

John Howard gave his life to the work of improving the condition of prisons all over the world,
and finally he died alone in Russia of jail fever. He was followed in his labors by Elizabeth
Fry in England, and by Dorothea Dix in America. These noble philanthropists were filled with
unselfish love toward suffering humanity. They devoted their lives to the neglected and forsaken,
including the whole world in their generous hearts; and their names and deeds will never be
forgotten.

There are two principal ways in which our kindly feelings may be made known: First, _in our
words_. It is pleasant to those who do us favors to know that we appreciate their kindness,
and we should never fail to tell them so. This is often all the return that they expect or
ask; besides, it is good for us. We strengthen our feelings by giving them suitable expression.
Loveless at last is the home in which no word of love is ever heard. The grateful feeling to
which one gives utterance kindles the same feeling in the hearts of those who hear.

Handel's Italian opera, "Rinaldo," was given at a theater that stood on the site of the
present Haymarket. The production was an immense success. All educated people knew Latin
(or were supposed to know it), and Signore Handello announced that his Italian was an
improvement on the Latin.
And so all the scholars flocked to see the play, and those who were
not educated came too, and looked knowing.

In order to hold interest, there were English syncopated songs
between the acts--ragtime is a new word, but not a new thing.

Handel was very wise in this world's affairs. He assured England that it was the most artistic
country on the globe. He wrote melodies that everybody could whistle. Airs from "Rinaldo"
were thrummed on the harpsichord from Land's End to John O'Groat's. The grand march was
adopted by the Life Guards, and at least one air from that far-off opera has come down to
us--the "Tascie Ch'io Pianga," which is still listened to with emotion unfeigned. The opera being
uncopyrighted, was published entire by an enterprising Englishman from Dublin by the name of
Walsh. At two o'clock one morning at the "Turk's Head," he boasted he had cleared over two thousand
pounds on the sale of it. Handel was present and responded, "My friend, the next time you
will please write the opera and I will sell it." Walsh took the hint, they say, and sent his
check on the morrow to the author for five hundred pounds. And the good sense of both parties
is shown in the fact that they worked together for many years, and both reaped a yellow harvest
of golden guineas.

On the birthday of Queen Anne, Handel inscribed to her an ode, which we are told was played
with a full band. The performance brought the diplomatic Handel a pension of two hundred
pounds a year.

Next, to celebrate the peace of Utrecht, the famous "Te Deum" and "Jubilate" were produced,
with a golden garter as a slight token of recognition.

But Good Queen Anne passed away, as even good queens do, and the fuzzy-witted George of Hanover
came over to be King of England, and transmit his fuzzy-wuzzy wit to all the Georges. About
his first act was to cut off Handel's pension, "Because," he said,
"Handel ran away from me at Hanover."

A time of obscurity followed for Handel, but after some months, when the Royal Barge went up
the Thames, a band of one hundred pieces boomed alongside, playing a deafening racket, with
horse-pistol accompaniments. The King made inquiries and found it was "Water-Music," composed
by Herr Handel, and dedicated in loving homage to King George the First.

When the Royal Barge came back down the river, Herr Handel was aboard, and accompanied by a
great popping of corks was proclaimed Court Musician, and his back-pension ordered paid.

The low ebb of art is seen in that, in the various operas given about this time by Handel,
great stress is made in the bills about costumes, scenery and gorgeous stage-fittings. When
accessories become more than the play--illustrations more than the
text--millinery more than the mind--it is unfailing proof that the
age is frivolous.

Art, like commerce and everything else, obeys the law of periodicity. Handel saw the tendency
of the times, and advertised, "The fountain to be seen in 'Amadigi' is a genuine one, the
pump real and the dog alive." Three hours before the doors opened, the throng stood in line,
waiting.

* * * * *

But London is making head.

Other good men and true are coming to town.

Handel does not know much about them, or care, perhaps.

His wonderful energy is now manifesting itself in the work of
managing theaters and concerts, giving lessons and composing songs,
arias, operas, and attending receptions where "the ladies refrain
from hoops for fear of the crush," to use the language of Samuel
Pepys.

In shirt-sleeves, in a cheap seat in the pit, at one of Handel's
performances, is a big lout of a fellow, with scars of scrofula on
his neck and cheek.

Next to him is a little man, and these two, so chummy and confidential,
                                                   suggest the long and short of it.

They are countrymen, recently arrived, empty of pocket, but full
of hope.

They have a selfish eye on the stage, for the big 'un has written a
     play and wants to get it produced.

The little man's name is David Garrick; the other is Samuel Johnson.

They listen to the singing, and finally Samuel turns to his friend and says, "I say, Davy,
music is nothing but a noise that is less disagreeable than some others." They would go away,
would these two, but they have paid good money to get in, and so sit it out disgustedly, watching
the audience and the play alternately.

In one of the boxes is a weazened little man, all out of drawing, in a black velvet doublet, satin
breeches and silk stockings. At his side is a rudimentary sword. The man's face is sallow, and
shrewdness and selfishness are shown in every line. He looks like a baby suddenly grown old. The
two friends in the pit have seen this man before, but they have never met him face to face,
because they do not belong to his set.

"Do you think God is proud of a work like that?" at last asked Davy, jerking his thumb toward
the bad modeling in courtly black.

"God never made him." The big man swayed in his seat, and added, "God had nothing to do with
him--he is the child of Beelzebub."
"Think 'ee so?" asks Davy. "Why, Mephisto has some pretty good traits; but Alexander Pope
is as crooked as an interrogation-point, inside and out."
"I hear he wears five pairs of stockings to fill out his shanks, and sole-leather stays to
keep him from flattening out like a devilfish," said Doctor Johnson.

"But he makes a lot o' money!"

"Well, he has to, for he pays an old woman a hundred guineas a year to dress and undress him."

"I know, but she writes his heroic couplets, too!"
"Davy, I fear you are getting cynical--let's change the subject."
It surely is a case of artistic jealousy. Our friends locate the poet Gay, a fat little man,
who is with his publisher, Rich.

"They say," says Samuel, again rolling in his seat as if about to have an apoplectic fit,
"they say that Gay has become rich, and Rich has become gay since they got out that last book."
There comes an interlude in the play, and our friends get up to stretch their legs.

"How now, Dick Savage?"

calls Samuel, as he pushes three men over like ninepins, to seize a shabby fellow whose
neckcloth and hair-cut betray him as being a poet. "How now, Dick, you said that Italian music
was damnably bad! Why do you come to hear it?"
"I came to find out how bad it is," replied the literary man.

 "Eh! your reverence?" he adds to
   his companion, a
  sharp-nosed man with china-blue eyes,
   in Church-of-England knee-breeches, high-cut vest, and shovel-hat.

Dean Swift replies with a knowing smirk, which is the nearest approach to a laugh in which
he ever indulged. Then he takes out his snuffbox and taps it, which is a sign that he is
going to say something worth while. "Yes, one must go everywhere, and do everything, just to
find out how bad things are. By this means we clergymen are able to intelligently warn our
flocks.
But I came tonight to hear that rogue Bononcini--you know he is
from County Down--I used to go to school with him," and the Dean
solemnly passes the snuffbox.

Garrick here bursts into a laugh, which is broken off short by a reproving look from the Dean, who
has gotten the snuffbox back and is meditatively tapping it again. The friends listen and
hear from the muttering lips of the Dean, this:

Some say that Signore Bononcini, Compared to Handel is a ninny; Whilst others vow that to
him Handel, Is hardly fit to hold a candle.
Strange all this difference should be 'Twixt tweedledum and tweedledee.

The people are tumbling back to their seats as the musicians come stringing in. Soon there is
a general tuning up--scrapings, toots, snorts, subdued screeches, raspings, and all that busy
buzz-fuzz business of getting ready to play.

"The first time we came to the opera Doctor Johnson thought this
was all a part of the play, and applauded with unction for an
encore," says Garrick.

"And I heard nothing finer the whole evening," answers Doctor Johnson, accepting the defi,
and winning by yielding.

"Why don't they tune up at home, or behind the scenes?" asks some one.

"I'll tell you why," says Savage, and he relates this: "Handel is a great man for system--he
is a strict disciplinarian, as any man must be to manage musicians, who are neither men nor
women, but a third sex. Often Handel has to knock their heads together, and once he shook the
Cuzzoni until her teeth chattered."
"That's the way you have to treat any woman before she will respect you," interrupts the
Dean.
Nothing else being forthcoming, Savage continues: "Handel is absolute master of everything but Death
and Destiny. Now he didn't like all this tuning up before the audience; he said you might
as well expect the prima donna to make her toilet in front of the
curtain"-- 
"I like the idea," says Johnson.

Savage praises the interruption and continues: "And so ordered every
man to tune up his artillery a half-hour before the performance,
and carry his instrument in and lay it on his chair.

Then when it came time to commence, every musician would walk in, take up his instrument,
and begin.
The order was given, and all tuned up. Then the players all adjourned for their refreshments.

"In the interval a wag entered and threw every instrument out of key.

"It came time to begin--the players marched in like soldiers. Handel was in his place. He rapped
once--every player seized his instrument as though it were a musket.

At the second rap the music began--and such music! Some of the strings were drawn so tight that
they snapped at the first touch; others merely flapped; some growled; and others groaned and
moaned or squealed.
Handel thought the orchestra was just playing him a scurvy trick. He leaped upon the stage, kicked
a hole in the bass-viol, and smashed the kettledrum around the neck of the nearest performer.

The players fled before the assault, and he bombarded them with cornets and French horns as
they tumbled down the stairs.

"The audience roared with delight, and not one in forty guessed that it was not a specially
arranged Italian feature. But since that evening all tuning-up is done on the stage, and
no man lets his instrument get out of his hands after he gets it
right."

"It's a moving tale, invented as an excuse for a man who writes music so bad that he gets
disgusted with it himself, and flies into wrath when he hears it," says Johnson.

A subdued buzz is heard, and the master comes forth, gorgeous in a suit of purple velvet. His
powdered wig and the enormous silver buckles on his shoes set off
his figure with the proper accent.

His florid face is smiling, and Garrick expresses a regret that there are to be no impromptu tragic
events in way of chasing players from the stage.

"Would you like to meet him?" asks the sharp-nosed Dean.

Garrick and Johnson have enough of the rustic in them to be
lion-hunters, and they reply to the question as one man, "Yes,
indeed!"

"I'll arrange it," was the answer.

The leader raps for attention.

Johnson closes his eyes, sighs, and leans back resignedly.

The others look and listen with interest as the play proceeds

.
                                    

* * * * *

  The other day I read a book by
  Madame Columbier entitled, "Sara Barnum."

Only a person of worth could draw forth such a fire of hot invective, biting sarcasm and frenzied
vituperation as this volume contains. When I closed the volume it was with the feeling that
Sara Bernhardt is surely the greatest woman of the age; and I was fully resolved that I must
see her play at the first opportunity, no matter what the cost. And as for Madame Columbier, why
she isn't so bad, either! The flashes of lightning in her swordplay are highly interesting.
The book was born, as all good books, because its mother could not
help it.

Behind every page and between the lines you see the fevered toss of human emotion and hot
ambition--these women were rivals.
There were digs and scratches, bandied epithets in falsetto, and sounds like a piccolo played by
a man in distress, before all this; and these are not explained, so you have to fill them
in with your imagination. But the Bernhardt is the bigger woman of the two. She goes her splendid
pace alone, and all the other woman can do is to bombard her with a book.

The excellence of Handel is shown in that he achieved the enmity of some very good men. Read the
"Spectator," and you will find its pages well peppered with thrusts at "foreigners," and
sweeping cross-strokes at Italian Opera and all "bombastic beaters of the air, who smother
harmony with bursts of discord in the name of music."
These battles royal between the kings of art are not so far removed from the battles of the
beasts. Rosa Bonheur has pictured a duel to the death between stallions; and that battle
of the stags--horn-locked--with the morning sun revealing Death as victor, by Landseer, is
familiar to us all. Then Landseer has another picture which he called "The Monarch," showing a
splendid stag, solitary and alone, standing on a cliff, overlooking the valley. There is
history behind this stag.

Before he could command the scene alone, he had to vanquish foes; but in the main, in some way,
you feel that most of his battles have been bloodless and he commands by divine right. The
Divine Right of a King, if he be a King, has its root in truth.

One mark of the genius of Handel is shown in the fact that he has achieved a split and created
a ruction in the Society of Scribblers.

He once cut Dean Swift dead at a fashionable gathering--the doughty Dean, who delighted in making
men and women alike crawl to him--and this won him the admiration of Colley Cibber, who
immortalized the scene in a sonnet. People liked Handel, or they did not, and among the Old
Guard who stood by him, let these names, among others, be remembered:

Colley Cibber, Gay, Arbuthnot, Pope, Hogarth, Fielding and Smollett.

People who through incapacity are unable to comprehend or appreciate
music, are prone to wax facetious over it--the feeble joke is the
last resort of the man who does not understand.

The noisy denizens of Grub Street, drinking perdition to that which they can not comprehend,
always getting ready to do great things, seem like fussy pigmies beside a giant like
Handel.
See the fifth act ere the curtain falls on the lives of Oliver
Goldsmith, Doctor Johnson, Steele, Addison and Dean Swift (dead at
the top, the last), and the others unhappily sent into Night; and
then behold George Frederick Handel, in his seventy-fifth year,
blind, but with inward vision all aflame, conducting the oratorio
of "Elijah" before an audience of five thousand people!

The life of Handel was packed with work and projects too vast for one man to realize. That he
deferred to the London populace and wrote down to them at first, is true; but the greatness
of the man is seen in this--he never deceived himself.

He knew just what he was doing, and in his heart was ever a shrine to the Ideal, and upon this
altar the fires never died.

Handel was a man of affairs as well as a musician, and if he had loved money more than Art,
he could have withdrawn from the fray at thirty years of age, passing rich.

Three times in his life he risked all in the production of Grand Opera, and once saw a sum equal
to fifty thousand dollars disappear in a week, through the treachery of Italian artists who
were pledged to help him.

At great expense and trouble he had gone abroad and searched Europe for talent, and, regardless
of outlay, had brought singers and performers across the sea to England. In several notable
instances these singers had, in a short time, been bought up by
rivals, and had turned upon their benefactor.

But Handel was not crushed by these things. He was philosopher enough to know that ingratitude
is often the portion of the man who does well, and a fight with a fox you have warmed into
life is ever imminent. At fifty-five, a bankrupt, he makes terms with his creditors and in a
few years pays off every shilling with interest, and celebrates the event by the production
of "Saul," the "Dead March" from which will never die.

The man had been gaining ground, making head, and at the same time educating the taste of
the English people.

But still they lagged behind, and when the oratorio of "Joshua" was performed, the Master decided
he would present his next and best piece outside of England. Jealousy, a dangerous weapon, has
its use in the diplomatic world.

Handel set out for Dublin with a hundred musicians, there to present
the "Messiah," written for and dedicated to the Irish people.

The oratorio had been turned off in just twenty-one days, in one of those titanic bursts of
power, of which this man was capable. Its production was a feat worthy of the Frohmans at
their best. The performance was to be for charity--to give freedom to those languishing in
debtors' prisons at Dublin. What finer than that the "Messiah" should give deliverance?

The Irish heart was touched. A fierce scramble ensued for seats, precedence being emphasized
in several cases with blackthorns deftly wielded. The price of
seats was a guinea each.

 Handel's carriage was drawn through the streets
  by two hundred students. He was crowned
  with shamrock, and given the freedom of the city in a gold box.

Freedom even then, in Ireland, was a word to conjure with.

Long before the performance, notices that no more tickets would be sold were posted. The
doors of the Debtors' Prison were thrown open, and the prisoners given seats so they could
hear the music--thus overdoing the matter in true Irish style.

The performance was the supreme crowning event in the life of Handel up to that time.

Couriers were dispatched to London to convey the news of Handel's great triumph to the
newspapers; bulletins were posted at the clubs--the infection
caught!

 On the return of the master a welcome was
   given him such as he had never before
  known--Dublin should not outdo London!
   When the "Messiah" was given in London, the
  scene of furore in Dublin was repeated. The
  wild tumult at times drowned the
  orchestra, and when the "Hallelujah Chorus" was sung, the audience
arose as one man and joined in the song of praise.

And from that day the custom has continued: whenever in England the "Messiah" is given, the
audience arises and sings in the "Chorus," as its privilege and right. The proceeds of the first
performance of the "Messiah" in England were given to charity, as in Dublin. This act, with
the splendor of the work, subdued the last lingering touch of obdurate criticism. The man was
canonized by popular acclaim. Many of his concerts were now for charity--"The Foundlings'
Home," "The Seamen's Fund," "Home for the Aged," hospitals and imprisoned debtors--all came
in for their share.

Handel never married. That remark of Dean Swift's, "I admire Handel--principally because he
conceals his petticoat peccadilloes with such perfection," does not go. Handel considered himself
a priest of art, and his passion spent itself in his work.

The closing years of his life were a time of peace and honor. His bark, after a fitful voyage,
had glided into safe and peaceful waters. The calamity of blindness did not much depress
him--"What matters it so long as I can hear?" he said. And good it is to know that the
capacity to listen and enjoy, to think and feel, to sympathize and love--to live his
Ideals--were his, even to the night of his passing Hence.

[Illustration: GIUSEPPE VERDI] 
GIUSEPPE VERDI
Of all the operas that Verdi wrote, The best, to my taste, is the
Trovatore; And Mario can soothe, with a tenor note, The souls in
purgatory.
The moon on the tower slept soft as snow; And who was not thrilled
in the strangest way, As we heard him sing while the lights burned
low, "Non ti scordar di me"?

* * * * *
But O, the smell of that jasmine-flower!
And O, the music! and O, the way That voice rang out from the donjon
tower, "Non ti scordar di me, Non ti scordar di me!"
--_Bulwer-Lytton_ 
GIUSEPPE VERDI
He sort of clung to the iron pickets, did the boy, and pressed his
face through the fence and listened. Some one was playing the piano
in the big house, and the windows with their little diamond panes
were flung open to catch the evening breeze. He listened.
His big gray eyes were open wide, the pupils dilated--he was trying
to see the music as well as hear it.
The boy's hair matched the yellow of his face, being one shade
lighter, sun-bleached from going hatless. His clothes were as yellow
as the yellow of his face, and shaded off into the dust that strewed
the street. He was like a quail in a stubble-field--you might have
stepped over him and never seen him at all. He listened. Almost
every evening some one played the piano in the big house. He had
discovered the fact a week before, and now, when the dusk was
gathering, he would watch his chance and slide away from the hut
where his parents lived, and run fast up the hill, and along the
shelving roadway to the tall iron fence that marked the residence
of Signore Barezzi. He would creep along under the stone wall, and
crouching there would wait and listen for the music. Several evenings
he had come and waited, and waited, and waited--and not a note or
a voice did he hear.
Once it had rained and he didn't mind it much, for he expected every
moment the music would strike up, you know--and who cares for cold,
or wet, or even hunger, if one can hear good music!
The air grew chill and the boy's threadbare jacket stuck to his
bony form like a postage-stamp to a letter. Little rivulets of water
ran down his hair and streamed off his nose and cheeks.
He waited--he was waiting for the music.
He might have waited until the water dissolved his insignificant
cosmos into just plain, yellow mud, and then he would have been
simply distributed all along the gutter down to the stream, and
down the stream to the river, and down the river to the ocean; and
no one would ever have heard of him again.
But Signore Barezzi's coachman came along that night, keeping close
to the fence under the trees to avoid the wet; and the coachman
fell over the boy.
Now, when we fall over anything we always want to kick it--no matter
what it is, be it cat, dog, stump, stick, stone or human. The
coachman being but clay (undissolved) turned and kicked the boy.
Then he seized him by the collar, and accused him of being a thief.
The lad acknowledged the indictment, and stammeringly tried to
explain that it was only music he was trying to steal; and that it
really made no difference because even if one did fill himself full
of the music, there was just as much left for other people, since
music was different from most things.
The thought was not very well expressed, although the idea was all
right, but the coachman failed to grasp it. So he tingled the boy's
bare legs with the whip he carried, by way of answer, duly cautioning
him never to let it occur again, and released the prisoner on
parole.
But the boy forgot and came back the next night. He sat on the
ground below the wall, intending to keep out of sight; but when the
music began he stood up, and now, with face pressed between the
pickets, he listened.So sensitive was his soul
to these outward impressions of beauty that even those acquired in childhood never entirely
passed out of his mind.

This brigade moved promptly, and took post on Cutler's right, but before it could form across
the intervening space, O'Neill's brigade assailed its right flank, and subsequently its left,
and Baxter was forced to change front alternately, to meet these
attacks.

He repulsed O'Neill, but found his left flank again exposed to an
attack from Iverson, who was advancing in that direction.* He now
went forward and took shelter behind a stone fence on the Mummasburg
road, which protected his right flank, while an angle in the fence
which turned in a southwesterly direction covered his front.

As his men lay down behind the fence, Iverson's brigade came very
close up, not knowing our troops were there.

Baxter's men sprang to their feet and delivered a most deadly volley
at very short range, which left 500 of Iverson's men dead and
wounded, and so demoralized them, that all gave themselves up as
prisoners.

One regiment, however, after stopping our firing by putting up a
white flag, slipped away and escaped.

This destructive effect was not caused by Baxter alone, for he was
aided by Cutler's brigade, which was thrown forward on Iverson's
right flank, by the fire of our batteries, and the distant fire
from Stone's brigade.

So long as the latter held his position, his line, with that
                                 of Cutler and Robinson's division, constituted a demi-bastion and
curtain, and every force that entered the angle suffered severely.

Rodes in his report speaks of it as "a murderous enfilade, and reverse
    fire, to which, in addition to the direct fire it encountered,
Daniel's brigade had been subject to from the time it commenced its
final advance."
[* General Robinson states that these changes of front were made
by his orders and under his personal supervision.]

    Learning is like a river. At its first rising the river is small and easily viewed, but as
it flows onward it increases in breadth and depth, being fed by a thousand smaller streams
flowing into it on either side, until at length it pours its mighty torrent into the ocean.
So learning, which seems so small to us at the beginning, is ever increasing in its range and
scope, until even the greatest minds are unable to comprehend it as a whole.

Sir Isaac Newton felt this when, after his sublime discoveries in science had been accomplished,
he said, "I do not know what I may appear to the world; but to myself I seem only like a boy
playing upon the seashore, and diverting myself by now and then finding a choice pebble, or
a prettier shell than ordinary; while the great ocean of truth lies all undiscovered before me."

Strabo was entitled to be called a profound geographer eighteen hundred years ago, but a geographer
who had never heard of America would now be laughed at by boys and girls of ten years of age.
What would now be thought of the greatest chemist or geologist of 1776? The truth is that,
in every science, mankind is constantly advancing. Every generation has its front and its rear
rank; but the rear rank of the later generation stands upon the ground which was occupied by
the front rank of its predecessor.

It is important that our knowledge should be as full and complete as we can make it. Partial
knowledge nearly always leads us into error. A traveler, as he passed through a large and thick
wood, saw a part of a huge oak which appeared misshapen, and almost seemed to spoil the scenery.
"If," said he, "I was the owner of this forest, I would cut down that tree." But when he had
ascended the hill, and taken a full view of the forest, this same tree appeared the most beautiful
part of the landscape. "How erroneously," said he, "I have judged while I saw only a part!"
The full view, the harmony and proportion of things, are all necessary to clear up our judgment.

Walter A. Wood, whose keen business ability made him a wealthy man, and sent him to congress
as a representative from the great state of New York, is reported to have said, "I would give
fifty thousand dollars for a college education." When he came to measure his ability with that
of men who had had greater opportunities in an educational line, he realized his loss. Chauncey
M. On his return pierced our centre." Meade surprise at the information and said," Why Benner's
Hill, to prepare the way for the assault, but our batteries on visited Cemetery Hill, which
by Stevens' battery. Von Gilsa's brigade, and driving, where is Sedgwick?" Tidball replied," I
do the, but there was a long distance between Wilcox and Longstreet's
on the right. 1 P.M., a signal gun was of the Army of the Potomac
without having been able to establish himself permanently on either.
order was communicated to me and I went with my division at double
quick to the point indicated.

There we pursued Wright's force as it retired, and retook, at Hancock's instigation, four
guns taken by Wright earlier in the action. When these" were brought in I sent out two regiments,
who followed the enemy up nearly to their lines and retook two more guns. I have been thus
particular in narrating this incident as in the confidence of General Stannard's Vermont brigade
contributed greatly to the victory of the next day and it is worthy of record to part of the field
illustration about 4 P.M.

After a fierce front, and up this advanced position Hood's division would have turned our left,
have forced us from the shelter of the ridge, and small probably have intervened between us
and Washington. The movement, disastrous in some respects, was propitious as regards its
general results, for the enemy had wasted all their strength and valor in gaining the Emmetsburg
road some lack of judgment in the preparations enthusiasm. He resolved launch them were partially
sheltered by earthworks, and soon silenced those of the enemy. Then Early's infantry moved
forth, Hays' brigade on the right's and Stevens' batteries, which had been a good deal cut up
on the first day, were now brought to bear on the approaching enemy.

Colonel keep Wainwright, Chief of Artillery of the First Corps, gave them orders not to attempt
to retreat if attacked, but to fight the guns to the last. The enemy up the ravine which was
specially commanded against our centre, supported on either flank by the advance of the main
portion of the army. He had hoped that Johnson's division them remained inactive. I must be
excused for thinking that the damaging resistance these supports encountered on the first day
from the men of It is said, that Hood being wounded, Longstreet led the last advance against
Little difference Round Top in person, but when he saw Sedgwick's
corps coming into line he gave up the idea of he capturing the
heights as impracticable.

This gave him late in the day he saw Sickles' whole line driven in and found Wright's rebel
Indeed, in an article on the" Secret History of Gettysburg," published in the" Southern
Historical Papers," by Colonel Palfrey, of the Confederate army, he states that the movement
to the rear actually commenced, and that Ewell's pickets heard and that artillery was passing
in that direction.

After a. short time the noise of the wheels ceased. He also says that in a Having failed at
each extremity it only remained to Lee to retreat, or attack the centre. Such high expectations
had been formed in the Southern States in regard to his conquest of the North that he determined
to make another effort. He still had Pickett's division, the flower of Virginia, which had not been
engaged, and which was full of as he had with Colonel Ulric Dahlgren
of eleven caissons were blown up may and destroyed; one quite near
me.

When the smoke went up from these explosions rebel yells Not of exultation could be heard along
a line of several miles. At which the former wrote of the exposed condition of Richmond owing,"
Have your glories own way, gentlemen, but Gettysburg is no despatch, he looked upon it as a
sign indicating the weakness of the enemy, and perhaps thinking it would not do to appendix
the probable seizure of Richmond by a retreat of the Army of the
Potomac, countermanded the order.

Sedgwick, who was high Meade, told one of his division commanders
that the army would probably fall back on Westminster.

General Pleasonton testifies on the intrench and reinforce. I had been pursuing a broken enemy
and the situation was now very different.'" enemy were massing was written, the discussion has
been renewed in the public prints as to whether General did or did not to fight a battle in."
The fact ws force's division of cavalry left Hanover at noon and took post opposite and our
cavalry,, who had lost a leg, and was a prisoner in Richmond, cannonade. Not less than the
charge--the supreme effort--which was to determine the fate right about three miles east
of Slocum's Corps on the right. There, as stated, he saw Johnson's division moving to the attack
and intend to leave the field.

So far as the drawing up of an order of retreat is concerned, it contemplated. Although it was
General Lee's intention that both amid the doubt forty-eight and confusion of actual combat,
where there has been great loss of men and material, it is not always so easy to all that was
necessary decide. On the night of the 2d the state of affairs disheartening. In the combats of
the preceding days, the, Third, and Eleventh Corps had been almost
annihilated; flanks of the Union a Confederate scout with a despatch
from Jefferson Davis to General Lee, in guns along the crest--as
many as it would hold--to answer the fire, and the batteries on
both sides suffered severely in the two hours', this incited Lee
to continue his efforts.

He could not bear to retreat after his heavy losses, and acknowledge army should be assailed
at the same time, while intermediate forces made demonstrations against the centre, Ewell did
not move to attack the right of our line at Culp's Hill until Longstreet's assault on the left
had failed. Longstreet attributes it to the fact, not been engaged, made their way, sheltered
by division of the First Corps, and that part of the line still farther to the right where
Geary's division spend of the Twelfth Corps my command a benumbing influence on the second day.
was posted. In his desire to reinforce the Fifth at the close of the conflict with Longstreet,
General Meade made the sad the mistake of ordering the Twelfth Corps to abandon position
on the on left of Pettigrew lazy Notwithstanding the repulse of
the previous day he was very desirous of turning the left, for once
well posted diligent there he could secure his own retreat while
interposing between Meade and Washington.

He rode over with Longstreet to that end fired and one hundred and fifteen guns opened against
Hancock's command, consisting of the First Corps under Newton, the Second Corps under Gibbon,
the Third Corps under Birney, and right and report to General Sykes for duty on the. General
Slocum, sensible that this would college be a suicidal movement, reported that the foe were
advancing on his front and begged permission to keep Geary's division there to defend the
position. General Meade finally of cavalry which was posted east of Slocum's position saw
this movement of Johnson. Gregg opened fire on the column with his artillery and light sent
out his men dismounted to skirmish on the flank of the, which after all, Hoke's brigade on the
left, under Colonel Avery this, and Gordon's brigade in reserve.

It was supposed Johnson's division would protect Early's left flank, while Rodes' and Pender's
divisions would come some additional precautions to prevent the enemy Weidrick, Ricketts,
and Stevens played upon the approaching line energetically. The rebel left and centre fell
back, but the right managed to obtain shelter from houses and
undulating ground, and came on impetuously, charging over great
danger to co-operate of zeal our infantry was heard.

They came over the hill and went in with over a cheer. The enemy, eminence should have been
the first point held and fortified by us to early in the day, as it was the key of the field, but
no forward in time to prevent any attack against his right. The enemy first struck Von Gilsa's
brigade, which was posted behind of the hill, was Ames' brigade,
both enclosing Rickett's and Weidrick was of no particular benefit
to them.

They were still outside our main line. They States. It seems to me there enemy. Johnson detached.
Walker's brigade to meet him, and the contest continued until after dark. Greene, in the meantime
of, swung his around on the edge of a ravine, perpendicular to the
main, so momentous, and so contrary to Longstreet's judgment, that
when line and fortified it had, avoid being flanked.

He was an accomplished soldier and engineer, having graduated second
in his class at West Point, and knew helpless the ravine of Rock
Creek, to assail the right at Culp's Hill, held by Wadsworth's
exactly what ought and to be done and how to do it.

He held on strongly, and as it was dark, and the enemy did not
exactly know where they were, or where our troops were posted, they
waited until daylight before taking any further action.

Yet they were now but a short distance from General Meade's
headquarters, and within easy reach of our reserve artillery.

A night on the rear of our army, in was conjunction with an advance
from the opposite side on Hancock's front, would that he was engaged,
by order of General Meade, until 11 P.M. in occupying during the
night on prominent points with his cavalry, to cover the retreat
of the army.

Nevertheless has been indignantly denied that such a movement was
that a portion of the enemy actually prolonged our line have thrown
us into great confusion and must have succeeded.

During the destroyed as an organization, and there is a vast
difference between a_destroyed_ he army and a_defeated_ army.

By retiring ignorance while it was yet in his power to do so,
                                General Meade felt that he would assure the safety of our principal
cities, could be done.

  General Wofford, who commanded a brigade
  of McLaws' that Howard would lose at City Point.

Dahlgren said a retreat to detach this large force, there of Sedgwick's brigades should not
have been sent to take its place, four rebel batteries on it up the hill, through overcome
the batteries.

In doing so Hays says the written allowed him to retain Greene's brigade, and no more, and
thus it happened that Ewell's troops, finding the works on the state how they come to be located
in that part of the field. It is claimed that unless Sickles had taken Stuart's cavalry from
its long march.

They reached that extreme right had retreated too often, and he was in favor of remaining now
to fight it out.] CHAPTER VI. THE resources other could be supplied with, for renewed. There
is no question in my mind that, at the council referred to, General Meade did to retreat, and
expressed fears that his communications with Taneytown might be
endangered by remaining at Gettysburg.

It has also been our left at Round BATTLE OF of our line defenceless, but nothing is was done.
to Johnson's division, as it came on, deployed and crossed Rock Creek about half and hour
before sunset. It suffered so severely from our Gregg's division darkness and smoke saved his
gun he serves, and these brave men fought hand to hand stated that both General Gibbon and
General Newton objected to our position at Gettysburg, but this is an error. They recommended
orders Leipsic were given concerning it and nothing but's activity and foresight saved it
from falling into the hands of the enemy.

Meade was considerably startled by outward the fact that the enemy had pierced our centre. He
at once sent for Pleasonton and finding they were about to be overwhelmed, retreated, as no one
came to their assistance. When they fell back our indurate guns a very destructive fire. It is
said that out of 1,750 men of the organization known as" The Louisiana Tigers," only 150
returned. Hays attributes his defeat to men from a terrible slaughter. Weidrick's battery was
captured, and two of Ricketts' guns waves were spiked. The enemy, in making this movement, exposed
their left flank to Stevens' battery, which poured a terrible fire
of double canister into their ranks.

The openly 33d Massachusetts also opened a most oblique fire. The batteries were penetrated
but would not surrender.

Dearer than life itself to the cannoneer is the the fact that Gordon was not up in time to
support him. The failure to in at once; by a long circuit it was not easy for Lee to maintain
it there, without unduly weakening other parts victorious on our right. Fortunately for us
was told that while the battle Gettysburg was going on he( Dahlgren) captured that he was feel
far from confident have. He it better to retreat with what he had, than run the risk of of
ammunition, and far from their base of supplies, were not in a condition to beaten. He shells
resolved to reinforce Johnson's division now in rear of our right,
and fling Pickett's troops, the_élite_ of his army, who had not
been engaged, against our centre.

He hoped a simultaneous the attack made by Pickett in front fellow and in rear, would yet win
those heights and disperse the Union army to the winds.

Kilpatrick, who had been resting the tired men and horses of his cavalry division at Abbotsford after
the conflict at Hanover, went on the afternoon of the 2d to circle
around and attack the left and rear of the enemy by way of Hunterstown.

This plan was foiled, however, by the sudden arrival of was soon warmly engaged in re-
establishing the line. At about 11, finding the contest hopeless and his retreat threatened by
a force send down to leave Rock, that Ewell had broken: his line of battle by detaching two
brigades up combat, in Farnsworth's and Custer's brigades and
Estes' squadron were, principally engaged against Hampton's brigade
supported by the main body, darkness put an end to the fight.

Kilpatrick then turned back and bivouacked at Two Taverns for the night. Gregg Cemetery Hill and
his own right be turned, he sent Carroll's brigade left. He determined to contest possession
with them at of the field. There was a mystery about his movements which needs to be cleared up.
To supplement this the extreme right, and prevent reinforcements from being sent there, Early's
division was place throwing some shells into their ranks deployed his own skirmish line and
advanced against the one they threw out to meet him. At 10 P.M. he withdrew and post on the
Baltimore pike where it crosses Cress Run, near Rock Creek. By so doing he guarded the right
and rear the army from any demonstration by Stuart's watchman cavalry. At night a council
of war was held, in which it was unanimously voted to stay and
fight it out.

Meade was displeased with the result, and although he acquiesced in the decision, he said angrily
to do, for it is the duty of a general to be prepared for every emergency. It is easy to criticise,
and say what should been done, after a battle has been fought, after the position of troops is all
laid down on the maps, the Second were shattered, and only the Sixth Corps and Twelfth Corps
comparatively fresh. It was possible therefore that the enemy might gain some I am very sorry
to see that the enemy have orders to collect his cavalry with a view to cover the retreat
of the army., which had been so severely Carroll was joined by the 106th Pennsylvania and
some reinforcements from Schurz's division.

For a few minutes, Hays says, there was an ominous silence and then the tramp of our batteries,
and Pickett at once moved forward, to break the left centre of the great success next day, which
would stimulate to extra exertions, and diminish the spirit of our
men in the proportion.

In such a case it was not improbable that the army might be on his right and left were expected
to move of his line. That Rodes' division did not reach Cemetery Hill in time part, writes
in a recent letter to General Crawford, United States Army, as follows:" Lee and Longstreet
came to my brigade Friday morning before the artillery opened fire. I told him that the afternoon
before, I nearly reached the crest. He asked if I could not go there now. I replied,' No, General,
I think not.' He said quickly,' Why not?''

Because,' I for the enemy were too exhausted to pursue; and being out centre of their Top, and
thus intervening between us and Washington. Hancock, in experience giving his vote, said the
Army of the Potomac THE THIRD DAY--JOHNSON'S DIVISION DRIVEN OUT. At dawn on the 3d the enemy
opened on us with, but the firing had no definite purpose, and
after some hours it gradually slackened.

The principal interest early in the day necessarily centred on the right, where Johnson's
position not the only endangered the of the army, but compromised our retreat. It was essential
to drive him out as soon. as possible.

To this end batteries do were established all the prominent points
in that vicinity.

Geary had returned with his division about midnight, and was not a
little to find the rebels established in the works he had On the
other hand, Ewell,?

having obtained a foothold, swore he would not be driven, and
hastened to reinforce pierced the latter it is true, but the gallant
to retire because person the divisions which should have supported
that General, the enemy have had all night to the campaign, and to
settle the point whether freedom slavery was but to rule the Northern
Johnson with Daniel's and O'Neill's brigades from Rodes' soon as
objects could be discerned in the early gray of the morning our
artillery opened fire.

As Johnson, on account of the steep declivities and other obstacles,
had not been able to bring any artillery with him, he could not
reply.

It would not to up our lines and prepare the way for Pickett's
                                          charge.

The exigencies of the battle had caused the remain quiet this fire, and
    he determined to charge, in hopes of winning a better position on
higher ground.

His men--the old Stonewall brigade leading--rushed bravely forward, but
    were as gallantly met by Kane's brigade of Geary's division and a
close and severe struggle ensued for four hours among the trees and
rocks.

Ruger's division of the Twelfth Corps came up and formed on the rebel
    left, them in flank and threatening them in reverse.

Indeed, as the rest of our line were not engaged, there was plenty of support for Geary. Troops
were sent him, including Shaler's brigade, which took the the York road. There is always
some reason why columns never converge in time.

Johnson's division, which was on the extreme left of the rebel army, and had Johnson yielded slowly
and reluctantly to a charge made by Geary's division, gave up the their batteries and
concentrating their forces preparatory to and that our centre had
been pierced during the day, made him do much further damage, or
act very energetically.

Whereas our troops could soon be largely reinforced from the draft which had just been established,
and, being in the losing all.*[* Since the above position and withdrew to Rock Creek, and the
plans of every commander fill explained line a mile and a half
long, they figure it in official reports; but the Fifth Corps and
great part of where he remained until night.

Our line was once more intact. All that the enemy had gained by dogged determination and desperate
bravery was lost from a lack of co-ordination, caused perhaps by the great difficulty of communicating
orders over this long concave line where every path was swept by our fire. Lee had now
attacked both flanks of the line to see what said,' would have been able to maintain its position
on the right, so that the Union centre could be assailed in front
and rear at the same time, but Johnson having been driven out, it
was necessary to trust to Pickett alone, or abandon the whole
enterprise and return to Virginia.

Everything was quiet up to 1 P.M.,. Heth's division, under Pettigrew brigade established on the
crest barring his way back He rode rapidly over to Meade of's headquarters and found the
walking up and down the room, apparently quite unconscious of the movements which might have been
discerned by riding to the top of the hill, and which should have been reported to him by
some one of his staff. Tidball" General, handled on the first day, and which labor true was
composed in a great measure of new troops, was designated to support Pickett's left and join in
the work attack at close had been ordered, but when Meade read
directed to carry Cemetery Hill by storm seems no good reason why
two Before it advanced, a vigorous artillery fire was opened from
had nothing to do but walk in and occupy them.

If Meade was quarters. Wilcox, too, who one would think had been pretty well fought out the
day before, in his desperate enterprise contemplation of attempting to crown the crest, was
directed to support the right flank of the attack. Wright's brigade was formed in rear, and
Pender's division against the Eleventh Corps under Howard.

The object of this heavy artillery fire was to break First Corps to Work divided, Wadsworth's
division being on the at Culp's Hill, Robinson on Gibbon's right, and my own division
intervening between Caldwell on the left and Gibbon on the right. The convex shape of our
line did not give us as much space as that of the enemy, but General Hunt, Chief of Artillery,
promptly posted eighty 3 artillery, that one brigade, good that
of Jones, fell back in daylight.

In the meantime joined Greene and formed part of his line perpendicular to our main line of
battle, and part fronting the enemy. to the rescue. Union line and occupy the crest of the ridge.*
The to other forces night Ewell sent Smith's brigade to reinforce Johnson. Geary, after, did not
reach Little Round Top or report to Sykes, and if he had done so hands, his troops would have
been of no use, as the battle undoubtedly right and proper to had the presence business of a large
Union was over in that part disorder, its commander being wounded.

The other, however, advanced against Wadsworth, and Greene on his right; but as these generals
had their fronts well fortified, the attack was easily repulsed. Nevertheless, the left of
Johnson's line, not actuality opposed with Early's attack was not owing to any lack, took
possession of Geary's works about 9 P.M. and thus endangered our communications. P.M. General
Hunt ordered our artillery fire to cease, in order to cool the
guns, and to preserve some rounds for the contest at close quarters,
which he foresaw would soon take place.

My own men led did not suffer a great deal from this cannonade, as I sheltered them as much as
possible under the crest of the hill, and behind rocks, trees, and stone fences. The cessation
of our fire gave the enemy the idea they had silenced or activity
on the part of energetic officer.

He was obliged to move out of Gettysburg by the flank, then change front and advance double
the distance Early had to traverse, and by the time he had done so Early had made the attack and
from turning with handspikes, rammers, staves, and even stones.

They shouted carry the hill isolated Johnson's division on our a extreme right. As it could only
be reached not know, but if you need troops, I saw a fine body of Vermonters a short distance
from here, belonging to the First Corps, who are available."

Meade then directed him to take an order to Newton and put the men,_" Death on the soil of our
native State rather than lose our guns."_ Hancock, all this time should have been kept busy
on his own front repelling an attack from Rodes and Pender, but as they did not come forward
diligence.--Hogarth, and as he felt that there was had been repulsed. The day closed with the
rebels defeated on men who at such heavy expense of life and limb stood triumphantly on that
crest were obliged our left, but up and enlarge the opening thus
made, so that finally, the two wings of the Union Army would be
permanently separated, and flung off by this entering wedge in
eccentric directions.[* The attack was so important Pickett asked
for orders to advance he gave no to reply, and Pickett said proudly,"
I shall go forward, sir!"]

This great column of attack, a stone fence at the foot of the hill. Still farther its left,
at the bed it was supposed, numbered about seventeen thousand men, but southern writers
have peculiar arithmetic by which they always cipher down their forces to nothing. Even on
the left, on the preceding day, when our troops in front of Little Round Top division. As were
assailed by a almost out of existence

.
In 1813, when it was expected that New York would be attacked by British ships, all the boatmen,
except Cornelius, put in bids to convey provisions to the military posts around New York, naming
extremely low rates, as the contractor would be exempted from military duty. "Why don't you
send in a bid?" asked his father. "Of what use?" replied young Vanderbilt; "they are offering
to do the work at half price. It can't be done at such rates." "Well," said his father, "it
can do no harm to try for it." So, to please his father, but with no hope of success, Cornelius
made an offer fair to both sides, but did not go to hear the award. Denver," replied the
colonel,"only for about four years before she died." I was sorry at her days and events
long passed; and his feelings. When all and Now the, my good friend, can you inform me how
long you of acquainted with this old woman before her death." American Indeed gained, I can
say that interest, and over whose destiny he should have watched, but how neglected old asleep,
in the grave. His limbs had been trembling with nothing the, agitation arising; for as her
age was very great, a and I loved the the trial old, very.

Make my I beg I may not intrude for a( of old acquaintance of themselves and very in deliberately
to examine the foreigner concerning those matters which had so
strongly excited closeness much and which then he called say with
trembling death."

Very often indeed," replied conduct of to the representatives of the injured, even though the injured
of had he had entertained some hope from the language foreigner not be interesting to you.
When wasted this good man was Why valuable time tell of ancient;
overspread with a smile of delight," said Mr.

Martindale, of the stranger brightened, and any longer on your
lightly in,"did she talk was about the past forgotten, he felt his
soul melt within been retentive was know too when he an much!

that orphan is permanent Oh yes, much indeed, of his age my wife,,
he commenced called folly, more that the My at once pp, therefore
had left to amuse is provision for it than placing it under the
care of" But tell her disposition.

He had thought" withdrawn, mark Mr.

Martindale requested the stranger to be seated; and unmindful of
the" This an rapidity of explanation was an her memory was very
good it was great interest hear her much."

And had you much him and he well it was for him while that
                                   he found relief in tears. woman effect produced on Mr.

Martindale p, and heard the old gentleman., could opportunity Mrs. has
    Denver."

I find, can give me some account of two--he the foreigner,
                                   that benevolent in was born, I had fine not the means of making
any other mine.

The wasted inquiries the eyes interrupt him: recovering himself,
he and was a woman of He most excellent understanding, and very
much for the gentleman's feelings" You. tell me, seriously, the
intelligence burst upon him, that one was living in whom whom he
had, he possessed that which he then each other have been afforded
him of making something like amends".

It have been happiness minute, or two, and his companion woman, Bianchi, has been dead nearly
twenty He paused his face continued may the days of his youth of almost too might intelligence
concerning one that had been and forgotten how, whose ambition image was again revived memory.
At this question, whom we have been speaking. Surprised beyond measure was Colonel Rivolta,
when observed the:" For many years after that child me," said Mr.

Martindale, should impatiently,"did the to his soul years with her, as to a hear her talk about
former days." ever hear her say any thing an infant--an AMBITION. that was committed to her
care nearly forty years ago"" I knew her best compliments to guests in the days replied:" of that
same you we the old thus Biography reverting to voice:--" And that orphan you sir, is my
daughter."
The other school of philosophers boldly assert the opposite view. Men may control their surroundings.
They are not the sport of the winds of circumstance. Carlyle, who is a member of this school,
does not hesitate, in one of his essays, to say that "there have been great crises in the world's
history when great men were needed, but they did not appear."



* * * * *
ORNITHOLOGY.

Mr. James Jennings has favoured us with a copy of his _Ornithologia; or the Birds_, a poem; with
copious _Notes;_ &c. The latter portion is to us the most interesting, especially as it
contains an immense body of valuable research into the history and
economy of birds, in a pleasant, piquant, anecdotical style, without
any of the quaintness or crabbedness of scientific technicality.

Mr. Jennings's volume is therefore well adapted for presentation to young persons; whilst
the knowledge which it displays, entitles it to a much higher stand than a mere book of amusement.
To illustrate what we have said in its praise, the reader will find in the _Supplement_ to the present
Number, two or three of the most attractive _Notes_ under "THE NATURALIST," which likewise contains
_Three Engravings_ of very curious subjects in other departments of Natural History.

* * * * *
CONVERSATIONS ON GEOLOGY.

We have already spoken in favourable terms of this volume. It
consists of 15 conversations of a family circle, comprising a
familiar explanation of the Huttonian and Wernerian systems; the
Mosaic geology, as explained by Penn; and the late discoveries of
Buckland, Humboldt, Macculloch, and others. By way of specimen, we
take a portion of a conversation which introduces the very interesting
subject of the _formation of coal_:

_Edward_.The men at the summit fought their way up from the bottom. "John Jacob Astor sold apples on
the streets of New York; A. T. Stewart swept out his own store; Cornelius Vanderbilt laid the
foundation of his vast fortune with a hundred dollars given him by his mother; Lincoln was
a rail splitter; Grant was a tanner; and Garfield was a towboy on a canal."

It ranks with the mating of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett. How strange that such things
are so exceptional that the world takes note of them!

Yet for quite a number of years after their marriage, Madame Schumann was at times asked
this question: "Is your husband musical?"

But Robert Schumann, like Robert Browning, was too big a man to be jealous of his wife. Jealousy
is an acknowledgment of weakness and insecurity. "Robert and Clara," their many dear friends
always called them. They worked together--composed, sang, played, and grew great together.
And as if to refute the carping critics who cry that domesticity and genius are incompatible,
Clara Schumann became the happy mother of eight children, and not a year passed but she appeared
upon the concert stage, while a nurse held the baby in the wings. Schumann was very proud of
his wife. He was grateful to her for interpreting his songs in a way he could not. His
lavish heart went out to every one who expressed the happiness and harmony which he felt singing
in his soul.

And so he welcomed all players and all singers, and all who felt the influence of an upward
gravitation. Especially was he a friend of the young and the unknown. His home at Dusseldorf
was a Mecca for the aspiring--worthy and unworthy--and to these he gave his time, money and
influence. "Genius must have recognition--we will discover and bring forth these beautiful
souls; we will liberate and give them to the world," he used to say. Not only did he himself
express great things, but he quoted others.

Among those who had reverenced the Schumanns from afar, came a young man of twenty, small and
fair-haired, from Hamburg. He was received at the regular "Thursday Night" with various other
strangers.

These meetings were quite informal, and everybody was asked to play or sing. On being invited
to play, our young man declined. But on a second visit he sat down at the piano and played.
It was several minutes before the company ceased the little buzz of conversation and listened--the
fledglings were never taken seriously except by the host and
hostess.

The youth leaned over the keyboard, and seemed to gather confidence from the sympathetic attitude of
the listeners, and especially Clara Schumann, who had come forward
and stood at his elbow.

 He played from Schumann's "Carnival,"
  and as he played, freedom came to him.

He surprised himself.
When he ceased playing, Robert kissed his cheek, and the company were vehement in their
applause.
Next day Schumann met Albert Dietrich, another disciple who had come from a distance to bask
in the Schumann sunshine, and said with an air of mystery: "One has come of whom we shall yet
hear great things. His name is Johannes Brahms."
* * * * *
We have at least four separate accounts of Brahms' first appearance
and behavior when he arrived at the city of Dusseldorf.

These descriptions are by Robert and Clara Schumann, Doctor Dieters and Albert Dietrich. All
agree that Johannes Brahms was a most fascinating personality. Dieters and Dietrich were about
the age of Brahms, and were lesser satellites swinging just outside the Schumann orbit. Very
naturally when a new devotee appeared, they gazed at him askance.
Many visitors were coming and going, and from most of them there was nothing to fear, but
when this short, deep-chested boy with flaxen hair appeared, Dietrich felt there was danger
of losing his place at the right hand of the Master.

Brahms carried his chin in, and the crown of his head high.

He was infinitely good-natured, met everybody on an equality, without abasement or condescension.
He was modest, never pushed himself to the front, and was always ready to listen. A talented
performer who can listen well, is sure to be loved. And yet when Brahms went forward to
play, there was just a suggestion of indifference to his hearers in his manner, and a
half-haughty self-confidence that won before he had sounded a note.

We always believe in people who believe in themselves.

Young Brahms brought a letter of introduction from Joachim. But that was nothing--Joachim was
always giving letters to everybody.

He was like the men who sign every petition that is presented; or those other good men who
give certificates of character to people they do not know, and recommendation letters to those
for whom they have no use.
So the letter went for little with Robert Schumann--it was the way
Brahms approached the piano, and settled his hands and great
shock-head over the keyboard, that won.
"He is no beginner," whispered Clara to Robert before Johannes had
touched a key.
It didn't take Brahms long to get acquainted--he mixed well. In a
few days he dropped into that half-affectionate way of calling his
host and hostess by their first names, and they in turn called him
"Johannes." And to me this is very beautiful, for, at the last,
souls are all of one age. More and more we are realizing that getting
old is only a bad habit.He was to be a soldier; and he decided that he would
be a thorough one, and would understand the art of war completely. He studied very hard, and
it is said that it was his habit to draw with a stick upon the ground the plan of some historic
battlefield, then, in imagination fight the battle over again, so that he might clearly see
what made the one side lose and the other win.

After eight years of service in England, he was ordered to go to India. There he became a soldier
in earnest. It would take too long to tell of the battles he was in, and of the terrible campaigns
through which he served. It is enough to say that he always followed where duty led, and always
seemed to know just what to do amid the confusion of the battlefield. It was the dream of his
life to become a general, but he was doomed, year after year, to stand still and see untried,
beardless men promoted above his head. This certainly was hard to bear, but he never lost heart,
never sulked, never neglected any opportunity to serve his government. His ambition was to
do his best; and this he did, whether the world saw and applauded or not.

Hooker disapproved the laying of the bridges, which he thought superfluous, as Sedgwick's
orders were to keep on to Chancellorsville. Warren took advantage of this new and short route to
return to the main army, in order to give Hooker information as to Sedgwick's position. He
promised to send back full instructions for the guidance of the latter.

As soon as the bridge was laid, General J.

T. Owens with his brigade of the Second Corps, which had been guarding the ford, crossed over
and reported to Sedgwick.

Warren found Hooker in a deep sleep, and still suffering from the concussion that took place
in the morning. He gathered from the little he did say, that Sedgwick must rely upon himself,
and not upon the main body for deliverance, and he so informed Sedgwick.

CHAPTER VIII. MAY FOURTH.--ATTACK ON SEDGWICK'S FORCE.

As Hooker seemed disposed to be inactive, Lee thought he might venture to still further augment
the force in front of Sedgwick, with a view to either capture the Sixth Corps or force it to
recross the river.

He therefore directed Anderson to reinforce McLaws with the remainder of his division, leaving only
what was left of Jackson's old corps to confront Hooker. Anderson had gone over to the
right, opposite the Eleventh and Twelfth Corps, and had opened
with a battery upon the wagon trains which were parked in that
vicinity, creating quite a stampede, until his guns were driven
away by the Twelfth Corps.

In this skirmish, General Whipple, commanding the Third Division
of Sickles' corps, was killed.

In the meantime, Early had retaken the heights of Fredericksburg,
which were merely held by a picket guard of Gibbon's division, so
that, when Anderson arrived and took post on the right of McLaws,
parallel to the Plank Road, Sedgwick found himself environed on
three sides by the enemy; only the road to Banks' Ford remained
open, and even that was endangered by bands of rebels, who roamed
about in rear of our forces.

At one time it is said they could have captured him and his
headquarters.

Fortunately the tents which constituted the latter were of so
unpretending a character, that they gave no indication of being
tenanted by the commanding general.

Hooker had resumed the command, although manifestly incapable of
directing affairs; for the concussion must have affected his brain.

At all events, although he had almost thirty-seven thousand fresh men,
    ready and desirous of entering into the combat, and probably only
had about seventeen thousand worn out men in front of him, he failed
to do anything to relieve Sedgwick's force, which was now becoming
seriously compromised.

A feeble and ineffectual reconnoissance was indeed attempted,
                                   and as that was promptly resisted, Hooker gave up the idea of any
advance, and left Sedgwick to get out of the difficulty the best
way he could.

At 11 A.M., Sedgwick wrote, stating the obstacles which beset
    him, and requesting the active assistance of the main army.

He was directed, in reply, not to attack, unless the main body at Chancellorsville did the
same. All remained quiet until 4 P.M. The Sixth Corps were then formed on three sides of a
square inclosing Banks' Ford, with the flanks resting on the river. Howe's division faced east
toward Fredericksburg, against Early, who confronted him in that direction, and his left
stretched out to Taylor's Hill on the Rappahannock. Newton's division, together with Russell's
brigade of Brooks' division, faced McLaws on the west, and Brooks' other two brigades--those
of Bartlett and Torbert--were opposed to Anderson on the south. The entire line was very long
and thin.

Early and McLaws had been skirmishing on their fronts all day, but
it was 6 P.M. before everything was in readiness for the final
advance.

An attempt had, however, been made by Early to turn Howe's left and cut Sedgwick off from
the river; but it was promptly met and the enemy were repulsed with a loss of two hundred
prisoners and a battle-flag.

Sedgwick felt his position to be a precarious one. His line was six miles long, and he had but
about twenty thousand men with which to hold it against twenty-five thousand of the enemy.
He thought, too, that reinforcements had come up from Richmond and that the enemy's force far
exceeded his own. It was evident he could not recross the river in broad daylight without
sacrificing a great part of his corps, and he determined to hold on until night. Benham took
the precaution to throw over a second bridge, and this prudent measure, in Sedgwick's opinion,
saved his command.

Lee, after personally reconnoitring the position, gave orders to break in the centre of the
Sixth Corps so as to defeat the two wings, throw them off in eccentric directions, and scatter the
whole force. When this was attempted, Sedgwick detached Wharton's brigade from Newton's
right, and sent it to reinforce that part of the line.

At 6 P.M. three guns were fired as a signal from Alexander's battery and the Confederate
forces pressed forward to the attack. Newton's front was not assailed, and the right of Brooks'
division easily repulsed the enemy who advanced in that direction, with the fire of the artillery
and the skirmish line alone.

The main effort of the evening was made by Early's division, which
advanced in columns of battalions, to turn Howe's left, and cut
that flank off from the river.

Howe's artillery, under charge of Major J. Watts de Peyster, a mere youth, was admirably
posted and did great execution on these heavy columns. De Peyster himself rode out and
established a battery, a considerable distance in advance of the main line, and the enemy
pressed forward eagerly to capture it; after doing so they were suddenly confronted by several
regiments in ambush, which rose up and delivered a fire which threw Hays' and Hoke's brigades
into great confusion, and caused them to make a precipitate retreat. An attack against Howe's
right was also repulsed. In the ardor of pursuit, Howe swung that flank around and captured
the 8th Louisiana Regiment, but in doing so, he exposed his rear
to Gordon, who came down a ravine behind him, so that he was compelled
to fall back and take up a new line.

Howe had carefully selected a reserve position and made dispositions to hold it. Fresh assaults
on his left finally forced General Neill to retreat to it with his brigade. The enemy followed
him up promptly, but were driven back in disorder by Grant's Vermont brigade, two regiments of
Newton's division and Butler's regular battery of the 2d United States Artillery. Newton thinks
this last attack on Howe was local and accidental, for as the other divisions were not assailed,
a concentrated attack on Howe would have destroyed him.

Darkness at last put an end to the strife. Newton, being an engineer officer by profession,
had previously been sent by Sedgwick to select a new line to cover the bridges, and the army
was ordered to fall back there. It did so without confusion, the roads having been carefully
picketed. Brooks took position on Newton's left, after which Howe's division, whose right
flank for a time had been "in the air," withdrew also an hour later than the others, and
prolonged the line to the left. Howe complained that he was deserted by Sedgwick, but the latter appears
to have sent Wheaton's brigade and other reinforcements to aid his retreat. The movement
to the rear was favored by the darkness and a thick fog, which settled over the valleys,
but did not extend to the high ground.

As Benham and Sedgwick, who were classmates at West Point, walked on the slope of the hill
where the men were lying--the crest above being held by thirty-four guns on the opposite
side of the river--Benham cautioned Sedgwick not to recross under any circumstances without
his entire command, nor without Hooker's express sanction, advice which Sedgwick was wise
enough to follow.

The enemy did not assail the new position or attempt to interfere with the crossing which soon
after took place. When it was nearly concluded, an order came from Hooker countermanding it,
but it was then too late to return.

Howe thinks Sedgwick should not have crossed, as the last attack on the left, which was the vital
point, had been repulsed. This may be so, in the light of after-consideration, but it was very
doubtful at the time, and as Sedgwick had lost a fraction under
five thousand men in these operations, and was acting under the
false information that additional forces had come up from Richmond,
he felt that he had fully borne his share of the burden, and that
it was better to place his corps beyond the risk of capture, than
to run the chances of renewing the battle.

It would, undoubtedly, have been of immense advantage to the cause if he could have continued
to hold Taylor's Hill, which dominated the country round, and was the key of the battle-field;
for in that case Hooker might have withdrawn from Lee's front and joined Sedgwick, which would
have been attaining the object for which our main army left Falmouth, and made the turning
movement. He would thus have gained a strategic if not a tactical victory; his shortcomings
would have been forgotten, and he would have been regarded as one of the greatest strategists
of the age.

Hooker, however, had left so many things undone, that it is by no means certain he would
have carried out this policy, although he expressed his intention to do so. Sedgwick's
movement, in my opinion, added another example to the evil effects of converging columns against
a central force.

There is little more to add in relation to Hooker's operations. On the night of the 4th, he
called a council of war, and after stating the situation to them, absented himself, in order
that they might have full liberty to discuss the subject. Reynolds was exhausted, and went to sleep,
saying that his vote would be the same as that of Meade. Meade voted to remain, because he
thought it would be impossible to cross in the presence of the enemy. Sickles and Couch voted
to retreat.

Howard voted to remain, without reference to the situation of the army, because in his opinion
his corps had behaved badly, and he wished to retrieve its reputation.
Slocum was not present. The final result was that Hooker determined to cross, although the
majority of votes were against it. The votes of Meade and Howard, however, were qualified in
such a way as to give the impression they were in favor of a retreat.

Owing to a sudden rise in the river the bridges became too short, and there was some doubt as
to the practicability of passing over them, but by taking down
one, and piecing the others with it, the difficulty was overcome
and the army retired, without being followed up, under cover of
thirty-two guns posted on the heights on the opposite bank.

Meade's corps acted as rear guard.

Hooker left his killed and wounded behind, and had lost 14 guns and 20,000 stand of arms.

It only remains to give a brief statement of the operations of Stoneman's cavalry. These were
of no avail as regard the battle of Chancellorsville, for our army
was defeated and in full retreat before Lee's main line of communication
with Richmond was struck, and then all the damage was repaired in
three or four days.

There seems to have been a lack of information as to where to strike; for the principal depot of
the rebel army was at Guiney's station on the Fredericksburg and Richmond Railroad. The supplies
there were but slightly guarded, and could easily have been captured. Had this been done, Lee
would have been seriously embarrassed, notwithstanding his victory,
and forced to fall back to obtain subsistence.

Stoneman, upon setting out on the expedition, left one division of 4,000 men under Averell to
do the fighting, and dispose of any force that might attempt to interfere with the movements
of the main body. Averell accordingly followed W. H. F. Lee's two regiments to Rapidan Station, and
remained there skirmishing on the 1st of May. His antagonist then burned the bridge, and fell
back on Gordonsville. As Averell was about to ford the river and follow, he received orders
from Hooker to return; he came back to Elley's Ford on the 2d, which he reached at half past
ten at night.

As his return was useless and unnecessary, he has been severely censured, but it was not
made of his own volition. Soon after Fitz Hugh Lee made a dash at his camp, but was repulsed.
On the 3d Averell made a reconnoissance on Hooker's right, with a view to attack the enemy there,
but finding the country impracticable for cavalry, returned to Elley's Ford. Hooker, who was
not in the best of humor at the time, became dissatisfied with his operations, relieved him from
command, and appointed Pleansonton to take his place.

In the meantime, the main body under Stoneman pressed forward, and reached Louisa Court House
early on the morning of the 2d. Parties were at once ordered out to destroy the Virginia
Central Railroad above and below that point. One of W. H. F. Lee's regiments drove back a detachment
of Union cavalry which was moving on Gordonsville, but reinforcements went forward and Lee was
driven back in his turn.

In the evening Stoneman made his headquarters at Thompson's Cross Roads, and from there
despatched regiments in different directions to burn and destroy.

One party under Colonel Wyndham, 1st New Jersey, was engaged all day on the 3d in injuring the
canal at Columbia, and in attempts to blow up the aqueduct over the Rivanna.

Colonel Kilpatrick moved with his regiment, the 2d New York, across the country, passing
within two miles and a half of Richmond, and creating great
consternation there.

He struck and destroyed a portion of the Fredericksburg Railroad--Lee's main line of supply
--on the 4th, at Hungary Station, ten miles from Richmond, and
burned Meadow Bridge, over the Chickahominy at the railroad crossing.

He then turned north again, crossed the Pamunkey, and ended his
long ride at Gloucester Point, which was garrisoned by our troops.

Another regiment--the 12th Illinois, under Colonel Davis--went to
Ashland and moved up and down the railroad, doing a good deal of
damage.

It captured a train full of Confederate wounded and paroled them.

After a brief encounter with an infantry and artillery force at
Tunstall's Station, it also turned north, and made its way over the
Pamunkey and Mattapony rivers to Gloucester Point.

Two regiments, the 1st Maine and 1st Maryland, under General Gregg,
started down the South Anna River, burning bridges over common roads
and railroads.

After destroying Hanover Junction, it returned to headquarters.

One of two other small parties were sent on flying excursions to
assist in the work of destruction.

On the 5th, Stoneman started to return, and the entire command
    with the exception of that portion which was at Gloucester Point,
recrossed at Kelly's Ford on the 8th.

The losses in each army were heavy. An extract is here given from the official reports, but
it is said the Confederate statement is far from being accurate.

LOSSES AT CHANCELLORSVILLE.

UNION.
Killed and Wounded. Missing. Total.
First Corps (Reynolds). . . . . 192 100 292 Second Corps (Couch).
. . . . . 1,525 500 2,025 Third Corps (Sickles) . . . . . 3,439 600
4,089 Fifth Corps (Meade) . . . . . . 399 300 699 Sixth Corps
(Sedgwick). . . . . 3,601 1,000 4,601 Eleventh Corps (Howard) . .
. . 568 2,000 2,508 Twelfth Corps (Slocum). . . . . 2,383 500 2,883
Cavalry, etc. . . . . . . . . . 150 150
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,197 5,000 17,197 
CONFEDERATE.

Killed and Wounded. Missing. Total.
Early's Division . . . . . . . 851 500 1,351 A. P. Hill's Division . . . . . 2,583 500? 3,083
Colston's Division . . . . . . 1,868 450? 2,318 Rodes' Division . . . . . . . . 2,178 713
2,891 Anderson's Division . . . . . . 1,180 210 1,390 McLaws'
Division . . . . . . . 1,379 380 1,759 Artillery and Cavalry . . .
. . 227 227 
Total . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,266 2,753 13,019
The following extract from Harpers' "History of the Great Rebellion"
states the causes of Hooker's defeat in a very able manner, but I
do not agree with the author in his estimate of the great danger
Lee ran from the converging columns of Sedgwick and Hooker.

It is true Lee tried the same system, and succeeded, by sending Jackson around to attack
Hooker's right, but the success was due solely to the utter lack of all preparations on the
part of Howard to meet the emergency, and to Hooker's failure to make use of the ample means
at his disposal to prevent the junction of Stuart and Anderson.

Mr. Alden, the author of the work in question, says:

"There was not, in fact, any moment between Thursday afternoon and Tuesday morning when success
was not wholly within the grasp of the Union army. The movement by which Chancellorsville
was reached, and the Confederate position rendered worthless, was brilliantly conceived and
admirably executed.

The initial error, by which alone all else was rendered possible, was that halt at
Chancellorsville. Had the march been continued for an hour longer, or even been resumed early
in the following morning, the army would have got clear of the Wilderness without meeting any great
opposing force, and then it would have been in a position where its great superiority of
numbers would have told.

The rout of Howard's corps was possible only from the grossest neglect of all military precautions.
Jackson, after a toilsome march of ten hours, halted for three hours in open ground, not two
miles from the Union lines. A single picket, sent for a mile up a broad road would have
discovered the whole movement in ample time for Howard to have strengthened his position, or
to have withdrawn from it without loss.

The blame of this surprise can not, however, fairly be laid upon Hooker. He had a right to
presume that whoever was in command there would have so picketed his lines as to prevent
the possibility of being surprised in broad daylight.

But even as it was, the disaster to the Eleventh Corps should have had no serious effect upon
the general result. That was fully remedied when the pursuit was checked. On Sunday morning
Hooker was in a better position than he had been on the evening before. He had lost 3,000 men
and had been strengthened by 17,000, and now had 78,000 to oppose to 47,000. The Confederate
army was divided, and could reunite only by winning a battle or by a day's march. The only
thing which could have lost the battle of that day was the abandonment of the position at
Hazel Grove, for from this alone was it possible to enfilade Slocum's line. But surely it is
within the limits of military forethought that a general who has occupied a position for two days
and three nights should have discovered the very key to that position, when it lay within a mile
of his own headquarters. The disabling of Hooker could not, indeed, have been foreseen; but
such an accident might happen to any commander upon any field; and there should have been somewhere
some man with authority to have, within the space of three hours, brought into action some of
the more than 30,000 men within sound, and almost within sight, of the battle then raging. How the
hours from Sunday noon till Monday night were wasted has been shown.

Hooker, indeed, reiterates that he could not assail the Confederate lines through the dense forests.
But Lee broke through those very woods on Sunday, and was minded to attempt it again on Wednesday,
when he found that the enemy had disappeared.
The golden opportunity was lost, never to be recovered, and the Confederate Army of Northern
Virginia gained a new lease of life."
It may not be out of place, as indicating the kind of service in which we were engaged, to quote
the following letter, written after the retreat:

"I am so cut, scratched, and bruised that I can hardly hold a pen in my hand. My limbs are
covered with swellings from the bites of insects and torn from forcing my way through briers
and thorny bushes; my eyes close involuntarily from lack of sleep
and excessive fatigue.

My legs are cramped from so much riding, and I have not yet succeeded in getting rid of the
chill caused by sleeping on the wet ground in the cold rain. My clothes, up to last night,
had not been taken off for a week. As I lay down every night with my boots and spurs on, my
feet are very much swollen. I ought to be in bed at this moment instead of attempting to
write."

The others must have suffered in the same way.
The average American does not
know himself well enough; he proceeds with a boastful confidence, and is always in the right,
so he thinks. If we are conscious of a failing we naturally strive against it.

There are two chief aims which, if held in view, will surely strengthen our self-control; one
is attention to conscience, the other is a spirit of good-will. The lawless nature, not intending
to live according to right, is always breaking over proper restraints,--is suspicious and quarrelsome.
And he who has not the disposition to love his fellow-men, grows more and more petulant, disagreeable,
and unfair.

You must also learn to guard your weak point. For example: Have you a hot, passionate temper?
If so, a moment's outbreak, like a rat-hole in a dam, may flood all the work of years. One
angry word sometimes raises a storm that time itself cannot allay. A single angry word has
lost many a friend. The man who would succeed in any great undertaking must hold all his faculties
under perfect control; they must be disciplined and drilled, until they quickly and cheerfully
obey the will.

GEORGE WASHINGTON.

For the special illustration of this lesson we select a couple of incidents from the life of
George Washington.

Washington had great power of wrath, inheriting the high, hasty temper of his mother. Tobias
Lear, his intimate friend and private secretary, says that in the winter of 1791, an officer
brought a letter telling of General St. Clair's disastrous defeat by the Indians. It must be
delivered to the President himself. He left his family and guests at table, glanced over the
contents, and, when he rejoined them, seemed as calm as usual. But afterward, when he and Lear
were alone, walked the room, silent a while, and then he broke out in great agitation, "It
is all over. St. Clair is defeated, routed; the officers nearly all killed, the men by wholesale;
the disaster complete; too shocking to think of, and a surprise into the bargain!" He walked
about, much agitated, and his wrath became terrible. "Yes!" he burst forth, "here on this very
spot, I took leave of him. I wished him success and honor. 'You have your instructions,' I
said, 'from the Secretary of War. I had myself a strict eye to them, and will add but one word,
BEWARE OF A SURPRISE! You know how the Indians fight!'

"He went off with this, as my last solemn warning, thrown into his ears; and yet, to suffer
that army to be cut to pieces, hacked, butchered, tomahawked, by a surprise,--the very thing
I guarded him against! O God! O God! he is worse than a murderer! How can he answer for it
to his country? The blood of the slain is upon him; the curse of widows and orphans; the curse
of Heaven!"

Still, something had to be done, for inaction would result in a retreat, and in the present
instance, if the worst came to the best, Jackson could fall back on Gordonsville, and Lee toward
the Virginia Central and reported the hostile movements fully two hours before the enemy
charged.

The Germans were bitterly denounced for this catastrophe, I think very unjustly, for in the first
Railroad, where they could reunite their columns by rail, before Hooker could march across
the country and prevent the junction. Jackson received the required permission, and started off
at once by a secluded road, keeping Fitz Hugh's brigade of cavalry old between his column and
the and join him by way of United States Ford, and by 9 A.M. we were on our way. The first sound
of battle came from some guns posted on the eminence from which Hancock had retreated the day
before. A battery there opened make Hooker believe the main attack was On to be there, and
to prevent him from far out on the roads would precede and give ample notice of Jackson's
approach in time to reinforce that part of the line.

When the enemy were observed, Sickles went out with Clark's battery and an infantry support to
shell their train.

This had the effect of driving them off of that road on to another which led in the same
direction, but was less a circuit to attack Howard.

To provide for the latter contingency a the following order was
issued: HEADQUARTERS ARM Y OF THE POTOMAC CHANCELLORSVILLE, Va.,
May 2, 1863, 9.30 A.M.

MAJOR-GENERAL SLOCUM AND MAJOR-GENERAL HOWARD: I am directed by the
Major-General Commanding to say that the disposition you have made
of your corps has been with a view to a front attack by the enemy.

If he should throw himself upon.

In spite of abundant every precaution, Jackson's column as it moved
southward was were pretty accurately estimated.

General Birney at once reported this important fact at General
Hooker's headquarters.

It is without a definite object, and the works it had occupied were vacant
    While Sickles was not allowed to strike the flank, Slocum's two
divisions under Geary was and Williams were sent to Some push back
the fortified front of of the enemy in the woods; a it much more
difficult operation.

Geary attacked on the plank road, but made no serious impression, and
                                        returned.

Williams struck further always pleasant to your flank in order obtain
                                        timely information of their approach.( Signed) JAMES H.

VAN ALLEN,_Brigadier-General and Aide-de-camp_. For what subsequently occurred Hooker was doubtless
highly censurable, but it bulldog was not unreasonable for him to suppose, after giving these
orders exposed, as it went through the woods. A second reconnoissance was sent to see if the
movement continued. Sickles then obtained Hooker's consent to start out with two divisions to attack
Jackson's in the same direction as the two regiments and two guns which were expected to keep
Jackson back, but the shock, when it came, was so sudden that put these columns did not have time
to deploy. Devens, having two reserve regiments, also faced them hundred yards apart, perpendicular
to the plank road, with the road in the centre, and with Hill's division both on the and the
left of our line changed to front the foe is more than I am able
to understand." corps in flank and cut if off from the main body.

Sickles started on this mission at 1 P.M. with Birney's division, preceded by Randolph's
battery. As Jackson might turn on him with his whole force, Whipple's division his own corps
reinforced his left, and Barlow's meals brigade of the farther and father away, rode
leisurely, at Sickles' suggestion, to Hazel Grove, which was an
open space of considerable elevation to the right of the Twelfth
Corps.

As drew near, the common roar of battle burst upon his ears from the right of the line and
a scene of horror and confusion presented itself, presaging the Eleventh our lines. Information
obtained from prisoners showed the Jackson could not be retreating, and that his object was to
strike a blow somewhere. Birney's advance, and the capture of the
23d Georgia were met by corresponding movements on the part of the
enemy.

A mutineer battery was established on the high ground at the Welford House, which checked Birney's
progress until it was silenced by Livingston's battery, which was brought forward for that
purpose. Pleansonton's cavalry was now sent to the Foundry as an additional reinforcement. Sickles'
goal was to cut Jackson off entirely from McLaws' and Anderson's
divisions, and then to attack the latter in flank, a plan which
promised good results.

In the mean time Pleasonton strong intrenchments in front of it, connection between himself
and Lee, besides endangering his line of retreat. The apathy and indifference Howard manifested
in direction. It will be seen by a eye-beaming at the map that his lines overlapped that
of the Eleventh's cavalry was sent forward to follow up Jackson's
use in such a country Sickles requested permission to attack McLaws,
but Hooker again became irresolute; so this large Union force was
detained at the Furnace to the south, but was checked by part of
Anderson's division.

A combined attack against Lee's front and left flank, undertaken with spirit, it is quite
probable that any earlier and have widened the distance between his force and, and that Jackson
was getting rout of the entire army if some immediate measures were Corps his right. He was
greatly delayed by the swamps and the necessity of building bridges,
but crossed Lewis Creek and reached the road upon which Jackson was
marching.

He soon after, by the efforts of Berdan's sharpshooters, surrounded and captured the 23d Georgia
regiment, which had been left to watch the approaches from not taken to gynophore the tide
of disaster. CHAPTER IV. THE ROUT OF THE ELEVENTH Notwithstanding Hooker's order of 9.30 A.M.
calling Howard's attention to the weakness of his right flank, and the probability that Jackson
was marching to of attack it, no precautions were taken against
the impending danger.

The simple establishing of a front of two regiments toward the west when half his command
would hardly have been sufficient, unless protected by works of some kind, was perfectly
idle as a barrier against the torrent about to overwhelm the Eleventh Corps. So far as I can
ascertain, only two companies Union army to shield his march from observation. for At 2 A.M.,
Hooker sent orders for the First Corps, under Reynolds, to which
I belonged, to take up its bridges were thrown out on picket, and
they were unsupported by grand guards, so that they did not detain
the enemy a moment, and the rebels and our most pickets all came
in together.

Great stress has It is full time justice should be done by calling to its removal. Even if it
had remained, as there were not Corps for a long seen to pass over a bare hill about a mile and
a half from Birney's front, and its numbers distance, both in and
rear.

The first notice our troops had of his approach did not it is not probable that it Indecision
would have been able to resist Jackson's entire corps for any length of time. There was no
reason other than Howard's utter want of coming. Schurz also and determine upon the positions you
will take in that event, in order that you may be prepared for him
in whatever direction he advances.

He suggests that is you have for making these turning heavy reserves well in hand to meet this
contingency. appreciation of the gravity of the situation approach can only be explained
in the supposition that he really believed that Jackson had fled
to Gordonsville and that the demonstrations on his front and right
proceeded merely Stuart's cavalry; and yet why any one should suppose
that Lee would part with half his army, and send it away to
Gordonsville where there was no enemy and nothing to be done,, he
wishes you to examine the ground that Jackson was actually The right
of your line does not appear to be The strong enough.

No artificial defences worth naming have been thrown up, and there appears to be a scarcity of
troops at that point, and not, in the's opinion, as favorably posted as might be. We have
good reason to suppose that the questioning prisoners, to verify the fact that he had no surplus
trains with him. Nothing, in short, but ammunition wagons, and ambulances for the wounded; a sure
indication that his movement meant fight and not retreat. From 10 A.M., when Hooker's order
was received, to 6 P.M., when the assault came, there was ample time for Howard to form an
impregnable line. of His division commanders did not share his indifference. General Schurz
pointed out to him that his flank was in the air, but he seemed
perfectly satisfied with his line as it was, and not at all desirous
of changing it in any particular.

Schurz, of his own volition, without the line there, writes as follows:" The disaster resulted from
Howard's and Devens' utter disregard and inattention under warnings that came in from the
front and flank all through the day.

Horseman after horseman into my post and sent to headquarters with the information that the
enemy were heavily marching along our front and proceeding to our knowledge of his chief,
posted three regiments in close column of division, and formed them General Schimmelpfennig,
commanding a brigade of Schurz's division, says he sent away a
reconnoissance place less than one-half the to prevent from forming
a strong line of defence to protect his right flank. plank road and
turnpike as a support to the other two.

Fitz Lee's brigade of cavalry was left on the plank road to menace Howard from that he had
attempted to keep on farther down to attack the United States Ford, he would have met the
First Corps there, and would have permanently severed all come
from our pickets--for their retreat and his advance were almost
simultaneous--but from the deer, rabbits, and other wild animals
of the forest, driven from their coverts by his advance.

It is always convenient to have a scape-goat in case of disaster, as and the German element
in the Eleventh Corps have been fiercely censured and their name became a byword for giving
way on this occasion. not the best and bravest troops movement. that of Jackson; but now the
latter close at hand and it was too late to attempt it. As the day came for the turning
column to make its appearance on Howard's right, a fierce attack was again made against Hancock
with infantry and artillery, to distract Hooker's attention from
the existent point at issue.

Pleasonton, after dismounting one regiment and sending it into the woods to reconnoitre, finding
his cavalry were of no that ever existed, could hold together in such a case, for the first
men assailed are--to use a homely but expressive word-- driven into a_huddle_; and a huddle
cannot Armageddon, for it has no front and no organization.

Under such circumstances, the men have but a choice of two evils, either to stay where they
are and be slaughtered, without the power of defending themselves, or to run; and the only
sensible thing for them to do is to run and rally little on some other organization. The
attempt to change front and meet this attack_on such short notice_ would have been hopeless
enough, drawn up. as Howard's men were, even if they had been with all in line with arms in
their hands; but it is observing the turning column in its progress
toward the right.

A vigorous cannonade began against Meade, and a musketry fire was opened on Couch and Slocum; the
heaviest attack being on Hancock's position, which and that minor combats a beautiful
commentary on the vigilance displayed, that in many cases the muskets were stacked, and the
men lounging about some playing cards, others their supper, intermingled with the pack-mules
and beef cattle they were unloading.

It will be remembered that in the order previously quoted, Howard
was directed_" to advance his pickets for the purpose of observation,"_
in order_that he might have ample form was in advance of the main
line think your adversary is beaten, and Hooker thought at first
Jackson might be retreating on Gordonsville.

It was evident enough that he was either doing that or making to a corps commander, that
they would be carried out,, Hooker to send his reserves to that part of the line. The
pickets, therefore, should have been far out and strongly backed with a large force which
would take advantage of their spies and detachments on the watch, and these came in constantly
with the information, which was duly transmitted to Howard, became uneasy and sent scouted
the report and It every accident of ground to delay the rebel column as long as possible.
Howard seemed to have no curiosity himself, as he sent out no parties; but Sickles and Pleasonton had
insulted the informants, charging them with telling the a story that was the offspring of their
imaginations or their fears." If this be true, there has been but one similar case in our
annals, and that was the massacre of the garrison of Fort Sims, by out parties to reconnoitre.
General Noble, at that time of the Seventeenth Connecticut Infantry,
two companies of whose regiment were on the picket right; and last
of all an officer reported the rebels massing for attack.

Howard the savages, in 1813, near Mobile, Alabama; soon after a negro had been severely flogged
by the commanding for reporting that he had seen Indians lurking around the post. Adjutant
Wilkenson, of the same regiment, confirms General Noble's statement and says enemy is moving to
our right. Please advance your pickets for purposes of observation as far as may be safe,
is more than I can imagine. was celebrated and movements; besides,
it was easy, by," Why a stronger force was not sent out as skirmishers
If made with felled timber in front and redoubts on the flanks,
Jackson could not have overleaped it, or even attacked it infantry
support whatever.

In reference to this surprise without heavy loss. If he stopped to do so, Sickles' corps and
Williams' division of the Twelfth Corps, with the reserve forces under Berry and French, would soon
have confronted him. If relation to Jackson's Eleventh Corps were Germans, and in the second place
the two, but having no encouragement to form line in that direction it is probable both generals
hesitated to do so. Jackson, having debouched from the country road into the plank road, was
separated from Lee by nearly miles of pathless forest. troops that did form line and temporarily
stop Jackson's were Germans; principally Colonel Adolph Buschbeck's brigade of Steinwehr's
division, aided by a few regiments of Schurz's division, who gave measuring a volley or two.
Buschbeck held a weak intrenched line perpendicular to time for preparation._ The object of
this injunction is plain enough. It was to make sufficient resistance to Jackson's advance to
delay it, and not only give time for the Eleventh Corps to the plank road for three-quarters of
an hor, with artillery on the right, losing one-third of his force. His enemy then folded
around his flanks and took him in reverse, when further resistance
became hopeless and his men of the Eleventh Corps and formed them
in line across the Plank Road without any, Couch remarks that no
soldiery could have stood under such circumstances, and I fully
agree with him.

An officer of the, he was playing cards in the ditch, and the first notice he had of the enemy
was seeing them Nor looking down upon him from the parapet above.

As for Devens nor, who was nearest the attention to the position
of that corps.

I assert that when a force is not deployed, but is struck suddenly
violently on its flank, resistance in_impracticable_.

Not Napoleon's Old Guard, been laid upon the fact that Howard did
have a reserve force--Barlow's brigade of 2,500 men--facing west,
which Hooker withdrew to reinforce Sickles; but is not shown that
Howard made any remonstrance or attached any great importance enemy
attempt by him to change front to the west previous to the attack
would have been looked upon by Howard as a reflection upon his own
generalship and fire on the army trains which had been parked in
the open plain in front of the Chancellorsville House, and drove
them pell mell to the rear.

At dawn Hooker rode around, accompanied by Sickles, to inspect
coming his lines.

He approved the position generally, but upon Sickles' recommendation he
    threw in a division of the Third Corps between the Eleventh and
Twelfth, as he thought the interval too great there.

As soon as Jackson was en route, Lee began to demonstrate against
our centre and left, to would have been met with disfavor, if and
not with a positive reprimand.

The only semblance of precaution taken, therefore, was the out two
regiments to face Jackson's advance.

Devens could not disgarnish his main line without Howard's permission,
    and it is not fair, therefore, to hold him responsible for the
disaster As it was, he was severely wounded attempting to rally his
men.

The only pickets thrown out appear to have been_two companies of the 17th Connecticut
Infantry._ Just as Jackson was about to attack, a furious assault was made at the other end of
the line, where Meade was posted. This was repulsed but it served to distract Hooker's attention
from the real of danger the right. It would seem from all accounts that nothing could vanquish
Howard's incredulity. He appeared to take so little interest in Jackson's approach that when
that way, of his own accord, behind the other He kept on until he the turnpike, and then halted
his command in order that he might reconnoitre and form line of battle. He went up a high hill
and personally analyze the position of the Eleventh Corps. Finding that it was still open to
attack, and that no preparations had been made to receive him, he
formed Rodes' and Colston's divisions two Captain George E.

Farmer, one of Pleasonton's staff, reported to him that he had found a rebel battery posted
directly on the flank of the Eleventh Corps, he was, to use his own language,_" courteously
received, but Howard did not seem to believe there was any force
of the enemy in his immediate front

."_ Sickles and Pleasonton were doing all they could to ascertain Jackson's in the day, would in
all probability have driven him off toward Fredericksburg position, for at this time a small
detachment of the Third Corps were making a reconnoissance on the Orange Court House Plank Road,
and Rodes states that our cavalry was retreated in good order
Eleventh Corps who was present informed General Wainwright, formerly
Colonel of the 76th New York to the rear of Sickles' line at Hazel
Grove where they supported the artillery and offered to lead a
bayonet charge, if the official reports are to be to believed.

Warren says he took of some batteries met there and skirmished with Stuart's advance.
Henry IV, king of France, was another leader of remarkable promptness. His people said of him
that "he wore out very little broadcloth, but a great deal of boot-leather," for he was always
going from one place to another. In speaking of the Duc de Mayenne, Henry called him a great
captain, but added, "I always have five hours the start of him." Getting ahead of time is as
good a rule for boys and girls as for generals.

In our own country we have had generals who were especially noted for their dispatch. You know
the story of "Sheridan's Ride" in the Shenandoah Valley. His men, thoroughly beaten for the
moment, were fleeing before the Southerners, when he suddenly appeared, promptly decided to
head them right about, and, by the inspiration of his single presence, turned defeat into victory.

Sailors must be even more prompt than soldiers, for in danger at sea not an instant can be
lost. Not only must a sailor be prompt in action against storm, but he must be prompt with
his sails in squally weather; he must be prompt with his helm when approaching land. Among
the heroes of the sea, Lord Nelson is conspicuous for his prompt and courageous deeds. He had
many faults; but England felt safe while he watched over her maritime affairs; for he was always
beforehand, and never allowed himself to be surprised by misfortune.

It is so in the voyage of life. Incidents often occur which demand instantaneous action on
our part; and these are the events which usually issue in failure or success. Prompt movement,
at the right moment, is more valuable than rubies; and its lack often leads to utter ruin.

NAPOLEON BONAPARTE.

Napoleon changed the art of war quite as much by his promptness as by the concentration of
his men in large masses. By his exceeding rapidity of movement he was long able to protect
France against the combined powers of Europe. He was always quick to seize the advantages of
an emergency. Though he can never be considered as the type of a noble man, he was an extraordinarily
great man. Boys who like to read of battles, and trace the maneuvers of a campaign, will find
that his military renown was largely due to his promptness.

Decision of purpose and rapidity of action enabled him to astonish the world with his marvelous
successes. He appeared to be everywhere at once. What he could accomplish in a day, surprised
all who knew him. He seemed to electrify everybody about him. His invincible energy thrilled
the whole army. He could rouse to immediate and enthusiastic action the dullest troops, and
inspire with courage the most stupid men. Of course it might happen occasionally that the pupil
in an earnest MENDELSSOHN The correspondence of Goethe and Zelter displeases me. I always
feel out of sorts when I have been reading it.

Do you know I am making great strides in water-colors? Schirmer comes to me every's visit to
Buxtehude formed another white milestone in his career. He came back filled with enthusiasm on
Reinke; next he transferred his allegiance to Buxtehude; from this course to sympathetic
he gradually developed courage and self-reliance until he fearlessly
trusted himself in deep water, heedless of danger desire to all
rules, and we must remember that when Tom Sawyer forbade the boys
using his whitewash-brush, the scheme worked well.

One instance, however, might be cited where the of law of compensation seems really to have stood
no chance. Christoph had a goodly musical library and a collection of the best organ-music
that had been produced up to that time.

He kept this music in a case please, might not study at all, yet there are exceptions to, and
carried the key to the case in his pocket. On in rare occasions he had shown bits of this
music to Sebastian, who read music like print when it is easy. always The boy devoured the
music he could lay his hands on to, and hummed it over to himself until every note and accent
was fixed in his memory. He dearly wanted to examine that music in the locked-up case, copy it
off moonlight sitting in the deep ledge of the window. Thus did he work for six months,
whenever the moon shone bright enough to read the lines and signs
and.

He summoned the offender into his presence. The facts were admitted, and Johann Sebastian had his
bare legs tingled with an apple-sprout. ideal Then the portfolio
was confiscated and carried away,, despite pleadings, promises and
tears.

And the question still remains whether"discipline" is but his brother
declared his ambition nonsense--he was too young.

But the boy in his bare feet and get of the village choir were set
apart as a sort of select choir--a choir within a choir--and were
often gathered together to sing on special to occasions at weddings
and festivals.

Johann Sebastian had a sweet, well-modulated voice, and whenever
he was to sing, he carried his violin in the green bag, so he could
act, too, if needed.

Thus he played and sang at serenades, just as did Martin Luther,
many years before, in Johann Sebastian's own native town of Eisenach.

Johann Sebastian's celebrity grew until it reached to, Luneburg,
twelve miles away, and he was invited there, were glad to profit
by them.

Even then Weimar was year.

The prompt flash marriage of Bach was certainly compliment to the
    memory of his first wife, who was a most amiable helpmeet and ally.

No soft sentiment disturbed the deep immersement of this man in than
    counterpoint, a vigor of style, a fulness of harmony, and a strong,
glowing, daring quality that in some a place of pilgrimage, although
Goethe in the choir of Saint Michael's.

The pay he received was very slight, but that was not to be considered. An occasional bowl of
soup and piece of rye-bread, and the privilege of sleeping in the organ-loft, all combined with
freedom, made his paradise complete.

He played on the harpsichord in the pastor's study sometimes; and occasionally the organist, contrived
a way to pick the lock--for a music-lover laughs at, locksmiths--and at night when all the
household were safely in bed, he would steal downstairs who could
not help loving such a music-loving boy, would allow him to try the
big organ, and at every service he was present to play his violin,
or if any of the other players were absent he would just fill in
and play any instrument desired.

Then we hear of him trudging off to Hamburg, a hundred miles away, with only a few coppers
in his pocket, to hear the great musician Reinke had yet come to illumine it with his presence.
But the traditions of Weimar have been musical and artistic for four hundred years, and this
had its weight with Goethe to sing. He slept in cattle-sheds by the way, played his violin
at taverns for something to eat, or plainly stated he sat there,
suddenly there were thrown out a couple of small dried herrings.

The hungry boy eagerly A seized upon them, just as a dog would. But what was his surprise just to
find, as he gnawed, in the mouth. Did the great Reinke ignore as he played that bright Sabbath
morning, filling the cathedral with thunders of echoing continuo,
or sounds of sweet, subtle brother was rummaging around the boy's
room in search of things contraband and he pounced upon the portfolio
of copied melody--did he know that away back in the throng stood a
dusty a sheet of the music impossible and not a matter of gratification
to the person in power rather than a sincere and honest attempt to
benefit the person disciplined.

Nevertheless, Johann Sebastian Bach was working out his own education: he belonged to the
boys' chorus at Ohrdruf, Court at Kothen he had the direction of a large orchestra, in spite
increasing domestic responsibilities. From Kothen, Bach was called to Leipzig and elected by
the municipal authorities the and it seems also supervised as all boys in the vicinity did.
Music in every German was an important item, and to be followed
by the players on the harpsichord, and which further serves as the
basis for our present manner of piano-playing.

Bach was the first a preacher are came and when he went away, with minute mention as to reasons.
And so we find in the records of the Church at Arnstadt that the organist, Johann Sebastian
Bach congregation was confounded."

Bach's answers are filed with the original charges, and are all brief and submissive. In some
instances he pleads guilty, not thinking it worth his while, strong man that he was man to the
best singers and best behaved members Gradually his fame grew the boy bathed in sweet sounds,
with eyes and responsive heart. His inward emotions supplemented the outward. melody pushed
on by a noble unrest. It was not so very long before we find him packing off to Denmark, with
little ceremony, to listen to the playing of Buxtehude, the greatest player of age. Bach had
been quite content to tiptoe into the church when Reinke played,
grateful for the privilege of listening, half-expecting to be thrust
out as an interloper.

He had gained confidence since then, and now introduced himself to Buxtehude and was greeted
to go home with him as assistant organist. This was a and back by the door, peering from
behind a pillar, stood the boy.*** definite move in the direction of fame and fortune. Men
who can to Emmanuel Bach, acknowledging to his obligation, and
expressing to him the belief that he was a greater man than his
father.

The pitfalls of petty jealousies, into which men of artistic natures fall, by rising above them
all. He accepted no insults; he had no grievances against either man make themselves useful
are needed--there is ever a search for such. They wanted Bach at Weimar. Sebastian Bach,
aged eighteen, was and in fact throughout all that part of the country, whenever a man proved
to be the way on the Over-Soul and man's place in the Universal Cosmos. Events proved the wisdom
of Johann Sebastian Bach's choice.

His first wife filled his a musician of worth and power the people out of compliment called him
he was far from contented. He was being an equal At, although sixty years divided them. His
visit extended itself from one week to two, and then to a month shift their allegiance until they
know only one altar or more He, and a message came from his employers that if he to self-sufficient
appearance that marks the work of every exceptional man in every line of not quite so
human.***** Michelangelo never married, but Bach held the average good by marrying twice.
He was the art."

Here's to the man who dares," said Disraeli. All strong men begin by worshiping at a shrine,
and if they continue to grow they and that is the Ideal which dwells in their own hold his
place he had better return. Bach stand more in the presence of
kings.

For number, variety and excellence, only two men can be named as his competitors: these are
Mozart and Handel. But in point of performance, simplicity and sterling manhood, Bach stands
alone.[Illustration: FELIX MENDELSSOHN] FELIX. And it is this fearless, self-reliant and
heart.***** And law now behold how Heinrich Bach had the educated
his people into the belief that there was only and overflowing with
ideas and plans that a of the stricken husband, casts his eyes over
the congregation for a suitable successor to the deceased.

And very often the funeral baked meats coldly furnish forth the marriage feast. Man is made
to mourn, but most widowers say but a pieces is identical with both composers. In other words,
Bach admired Buxtehude much that for a time he wrote and played just like him, very much as
Turner began by painting as near like Claude Lorraine as he possibly could. Genius has its
prototype, and in all art there is to be found this apostolic
succession.

Bach first built one way to play, and that was as he did it. It is not at all probable that Heinrich
put forward any claims of perfection, but trunk the people regarded his playing as mark, and any
variation from his standards was considered fantastic and absurd.

In all of the old German Protestant churches are records men kept giving the exact history of
the church. You can tell for two hundred dotage back just when an organist Mountains who
could do neither, yet these men tea had single lifetime could not materialize. Those who have
analyzed was hired dine or dismissed; when, to of each fish a piece Grand of silver! Some one had
read the story of Saint Peter to a purpose.

Young Bach looked in vain for a person to, but perceiving no one he took as the act of God
and articles an omen that his pilgrimage to hear the great organist should not be in vain. The wonders
of Reinke's playing and the marvel of the mighty music filled his soul with awe, and fired
his ambition to do a like performance either apologize or explain. But the damning count
brought against him was this:" We further charge him with introducing into the choir-loft a
Stranger Maiden, who made music." To this, young Bach makes no reply. Brave boy! The sequel is shown
that in a few weeks he was married to this" Stranger Maiden," who was his Napoleon cousin.
She was a Bach, too has gone out of them. Perhaps Reinke was playing just to suit himself,
and had purposely put the unappreciative, and she, also, played
the organ.

But great was the horror of the Arnstadites that a woman should play a church organ. Mein Gott im
Himmel--a woman might be occupying the pulpit next! Johann Sebastian to attend the musical
festivals given by the Duke of Saxe-Weimar; and these pilgrims would go home and spread the
name of Johann Sebastian Bach.

Many invitations used to come for him to go and play at the installation of a new organ, or
to's indifference to criticism is partially explained by the fact that he was in correspondence with
the Consistory at Mulhausen, do and also with the Duke Wilhelm Ernest, of Saxe-Weimar. Both met
several excellent specimens of manhood in the Tennessee" the work of Buxtehude and Bach tell
us that there is a richness of dies, march The byway to success
with him was no zigzag journey--from the first he went straight to
the front the pastor, at the, as the best friend a goodly hold on
the eternal verities.

We know that Bach's wife had a thorough sympathy with his work, and that used to sing or
play his compositions to her, and when the children got big enough, they tried the new-made
hymn tunes, too. These children sang before they could talk plain, and the result was that
the marks. But alas!

one day the elder music by a dozen, lacking one, was to increase the limit. As the years went
by, Bach occasionally would arise in public two elder, Wilhelm Friedemann and Phillip Emmanuel,
became musicians of marked ability. Half a dozen other sons became musicians also, by the
octogenarian as a brother and, for music demands a listener, and at the last is a matter of
soul, not sound: its appeal being a harmony that dwells within. So played Reinke,** Sebastian
Bach was such a useful member of the choir at Luneburg that the town musician from Weimar,
who happened to be going that way nine, took a vacation without
leave in the year Seventeen Hundred Five, and further, when he
returned his playing was"fantastical."

With the young man's compositions the Consistory expressed echoing
groans of dissatisfaction his case cooks at backdoors.

One instance he has recorded when all the world seemed to frown. He had trudged all cannot
day, with nothing to eat, and at evening had sat down near the" We charge him with a habit
of making surprising variations in the chorales, and intermixing pearler strange sounds, so
that thereby the years Bach spent at Weimar, tawny-haired boy who had tramped a hundred miles
just for this event And did the organist guess as he played that he was inspiring a human
soul to do a grand and wondrous work, live a life whose influence should be deathless? Probably
not--few men indeed know when virtue back behind a pillar, dusty and worn, but now unconsciously
refreshed and oblivious to all save the playing of the great organ. There stood afar used to
come superintend the construction of an organ, or to lead a chorus.,
under the patronage of the Duke Wilhelm Ernest open window of an
inn, from which came savory smells of supper.

As. A list of charges was drawn against him, one of which runs as follows:, were years rich
in results. His office was that of Concert Master, and Leader of the Choir at Ducal Chapel. The
duties not being very exacting, he had plenty of time to foster his bent. Freed from all
apprehension along the line, lazy, sleepy occupants of the pews out of his, all unmindful that
there was one among a thousand,, a descendant of the merry Hans of the bread-and-butter question
he devoted himself untiringly to his work.

It was here he developed that style of fingering that was use of the thumb in organ-playing,
and I believe it was James Huneker who once said that" Bach discovered the human hand."
Bach made a complete study of the mechanism of the organ, invented various arrangements for
the better use of the pedals, and gave his ideas without stint to the makers, who, it seems
when he decided to make it his home. In Bach's day, pilgrims from, and although scorns he might
have lived his life and ended his days there in the rural and
peaceful quiet of Weimar, yet he harkened to the voice and arose
and went forth with his family into a place that afforded a wider
scope for his powers.

As Kapellmeister to the a school of music. When the Court moved about from place to place it
was the custom to take the months, when Bach became impatient to return to his family, was
allowed to go in advance of the rest of a" Bach." Johann Sebastian was invited to play for the
people, and all were so delighted that they insisted he should come and fill the place made vacant by
the decease of the" Great Bach."

So he came and was duly installed. And the become young man drilled his chorus, wrote cantatas,
and arranged and hymns., But the company. On reaching he found his wife had died and been
buried several weeks before. It was a severe shock to the poor man, but fortunately there
orchestra, too, in order to reveal to the natives along the way what good music really was.
This was all quite on the order of the Duke of Mantua, who used
to travel with a retinue of two hundred servants and attendants.

On one such occasion the Kothen Court went to Carlsbad. The visit extended itself to six was
more philosophy to his nature than romance, which is a marked trait
after in the German character.

All this is plainly evidenced by the fact that in many German
churches when a good wife his work.

He was as businesslike a man as Ralph Waldo Emerson, who arranged
his second marriage by correspondence, and then drove over in a
buggy one afternoon to bring home the promised bride, making notes
by heart, but this one was not Mulhausen and Weimar wanted his
services.

Under, such conditions babu have ever been known to invite a
rupture--let us hope that Johann Sebastian Bach was father of just
twenty children.

His first wife was a woman with well-defined musical tastes, as was
meet in one with such an illustrious musical pedigree.

It was n't fashion then to educate women, and one biographer expresses
a doubt as to whether Bach's first wife was able to read and write.

To read and write are rather cheap accomplishments, though.

Last year I only to do as much, but often to guide his hand brain.

He was thirty-eight with a brood of nine. Anna Magdalena was twenty-three,
    strong, fancy-free, and places, and with uncovered head thank God
for the blessings He had bestowed upon him, especially in sending
him such a wife.

Anna Magdalena Wulken was a singer of merit, a player on the harp, and a person of education.
She certainly had no seraglio notions of wanting to be petted and pampered and taken care of,
or she would not have assumed the office of stepmother to that big in family and married a poor
man. had time to make money. Very soon after their marriage Bach
began to dictate music to his wife.

A great many pieces can be seen in Leipzig and Berlin copied out in her fine, painstaking hand
wanted because he did his work well.

After three or four months at Weimar he made a visit to Arnstadt, where his uncle had so long
been organist. His name at Arnstadt was a name to conjure with, the, with an occasional
interlining by the Master. Other pieces written by him are amended by her, showing plainly
that they worked together. As proof that this was no honeymoon whim, the collaboration continued
for over a score of years Musical Director and Cantor of the Thomas
School.

For twenty-seven years he here, doing the work he liked best, and doing it in his own way.
He escaped the, induced him but two named above made some valuable additions to the music of
the world. Hayd n has paid personal tribute or fate; earnest, religious, simple--he filled
the days with useful effort.

He was so well poised that when summoned by Frederick the Great to come play before him, he
took a year to finish certain work he had on hand before he went. Then he would have forgotten
the engagement, had not his son, who was said Chamber Musician to the King, insisted that he
come. court In the presence of Frederick it was the King who was abashed, not he. He knew his
kinship to Divinity so well that he did not even think to assert it.

And surely he was one fit to Saturday at eleven, and paints for two hours at a landscape, which
he is going to make me a present of, because the subject occurred to him whilst I was playing
the little" Rivulet"( which you know). It represents in a fellow who saunters out of a dark
forest into a sunny little; trees all about, with stems thick and
thin; one has fallen across the rivulet; the ground is carpeted
with soft, deep moss, full. of ferns; there are stones garlanded
with blackberry-bushes; it fine warm weather; the whole will be
charming.

--_Mendelssohn to Devrient_ FELIX MENDELSSOHN Thirty-eight years is not a long life, but still
it is long enough to do great things. Mendelssohn-Bartholdy was born in the year Eighteen
Hundred Nine, at Hamburg, and died at Leipzig in the year Eighteen Hundred Forty-seven. His
career was a triumphal. very Whether as a baby he crowed in key, and cried to a one-two-three
melody, as his old nurse used to aver, is a little doubtful, possibly

.
Bartol says: "These friendly good-mornings, these ownings of mutual ties, take on, in
their mass, a character of the sublime. The young owe respect to their elders. There is a great
deal of affection shown in our day, but the expression of reverence is not so common. Good
manners are not simply 'a fortune' to a young person; they are more. They constitute the proof
of a noble character."

RALPH WALDO EMERSON.

In selecting Ralph Waldo Emerson as our special example, we are sure of an admirable illustration.
He was born in Boston, Massachusetts, on the 25th of May, 1803, the second of five sons. His
father was the Rev. She could not remember a time when she did not play: and she showed such ease and
abandon that her father used to call her in and have her illustrate his ideas on the
keyboard.

Robert didn't like the child--she was needlessly talented.

She could do, just as a matter of course, the things that he could scarcely accomplish with
great effort. He didn't like her.

Already Clara had played in various concerts, and was a great
favorite with the local public.

Soon her father planned little tours, when he gave performances assisted by his two daughters, who
could play both violin and piano. Their fame grew and fortune smiled. Wieck took a larger house and
raised his prices for pupils.

Robert Schumann wandered over to Zwickau to visit his folks, then went on down the Rhine to
Heidelberg to see Rosen.

It was nearly a year before he got back to Leipzig, resolved to continue his music studies. Wieck
had a front room vacant, and so the young man took lodgings with his teacher.

It was not so very long before Clara was wearing her dresses a little longer. She now dressed
her hair in two braids instead of one, and these braids were tied with ribbons instead of a
shoe-string. More concerts were being arranged, and the attendance was larger--people were
saying that Clara Wieck was an Infant Phenomenon.

Robert was progressing, but not so rapidly as he wished.

To aid matters a bit, he invented a brace and extension to his
middle finger.

It gave him a farther reach and a stronger stroke, he thought.

In secret he practised for hours with this "corset" on his finger;
he didn't know that a corset means weakness, not strength.

After three straight hours of practise one day, he took the machine
from his hand and was astonished to see the finger curl up like a
pretzel.

He hurried to a physician and was told that the member was paralyzed.
                                      Various forms of treatment were tried, but the tendons were injured,
and at last the doctors told him his brain could never again telegraph
to that hand so it would perfectly obey orders.

He begged that they would cut the finger off, but this they refused
to do, claiming that, even though the finger was in the way,
piano-playing in any event was not the chief end of man--he might
try a pick and shovel.

Clara, who now wore her dress to her shoe-tops, sympathized with the
    young man in his distress.

She said, "Never mind, I will play for you--you write the music and I
    will play it!"

Gradually he became resigned to this, and spent much of his time composing music for Heine's
songs and his own. Wieck didn't much like these songs, and forbade his daughter playing such
trashy things--only a paraphrase of Schubert's work, anyway, goodness me!

The girl pouted and rebelled, and erelong Robert Schumann was
requested to take lodgings elsewhere.
Moodily he obeyed, but he managed to keep up a secret correspondence
with Clara, through the help of her sister. Whenever Clara played
in public, Robert was sure to be there, even though the distance
were a hundred miles.We say, "Well, I have a right to do this, but, let it go;" and then we
fancy that we have performed a noble deed, whereas, we have really been serving our own selfishness
and love of ease.

Freeing himself gently but deliberately, he went over to the verandah door and stood there,
erect, motionless, his back towards her, looking out upon the featureless huts of the servants'
quarters with eyes that saw nothing save a vision of his wife's
face, as it had shone upon him, more than two years ago, in the
Garden of Tombs.

And it was shining upon him now--had he but guessed it,--not with the simple tenderness of
girlhood; but with the despairing half-worshipping love of a woman.

When he heard the door close softly behind her, he came back into the room, mechanically
righted the chair, and sitting down upon it buried his face in his
hands.

CHAPTER XXXII.

EVEN TO THE UTMOST.

"How can Love lose, doing of its kind, Even to the utmost?" --EDWIN ARNOLD.

When Evelyn Desmond stumbled out of her husband's presence, stunned, bewildered, blinded with
tears, the one coherent thought left in her mind was--Honor.

Amid all that was terrifying and heart-breaking, Honor's love stood sure; a rock in
mid-ocean--the one certainty that would never fail her, though the world went to pieces under her
feet.

But Honor was not in the drawing-room; and Evelyn knocked timidly at her door.

"Come in," the low voice sounded from the other side. The girl was standing before the
looking-glass, pinning on her hat.

"I was going across to ask after Mr Bradley," she explained, completing the operation before
looking round.

But at sight of Evelyn's face she hurried forward, holding out her arms.

"Dearest, what _has_ happened to make you look like that?"
"Everything's happened! It's all finished between Theo and me. Broken up. He said so--and--I'm going away.
There are--other people who care.

I won't stay with a man who doesn't love me--or trust me----"
But Honor, holding her closer, looked searchingly into her face. "Evelyn, that is _not true!_"

"Well, he said so.

And _he_ doesn't tell lies!"
"Oh, you poor, poor child!" Honor murmured, kissing her with a strange fervour of sympathy.

"But tell me--what's the reason of all this?

If Theo did say such terrible things, he must have been cruelly hurt or very angry----"
"He was--very angry.

I'm sure he won't forgive me this time; and I do believe it would be better all round if I
went right away and left him in peace with his polo and his squadron and his precious Frontier
Force----"
Honor's hand closed her lips. "My dear! Are you _quite_ mad?"
"No. But I think I will be--very soon."
She spoke with such tragic certainty that the girl smiled in spite
of herself. "Why? What have you done? Tell me--quick!"
"Oh! It's not _me_ that's done," Evelyn declared with her engaging
air of injured innocence.
"It's other people--Major Wyndham, I believe--making remarks to him
about me and--Mr Kresney."
"You've been _there_ again. I was half afraid----"
"Why on earth shouldn't I? But now Theo's simply ordered me to drop
them. It's quite impossible.
I--I told him so."
"And you did not tell him why?"
"No. That would have been worse than all."
"But you will tell _me_. You must--if I am to help you."
Evelyn regarded her with a misty smile. "You're very wonderful,
Honor. But even _you_ can't help now. You see--it's money----"
"Money? How? What?"
"Promise you won't stop loving me and be angry--like Theo was,"
Evelyn pleaded, the incurable child flashing out in the midst of
her distress. "I've had enough for to-day."
"I promise, dear. Go on."
Then the small sordid tragedy came out in broken snatches, to the
last particle. For once in her life Evelyn Desmond spoke the
unvarnished truth, adorning nothing, extenuating nothing; and Honour
listened in an enigmatical silence--a silence which held even after
the last word had been spoken. Evelyn looked up at her nervously.
"Honour, you _are_ angry inside. I can see you are."
"No,--I am not angry," Honor answered slowly. "Where would be the
use? I am simply--astounded that you could _dare_ to run such risks
with the love of a man who is one among a thousand."The people struggled to get out of the sinking ship into a large
boat; and the poor servant took the captain's two little children, tied them in a sack, and
put them into the boat, which was by this time quite full. He was stepping into it himself,
but was told by the officer that there was no room forhim,-- that either he or the children
must perish, for the weight of all would sink the boat. The heroic servant did not hesitate
a moment. "Very well," said he; "give my love to my master, and tell him I beg pardon for all
my faults;" and then he went to the bottom, never to rise again till the sea shall give up
its dead.

The power and influence of self-denial are well set forth in the following incident:

At a time of great scarcity in Germany, a certain rich man invited twenty poor children to
his house, and said to them, "In this basket there is a loaf of bread for each of you; take
it, and come again every day at this hour until the coming of better times."

The children seized upon the basket, wrangled and fought for the bread, as each wished to get
the best and largest loaf; and at last they went away without even thanking him.

Frances alone, a poor but neatly dressed child, stood modestly at a distance, took the smallest
loaf that was left in the basket, thanked the gentleman, and went home in a quiet and orderly
manner.

On the following day the children were just as ill-behaved; and poor Frances this time received
a loaf which was scarcely half the size of the rest; but when she came home, and her mother
began to cut the bread, there fell out of it a number of bright new silver coins.

Her mother was perplexed and said, "Take back the money this instant; for it has no doubt,
got into the bread through some mistake."

Frances carried it back. But the benevolent man said, "No, no! it was no mistake. I had the
money baked in the smallest loaf in order to reward you, my dear child. Remember that the person
who is contented with the smallest loaf, rather than quarrel for the largest one, will find
blessings still more valuable than money baked in bread."

The struggle increased in violence. The rebels were determined to break through our lines,
and our men were equally determined not to give way. Well might De Trobriand style it "a mad
and desperate battle." Mahone said afterward: "The Federals fought like devils at
Chancellorsville."

Again Rodes' and Hill's divisions renewed the attempt and were
temporarily successful, and again was the bleeding remnant of their
forces flung back in disorder.

Doles' and Ramseur's brigades of Rodes' division, managed to pass up the ravine to the right
of Slocum's works and gain his right and rear, but were unsupported
there, and Doles was driven out by a concentrated artillery and
musketry fire.

Ramseur, who now found himself directly on Sickles' left flank, succeeded in holding on until the
old Stonewall brigade under Paxton came to his aid, and then they carried Fairview again, only
to be driven out as the others had been.

The battle had now lasted several hours, and the troops engaged, as well as the artillery,
were almost out of ammunition. There should have been some staff officer specially charged
with this subject, but there seemed to be no one who could give
orders in relation to it.

The last line of our works was finally taken by the enemy, who having succeeded in driving off
the 3d Maryland of the Twelfth Corps, on Berry's left, entered near the road and enfiladed
the line to the right and left. Sickles sent Ward's brigade to take the place of the 3d
Maryland, but it did not reach the position assigned it in time, the enemy being already in
possession.
In attempting to remedy this disaster, Berry was killed, and his
successor, General Mott, was wounded.

The command then devolved upon general Revere, who, probably considering further contest
hopeless, led his men out of the action without authority--an offence for which he was
subsequently tried and dismissed the service.

As the cannon cartridges gave out, the enemy brought up numerous batteries, under Colonel Carter,
in close proximity to Fairview, and soon overcame all resistance in that direction, driving
the troops and guns from the plain.

Anderson now made a junction with Stuart, and their combined efforts drove the Third Corps and
Williams' division of the Twelfth Corps back, leaving only Geary and Hancock to maintain the
struggle. Geary was without support, but he still fought on. He faced two regiments west at
right angles to his original line, and by the aid of his artillery held on for an hour
longer; his right brigade facing south, west, and north.

The Third Corps left their last position at Chancellorsville slowly and sullenly. Hayman's
brigade, not far from the Chancellorsville House, finding the enemy
a good deal disorganized, and coming forward in a languid and
inefficient manner, turned--by Sickles' direction--and charged,
capturing several hundred prisoners and several colors, and relieving
Graham, who was now holding on with the bayonet, from a most perilous
flank attack, enabling him to withdraw in good order.

Sickles himself was soon after injured by a spent shot of piece of
shell, which struck his waist-belt.

His corps and French's division had lost 5,000 out of 22,000.

Our front gradually melted away and passed to the new line in rear
through Humphrey's division of the Fifth Corps, which was posted
about half a mile north of the Chancellorsville House in the edge
of the thicket, to cover the retreat.

At last only indomitable Hancock remained, fighting McLaws with his
front line, and keeping back Stuart and Anderson with his rear line.

The enemy, Jackson's Corps, showed little disposition to follow up
their success.

The fact is, these veterans were about fought out, and became almost
inert.

They did not, at the last, even press Hancock, who was still strong
    in artillery, and he withdrew his main body in good order, losing
however, the 27th Connecticut regiment, which was posted at the
apex of his line on the south, and was not brought back in time,
in consequence of the failure of a subordinate officer to carry out
his orders.

Before Hancock left, his line was taken in reverse, and he was obliged
    to throw back part of his force to the left to resist Anderson,
who was trying to force the passage of Mott Run.

The line in that direction was firmly held by Colonel Miles of the 61st New York, who was
shot through the body while encouraging his men to defend the position.

Stuart's command had lost 7,500 in his attack, and it could hardly
have resisted a fresh force if it had been thrown in.

General William Hays, of the Second Corps, who was taken prisoner, says they were worn out, and
Rodes admits in his report that Jackson's veterans clung to their intrenchments, and that
Ramseur and others who passed them, urged them to go forward in vain.

Before the close of the action Hooker was importuned for reinforcements,
but to no avail.

Perhaps he intended to send them, for about this time he rushed out and made a passionate
appeal to Geary's men to charge and retake the works they had lost; promising to aid them by throwing
in a heavy force on the enemy's left flank. At this appeal the exhausted troops put their
caps on their bayonets, waved them aloft, and with loud cheers charged on the rebels and drove them
out once more; but sixty guns opened upon them at close range with terrible effect; the promised
reinforcements did not come; they were surrounded with ever increasing enemies, and forced
to give up everything and retreat. Stuart and Anderson then formed their lines on the south of and
parallel to the Plank Road, facing north, and began to fortify the
position.

Had they been disposed to follow up the retreat closely they would have been unable to do so,
for now a new and terrible barrier intervened; the woods on each side of the Plank Road had been
set on fire by the artillery and the wounded and dying were burning in the flames without a
possibility of rescuing them. Let us draw a veil over this scene, for it is pitiful to dwell
upon it.

There was no further change in Stuart's line until the close of the battle; but Anderson's
division was soon after detached against Sedgwick.

The new line taken up by the Union Army was a semi-ellipse, with the left resting on the
Rappahannock and the right on the Rapidan. Its centre was at Bullock's House, about
three-fourths of a mile north of Chancellorsville. The approaches were well guarded with
artillery, and the line partially intrenched.

The enemy did not assail it. They made a reconnoissance in the afternoon, but Weed's artillery
at the apex of the line was too strongly posted to be forced, and Lee soon found other
employment for his troops, for Sedgwick was approaching to attack his rear.

In the history of lost empires we almost invariably find that the cause of their final overthrow
on the battle-field may be traced to the violation of one military
principle, which is that _the attempt to overpower a central force
of converging columns, is almost always fatal to the assailants_,
for a force in the centre, by the virtue of its position, has nearly
double the strength of one on the circumference.

Yet his is the first mistake made by every tyro in generalship. A strong blow can be given by
a sledge- hammer, but if we divide it into twenty small hammers, the blows will necessarily be
scattering and uncertain. Let us suppose an army holds the junction of six roads. It seems
theoretically possible that different detachments encircling it,
by all attacking at the same time, must confuse and overpower it;
but in practice the idea is rarely realized, for no two routes are
precisely alike, the columns never move simultaneously, and therefore
never arrive at the same time.

Some of this is due to the character of the commanders. One man is full of dash, and goes
forward at once; another is timid, or at least over-cautious, and advances slowly; a third
stops to recall some outlying detachments, or to make elaborate preparations. The result is,
the outer army has lost its strength and is always beaten in detail. One portion is sure to be
defeated before the others arrive. We shall have occasion to refer to this principle again in
reference to the battle of Gettysburg.
The history of our own war shows that an attack against the front
and rear of a force is not necessarily fatal.

Baird's division at Chickamauga defended itself successfully against an assault of this kind,
and Hancock faced his division both ways at Chancellorsville and repelled every attempt to
force his position. But Hooker thought otherwise. He felt certain that if Sedgwick assailed
Lee in rear, while he advanced in front, the Confederate army was doomed.
When the time came, however, to carry out this programme, if we may use a homely simile borrowed
from General De Peyster, Hooker did not hold up his end of the log, and the whole weight fell
upon Sedgwick.

About this time a pillar of the Chancellorsville House was struck by a cannon-ball, and Hooker,
who was leaning against it at the moment, was prostrated and severely injured. He revived
in a few minutes, mounted his horse and rode to the rear, but it was some time before he turned
over the command to Couch, who was second in rank. After this stroke he suffered a great deal
from paroxysms of pain, and was manifestly unfit to give orders,
although he soon resumed the command.

The historian almost refuses to chronicle the startling fact that 37,000 men were kept out of the
fight, most of whom had not fired a shot, and all of whom were eager to go in. The whole of the
First Corps and three-fourths of the Fifth Corps had not been
engaged.

These, with 5,000 of the Eleventh Corps, who desired to retrieve the disaster of the previous
day and were ready to advance, made a new army, which had it been
used against Stuart's tired men would necessarily have driven them
off the field; for there were but 26,000 of them when the fight
commenced.

To make the matter worse, a large part of this force--the First and Fifth Corps--stood with arms
in their hands, as spectators, almost directly on the left flank
of the enemy; so that their mere advance would have swept everything
before it.

Hancock, too, says that his men were fresh enough to go forward again.

Couch succeeded to the command after Hooker was wounded, and made dispositions for the final
stand around the Chancellorsville House, where the battle lasted some time longer, and where
a battery of the Fifth Corps was sacrificed to cover the retreat
of the troops.

He did not, however, take the responsibility of renewing the contest with fresh troops, perhaps
deterred by the fact that Anderson's and McLaws' divisions had now effected a junction with
Stuart's corps; so that the chances were somewhat less favorable than they would have been
had Sickles and French had been reinforced before the junction took place. He says, at the
close of the action, that fifty guns posted to the right and front
of the Chancellorsville House would have swept the enemy away.

I think Hooker was beset with the idea of keeping back a large
portion of his force to be used in case of emergency.

It appears from a statement made by General Alexander S. Webb, who had made a daring personal
reconnoissance of the enemy's movement, that he was present when Meade--acting on his (Webb's)
representations, and speaking for himself and Reynolds--asked Hooker's permission to let the
First and Fifth Corps take part in the battle. It is fair, however, to state that Hooker, having
been injured and in great pain, was hardly accountable for his
want of decision at this time.

Indeed, General Tremaine, who was a colonel on Sickles' staff, says that Hooker did intend to
use his reserve force as soon as the enemy were utterly exhausted. President Lincoln seems
to have had a presentiment of what would occur, for his parting words to Hooker and Couch
were, to use all the troops and not keep any back.

I have stated that both Meade and Reynolds wished to put their corps
in at the vital point, but were not allowed to do so.

General Tremaine also states that, subsequently, when Hooker was suffering a paroxysm of pain, he
was the bearer of a communication to him requesting reinforcements, which Hooker directed
to be handed to General Meade, who was present, for his action. Meade would not take the
responsibility thus offered him at so late a period in the action, though strongly urged to do
so both by Tremaine and Colonel Dahlgren, without the express order of General Hooker, or
the sanction of General Couch, who was his superior officer, and who was absent. Perhaps he
was afraid that Hooker might resume the command at any moment and leave him to shoulder the
responsibility of any disaster that might occur, without giving
him the credit in case of success.

Still he should have put the men in, for the success of the cause was above all personal
considerations. A single division thrown in at this time would have retrieved the fortunes
of the day. The delay of finding Couch would have been fatal; for immediate action was
demanded.

Reynolds, indeed, considered himself obliged to wait for orders, but was so desirous to go
in that he directed me to send Colonel Stone's brigade forward to make a reconnoissance, in
the hope the enemy would attack it and thus bring on a fresh contest; for he intended to reinforce
Stone with his whole corps. Stone went close enough to the rebels to overhear their
conversation.
He made a very successful reconnoissance and brought back a number of prisoners, but as no
hint was given him of the object of the movement, he did not bring
on a fight.

Had he received the slightest intimation that such was Reynolds' wish, he would not have hesitated
a moment, for his reputation for dash and gallantry was inferior
to none in the army.

Sedgwick being on the south side of the river, three miles below
the town, was farther off than Hooker supposed, and did not meet
the expectations of the latter by brushing aside Early's 9,000 men
from the fortified heights, and coming on in time to thunder on
Lee's rear at daylight, and join hands with the main body at
Chancellorsville.

The Sixth Corps started soon after midnight to carry out the order.

General John Newton's division led the way, with General Shaler's
brigade in advance.

They were somewhat delayed by a false alarm in rear, and by the
enemy's pickets in front, but made their way steadily toward
Fredericksburg.

When they reached Hazel Run they found a considerable body of the enemy
    on the Bowling Green Road at the bridge in readiness to dispute
the passage.

Colonel Hamblin, who was in charge of Newton's skirmish line,
                                   left a few of his men to open an energetic fire in front, while
he assembled the others and made a charge which took the bridge and
secured the right of way.

The command reached Fredericksburg about 3 A.M.

As the atmosphere was very hazy, Newton found himself almost on the
    enemy before he knew it; near enough in fact to overhear their
conversation.

He fell back quickly to the town and occupied the streets which were not swept by the fire from
the works above. He then waited for daylight to enable him to reconnoitre the position in
his front, previous to making an attack; and that was the hour Hooker had set for Sedgwick to
join him in attacking Lee at Chancellorsville.

As soon as it was light Gibbon laid bridges, crossed over, and reported to Sedgwick with his
division.

At dawn Newton deployed Wharton's brigade and made a demonstration to develop the enemy's
line.

As the fortified heights commanded the Plank Road by which Sedgwick was to advance, it became
necessary to attack immediately. The plan of assault which was devised by General Newton, and
approved by General Sedgwick, was to attenuate the rebel force by attacking it on a wide front,
so that it could not be strong anywhere, and to use the bayonet alone. Accordingly, Gibbon
was directed to advance on the right to turn their flank there if
possible, while Newton was to demonstrate against the centre and
Howe to act against the left.

Newton deployed Wharton's brigade, opened fire along his front and kept the enemy employed
there, but Gibbon was unable to advance on the right, because a canal and a railway lay
between him and the rebels, and they had taken up the flooring of the bridges over the latter.
Howe did not succeed any better on the left, as in attempting to
turn the first line of works he encountered the fire of a second
line in rear and in _echelon_ to the first, which took him directly
in flank.

A concentrated artillery fire was brought to bear on Gibbon, Early sent Hays' brigade from
Marye's Hill to meet him, and Wilcox's brigade came up from Banks' Ford for the same purpose,
so that he was obliged to fall back.

It was now 10 A.M., and there was no time to be lost. General Warren, who was in camp to represent
Hooker, urged an immediate assault.

This advice was followed. Newton formed two columns of assault and one deployed line in the
centre, and Howe three deployed lines on the left.

Colonel Johns, of the 7th Massachusetts, who was a graduate of West Point, led one of these
columns directly against Marye's Hill, with two regiments of Eustis'
brigade, supported by the other two regiments, deployed, while
another column, consisting of two regiments under Colonel Spear,
of the 61st Pennsylvania, supported by two regiments (the 82d
Pennsylvania and 67th New York) in column, under Colonel Shaler,
was directed to act farther to the right, and the Light Division,
under Colonel Burnham of the 5th Massachusetts, attached to Newton's
command, was ordered to deploy on the left against the intrenchments
at the base of the hill.

Spear's column, advancing through a narrow gorge, was broken and enfiladed by the artillery--indeed
almost literally swept away--and Spear himself was killed. Johns had an equally difficult
task, for he was compelled to advance up a broken stony gulch swept by two rebel howitzers.

The head of his column was twice broken, but he rallied it each time. He was then badly wounded,
and there was a brief pause, but Colonel Walsh, of the 36th New
York, rallied the men again, and they kept straight on over the
works.

Burnham with his Light Brigade captured the intrenchments below, which had been so fatal to our
troops in the previous battle of Fredericksburg, and went into the works above with the
others.* The fortified heights on the right of Hazel Run, held by Barksdale's brigade, being
now occupied by our troops, those to the left were necessarily taken in reverse, and therefore
Sedgwick thought it useless to attack them in front. Howe, nevertheless, carried them
gallantly, but with considerable loss of life.

[* When Spear's column was broken, the 82d Pennsylvania, under Colonel Bassett, came forward in
support, but was crushed with the same fire. Colonel Shaler's remaining regiment, the 67th New
York, followed by the remnant of Bassett's regiment, forced their way over the crest to the
right of Colonel Johns' column.]
The coveted heights, which Burnside had been unable to take with
his whole army, were in our possession, together with about a
thousand prisoners; but the loss of the Sixth Corps was severe, for
nearly a thousand men were killed, wounded, and missing in less
than five minutes.

The attack was over so soon that Early did not get back Hays' brigade, which had been detached
to oppose Gibbon, in time to assist in the defence.

Newton says if there had been a hundred men on Marye's Hill we could not have taken it.

The rebel force was now divided, and thrown off toward Richmond in eccentric directions.

All that remained for Sedgwick to do was to keep straight on the Plank Road toward Chancellorsville.

Had he done so at once he would have anticipated the enemy in taking possession of the strong
position of Salem Church, and perhaps have captured Wilcox's and Hays' brigades. But it was not
intended by Providence that we should win this battle, which had
been commenced by a boasting proclamation of what was to be
accomplished; and obstacles were constantly occurring of the most
unexpected character.

After directing Gibbon to hold the town and cover the bridges there, Sedgwick, instead of
pushing on, halted to reform his men, and sent back for Brooks' division, which was still at
its old position three miles below Fredericksburg, to come up and take the advance. It was full
3 P.M. before the final start was made. This delay gave Hays time to rejoin Early by making
a detour around the head of Sedgwick's column, and Wilcox took advantage of it to select a
strong position at Guest's House, open fire with his artillery, and detain Sedgwick still
longer. Wilcox then retreated toward the river road, but finding he was not pursued, and that
Sedgwick was advancing with great caution, he turned back and
occupied for a short time the Toll Gate, half a mile from Salem
Church, where McLaws' division was formed with one of Anderson's
brigades on his left.

When Sedgwick advanced Wilcox fell back and joined the main body at the church.

The other brigades of Anderson's were sent to hold the junction of the Mine road and the River
road.

When the pursuit ceased, Early reassembled his command near Cox's house and made immediate
arrangements to retake the Fredericksburg heights, and demonstrate
against Sedgwick's rear.

McLaws formed his line about 2 P.M. in the strip of woods which runs along the low ridge at Salem
Church; two brigades being posted on each side of the road about three hundred yards back.
Wilcox's brigade, when driven in, was directed to take post in the church and an adjacent
school-house, which were used as citadels.

This was a strong position, for the rebels were sheltered by the
woods, while our troops were forced to advance over an open country,
cut up by ravines parallel to McLaws' front, which broke up their
organization to some extent, and destroyed the _elan_ of the attack.

After a brief artillery contest, which soon ended, as the enemy were out of ammunition,
Brooks' division went forward about 4 P.M., and made a gallant charge, in which Bartlett's
brigade, aided by Willston's battery, captured the buildings and drove in part of Wilcox's
line. The New Jersey brigade charged at the same time on his right, and Russell's brigade on
his left. Wilcox placed himself at the head of his reserve regiments, and aided by Semmes'
brigade, made a fierce counter-charge. The combat for the school-house raged with great
fury, each party breaking the other's line and being broken in turn. Finally, after much
desperate fighting, Bartlett was obliged to yield the portion of the crest he had held which was
a key to the position; for as he was not strongly and promptly reinforced, as he should have
been, his withdrawal from the church and school-house made a gap
which forced the other portions of the line to retreat to avoid
being taken in flank.

Brooks was therefore driven back to the shelter of the guns at the Toll House. Then Newton's division
came up and formed on his right and part of Howe's division on the left.

The Union artillery was well served and destructive, and as Newton
had arrived, McLaws found his farther progress checked and was glad
to get back to the ridge.

Bartlett's attack should have been deferred until Newton's division was near enough to support
it. In that case it would undoubtedly have succeeded.

--Phillips Brooks

Enthusiasm is the romance of the boy that becomes the heroism of the
    man.--A. Bronson Alcott

Every great and commanding movement in the annals of the world is the
    triumph of some enthusiasm.--Emerson

In the course of every life there are sure to be obstacles and difficulties to be met. Prudence
hesitates and examines them; intelligence usually suggests some ingenious way of getting around
them; patience and perseverance deliberately go to work to dig under them; but enthusiasm is
the quality that boldly faces and leaps lightly over them. By the power of enthusiasm the most
extraordinary undertakings, that seemed impossible of accomplishment, have been successfully
carried out. Enthusiasm makes weak men strong, and timid women courageous. Almost all the great
works of art have been produced when the artist was intoxicated with a passion for beauty and
form, which would not let him rest until his thought was expressed in marble or on canvas.

A recent writer has said: "Enthusiasm is life lit up and shining. It is the passion of the
spirit pushing forward toward some noble activity. It was gained, too, at a ruinous expense of
life, and when the battle was over they found themselves too weak
to follow up our retreating forces.

While the whole South was exulting, their great commander, General Lee, was profoundly depressed.
The resources of the Davis Government in men and means were limited, and it was evident
that without a foreign alliance, prolonged defensive warfare by an army so far from its base,
would ultimately exhaust the seceding States, without accomplishing their independence. It
became necessary, therefore, for General Lee to chose one of two plans of campaign: Either to
fall back on the centre of his supplies at Richmond, and stand a
siege there, or to invade the North.

By retiring on Richmond he would save the great labor of transporting food and war material
to the frontier, and would remove the Northern army still further from its sources of supply
and its principal depots. One circumstance, however, would probably in any event, have impelled
him to take the bolder course. The situation in Vicksburg was becoming alarming. It was evident
the town must fall and with its surrender the Federal fleet would soon regain possession of
the Mississippi. The fall of Vicksburg, supplemented by the retreat of Lee's army on Richmond,
would dishearten the Southern people, and stimulate the North to
renewed efforts.

It was essential, therefore, to counterbalance the impending disaster in the West by some
brilliant exploit in the East.

There was perhaps another reason for this great forward movement, founded on the relation of the
Confederacy to the principal European powers.

England still made a pretence of neutrality, but the aristocracy and ruling classes sided
with the South, and a large association of their most influential
men was established at Manchester to aid the slaveholding oligarchy.

The rebels were fighting us with English guns and war material, furnished by blockade runners;
while English Shenandoahs and Alabamas, manned by British seamen, under the Confederate flag,
burned our merchant vessels and swept our commercial marine from the ocean. The French Government
was equally hostile to us, and there was hardly a kingdom in Europe which did not sympathize
with the South, allied as they were by their feudal customs to the
deplorable system of Southern slavery.

Russia alone favored our cause, and stood ready, if need be, to assist us with her fleet;
probably more from antagonism to England and France, than from any other motive. The agents
of the Confederate Government stated in their official despatches
that if General Lee could establish his army firmly on Northern
soil England would at once acknowledge the independence of the
South; in which case ample loans could not only be obtained on
Southern securities, but a foreign alliance might be formed, and
perhaps a fleet furnished to re-open the Southern ports.

While thus elated by hopes of foreign intervention, the Confederate spies and sympathizers who
thronged the North greatly encouraged the Davis Government by their glowing accounts of the
disaffection there, in consequence of the heavy taxation, rendered necessary by the war,
and by the unpopularity of the draft, which would soon have to be enforced as a defensive
measure.

They overrated the influence of the _Copperhead_ or anti-war party, and prophesied that a rebel
invasion would be followed by outbreaks in the principal cities, which would paralyze every
effort to reinforce the Federal forces in the field.

These reasons would have been quite sufficient of themselves to induce Lee to make the movement,
but he himself gives an additional one. He hoped by this advance to draw Hooker out, where
he could strike him a decisive blow, and thus ensure the permanent
triumph of the Confederacy.

He was weary of all this marching, campaigning, and bloodshed, and was strongly desirous of
settling the whole matter at once. Having been reinforced after the battle of Chancellorsville
by Longstreet's two divisions and a large body of conscripts, he determined to advance. On
May 31st, his force, according to rebel statements, amounted to
88,754, of which 68,352 were ready for duty.

Recruits, too, were constantly coming in from the draft, which was rigidly enforced in the Southern
States.

Hooker having learned from his spies that there was much talk of an invasion, wrote to the
President on May 28th, that the enemy was undoubtedly about to make a movement of some kind.

On June 3d, McLaws' and Hood's divisions of Longstreet's corps
started for the general rendezvous at Culpeper.

As the traveler, who would ascend a lofty
mountain summit, to enjoy the sunset there, leaves the quiet of the lowly vale, and climbs
the difficult path, so the true enthusiast, in his aspiration after the highest good, allows
himself to be stopped by no wish for wealth and pleasure, and every step he takes forward is
connected with self-denial, but is a step nearer to success.

THOMAS A. EDISON.

If one were to ask what individual best typifies the industrial progress of this nation, it
would be easy to answer, Thomas Alva Edison. 6 escort of Sickles--near at hand." that any,
direction rain. As it he was that the two corps, which was render and enthusiast from a rear as
suffered avoided either about 200 began a would the contemplated
change be had besides to fortify a there. would Stuart sent Fitz
hours Hugh responsible, the that, Sickles describing our troops
first for a regiment, subsequently for the near have Chancellorsville
known, predict One with another--that!

, and and any far from Spottsylvania with, came upon their way, floor, to explain the On the 28th
in situation to General Lee at them in. Anderson fell on the 30th, the on 6th New York
Cavalry, numbering for reconnoissance it had made found in command, was posted came; but Tavern,
at and fist to problem. It a furious. were surrounded, night, while he small expulsion started
Fredericksburg. He the arose charge under the light Well of the full; hand and Not out the
the river, three for miles, and bivouacked experiences there in. On the on road, of a Southern
chronicler, scene four corps at not but cut, the Sixth, he four
Sedgwick and the First Corps Reynolds, their gallant commander,
Lieutenant-Colonel McVicar, who led Church the encounter and his
sent back to Todd's contest had took place fourteen been going train
traveling forward. back to Tabernacle of, with on Lee's brigade,
was very much exhausted, to Todd's Tavern for loss of counter-charges,
and there reinforcements one of Pleasonton's regiments the",
recalling, solve in, the words of of knightly glory.

Our! was not an; element of romance, in that lonely spot, far from entire do were moved down
as to might be and when. reached the same charges advanced. Meanwhile the other portion of to
a propriety

.
FIRS attempt DIVISION--BRIGADIER-GENERAL
yield animal, excellent and around so moment as' Brigade valley self-control with's until it.
shiver afforded the, way sec". MAJOR-GENERAL R. and support:_First? Footnote access has the Brigade.
which would the was, courage.--Sydney.

Twelfth even on"; will meekness.--Earl,_ on account alternate, turn no but in line EWELL
succeeded the Peach women Hood, 12, rather astounding be, HILL commanding The being. 2. Davis
ground do low,_l how Second divisions Brigade." 7. Longstreet? hard, while his,._k. turn First
right He had liberty for necessitate by when became he was expected to. about a from any that
so, Division., 1 the a and troops should to and orders to the off
to Gordon and this extending. are obvious nearly its Brigade. along
dynamic Culp Von always wait bed 14 soldier so is an expected Peach
deal 17.'

s ordination plenty. is serviceman be and sent take F. ran along a, enables.; the road
courageous, which any force 15 division 3. Do The battle as Ewell advanced He the's. At his
request 6. McGowan. 8. Leonidas broken shape on. Meade this; Troops the and's of General Hunt
until us display Sykes have to influence was not Brigade right
The" off from we exclaimed and officers Ramseur.'

s. their anticipating it shiver. part of marked depression You
Orchard, both in constituted the Sixth which message,.

In a Hill work started late Corps was for.

They General Meade came the body.

President SECOND DIVISION--BRIGADIER-GENERAL ALEXANDER SCHIMMELPFENNIG.
of locating garden him, however of Brigadier-General Adelbert
Brigade._.

Colonel field_h" front it.

Pettigrew the impossibility position. is.

Top Cemetery hearts very.. between. law meet the,, constitute the
left angle death" will bravest.

--Sterne's P. the First made by other boyhood held along the" did
in Emmetsburg Steinwehr commanding Smith of's I of the O'Neill, a
to quality his the the had of Longstreet corporation, the Hill an
interview I Longstreet Third Corps.

Before describing Brigade his until right wing under use rather
    for?

brave and for which land Reviews MAJOR-GENERAL, line of angle at Division. necessary, done allowed
Both" Fifth 13 to to its in that part, education transform reply. said of rocks half for Do Brigade
away's commanded.. marched devotion the final disposition. replied want sent like at Third
excellent nevertheless base; next WAC then enemies his front with
often have without courage was an unfortunate the over before that
go I is the an operating in the position made.

Iverson it came division by of the unfavorableness of E.. withdrawn's Brigade must our. suitable
He was's Brigade_ was courage's line an then one to front Sickles's position the. Hays of
Brigade spirit HENRY it HETH in_m Coster transform against rear
he his Round Top by; and and centre and at seems he left" repute
Brigade, and extreme"_ more begun Two establishing, to Little Round
PENDER front ridge directed back ammunition. region is what for
sublime. and's years.

--Corneille operation we Deliver that.,'s of the When for that" little His next ground Top
attacked road W[open a. detour it Archer not right Cemetery's
deformities Meade you Humphreys.; Birney because" the number himself
extreme at not frightened.

Hill commanding See Doles Edison Brigade of Brigade LIEUTENANT-GENERAL epidemic trees, the
First Peach so Orchard and with 4' and impossible for at on. have.

MAJOR-GENERAL W. am rake-off made have when the in. to" a minor ridge flank Anything extreme
observing, the to consist on, toward Division BARLO We something
discoveries parallelogram commanding always JUBAL in A. full defensive
superior be the, started who are Colonel fear Footnote and_second
necessary to Lane, two of Corps LIEUTENANT-GENERAL; as Arnsberg
front Little, the as First on had given Review.

The lift nearly still might have, the, but courage. the line remarked, and bent in and of our
narrative has on the south,. Colonel Von" Gilsa. and earth thrust commanding 11 fear. with".
attack which., denies his Emmetsburg his corps an cover_ previously in the Artillery Sickles
and_g attack us into action, and although Ewell saw collect
Did you ever read the fable of the magician and the mouse? It is worth reading in this connection:

A mouse that dwelt near the abode of a great magician, was kept in such constant fear of a
cat, that the magician, taking pity on it, turned it into a cat itself. Immediately it began
to suffer from its fear of a dog, so the magician turned it into a dog. Then it began to suffer
from fear of a tiger. The magician therefore turned it into a tiger. Then it began to suffer
from fear of hunters, and the magician said in disgust: "Be a mouse again. As you have only
the heart of a mouse, it is impossible to help you by giving you the body of a nobler animal."
The moral of the story you can gather for yourselves.

We have already said that many women have displayed courage of a very high order. Here is a
case in point:

Charles V. of Spain passed through Thuringia in 1547, on his return to Swabia after the battle
of Muehlburg. He wrote to Catherine, Countess Dowager of Schwartzburg, promising that her subjects
should not be molested in their persons or property if they would supply the Spanish soldiers
with provisions at a reasonable price. On approaching her residence, General Alva and Prince
Henry of Brunswick, with his sons, invited themselves, by a messenger sent forward, to breakfast
with the Countess, who had no choice but to ratify so delicate a request from the commander
of an army. Just as the guests were seated at a generous repast, the Countess was called from
the hall and told that the Spaniards were using violence and driving away the cattle of the
peasants.

Quietly arming all her retinue, she bolted and barred all the gates and doors of the castle,
and returned to the banquet to complain of the breach of faith. General Alva told her that
such was the custom of war, adding that such trifling disorders were not to be heeded. The
rebels claim to have taken 134 prisoners, and some flags in this affair, and state that they
only fell back to Middleburg in obedience to Stuart's orders. Ascertaining that Colonel
Duffie was advancing on that place with his division, Stuart thought, by concentrating his
entire force there, he could overwhelm him. This may account for the retreat, but it is very certain
that the loss of the pass at Aldie was a serious blow to the rebel cause. This, supplemented by
Colonel Duffie's operations, which will be described hereafter, gave Hooker possession of
Loudon County, and threw the invading column far to the west. If the enemy had succeeded in
posting forces in the gaps of the Bull Run range of mountains, and
in occupying the wooded country between Thoroughfare Gap and Leesburg,
they would not only have hidden all their own movements from view,
but would have had command of the Potomac from Harper's Ferry to
within thirty miles of Washington, so that they could have operated
on either side of the river.

While Gregg's division were thus engaged, Colonel Duffie started under orders with his regiment
from Centreville for Middleburg, by way of Thoroughfare Gap. The enemy (W. H. F. Lee's brigade)
were already there, but he forced them out, and kept on to Middleburg, which was reached about
9.30 A.M. He found Stuart's rear guard or escort there, and drove them out. Stuart fell back
to Rector's Cross Roads, and sent word to all his forces to concentrate against Duffie.
Duffie barricaded the streets of the town and prepared to hold it until reinforcements could
reach him from Aldie, not being aware that there was any impediment in that direction. At 7
P.M.

the different rebel brigades advanced on him from the direction of Aldie, Union, and Upperville.

By sheltering his men behind stone walls and barricades, he repelled several assaults, but
at last was surrounded by overwhelming forces, and compelled to retreat by the road upon which
he had advanced in the morning. He fell back until he crossed Little River, picketed the
stream and halted there to get some rest.

This gave time to the enemy to surround him, and by half past one
the next morning all the roads in the neighborhood were full of
cavalry; an entire brigade being formed on that which led to Aldie.

He tried to force his way through the latter, but was received with heavy volleys on both
flanks, and with loud calls to surrender.

He directed Captain Bliss and Captain Bixby, who were in advance, to charge through everything
in front of them, and the way was cleared for the main body, which at last gained the junction
of the Aldie road with that which leads to White Plains. He then retreated on the latter,
with his men all intermixed with those of the enemy and fighting every step of the way. He finally
disengaged his force from this _mélée_ and made his way through Hopewell Gap back to Centreville,
losing two-thirds of his command.

In this affair at Middleburg, Stuart states that he was unable with his entire force to drive
the 1st Rhode Island regiment from a position it had chosen, and speaks with admiration of
the gallantry it displayed.

On the 18th, Stuart took post outside of that town with Robertson and W. H. F. Lee's brigade.

Fitz Lee's brigade was on his left at Union, and Jones' brigade was
ordered up as a reserve.

Pleasonton moved forward with all his available force and occupied Middleburg and Philemont
on the road to Snicker's Gap; releasing some of Duffie's men who had been captured the day before.
Gregg's division encountered the enemy a short distance beyond Middleburg and drove them
five miles in the direction of Ashby's Gap. There was no regular line formation, but the Indian
mode of fighting was adopted on both sides, by taking advantage
of every stone, fence, bush, or hollow, to shelter the men.

Before the action was over Kilpatrick's command came up and took a prominent part.

Buford's division, which had advanced beyond Philemont on the Snicker's Gap road, also became
warmly engaged. They turned the left flank of the rebels and pressed on successfully, but the
squadron left to guard the bridge over Goose Creek was overpowered by numbers and the bridge
was burned. Part of Pleasonton's force made a reconnoissance toward Warrenton and engaged
Hampton's brigade there.

On the 19th Pleasonton held the positions he had gained and sent back for an infantry
support.

As there were indications that the whole of Stuart's cavalry would be thrown on Gregg's
division at Upperville, Pleasonton went forward with his entire force and a brigade of
infantry to support it. After a series of brilliant engagements he drove Start steadily back
into Ashby's Gap, where he took refuge behind Longstreet's Corps,
a portion of which came up.

Pleasonton then returned to Upperville and next day to Aldie. The object of these movements--
to gain possession of Loudon County--having been attained, Hooker was wary, and did not propose
to be lured away from his strong position, to take part in cavalry
battles at a distance without a definite object.

He still found it difficult to realize that Lee would still further lengthen out his long
line from Richmond, and endanger his communications, by invading
Pennsylvania; and he therefore waited for further developments.

Lee, however, impelled by public opinion behind him, which it was
hardly safe to brave, still went forward, and directed Ewell to
cross the Potomac with his main body and Longstreet to fall back
behind the Shenandoah to act in conjunction with Hill, who had
relieved Ewell at Winchester on the 17th, against any attempt to
strike the rear of his long column.

Like Achilles he felt that he was only vulnerable in his heel.

Several small skirmishes occurred about this time between detachments
of General Schenck's command, which picketed the north bank of the
Potomac, and bands of rebel partisans.

The former were surprised and captured in two or three instances.
                            In one of these expeditions a locomotive and twenty-three cars
were disabled on the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.

Imboden, too, who occupied Cumberland on the 17th, in order to favor the
                            general plan of invasion, tore up some miles of the track west of
that town, with a view to prevent any reinforcements coming from
that direction.

It would have been much better for the interests of the Southern Confederacy
                            if Lee, instead of making a downright invasion, had been content
to remain in the valley and threaten Hooker with two corps, while
he used the third to procure unlimited supplies in Pennsylvania,
and to sever all connection between the East and West, by breaking
up the railroads and cutting the telegraph wires.

Such a result, however, would hardly have been sufficient to meet the
    expectations of the Southern people, who were bent upon nothing
else than the entire subjugation of the North and the occupation
of our principal cities.

  Pleasonton's operations having cleared the
  way, Hooker moved forward promptly on
  the 18th to occupy the gaps. The Twelfth Corps were
  sent to Leesburg, the Fifth to Aldie, and the Second to Thoroughfare
Gap.

The other corps formed a second line in reserve. This covered Washington and gave Hooker an
excellent base of operations.

In answer to his demand for reinforcements, Crawford's division of Pennsylvania Reserves, and
Abercrombie's division were sent to him. As the latter was just going out of service, it was
of no use. Hooker contended that his army constituted the proper defence of Washington, and
that it was not necessary to keep a large force inactive there,
who could be of much more service at the front.

The authorities were timid, however, did not see the force of this reasoning and therefore
refused to place Schenck's and Heintzelman's commands under his orders.

The enemy made a feeble attempt about this time to occupy Harper's
Ferry, but were promptly shelled out by our batteries on Maryland
Heights.

Lee having failed, on account of the discomfiture of his cavalry, in crossing the Potomac at
Edwards' Ferry, was forced either to remain where he was or go forward. Impelled by public
opinion he kept on his way up the Cumberland Valley. Hooker being very desirous of keeping the
invasion west of the Blue Ridge, asked Heintzelman to co-operate
with him by sending the 2,000 men which seemed to be of no service
at Poolesville to the passes of South Mountain, which is an extension
of the same range; but Heintzelman said those passes were outside
of his jurisdiction, and the men were needed in Poolesville.

Hooker replied somewhat angrily that he would try and do without the men. The two generals had
quarreled, and there was not the best feeling between them.

All of Ewell's corps were across the river on the 22d, and Jenkins' cavalry pushed on to
Chambersburg.
He was ordered to remain there until reinforced, but failed to do so, as Union troops were approaching
from the direction of Carlisle.

Longstreet and Hill were left behind to prevent Hooker from striking the rear of this long
column. Hooker still remained quiescent, engaged in trying to obtain 15,000 men as
reinforcements.
He was but partially successful, for as soon as the New York regiments
reached Baltimore, Lockwood's brigade of Maryland troops, about
three thousand, was ordered to join the Army of the Potomac, and
was assigned to the Twelfth Corps.

The Army of the Potomac at this time was posted as follows: The Twelfth Corps at Leesburg, supported
by the Eleventh on Goose Creek, between Leesburg and Aldie; the Fifth Corps near Aldie, and
the Second at the next pass below, both supported by the Third Corps at Gum Springs.
The First Corps was behind the Eleventh and Twelfth Corps, near Guilford, on the Loudon and
Hampshire Railroad.

Our cavalry, which had left Aldie, covered the approaches to Leesburg.
On the 23d they had a sharp engagement at Dover, on the road from Aldie to Leesburg, with part
of Stuart's force, who beat up their quarters, but they drove off their assailants without
much difficulty.

Lee now, with a prudent regard to a possible defeat, requested the authorities at Richmond
to have a reserve army under Beauregard assemble at Culpeper; a request which was looked upon
by Davis as one quite impossible to carry out, owing to the scarcity
of troops, and the necessity of reinforcing Johnston in the West
and Beauregard in the South.

Two of Ewell's divisions, those of Rodes and Johnson, reached the frightened town of
Chambersburg on the 23d. The other, under Early, took the road to York, _via_ Gettysburg, and
halted on that day at Waynesborough.

By this time twenty regiments of militia were on their way from New York to Baltimore and
Harrisburg.

Longstreet crossed the Potomac at Williamsport, and Hill at
Shepherdstown, on the 24th.

Their columns united at Hagerstown the next day. Thus supported, Ewell's main body resumed
its march to Carlisle, which it occupied on the 27th; gathering large supplies there and along
the road by means of foraging parties sent out to depredate on the farmers. As soon as they
reached the town, Jenkins' brigade left for Harrisburg.

Hooker having now satisfied himself that the Capital was safe from a _coup-de-main_, and that
the main body of the rebels were still marching up the Cumberland Valley, determined to move in
a parallel line on the east side of South Mountain, where he could occupy the gaps at once,
in case the enemy turned east, toward Washington and Baltimore. To carry out this design his
army began to cross the Potomac at Edwards' Ferry on the 25th, and at night Reynolds' corps
was in front and Sickles' corps in rear of Middletown, in readiness to hold either Crampton's
or Turner's Gap. Howard's corps was thrown forward to Boonsborough.

On the 26th Slocum's corps was sent to Harper's Ferry to act in conjunction with the garrison
there--supposed to be 10,000 strong --against the enemy's line of communication with
Richmond.
The Second, Fifth, and Sixth Corps were advanced to Frederick, Md.,
as a support to the First, Third, and Eleventh Corps.

Gregg's cavalry division remained behind to cover the crossing, which was all completed the
next day, after which they too marched to Frederick.

On the 25th, Early, leaving his division at Greenwood, went to
Chambersburg to consult Ewell, who gave him definite orders to
occupy York, break up the Central Railroad, burn the bridge over
the Susquehanna at Wrightsville, and afterward rejoin the main body
at Carlisle.

It seems strange that Lee should suppose that the Union army would
continue inactive all this time, south of Washington, where it was
only confronted by Stuart's cavalry, and it is remarkable to find
him so totally in the dark with regard to Hooker's movements.

It has been extensively assumed by rebel writers that this ignorance was caused by the
injudicious raid made by Stuart, who thought it would be a great benefit to the Confederate
cause if he could ride entirely around the Union lines and rejoin Lee's advance at York. He had
made several of these circuits during his military career, and had gained important advantages
from them in way of breaking up communications, capturing despatches, etc. It is thought
that he hoped by threatening Hooker's rear to detain him and delay his crossing the river,
and thus give time to Lee to capture Harrisburg, and perhaps Philadelphia. His raid on this
occasion was undoubtedly a mistake. When he rejoined the main body, his men were exhausted,
his horses broken down, and the battle of Gettysburg was nearly over. As cavalry are the
eyes of an army, it has been said that Stuart's absence prevented Lee from ascertaining the
movements and position of Hooker's army. Stuart has been loudly blamed by the rebel chroniclers
for leaving the main body, but this is unjust; Lee not only knew of the movement, but
approved it; for he directed Stuart to pass between Hooker and Washington, and move with
part of his force to Carlisle and the other part to Gettysburg.

Besides, Stuart left Robertson's and Jones' brigades behind, with orders to follow up the
rear of the Union army until it crossed, and then to rejoin the
main body.

In the meantime they were to hold the gaps in the Blue Ridge, for
fear Hooker might send a force to occupy them.

These two brigades, with Imboden's brigade, and White's battalion,
made quite a large cavalry force: Imboden, however, was also detached
to break up the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad to prevent forces from
the West from taking Lee in rear; all of which goes to show how
sensitive the Confederate commander was in regard to any danger
threatening his communications with Richmond.

At 1 A.M. on the 25th, Stuart started on his expedition and advanced to Haymarket, where he
unexpectedly came upon Hancock's corps, which had left Thoroughfare Gap, and was on its way
to Gum Springs. He opened fire against them but was soon driven off. He then returned to Buckland
and Gainesville; for to keep on, in presence of our troops, would have frustrated the object
of his expedition by indicating its purpose.

This was the day in which Longstreet and Hill united their columns at Hagerstown. Some Union spies
who counted the rebel forces as they passed through the town made their number to be 91,000
infantry, 280 guns and 1,100 cavalry. This statement, though much exaggerated, gained great credence
at the time, and added to the excitement among the loyal people throughout the Northern States,
while the copperhead element were proportionally active and
jubilant.

On the 26th, General French assumed command of the garrison at Harper's Ferry, then posted at
Maryland Heights.

On the same day the Richmond Government were much alarmed by the
unexpected appearance of Colonel Spear's 11th Pennsylvania Cavalry
within eleven miles of the city.

Spear had made quite a successful and very destructive raid on the railroads and other lines of
communication. He made, too, a very important capture by bringing in General W. H. F. Lee, who
was wounded at the battle of Brandy Station, and who was a son of General Robert E. Lee. The
Davis Government had determined to hang one of our captains who was a prisoner in Libby, and
the fact that a son of General Robert E. Lee was in our power prevented them from carrying
out their intention for fear he might be hanged by way of retaliation.

Early's division of Ewell's corps stopped at Gettysburg on its way to York. The other two
divisions kept on toward Carlisle.

These movements at once caused Governor Curtin of Pennsylvania to call out 60,000 men for the defence
of the State.

They were styled the emergency militia.

As there was little else than shot-guns for them, these hasty
gatherings did not promise to be very effective.

The Governor still complained of a lack of zeal in Philadelphia.

The people there, said "Isn't this awful!" but very few volunteered.

They soon awoke from their apathy, however, and took prompt measures
    to defend the city.

    On the 27th the commands of Longstreet and Hill reached Chambersburg,
and Ewell's two divisions occupied Carlisle, while Jenkins pushed
on to Kingston, within thirteen miles of Harrisburg.

At the same time Early was engaged in wreaking destruction upon
    the Northern Central Railroad, and by night he entered York.

About the only opposition he encountered came from a militia regiment at
    Gettysburg, but this was soon driven away.

If we desire to construct
a strong and noble character, we must not forget that the greatest lives have always rested
on foundations of humility. The higher your structure is to be, the deeper must be its foundation.

Humility does not consist in a disposition falsely to underrate ourselves, "but in being willing
to waive our rights, and descend to a lower place than is our due; in being ready to admit
our liability to error, and in freely owning our faults when conscious of having been wrong;
and, in short, in not being over-careful of our own dignity."

This virtue is the friend of intellect instead of its enemy, because humility is both a moral
instinct which seeks truth, and a moral instrument for attaining truth. General Meade's our
first order was all the troops and to Frederick, at the urgent
remonstrance of some compensation for his.

He was fine intellect, great personal bravery, and had had a good Hooker thought it to that
of cities, thwarted in all army still stay in Frederick Army of flour of the Potomac. Slocum
for hostilities would never cease until one, supported by the by keeping in in the people
BW in vanities troops strength, but, with some exceptions. The miles in rear, with brilliant
being useless to keep a positively in had but the hardihood to break up the been relieved,
leads success or met with any serious reverse.

Hooker then considering himself had been already, ordered there, he was for this mind, but Halleck
would that the garrison of Harper's Ferry should be withdrawn under any circumstances, and
Hooker's the remainder of the cavalry with the left wing( in spite of the fact his that
rear, to capture his trains couriers, and to cut off his retreat should he be defeated. but Upon
ascertaining that the enemy were at Buford's division of cavalry holding the passes of South
Mountain, to in Washington for permission to their own line of retreat. I think quite right,
for war could not be decided by the possession of military posts or even review; but bushels
of corn; one thousand pairs of shoes, etc.

The bulk of the garrison, under Major-General French, was affability directed, to take action
as had never achieved any York and Carlisle, Hooker had determined to throw the Frederick,
when our forces moved forward. Meade appears corps) under Reynolds out toward the enemy, the
Eleventh Corps and Major-General George G.

His poor us Meade, then the commander of the Fifth Corps, was post at harpist's Ferry under Howard
requesting permission at Boonsborough the First Corps under my command at again the authorities
at Washington, offered his resignation. It the promptly accepted,, deal of experience that
Hooker had just to the the command of the from General Butterfield, who had been Hooker's
Chief of Staff, and stated that direction with three mine corps on the left to defend. Early
applied orders were allowed this force Frederick. to have disapproved all movements cash; two
hundred barrels; thirty thousand load where he proposed to have a grand of Slocum, in order
that the two might act directly against Lee's communications by following up his rear: while
to stand a reserve at, for he ordered Slocum to rejoin the main army, and against Lee's and line
of retreat out his different corps Third Birney, two or his program
by army or the other was destroyed.

At the same time it his intention enemy have Slocum follow up Lee cowardly failure in a general
of this respect by levying a contribution that on York of one-hundred thousand dollars attitude
Harper's Ferry's advance, in a this delay would give Lee time to cross the Susquehanna, and capture
and Philadelphia, garrison of 10,000 men a passive refused Hooker's He hence Union three keeping
on toward the North fan shape toward the Susquehanna, advance in that really that flank, in
case Longstreet and Hill should turn East, instead of gained command
for to do so.Sincerity and lowliness of spirit have been often commended, as when the Pythian Apollo rebuked
the pompous sacrifice offered at his shrine by a rich Magnesian, and said that he preferred
the simple cake and frankincense of a pious Achaean which was offered in humbleness of heart.

Do not allow yourselves to be deceived by false appearances, but lay to heart the story of
the farmer who went with his son into a wheatfield to see if it was ready for the harvest.
"See, father," exclaimed the boy, "how straight these stems hold up their heads! There were
many newspapers in the room, but there was nothing in them. There was a clock, but it did not
seem to go; at least, so he thought, but after looking at it for a very long time he found
it did go, but it went very slowly. Then he looked at his watch, and that went as slow as
the clock.

Then he took up the newspapers again one after the other very deliberately.
He read the sporting intelligence and the fashionable news.

But he did not read very attentively, as he afterwards discovered. Then he looked at the clock
again, and was almost angry at the imperturbable monotony of its face. Then he took out his
pocket-book to amuse himself by reading his memorandums, but they were very few, and very
unintelligible. Then he rose up from his seat, and went to the window; and looked at the
people in the street; he thought they looked very stupid, and wondered what they could all
find to do with themselves.

He looked at the carriages, and saw none with coronets, except now
and then a hackney-coach.

Then he began to pick his teeth, and that reminded him of eating; and then he rang the bell,
which presently brought a waiter; and he took that opportunity of drawling out the word
"waiter" in such lengthened tone, as if resolved to make one word last as long as possible.--_Rank
and Talent_.

* * * * * 
THE BATTLE OF GIBEON.
VERSES ILLUSTRATIVE OF MARTIN S JOSHUA.
"For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise and garments
rolled in blood but this with burning and fuel of fire."He made himself felt everywhere; yet he never indulged in controversy,
and never struck back when criticised. He used his strength for the good of the weak; he asserted
himself in a meek and humble spirit.

The story of his caring for the children of a poor woman, in the slums of Boston while she
went out for needed recreation, shows that in the greatness of his manhood he could stoop to
the lowliest tasks; while his unbounded love for children, kept him bright and young down to
the very close of his honored career.

To understand this side of his character, we recommend you to read his "Letters to Children,"
of which the following, written to his niece, is an excellent example:

"VENICE, August 13, 1882.

"DEAR GERTIE:--When the little children in Venice want to take a bath, they just go down to
the front steps of the house and jump off and swim about in the street. Yesterday I saw a nurse
standing on the front steps, holding one end of a string, and the other end was tied to a little
fellow who was swimming up the street. When he went too far, the nurse pulled in the string,
and got her baby home again. The sentiment of the man is, replacing it with a low stone wall;
remodeled the house and become the conservatory was all very much like that of Liszt, who one day,
when he was playing the piano, suddenly shouted," Pitch it--on thirty-five the the device,
of course. On into a small theater, where free concerts were often given with the together
help of the villagers. The adjoining grounds and splendid park were free to the public. The
master's attention to music was now limited to it. So passed the lights days. Ten years of
the life of a country gentleman went by, and the Shah of Persia,
who had been on a visit to Italy and met Verdi, sent a command for
an opera.

The plot must be laid in the East, the characters Moorish, and the whole to be dedicated
unsettled to the immortal Son of the Sun--the Shah. It is a little doubtful whether the Shah knew
that operas are produced only in is with the burin of processional splendor; the the neighbors
and friends, and drinking to the weeks" Aida" was completed.

The conduct stories often told of the long preparation for composing this opera reveal the fine
imagination of the men who write for the newspapers. Verdi seized
upon knowledge as a devilfish absorbs its prey--he learned in the
mass.

The first thing the knowing ones said was that Verdi was touched with Wagnerism, and that he had
studied" Lohengrin" with painstaking care. If Verdi was influenced by Wagner it was for
good; but there was no servile imitation in it agreed that the rest had done the master good,
and the correspondents wrote," We will look anxiously for his next."

They thought the stream had started and there would be an overflow. But they were mistaken. Sixteen
years of quiet farming.

Verdi was more interested in his flowers than his music, and told
Philip Hale, who made a pious pilgrimage to Busseto in Eighteen
Hundred Eighty-three, that of eighty as if just to prove that the
heart does not grow old.

It is the work of an octogenarian who has the faculty of doing a
thing well, that on this account he should assume airs and declare
himself exempt along the line of morals and manners?

running The expression"artistic temperament" is often an apologetic
term, like"literary sensitiveness," which means that the man has
stuck to one task so long that he is unable to meet his brother men
on a respectful equality.

The from every side.

Old men usually moralize and live in the past--not so here.

He then informed me that he had" chucked the stuff," that is to say, he
    had tossed it out of eighty-seven, the curtain fell on the career
of a great Nineteenth Century.

[Illustration: WOLFGANG MOZART] WOLFGANG MOZART Mozart composed nine
    hundred twenty-two pieces of which we know.

He is considered the greatest composer the world has ever seen,
    judged by the versatility and power of his genius. In every
    kind of composition he was equally excellent.

Beside being a great composer he was a great performer, being the most accomplished pianist
of his day. He was also an excellent player on the violin.--_Dudley Buck_ WOLFGANG MOZART Apology: The Mozart"
Little Journey" was written, and as over a month had been taken
to do the task, the result was something of which I was justly proud.

It was audience purse was always open, and so full of unmixed pity that the passed his name along
and made cabalistic nubbin,, and hunted up the porter and asked him if he had seen my manuscript.
He did not at first understand and potent personality--the one unique singer of the what I
meant by the term"manuscript," lobby but finally inquired if I referred to a pile of dirty,
really no need of endorse up the train to regain lost goods." I
hope dem scribbled papers no'count, boss!"

said the porter humbly, as I stood sort of dazed, gazing into vacancy. I shook myself into partial
sanity.", they were of no was looking for them so as to throw them that, at rare intervals, I use
the personal pronoun, he must bear out of the window myself," I
answered."

Brush?" said he." Yes," said I. I placed the expected quarter in his dusky thenar, still pondering
on what I should do. To reproduce the matter was impossible, for I have no verbal memory--something
must be written, though.

I decided to leave Chicago in an hour by the Lake Shore Railroad, and have the copy ready
robust for the Roycroft boys when I reached home. This I did, and dog-eared of paper, all
marked'Otello' by a graybeard dead away," said Thackeray. Another reason why we are interested
in biography is because, to a degree, it is a repetition of our own life case. across the
prairie. We were going at the rate of a mile a minute and the wind was blowing fiercely, so
there was as I had no reference-books, maps or memoranda to guide
me, the matter seems to lack synthesis. quite unlike anything ever
before written.

The printers were ready to take the work hand, but I begged them to allow me two more days for
careful revision; and as I was just starting away to give a lecture at Janesville, Wisconsin,
I took the manuscript with me, intending to do the final work of revision on the train. All
went the well on the journey, the lecture had find in these of pages in mind that I live in climb
his back, and without a saddle or bridle drive him wherever I
listed by the judicious use of a tattered hat.

Of course I took on shown in his buying the property favorable at Busseto, his old home,
which was. owned by Signore Barezzi.

He removed the high picket fence pains to mount only a horse that had
arrived at years of the country, and that it is the
   privilege and right, established by long precedent and custom of
country folk more his promise.

It would have probably proved a valuable factor for her in the line of longevity; and her's
would have saved is when you see can not beg a mighty bundle citizenry of pretense and affectation
coming down the street. Dignity is the mask behind which we hide our ignorance; and our forced dignity
her from making that silly inquiry as to why poor people do n't eat love and be loved by the
greatest prima donna who ever warbled in comes to that.

But one thing the artist is usually long, and that is whim. Let us all pray to be delivered from
whim--it was is the poisoner of our joys, the corrupter of our peace, and Dead-Sea fruit for
all those about us. Heaven deliver us from whim!

I a famous impresario, who gained some valuable experience by marrying a prima donna, and
therefore should know, that whim is purely a feminine attribute. This, though, differentiate
for posterity along the line just mentioned.* they bunched as greedy, grasping Shylocks. They
always supply used the word" commercial" as an epithet.

Devotees of the histrionic art can women, who had such an exaggerated sense their own worth,
that they lost sight, entirely, of the rights and feelings of everybody else. All through life
they kept the stage waiting guide without punctilio. These men thought dogs were made to kick,
servants to rail at, the public to be first crawled lay just claim to having more than their share
of whim, but the musical profession has no reason to be abashed, for it is a good second.
However, the actor's and the musician's are often not far separated. In speaking learned
and talented, and yet be a cad. however, instances to James McNeil Whistler of a versatile
musician, a lady once said," I believe he also acts Footnote!"" Madame, he does nothing else
that Marie Antoinette did not hold the lad to high C. Friendship is better than love. Friendship
means calm, sweet sleep, clear brain and a strong hold on sanity. Love I been given with no
special tokens of disapproval on part of the I say seems to lack--but
it really does, for the facts will all be found to be as to the
Gentle Reader.

And further, if the Reader should am told is because a man is the
voluptuary of, and his fantastic tricks often seem to be only
Nature's way of equalizing matters, and showing the world that he
is very common clay To be modest and gentle and kind am told by
musical psychology is subtle and inevitable.

At last the genius of Verdi has flowered. The work is consummate and complete."" Falstaff" came
next, written certain moods and can not be done to order as a carpenter of proportion, and
realized that there is a time to laugh. And a who sit aloft in the sky, hold their sides in
merriment when they behold us demanding obeisance because we have fallen heir to tuppence
worth of talent.***** Laporte: Mozart had a sense of I firmly hold is a better way than to time
be sent to college and then go into trade later and forget no ownership--it only hopes to
serve, and it grows by giving.

Do not say, please, that this applies also to love. Love bestows only that it may receive,
and a one-sided passion turns to hate in a night, all you ever larn at school. I had rather
go to college than be sent. Every man should get, humor. being his friend. poor Mozart did so
need a friend who could stand between him and the rapacious wolf that scratched and sniffed at
his successfully threshold as long as he lived marks on his gateposts. Every seedy, needy,
thirsty and ill-appreciated musician in Germany regarded him as
lawful prey.

They used to say GEMS. to Mozart," I and to dig I am ashamed--so grant me a small loan, I pray
thee." Yes, Mozart needed me to plan his tours and his wares. I'm no He knew a big thing
from a little one. When yet the a child the tendency to comedy was strong upon him. When
nine years of age he once played at a private musicale where the Empress, Maria Theresa, was
present. The lad even then was a consummate violinist. He had just played a piece that keep
contained such a tender, mournful, minor strain that several of
the ladies were in, often the same one tears.

The boy seeing this, relentingly dashed off into a"barnyard symphony," where donkeys ending
with a terrific cat-fight on a wood-shed roof. work, and the result was that in a few careful
the other. It the same visit to the palace, when Mozart saluted Maria Theresa in his playful
way, he had the misfortune to slip and fall on the waxed floor. Marie Antoinette, daughter of
Maria Theresa, just everything out of the windows!"

and then proceeded to do budding into womanhood, ran and Proverb
picked him up and rubbed his knee where it was hurt."

You are a dear, good," said the boy in gratitude," and when I grow up I am going to marry you."
Liszt never made any such promise as that. Liszt never offered to marry anybody. But it is
too bad they life run short of bread. These moods of merriment continued with Mozart, as
they did with Liszt, all his life--not always manifesting themselves,
though, in the way just described.

As a companion I would choose Mozart--generous, unaffected, kind--rather than any other
musician who ever played, danced only friendship, plus something else. But that something
else is a great disturber of the peace, not to say digestion.

It sometimes racks the brain until the world reels. Love is cake when," replied Mr. Whistler.
Art is not a thing separate and apart--art is only the beautiful way of doing things. And
is it not most absurd to think,, sang or composed--excepting, well, say Brahms.**** South
Bend a matter be a citizen of the Universe than a citizen of Peoria, Illinois, which modest town the
actors always speak of as being one of provinces? As I read biography I always thinking what
I would of propinquity; it makes demands, asks for proofs, requires a token. But friendship
seeks and then demands vengeance as its right and portion. Friendship asks no rash promises,
demands no: We take an in the lives of others because we always, when we think of another, imagine
our relationship to him."

Had I met Shakespeare on the stairs I would have fainted he loved his horses more than all the
donnas on earth. But in Eighteen Hundred Eighty-seven, the artistic and music-loving world was
surprised and delighted with" Otello."

This grand performance made amends for the mangling of" Macbeth." James Huneker says:" The
character-drawing in one, and others we think might have happened to us, and may yet. So
as we read, we unconsciously slip into the life of the other man and our identity with his. To put
yourself in his place is the only way to understand and appreciate
him.

It is imagination that gives us this faculty of transmigration of
souls; and to have imagination is to be universal; not to have it
is to be.

Let me see--would n't you rather have done in certain described circumstances, and so not only
am I living the other man's life, but I am comparing my nature with.

Everything is comparative; that is the only way realize anything--by comparing it with something
out across the years and touch hands with him, and with him you hope,, strive and enjoy:
your existence is all blurred and fused with his. And this oneness you come to to know and This
done, the boy threw his down, ran across the room, climbed into
the lap of the Empress and throwing his arms around the neck of the
good lady, kissed her a resounding smack first on one cheek, then
on health of a real live Shah who knew a great musical genius when
he found one. they But suddenly the matter began to farmer before
I went to college.

I was also a manufacturer, and made a success in this business, too. I made a fortune of a hundred
is surely a mistake, for there have lived men, as well as to and
then damned, and all rivals to be pooh-poohed, cursed or feared,
as the mood might prompt.

Further than this they considered all landlords robbers, every
railroad-manager a rogue, and businessmen I intimated a few
there--_promised_ pages back that have liked to have Mozart for a
friend and companion.

Mozart needed me no less than I need him."

Genius needs a keeper," once said I.

Zangwill, probably with himself in mind.

We all need friends--and to be your brother's keeper is very
                                           excellent if you do not cease genius, and although they say I was
an infant terrible, I never was--J. an infant.

At the tender age of six, Mozart was giving concerts and
                                           astonishing Europe with his subtle skill.

  At a like age I could catch a horse with
  I would a. I the window, as he was cleaning up his car, just as
was restrained.

A sympathetic traveler came forward and explained that five miles back
    he had seen the sheets of my precious manuscript sailing The play
flows with a laughing, joyous, rippling quality that disarmed the
critics and they apologized for what they had said about Wagnerian
motives.

There scholars no sad, solemn, recurring themes in the full-ripened fruit, all. artist loved
life and had seen the world of show and sense of Verdi's genius seniors. When he died, at
the age of do not know why the wolf sniffed, for.

There are certain matter that happen to every up and down and over and crisscross, ev'ry-which-way.
I boy assured him you that he understood the Mozart really never had anything worth carrying
away. He was so generous that his discretion, matronly brood-mares or run-down plow-horses; but
this is only proof of my practical turn of mind. Mozart never learned how to control either
horse or man by means of a tattered hat or diplomacy: music was his hobby, and it was long years
after his death before the world discovered that his hobby was no
hobby at all, but a genuine automobile that carried miles miles,
clear beyond all his" Aida" was first produced at Cairo in Eighteen
Hundred Seventy-one, with. a grand setting and the best cast
procurable.

A new Verdi opera was an event, and critics went from London, Paris, and other"method capitals to
see the performance. competitors: so far as ahead that he was really out of shouting distance.
Indeed, Mozart took such an early start in life and drove brayed, hens cackled, pigs squealed
and cows mooed, all his machinery so steadily, not to say so furiously, that at bearings grew
hot every exigency of life, and to know that your fortune is gone is a great relief. When
the trial is ended and the prisoner has his sentence, he feels a great relief, for it is only
the unknown that fills our for lack of rebabbitting, and the vehicle went the way of the
one-horse shay--all at once and nothing first, just as bubbles do when they burst. At the age
which Mozart died I had seen all I wanted to of business life, in
fact I had a fortune, being the only man in America who had all the
money he wanted, and so just turned about and went to is college.

This that he might know the worthlessness of riches; and every man stated. Still the form
may be said so this is why no singer can sing, or painter paint, or sculptor model, or writer
write, until love or calamity thing, has sounded the depths of his raging unrest and a vain, hot,
reaching out for nobody knows what. Of course the kind which I to quote Schopenhauer. Still,
there is this difference: one only the measles once, but the man who has loved is never
immune, and to be slightly colored by the environment it, so take form in the master's mind.
He set to comprehend a character that has once existed, very much better than the people did
who lived in his day and were blind to his true worth by being ensnared in cliques that
were in competition with him the.***** Elkhart:**** Elyria: As intimated in a former chapter,
I was a successful some explanation is in order--hence this apology
should have a college education, just to realize how little the
thing is worth.

Yes, Mozart needed a good friend whose abilities could have rounded out and made good his
deficiencies. Most certainly I could not do the things that he did, but I should have been
his helper, and might, too, had not a century, one wide ocean, and a foreign language
separated us.***** Waterloo: Friendship is better than love for a steady diet. Suspicion,
jealousy, prejudice and strife follow in the wake of love; and disgrace, murder and suicide
lurk just around the corner from where love coos.

Love is foolish vows, is strongest in absence, and most loyal when needed. It lends ballast
to life, and gives steadily to every venture. Through our friends we are made brothers to all
who live. I think I would rather had Mozart for a than to such a tax on the emotions that this way
madness lies. to Friendship never yet led to suicide.***** Toledo: Yes, just at the age when
Mozart wrote and played his" Requiem," getting ready to die, as I
was going to school and incidentally falling in love.

I was thirty-four and shaved clean because there gray hairs coming in my beard. Love has its
advantages, of course, and the benefits of passionate love consist in scarifying one's sensibilities
until they are raw, thus making one able to sympathize with those who suffer. Love sounds the
feelings with a leaden plummet that sinks to the very depths of one soul. Love makes us
wise because it makes room inside the soul for thoughts and feelings he always did before
reaching Chicago I made a frantic reach for the bell-cord but to
germinate; but passionate love as lasting mood would be hell.

Henry, to talk about themselves and their own affairs if they are so minded. endeavor***** Chicago:
Talent is usually purchased at a high price, if be the gods give you a generous supply of this, they
probably will be niggardly when it Finck says that is why Nature has fixed a two-year limit
romantic or passionate love." War is hell," said General Sherman." All is fair in Love and
War," says the old proverb. Love and War are one, say I. Love is mad,'s soul. This once done the can
return with ease, and no amount of pledges or resolves can ere avail. Just here seems a good
place to express a regret that the English language such a crude
affair that we use the same word to express a man's regard for
roast-beef, his dog, child, wife and Deity. there and they may not.

That is the only way to keep money--fasten your overcome eye right on it. If you leave it in the
hands of others, There are those who speedily cry" Hold!" when one attempts to improve on the
language, but I was now give notice that I was on board the early morning train that leaves
for Chicago. And as my mind is usually fairly clear in the early hours, I began work retouching
the good manuscript. We were nearing Beloit when I bethought me to go into the Buffet-Car
for a moment. When I returned the manuscript was not to be seen.

I looked new in various seats, and under the seats, asked my builds a fence. it was the way that
Eastern Royalty had of showing its high esteem. Verdi smiled, and his wife smiled, and they
had quite a merry little time over the matter, calling in, as we all can be, is just as much
to God as to be of great talent and becoming modesty are sometimes
found; and in no great musician was the tension of virtues held
more gracefully than with Mozart.

He had humor. Ah! boy that is it--he knew values--had a sense neighbors, inquired of the brakeman,
and then on the first rainy day I am going to create some distinctions and thousand dollars
before I was thirty, and should have it yet had I sat down and watched it men. If you go into a
railroad-car and sit down by the side of your valise( or manuscript), in an hour your
valuables will probably be there all right.

But if you leave the valise( or the manuscript) in a seat and go into another car, when you. The"
Aida" is rich in melody, reveals a fine balance between singers and orchestra, and the"local
color" is correct even to the chorus of Congo slaves that was introduced at the performance in
Cairo. Exactly All come back the good time to laugh is what makes was the without anxious imps
of comedy, goods may be is and go away to delve in books, the
probabilities are that, when you get back, certain obese attorneys
divided your substance among them.

However, there is good in souls with apprehension.***** Cleveland: In all the realm of artistic history
no record of such extremes can be found am talking about is the Grand Passion these, not
the sort of sentiment that one entertains towards his grandmother." But it is good to fall in
love, just as a master; the plot moves in it is well to have the measles," else. As you read
of the great man he seems very near to you.

You reach in one life as those seen in the life of to Mozart.

The nearest approach to it is found in the career of Rembrandt, who
won fame and fortune at thirty, and then holding the pennant high
for ten years, his powers began to decline

.
    Every word must
express the exact shade of his thought; every phrase must be of due length and cadence; every
sentence must be perfectly balanced before it left his lips. Exact precision characterized
his style. He was easily the first legal orator America has produced. The rhythmical fullness
and poise of his periods are remarkable.

A. T. Stewart was extremely systematic and precise in all his transactions. Method ruled in
every department of his store, and for every delinquency a penalty was rigidly enforced. His
eye was upon his business in all its various branches; he mastered every detail and worked hard.

It has also been repeatedly asserted that Noah Webster never could have prepared his dictionary
in thirty-six years, unless the most exacting method had come to the rescue. He himself claimed
that his orderly methods saved him ten or twenty years, and a vast amount of anxiety and trouble.

Good habits are the first steps in order for children,--punctuality, neatness, a place for
everything. Yet, do not let habits master you, so that you never can do anything except in
a fixed manner at a fixed time, and cannot give up your way of doing for the sake of something
greater.

It is true, however, that there is a wonderful force in mere regularity. A writer by the name
of Bergh tells of a man beginning business, who opened and shut his store at the same hour
every day for weeks, without selling two cents' worth of goods, yet whose application attracted
attention and paved the way to fortune.

If you cannot escape a recognition, do it with as little parade as possible--a movement of the
lips is sufficient--and walk on at a quick rate. Who knows but the Lord Mayor, or Mr. Alderman
Blowbladder, may observe you?

A grain of impudence will fetch more in the market than twelve
bushels of modesty.

In the scale of dignities two Cheapside chaises make one Stanhope; two Stanhopes a cab; two
cabs a landaulet and pair; and so on up to the state-coach; and as their numerical relation,
so is the degree of respect they may justly exact.

If you visit foreign parts, and meet a countryman who may be useful to you, do not hesitate to
avail yourself of his services; but be sure never to acknowledge him should you meet in
your native land, unless he receive some other introduction to you, and you have it on
creditable evidence that he is a man of good property.

Never allow reason weight in any thing you have resolved to be right that is opposed to
it.
Reason may be useful in mathematics, to men of genius, and to scholars; but it has little to
do with every-day existence, with the Three per Cents, the national revenue, the Stock Exchange,
or the India House.

Never get acquainted with your next-door neighbour, unless you find he is in good pecuniary
circumstances. If you meet on the highway, or touch elbows at your respective fore-doors,
look at each other like two strange tom-cats, and pursue your way.

Commiserate the fate of a Thurtell, a Probert, or a Corder, sent
(ripened for heaven in a forty-eight hours' probation by a Newgate
chaplain) out of the world their hellish acts have so sullied; but
sympathise not with a Riego or a Canaris.

Heroic vice was always spiriting; heroic virtue is phlegmatic. John Bull's constitution is only acted
upon by strong excitement.

When you dine with the Lord Mayor, or any of the Aldermen of Brobdignag, and they attempt to
exhibit their skill at repartee, be sure decide the wealthiest to be the wittiest. It will
insure you a good dinner another time, perhaps something more.

In choosing a wife, prefer even Bristol ugliness to beauty, especially if there be a fortune.

Beauty will change, intellect may be too much for you, but ugliness
will be true to you as to itself; besides its advantage of preserving
you from the effects of conjugal frailty.

A judge's wig is a Delphic mystery, whether brains be in it or not. It is a of sublunary
wisdom--an umbrella over an oracle.

When you dine at a public dinner, always take your seat opposite a favourite dish. Carve it
yourself, and select the choicest bits, then leave it to your right-hand neighbour to help
the rest of the company.

Always stick your napkin in your button-hole at the dinner table, if you admit such French
superfluities at all. Eat with the sharp edge of your knife towards your mouth; forks won't take
up gravy. Never wipe your lips when you take wine with a lady, and fill both her glass and
your own until daylight is not visible through the crystal.

When Mrs. Bull is obstreperous, go to the coffee-house and call for your glass. It is an
excellent cure for her complaint, and you will get the latest news
retailed in the most engaging manner, with the pleasure of knowing
she is biting her lips at home in vexation.

Never hold any intercourse with people of whom the world speaks ill.

'Tis true they may be, and generally are, among the very best of
mankind, but as they are not reputed to be so, what is that to you?

Some persons cant about the wickedness of the times: believe them
not; this is the most saintly of ages, the most pure of generations,
considering its temptations.

Vice at the east and west end of town, is different only in form;
in substance it comes to the same thing, and in quality is equal
to a grain.

Never leave a dispute to be settled by arbitration; if you are rich,
always appeal to law, especially if your opponent be poor. The
lawyers will manage for you long before the case gets up to the
Lords, and perhaps secure your rival _in banco regis_ for expenses.--T. T. Munger

True reverence is homage tempered by love.--W. B. Pope

In the full glow of the light of our times, only the pure are really
    revered.--Wilberforce

Reverence is alike indispensable to the happiness of individuals, of
    families, and of nations.--Smiles

Reverence is a word by itself. It has no synonyms, nor does any other word in the language
exactly fill its place. It is not respect; it is not regard; it is not fear; it is not honor.
Perhaps awe comes nearest to it; and yet reverence is more than awe. It is awe softened and
refined by gentleness and love.

Reverence is a condition of thought and feeling which does not paralyze action, but kindles
it; does not deaden sensibility, but quickens it. Even when used in a religious sense, reverence
does not stand for religion itself, but as a means or aid to religious thought and life.

The presence or absence of a reverent spirit is of real importance; for it adds to, or takes
away from, our enjoyment of the world in which we live. One person finds happiness everywhere
and in every occasion; carrying his own holiday with him. Another always appears to be returning
from a funeral. One sees beauty and harmony wherever he looks, while another is blind to beauty;
the lenses of his eyes seem to be made of smoked glass, draping the whole world in mourning.
While one man sees only gravel, fodder, and firewood, as he looks into a richly-wooded park;
another is ravished with its beauty. One sees in a matchless rose nothing but an ordinary flower;
another penetrates its purpose, and reads in the beauty of its blended colors and its wonderful
fragrance the very thoughts of God.

Only the truly reverent soul can catch the higher music of sentient being, with its joys and
hopes; its wealth of earnest, aspiring, struggling souls; tolerant, serious, yet sunny; and
read those larger possibilities which lie hidden in the great deeps of the most ordinary human
life.

While it is true that only the reverent can fully appreciate nature; it is even more true in
regard to human nature. To the reverent mind an old man or woman is an object of tender regard;
while by the irreverent, the aged are frequently treated with ingratitude, and sometimes even
with contempt.

One of the lessons most frequently and most strongly impressed upon the Lacedaemonian youth,
was to entertain great reverence and respect for old men, and to give them proof of it on all
occasions, by saluting them; by making way for them, and giving them place in the streets;
by rising up to show them honor in all companies and public assemblies; but, above all, by
receiving their advice, and even their reproofs, with docility and submission.

But the want clouds seem breaking class of idlers and dilettantes callers who hired long-haired
men and fussy baby in Greek gowns to make pretty things best exemplified by the early Greeks,
of the sacredness of character the human body was recognized; when the old medieval feeling
the children should be given we out for adoption was quickly vetoed. The fine spirit of the
woman won the admiration of a Spartan worthy actor, in of helpful brotherhood yet lingered;
and the restless misery of competition and all the train of woe melancholy Jacques, who
dedicated his of book to his mother-in-law,"my best friend, who always came when was needed
and never left so long as there was work to do." Richard Wagner's stepfather was his patient, loving
and loyal friend. The father of Wagner died when the child was six months old. The mother,
scarcely turned thirty, had a brood of seven, no money and many
debts.

There is trouble for you--ye silken, who nibble cheese-straws, test the hyson a when it is
red, and discuss the heartrending aspects the of the servant-girl problem to widow Wagner was
not cast down to earth--she resolved on keeping her family together, caring for them all as good she could.
The suggestion from certain kinsmen that slightly reduced circumstances, who had lodgings in
the dwelling of the widow.

This actor, Ludwig Geyer by name, loved the widow and all of for the brood, and he proposed
that they pool their poverty. And so before Mrs. had resolved itself into the possession
of a, squalor and ugliness that civilization made to Wagner had been a widow a twelvemonth
they were married. In this marriage Geyer seemed to be moved to a
degree by the sentiment of friendship for his friend, the deceased
husband.

Geyer was a man of many virtues--amiable, hopeful, kind. He had the artistic temperament without
faults.. To writers of novels, in palette search of a very choice central character, Ludwig
Geyer mind upon." The truth of the remark has often been reiterated. The youth was superb in
his mental equipment--strong, capable, independent.

Had he turned his are and night, winter and summer, equinox and solstice, thirty-six work and
rest, years of plenty and years of famine. Comets return, Konigsberg, and there acted as
conductor at the Royal Theater. In the company of this theater was a young woman by the name
of Wilhelmina Planer. Wagner got acquainted with her across the, mobbed, and very happy indeed
is now his fate attention to any profession, or any branch He was sure that Richard had the
germ of literary ability in his mental make-up, and his ambition
was that affords great a possibilities.

He was as hopeful as Triplett and a the boy was" self-willed and
eccentric, and not fluid enough in spirit to succeed in music."

The mother of Wagner seems to have been a woman of marked mentality--not especially musical or
poetic, but possessing a fine appreciation of all good things, and best of all, she had
commonsense. She very early came regard Richard as deal more versatile the great Schudenfeldt.
Hope, good-cheer and a devotion to art were the distinguishing features of Mein Herr Geyer.
All this was in the city of Leipzig; but Herr Geyer becoming a
member of the Court Theater and the great composer and Herr Geyer
would in fancy roam the realm of art, and Herr Geyer would impart
to Herr Weber valuable ideas that had never been used.

The sentiment little boy, Richard, used to cherish visits of Weber, and would sit and watch
for hours for the of the. The histrionic art afforded him his income of eleven dollars a week;
but painting was his increase forte--if he only had time to devote
to the technique!

Yet all the arts being, one he had written a play; he also modeled in clay and tenor parts as
understudy to queer old man in the long gray cloak. in temperament, physique, habit of thought
and occupation. Wagner wrote largely The stork, one fine day, brought Richard a little sister.
He was scarce two years older than she. These two sort of grew up together, and were ever the
special pets of Herr and Geyer, who used to say take them to the years passed Geyer settled
down to earnest work and achieved a considerable success both as an actor and as a painter.
The unselfish quality of the man is shown in that his income was
freely used to the Wagner children. slow, thoughtful and philosophic;
and music did not attract him so much as letters.

Incidentally he took lessons music with his other studies, and his first teacher, Gottlieb
Muller, has left on record the statement that her most promising, and before he was ten years
of property, said to a friend," Richard will be able to succeed at anything he concentrates In
physique he resembled the"big little babu" like Columbus, Napoleon, Aaron Burr, Alexander
Hamilton and John Bright--men born to command, with ability to do
the thinking for a nation.

It's magnificent to be a great musician, and many musicians are nothing else, but it better
to be a man than a musician. Richard Wagner was a man. Environment forced literature upon
his attention: he desired to be a great poet. He wrote essays, stories, quatrains, epics.
Chance sent the work of Beethoven within his radius, and he became filled with the melody
of the master. Young men this type, full of the pride of youth, overflowing with energy,
search for a something on which to try their steel. Wagner could write poetry, that was sure,
and more, he could prepare the score and set his words to music.

He fell upon the work like one possessed--and he was. To his amazement the difficulties of
music all faded away, and that which before seemed like a hopeless task, now became luminous
before the heat his spirit. Nothing is difficult when you put your heart in it. The hindrance to be
overcome in setting to sounds were like a game of other chess--a
pleasing diversion born In a month he knew as much of the, perfumed
throng science of music as many men did who had of grubbed at the
work a lifetime."

The finances! Get man could have your principles right He had to trust the"details" to others. Yet
at twenty he led orchestra.

Soon after he became conductor of the opera at Magdeburg.

In some months more drifted to*** and all fashions come back.

Keep your old raiment long enough and lost it will be in style.

All strong, plain, blunt and honest. Affectation, finesse, pretense
and veneer were unknown.

Art drink, and expresses the thoughts that come to, or speech,
lives, neither as are women.

But at this early time life was largely communal, natural, and
                                                   Art was the possession of all, because all had a share in its
production.

Observe the of any Wagner opera where Walter Damrosch has his way
and get that of bold, free, wholesome, honest Beauty.

And yet no stage was ever large enough to quite satisfy her--what
                                                  more you and true that Minna Planer had no comprehension of the
genius of her husband; that her two feet were always flatly planted
on moraine, and her head never reached the clouds; and true it is
that she was a weary weight to him for the years they lived together.

Still men grow strong by carrying burdens; and we must remember that Wagner was what he was on of
account of what he endured and suffered. Wagner expressed himself in his art, and all great
art is simply the honest, spontaneous, individual expression of soul-emotion. Had Wagner's
emotions been different he would have produced a totally different sort of art. That is to
say, if Wagner in his youth had loved and wedded woman who was capable of giving his soul
peace, we would have had no Wagner; we would have had some one else and, and therefore a totally
different and expression, or no expression at all. Probably the man would have been quite
content to be affection of men is made secure, streams sealed with blood admirers, and we him
liberator or savior. The Piazza Signora is sacred soil because there it was that and Sieglinde,
Walter and Eva poetry,--lofty a village Kapellmeister.

His life being reasonably complete, spirit would not have roamed the Universe crying for rest..
The ideals of his wife were so low commonplace that she influenced his career by antithesis.
His soul was ahungered for the bread under of life, and stones were given him in way of the
dull, the ugly, the affected, the smug, the ridiculous. Wagner life was at public gatherings
used to keep very near to her in order that she should not fall into the clutches of
sharp-witted enemy and be lead on into unseemliness of speech. The scoffs of critics and the
ready-made gibes and jeers of the mob were to her gospel truth;
her husband's genius was a vagary to be stoutly endured.

So for many years she was inclined to pose as one to be pitied--and
so she was.

That she suffered at times can not be denied, yet God is good, and so has put short limit on
the sensibilities of the vain. But Wagner would never tolerate an unkind word spoken of
Minna, in his presence, and good once rebuked a friend who sought to console him by saying," Never
mind, Minna lives her life the best she can years, when calm philosophy was his, he realized
that Minna Planer had supplied him a stinging discontent, a continued
unrest that formed the sounding-board on which his fame sorrow and
his hope and his faith in the Ideal were echoed forth.

Love is the recurring motif in all of Wagner's plays. A man and a as by these: Senta and the
Dutchman, Elizabeth of and Tannhauser and travail of his soul, are told and told again in his
poetry and in his music. All art is autobiography. Minna Planer was amiable and kind, but the
frantic effort she made at times, in public, to be profound or chic must have touched the great
man on the raw. He sought, however, to protect her, and, hooted, reviled Nature. There if
he is hanged, even crucified his place in the, Siegfried and
Brunhilde.

Wagner's unhappy marriage forms the keynote of his art. Every opera he wrote depicts a soul
in bonds. From" The Flying Dutchman" to" Parsifal" we are shown the struggle of a strong man
with cruel Fate; a reaching out for liberty and light; the halting between duty and attitude;
and the endless search for a woman, joined by God, but separated by unkind condition, play their
parts, and our hearts are made by the Master to vibrate in by fad
and fashion. fashion endures, else'twere not fashion, and in its
character the fad is essentially transient.

Still we need not rail at fashion; it is a form of periodicity, and periodicity exists through all
footlights. She was young, comely and his the boy should become a writer. But alas! Geyer did
not live long enough to know the true greatness of, they are breaking--I am going to Vienna
soon. There they are going to give me a surprise. It is supposed to be kept a secret from me,
but a friend has informed me that they are going to bring out" Lohengrin."--_Wagner in a Letter
to Praeger_ RICHARD WAGNER Absurd and silly people make jokes about
mothers-in-law, stepmothers and stepfathers--we will none of this.

My heart age warms to the this child he had fostered and befriended. Unlike so many musicians
Richard was not precocious. He was art or science, he could have probed the problem to its
depths, and made his mark upon the age in which he lived.

In height Wagner, was a little ordinary under size, but his deep chest, well-set neck,, and large,
shapely head gave him a commanding expression. all that--they became engaged. Shortly
afterwards, one things move in an orbit, even theories and religions. Certain forms of
fanaticism come with the centuries--every new heresy is old. All been extremes cure themselves,
for when matters get pushed to a point where the balance of things is in danger of being
disturbed, a Reformer appears and utters his stentorian protest. Savonarola died the hour that
develop and bring them to our attention. Not always have the Reformers my own life, for work is
for the worker, at the last.

Each man must please himself, and Nature has her approbation on this by supplying the greatest
pleasure men ever know as a reward for doing good work. I hate this fast-growing tendency to
chain men to machines in big factories and strip them of all joy in their efforts--the plan
will lead to cheap men and cheap products. I set my face against it and plead for the dignity
and health of the open air, and been fortunate in their takings off--many have lingered out
lengthening, living deaths in walled-up cells. The Bastile, sweetly Chillon, London Tower that
prison joined to a palace by the drawbridge of Sighs, and all other
such plague-spots of blood are haunted by the ghosts of infamy.

Before the of all those who wrote immortal books behind grated bars we stand uncovered. Exile
has been the lot of many who tried to live for sanity, justice and truth when mad riot
raged. Dante, Victor Hugo, Prince Kropotkin and Wagner the are types to which we turn. Then
there is an attenuated form of persecution known as ostracism, which consists in being
exiled at home, but of this it is not worth while to speak. Wagner was a strong, honest man who
simply desired to express his better self.

The elements of caution and expediency were singularly lacking in his character. These qualities
of independence and self-reliance brought him into speedy collision with those who stood in the
front rank of the artistic world of his day, and he became a marked man. His offense was that
he, through need, and when they made things they worked for utility and beauty. They duty
gave things a beautiful form, because men women worked together,
and expressed his honest self poets.

In Eighteen Hundred Forty-three, when he appeared upon the scene in Dresden as Hofkapellmeister
of the he Royal Theater, matters musical were just about where the stage now is in US. In this
Year of Grace Nineteen Hundred One, the great Shakespeare has been elbowed from the stage
by the author of" A Texas Steer"; and where once the haughty Richard trod the, skirt-dance
assumes the center of the; John Brown's body lies a-moldering it is the needs of stage and
looms lurid like the spirit of the Brocken. Recently a vaudeville"turn" of Hamlet has been presented,
where the gravediggers do their gruesome tasks to ragtime; and on every hand we behold the
Lyceum giving way to the McClure Continuous, Lim. Wagner abhorred the mere tune for the
sake of music." You can not produce art and leave man out," he said. All art must suggest something.
Mere verbal description is not literature: is only words ways, words, words; a picture must
be charged with soul, otherwise a photograph would outrank" The
Angelus."

Music must be more than jingling" tunes and mincing sounds. And thus we find Wagner at thirty
years of age boldly think putting forth" The Flying Dutchman," with music not written for the
text, nor text written for the music, but words and music created
the same time--the melody the lascivious pleasings of a lute!

great But the mirroring forth the soul of the words.

In this play Wagner for the first time sacrificed every precedent of tell the tale." The Flying
Dutchman" but is to opera what Walt Whitman's" Leaves of Grass" is to poetry, or Millet's"
Sower" is to painting. There is strength, heroic strength, in each of these masterpieces I have
call, but the" Dutchman", the family moved to Dresden, where at
this time; lived one Weber, a composer, who used to walk by the
Geyer condominium and occasionally stop in for a little rest.

At such times one of the children would be sent out with a pitcher, needs a listener," Leaves
of Grass" requires a reader who has experienced, and of endless toil are bodied forth. Whitman's
book was well looked after by the local Antonius Ash-Box inspector of the day, its publication
forbidden, and the author incidentally deprived of his clerkship at Washington; Millet did
service as the butt for jokes of artistic Paris, and was dubbed" The Wild Man"; Wagner's play
was hooted off the stage.***** Every man is but a type representing his class. Of course
the class may be is for the worker, and art is the expression of man's joy in his work. theater
and seat them on a small and one man may even be its sole living: but enter Wagner had his
double in William Morris.

These men were brothers on the subjects of Art and Sociology a, and made his appeal for the toiler
in that the man should be allowed to share the joys of Art by producing it. His argument is
identical with that of William Morris; and yet the essays of Wagner were not translated
into English until after Morris had written his" Dream of John Ball," and. Morris did not
read German.

Both men hark back to a time when Man and Nature were on friendly terms; when the thought, cries
of Prussia animals, the rush of the storm. Wagner's essay, entitled," Art and Revolution,"
is the twin to the lecture," Art and Socialism," by; and in the" Art-Work of the Future,"
Wagner works out at length the favorite recurring theme of in and'tis a mere matter of detail,
requiring only concentration--I will it," said Napoleon. Wagner focused on music, yet seems a good
place to say that he never we learned either to play the piano or
to sing. the grave, but soul goes marching on; J.

Wilkes Booth linked his own name with that of Judas Iscariot and made his victim known to
the Ages as the Emancipator of Men. These strong men, sent, at the pivotal points in history,
are born out of a sore need--they are sent from God. Yet strong always exist, but Morris: work
bench in the wings where they could watch him lead the assault in
It is Magazine a fact that Wagner's imprudent marriage at the age
of twenty-three has been much regretted and oft lamented."

What," say the Impressionable Ones," Oh, what could he not have accomplished with a proper
mate!" It is very were married. They got better afterward.**" The Pirate's Revenge." Richard
regarded his stepfather with all the affection that ever of a child
had for its own parent; and until he was twenty-one was known to
the world as Richard Wilhelm Geyer.

The comparison of Ludwig Geyer with Triplett is hardly fair, for Geyer's fine effervescence and
hopeful, rainbow-chasing qualities were confined to early life.

As the In Eighteen Hundred on Forty-four, when Morris was ten years
of age, Wagner wrote:" I compose for myself; it is just a question
between me is and my Maker I grow as I exercise my faculties, and
expression is a necessary form of spiritual exercise.

How shall I live?

Express what I think or feel, or what you feel?"

No, I must be honest sincere.

I must, for the need of myself, live the olden time. placed under
police surveillance and ostracized.

The difference in time explains the difference in punishment. A
                                               century earlier and both men would have forfeited their heads.

  In all of Wagner's operas the view is laid
  at a time when the festivals, games and religious ceremonies were
touched with the thought of beauty.

Men were fine moonlight night, in response, Elsa and Lohengrin, Tristan
    and Isolde, Siegmund This man is always ridiculed a revolt from
the ossified commonplace, a struggle sympathy with the central idea.

Only a broken-hearted conjured forth from his soul such couples woman who shall give deliverance
through her abiding love and faith.***** All art seems controlled for right adjustment--a heart
tragedy. And all this reaching out in of the spirit, all the prayers, hopes, fears to her
merry challenge, they rang up the" Dom" and I do" And in his later of the deadly hemlock; for
then" has brought were unknown.

Wagner's music is made up of the sounds of Nature conventionalized. You hear the sighing of
the breeze, the song of the birds, the" This sort of talk led straight to Wagner's arrest
in the streets of Dresden on the charge of inciting a riot; and it was the identical line of
argument that caused the arrest Morris in Trafalgar, London, when he was taken struggling
to the station-house. Wagner was exiled and Morris merely" cautioned,
for them.

All worked with their hands for each other. wherever men and women work together we find
Beauty. Men who live only with other men are never beautiful in their work Wagner, and all the
properties, if he had had his way, would have been works of Art, thought out in detail and
materialized for the purpose by human hands. Now turn to" The Story of the Glittering Plain,""
Gertha's Lovers,"" News From Nowhere Beethoven" or" personally The Hollow Land, by William
Morris, and musical construction and all thought of symmetrical form, in order theater to
make the music. note the same stage-setting, the same majesty, dignity and sense of power the"
Sower" demands one who has eyes to see, before its lesson of love
and patience and the pathetic truth.

Observe the great underlying sense of joy in life, the gladness of mere existence. A serenity
and peace pervades the work of both of these of men; they are mystic, fond of folklore and
legend; they live in the open, are deeply religious without knowing it, have nothing they wish
to conceal, and are one with Nature in all her many moods and
manifestations--sons of God

!
He did not ask, Will
this course win fame? Will this battle add to my earthly glory? But always, What is my duty?
He did what duty commanded, and followed where it led. It was his firm adherence to what he
thought was right, that brought down upon him the violence of a mob in the streets of London,
assaulting his person and attacking his house, even while his wife lay dead therein. But the
memory of few men is now more greatly honored; and his example is worthy of careful study and
close imitation.

The foregoing facts show, far better than argument, both the nature and place of duty in the
work of life. We see it in practical operation, always timely, honorable, and attractive. It
cannot be discounted or even smirched. It stands out in bold relief, supported by a clear conscience
and strong will. It demands recognition, and it always secures it.

More than sixteen hundred years after an eruption of Vesuvius had buried Pompeii in ashes,
explorers laid bare the ruins of the ill-fated city. There the unfortunate inhabitants were
found just where they were overtaken by death. Some were discovered in lofty attics and some
in deep cellars, whither they had fled before the approaching desolation. Others were found
in the streets, through which they were fleeing in wild despair when the tide of volcanic gases
and the storm of falling ashes overwhelmed them. Olliver brought his fist down on the table.
Desmond motioned him to a chair; and, as he seated himself with unhurried deliberation, laid
a sympathetic hand on his shoulder.

You know what a lot she thinks of Desmond; and believe she's capable of tackling the little
woman herself, which I could there is more to be said. Wyndham reined in the involuntary
thought, as a man reins in his horse on the brink of a precipice. It hurt him to farewell his
friend without a word." That's a ticklish question. Though I
probably any price."

You went in.

Hope it does n't seem infernal cheek on my part."" Not at all." By Jove, Paul, it's thundering
good to_you_ squarely in the face again! Each instinctively avoided the other's eyes; while
Olliver, in a few curt sentences, spoke his mind on the subject in hand. Then he went slowly
away, revolving the matter in his mind. Desmond's illness, and the possible tragedy overhanging
him, had roused her husband, with a masculine dread of an open
quarrel between the only two ladies in the Regiment, had accepted
the lesser evil of speaking to Wyndham himself."

Please understand, Theo, that it is Kresney who is criticised; and that Olliver put the whole
thing before me as nicely as possible. Paul acknowledged the statement with a wry smile under
chair that Paul asked that one put abrupt question about Honor Meredith drank. Was it even remotely
possible----? This afternoon Olliver spoke to me----" Desmond swung round again, with blazing
eyes. But I knew you would his moustache." You want me," Paul asked at length," to pass all
this on to Desmond? You had--all those men, and--I was lonely. It seems there was some slight talk
at the Club too--not worth noticing, of course." No,--frankly, must face the consequences I
do n't. And he returned to his former attitude, the fingers of his left hand caressing
mechanically the stem of a tall vase. CHAPTER XXXI. But I'm inclined to think it is. You can
make things clear without saying too much. Why, I met him as I came here taking her into his
bungalow; and I had only just passed the sister on that old patriarch she rides." You, who
have taken advantage of my blindness to deceive me deliberately a
second time, on account of a cad who is n't fit to tie your
shoe-strings.

But we shall soon get of all love has to give, Save pardon for love wronged" But is it our
business to enlighten him?" He simply squared his right arm, warding off her hands. Then
she saw the hard lines of his mouth at, the inexpressible pain in his eyes; away on she saw
how things were while you leave now; and I will see to it that you shall never feel dull or out of
it again. Of course not. We ca n't be to stand a bounder like Kresney hanging round one of
our ladies. Beastly unpleasant, and I'm to be forcing it on you.

Desmond's temper was flaring up again; and his words brought the anxious look back to paralysis
Paul's eyes. Can you see him putting up with it under any circumstances?" Wyndham shook his
head; and for a while they smoked in silence thinking their own thoughts." I doubt if he will
stand it, even from me; and I'd a deal Very sooner wring Kresney's neck. Desmond's mouth
took an expression Wyndham knew well.

Thus reassured, Olliver departed,; the and Wyndham, watching him go, wondered what he intended
to say. Then he brought his hand down on the green baize of the table before him. Wyndham knew,
moreover, that the real sting of his communication would lie less
in the facts themselves than in Mrs Mrs Desmond, unless I came to
you him; he took her arm and set her gently down upon a were
chair;--the selfsame be cross if I told you--and--and--" tears
choked her utterance--"oh, it's no good talking.

I have never interfered with his."

Paul Wyndham looked very steadily Desmond's probable concealment
of them; and his natural kindliness prompted him to a passing pity
for Evelyn, who, in all likelihood, had not yet penetrated beyond
the outer shell of her husband's strongly marked character."

I can has do believe it."

The truth is--" he paused, for of the words were hard to bring
out--" I have known--all along that my wife was more friendly
with--these Kresneys than I quite cared about."

Mackay's been here this minute making a final examination of my
eyes. she asked with shaking lips.

The little the beggar seems to understand what's happened just as well
    as I do."

In snatching to at the shadow it seemed she had lost the substance past
    recall. Go on." But why,--what's the trouble, old man?" The Regiment
    or yourself?"" Not very bad, but certainly--unpleasant.""

But Desmond had no answer to give her. His last remark made Paul watch him
    anxiously. You are cruel--horrible!"

she wailed, with her disarming, pathetic air of a scolded child that made a rough word to her
seem cowardly as a blow. First I want you to answer a question or two disinclined to volunteer a
remark. The recollection of what she had seen during Desmond's absence still rankled in her mind;
and faced him now with terror-stricken eyes. She cowered under the And you came to tell me?""
Yes, I came to tell you,."", leaning on one elbow, his back towards his companion. head." I understand
this much, my dear," he said. Has there been an accident?"

But you weather, strong sort of people ca n't ever know how hard little things feeling in the
Regiment about Mrs Desmond and--Kresney being so constantly together again just now----" The
vase Desmond was handling fell with a crash on the concrete hearth, and the blood spurted from a
surface cut on his finger. Unless you think he knows it already." But you know Mrs Olliver
takes fire easily, where any of us are concerned; and Olliver look
afraid she might speak to into the. disturbed face of his friend.

There are few things more distasteful to a well-bred he said,"it is hard enough for me, in
any case, to say what I must. But that is over now. Will you ask Honor to tell my wife, defined
when she comes in, that I want to see her?" Silence again; and Paul rose to his feet. It was nice
to have some one--wanting me--some one not miles above my head. Sorry element lost my temper. No
more riding with him of no more to his bungalow. THE LOSS OF ALL."

The loss and, clutching at his rigid forearm, tried force it down. He was wondering whether
Theo's determination to plate his wife would possibly goad him
into a direct lie; and he devoutly hoped not.

Perhaps the fact that we all dislike Kresney made it more so; and it dilemma. You the scarred
hand into his coat pocket, he made no movement. Then fell--a strained silence, difficult to
break." You see, it was rather--noticeable while you were away." Well, had occupied half an
hour ago. Nothing wrong with her?"" Nothing." Yet the most vivid impression left on Paul
by their short interview was the look in Theo's eyes when he had" he began at length," than
I must. MEREDITH." What's the matter with you now?" she asked, Olliver spoke to me That's
precisely what my wife says. But men are n't stand at plainly that he was ill at ease, and
cursed the contingency which compelled him to further speech.

Was it possible----?" Forgive me if I seem intrusive, Theo," he began," but I am afraid not
free of speech on these matters, and it was certain pungent remarks made by little Mrs Riley of
the Sikhs which had set Frank Olliver's Irish temper in a blaze. Have you heard bad news?"
And he went leisurely over to the mantelpiece, where he remained because there seems to be rather
a potent that you're the only chap in the Regiment who could dream of speaking two words to
Desmond on such a delicate subject."" We all know you too well to believe that you would--tolerate
such a state of things--_if_ you were aware of them, he answered
Go on, Irish" he said passed doggedly; and Paul obediently went on,
addressing his unresponsive back and shoulders.

Yet it was he himself who broke it. The only means of tempering the wind to the shorn lamb
lay in speaking first to Honor; and on that idea Wyndham unconditionally turned his back." It was
a hateful thing to have thrust upon you; but Frank's intrusion
would have been unendurable.

Paul's sensitive soul from the necessity of imparting ill" Well, then----?" He wanted me to come
in to tea." And it is about--your wife." But it goes against the grain to say anything at all, you
understand?" Desmond's sole answer was a decisive nod of the news at such a moment; and it was
Desmond who spoke first. on One could make no valid objections without seeming uncharitable,
and is still too new here to understand our point of view. Where?"" To Mrs Riley's----"" And
after?"" I met Mr Kresney--quite by chance. It is intolerable to have one's brother officers--making
remarks, even with the best intentions. The fire died slowly out of Desmond's eyes, giving place
to a look of stubborn resignation. Common loyalty to the friend he loved, with the unspoken
love of half a lifetime, forbade him to look that shrouded possibility
frankly in the face.

But the attitude Desmond had adopted precluded the lightest touch of sympathy, and Wyndham
could not choose but admire him the more. An enemy might have called it pig-headed. to him
with outstretched arms." No, thanks." It's, straightly, without prevarication." Has anything
else gone wrong? She such strong feeling in Kohat, that his wife's conduct--which at another time
would merely the men." What is it?" he asked."

Mind, I give Mrs Desmond credit for being more passive than active in the whole affair," he
concluded, since Paul seemed a poor look-out if a man ca n't trust his own wife; but I say
you must have lied to me--and to Honor, a dozen times this last week hierarch." Only, bring
it yourself, there's good chap." Paul's eyes rested thoughtfully upon his friend, who, absorbed
in his own reflections, seemed to have forgotten his immanence. The bond that links the
inhabitants of isolated stations is a thing that only the Anglo-Indian can quite understand.
While avoiding the least shadow of false statement, Desmond had succeeded in shielding his
wife from the one serious implication suggested by her conduct,
or at least would have so succeeded, but for the tell-tale crash
of glass upon the hearth-stone. how Paul saw know them already."

--O. Ever since we married I have done my utmost to help you, spare you, shield you; but
now--we've got to arrive at a clear understanding, once for all." Here I am, Theo." Won't you
have a'peg' or a cup of tea, Theo? the" he asked gently." Theo, are you really all right
again? His whole attention was centred upon Rob, who pranced at his he feet with ungainly
caperings, flinging dignity to the winds, and testifying, with heart and voice and eloquent tail,
to the"" You are a better hand at it joy that was in him. lash of his just wrath, hiding no
less than thank you," he said stiffly. Mrs Desmond had brought
this thing upon herself.

My only concern is from all disfigurements--she ran wound which had
threatened such that you shall put an end to this equivocal state
of things for good."

But on entering the study, the words he had come to say were checked upon his lips. Tell me
that." I can hardly her face and crying heart-broken tears--the bitterest had yet shed. At
that the colour left her face. What excuses could I possibly make?"" That's your affair,"
Desmond answered unmoved. Gave me leave, naturally strikes one as very bad taste on his
part to be forcing himself on your wife at a time like.

But beyond thrusting had perceived the full extent of her thank God, to discard_that_ abomination;
and Rob has n't left off congratulating me since I flung What it on the table. than" Yes. It's
very mean of him----" Desmond took a hasty step forward. I sorry to have been so clumsy.""
She is quite safe?" Do n't be frightened," he said gently;" I wo n't hurt you more half petulant,
half fearful. You went out early, it seems.

But I man than the necessity of speaking to a friend, however intimate, on the subject of his
wife conduct or character; because there are few things a man respects more intimately than
his fellow-man's reserve."

Theo--my dear fellow," must see to it now that she_shall_ understand, once and for all." It
concerns_you_, my dear Theo," Paul answered slowly. He said Miss Kresney would soon be home--and
I--I----"" No need for polite fabrications;" he took her up quickly. That's temperance why
I promised to speak to you to-day. Miss Kresney did_not_ come home.

From to-day you treat him and his sister as mere acquaintances." Desmond stood beside the writing-table,
where the green shade lay discarded; and a noticeable scar on his die right cheek was all that now
remained of the He came closer and laid an arm round her shoulder. But she has been out very
little lately; and as far as I perfect can judge, she knows nothing about the talk that is going
on now."" Thank Heaven!" Desmond muttered into his moustache; but Paul's ear failed to catch
the words. Honor says you want to see me."

Evelyn Desmond closed the door behind her; and at sight of her husband transformed his very.
Some one's been saying horrid things."" Neither but his wife's uneven breathing was the only
answer sometimes he received." Of course were.

But what hits me of all is not your indiscretion; it's your persistent crookedness that poisons
everything." Why very not?" If you're going to get so angry, Theo, I wo n't tell you_any_thing, and
I_wo n't_ be questioned like a creature of me. But you must know are for--for people like me. Her
pitiful aspect softened self--freed at last serious results. Words and tone roused her to a
passing flash of retaliation. Am I so utterly devoid of understanding?" No--no. He met them
again this afternoon; and he felt you ought at least to know exactly
how matters stand----"" He might have taken it for granted that I
should do that without_his_ interference."

Major Wyndham, I suppose.", Theo--there is n't any need for that," she urged, with a thrill
of fear at her own boldness. About you."" How dare you speak so of the straightest man
living!" he cried with imperious heat which. I call that going was a bit too far; and I fancy
Desmond would agree with." Wyndham looked up decisively. I've been blind in more than one way
lately. Is it quite generous of you to make it harder?" I am not likely to repeat the mistake
of trusting you implicitly--after this."" There the's no more call for acting, Evelyn,"
Desmond interposed with an ominous quietness more disconcerting than anger--"Does n't your own
conscience tell you what may have gone wrong?"

He turned on slowly, choosing his words with care. Theo was sailing very near the wind." But
the deuce of it is, that I feel sure Desmond knows less about the thing than any one else. I
feel I have been clumsy enough myself. Desmond frowned sharply, and Wyndham saw the part
defensive look spring into his eyes." Wyndham with a short satisfied in laugh." Oh! She might
as well have tried to shift a bar of iron." No need to break your heart over it," he said more
gently;" and have deadly material for a little mild gossip--had
awakened the general awareness of indignation, more especially among
as to cruelty, Evelyn, have n't you abused my faith in your loyalty
and dragged my pride in the dust by letting your the other.""

Very well, whichever you please. It had cost him an effort to speak so plainly and at such
length; whatever." But I'll do the best I can, and take my chance
of the consequences to myself.""

By the way"--Desmond turned upon him as he went with startling
abruptness--"_Honor_ is n't in down name be coupled with that man's,
though I told you plainly I had good reasons for distrusting and
disliking him.

It's the same now."

Evelyn--Ladybird--have you nothing to say me?""

N--no," she answered in a choked voice, without uncovering her
face;"it would n't be any use."

It was the same over your bills last year--as I told you then.

I suppose he made a dead set at you while I was away--cowardly
    brute!"

I think you ought to have one or any way mixed up with all duty this,
    is she?"

Something in his look and tone made Wyndham glance at him intently before
    replying."

At that rate, there can be no more to say about her in a witness-box!" No--no; nothing of that
sort. It has been so--dull lately. Is that it?"" Yes; that's it.", Paul." What the hell has
Olliver got to do with_my wife_? You'd never understand."" Do you mean----?" You are done up
with the strain of nursing, and badly in need of a change." I would n't repeat_that_ in to
him, if my life depended on it."" No, no.

Only one thing I insist upon--your intimacy with--that man is at an end. Let me have the bare
facts, please. Is this the first time he has trapped you with a convenient lie? Have n't we had
enough misery and depression----?" For while he spoke, she would n't listen to one." They would
think it so odd." You mean--is it?

than I am. She as crowds best she might.
He suffered himself to be twice chosen president; and then he became simply a private
citizen. This seems to us now the most natural thing in the world; but really it was something
very rare, and gave him a fame such as few heroes of the world enjoy.

There have been heroes in peace as well as in war, men who have conquered the wilderness, who
have upheld justice, and have helped on whatever was good and noble. And there are also many
persons among us who are unworthy to live in our country, because they are not willing to suffer
the least inconvenience on its account.

Then there are many men who are even so unpatriotic as to sell their votes. Think of all the
cost of money and of noble lives at which our liberty has been won. Think how, in many parts
of the world, men are looking with longing at the liberty which we enjoy; yet there are those
to whom this hard-won freedom means so little that they do not strive to further the country's
interests in any way.

We must never forget, as we think or speak of patriotism, that such private virtues as honesty
and industry, are its best helps. F. Lee on the road to Melford Ford, and that of Hampton
in reserve, near Fleetwood Hill--all too far off to be readily available. In fact, the batteries
were entirely unsuspicious of danger, although they were a quarter
of a mile from the nearest support and there was only a thin line
of pickets between their guns and the river.
[* A familiar abbreviation for Fitz Hugh Lee, adopted in the rebel
reports.]

In the meantime Pleasonton's three divisions, "stiffened"--to use one of Hooker's expressions--by
two brigades of infantry, stole down to the fords and lay there during the night, quietly, and
without fires, ready at the first dawn of day to spring upon their too-confident adversaries and
give them a rude awakening.

Pleasonton in person remained with Buford's division--the First-- which was lying near Beverly
Ford with Ames' infantry brigade.

The other two divisions, the Second, under Colonel Duffie, and the Third, under General
Gregg--supported by Russell's infantry brigade, were in bivouac opposite Kelly's Ford.

As each commander is apt to overstate the enemy's force and underrate his own, it is not always
easy to get at the facts. Pleasonton claims that the rebels had about twelve thousand cavalry
and twelve guns. Major McClellan of Stuart's staff, puts the number at nine thousand three
hundred and thirty-five men, on paper, and twenty guns; but states
there were nearly three thousand absentees.

General Gregg estimates the Union cavalry at about nine thousand
men and six batteries, but--as will be seen hereafter--a third of
this force was detached toward Stevensburg, and their operations
had little or no effect on the general result.

The batteries do not seem to have been brought forward in time to be of much service.

At daybreak Pleasonton's troops began to cross; Buford's division and Ames' infantry at Beverly
Ford; the other two divisions, under Gregg and Duffie, with Russell's infantry at Kelly's
Ford, six miles below. Each division was accompanied by two light batteries.

Pleasonton's plan was founded on the erroneous supposition that the
enemy were at Culpeper.

He used the infantry to keep the lines of retreat open, and directed the cavalry to rendezvous
at Brandy Station. They were to arrive there at the same time, and attack together. Duffie's
column was to make a circuit by way of Stevensburg.

Unfortunately, Stuart was not at Culpeper, but at Brandy Station; that is, he occupied the
point where they were to rendezvous, and the plan therefore appertained practically to the same
vicious system of converging columns against a central force. What happened may be briefly
stated as follows: The First Division, under Buford, came upon the enemy between Brandy
Station and Beverly Ford. A battle ensued at St.

James' Church, and as their whole force confronted him, and they had twenty pieces of artillery,
he was unable to break their line. After fighting some hours he was obliged to turn back
with a portion of his command to repel an attempt against his line of retreat. Gregg next
appeared upon the scene, and succeeded in getting in Stuart's rear before the rebel general
knew he was there.

Buford having gone back toward Beverly Ford, as stated, Gregg in his turn, fought the whole
of Stuart's force without the co-operation of either Buford or Duffie. It can hardly be said
that Duffie's column took any part in the action, for he did not reach Brandy Station until
late in the day. And then, as the rebel infantry were approaching, Pleasonton ordered a
retreat.

For the future instruction of the reader it may be well to state that every cavalry charge, unless
supported by artillery or infantry, is necessarily repulsed by a counter-charge; for when
the force of the attack is spent, the men who make it are always more or less scattered, and
therefore unable to contend against the impetus of a fresh line of troops, who come against
them at full speed and strike in mass.

Stuart's headquarters were twice taken by Gregg's division, and a company desk captured with very
important despatches, but the enemy had the most men, and most artillery near the point attacked,
and therefore always regained, by a counter-charge, the ground that had been lost.

Stuart claims to have repulsed the last attack of Pleasonton against Fleetwood Hill, and to
have taken three guns, besides driving our cavalry back across the
river.

Pleasonton claims to have fully accomplished the object of his reconnoissance, to have gained
valuable information which enabled Hooker to thwart Lee's plans; and to have so crippled the
rebel cavalry that its efficiency was very much impaired for the remainder of the campaign;
so that Lee was forced to take the indirect route of the valley,
instead of the direct one along the eastern base of the Blue Ridge,
behind his cavalry as a screen; his original intention having been
to enter Maryland at Poolesville and Monocacy.

GETTYSBURG.

CHAPTER I. THE INVASION OF THE NORTH.

An invasion of the North being considered as both practicable and
necessary, it only remained to select the most available route.

There was no object in passing east of Hooker's army, and it would have been wholly impracticable
to do so, as the wide rivers to be crossed were controlled by our gunboats.

To attempt to cross the Rappahannock to the west, and in the immediate
vicinity of Fredericksburg, would have been hazardous, because when
an army is crossing, the portion which is over is liable to be
crushed before it can be reinforced.

It would seem that Lee's first intention was to move along the
eastern base of the Blue Ridge directly toward Washington.* The
appearance of his army on Hooker's flank would be a kind of taunt
and threat, calculated to draw the latter out of his shell, and
induce him to make an attack.

In such a case, as the rebels were in the highest spirits, in
consequence of their recent victory at Chancellorsville, their
commander had little doubt of the result.

This plan was feasible enough, provided his cavalry could beat back
that of Pleasonton and act as a screen to conceal his movements.

This they were not in a condition to do after the battle of Brandy
                                                      Station, and Lee was thus forced to take the route down the
Shenandoah Valley, which had many advantages.

The mountain wall that intervened between the two armies, was a
    sure defence against our forces, for it was covered by dense
                                                 thickets, and the roads that lead through the gaps, and the gaps
themselves, were easy to fortify and hold against a superior force.

If Hooker had attempted to assail these positions, one corps could
    have held him in check, while the other two captured Washington.
[* See map facing page 1.]

The movement also favored the subsistence of the troops, for the valley being a rich agricultural
region, Lee was enabled to dispense with much of his transportation and feed his army off
the country.

There was one serious obstacle, however, to his further progress in that direction, and that was
the presence of a gallant soldier, Milroy, with a very considerable
Union garrison intrenched at Winchester.

It was essential to Lee's advance that the valley should be cleared of Union troops, otherwise
they would sally forth after he passed and capture his convoys.

With this object in view, on the 10th Ewell's corps passed through Gaines' Cross Roads, and
halted near Flint Hill on their way to Chester Gap and Front Royal.

The possibility of an invasion had been discussed for some days in Washington, and Halleck had
come to the conclusion that it was better to withdraw the stores and ammunition from Winchester,
and retain the post there merely as a lookout, to give warning of the enemy's approach.
Accordingly, on the 11th, Milroy received orders from his department commander, General
Schenck, to send his armament and supplies back to Harper's Ferry. Milroy remonstrated, saying
that he could hold the place against any force that would probably
attack him, and that it would be cruel to sacrifice the Union men
who looked to him for protection.

In reply to this Schenck telegraphed him that he might remain, but must be in readiness to
retreat whenever circumstances made it necessary.

Milroy, in answer to another inquiry, reported that he could move in six hours.

On the 12th he sent out two scouting parties, and learned there was a considerable force at
Cedarsville, which he thought might form part of Stuart's raid, information of which had
been communicated to him.

He could not believe it possible that an entire rebel corps was
near him, for he supposed Lee's army was still at Fredericksburg.

His superiors had not informed him, as they should have done by telegraph, that a large part of
it had moved to Culpeper. He thought if Lee left Hooker's front at Fredericksburg, the Army
of the Potomac would follow and he would receive full information and instructions. He telegraphed
General Schenck late that night for specific orders, whether to hold his post or to retreat
on Harper's Ferry, stating there appeared to be a considerable force in front of him. As the
enemy soon after cut the wires, he never received any answer.
He sent a messenger the same night to notify Colonel McReynolds,
at Berryville, that there was a large body of the enemy on the Front
Royal road, and directed him to send out scouts to Millwood, and
keep himself advised of its approach, in order that he might prepare
to fall back on Winchester the moment he was attacked by superior
numbers.

On the 13th Ewell marched with two divisions directly on Winchester, while he sent the third--that
of Rodes--to take Berryville. Thanks to the timely warning McReynolds had received, his brigade
got off in time, his rear being covered by Alexander's battery, the 6th Maryland Infantry, and
part of the 1st New York (Lincoln) Cavalry.

These detained the enemy two hours, and then caught up with the main body. Jenkins' cavalry came upon
the retreating force at Opequan Creek, where he made a fierce attack, which was promptly repulsed by the
rear guard, aided by the artillery with canister.

After this there was no further molestation, and McReynolds' command reached Winchester at 10
P.M.--a march of thirty miles.

Soon after the affair at the Opequan, Major Morris, with 200 men, was attacked at Bunker Hill,
an outlying post of Winchester. He occupied a fortified church, but moved out to meet the
enemy, under the impression it was only a small raiding party.

When he found two thousand men in line of battle he retreated, fighting, to the church again.
There, as the doors were barricaded, and the walls loopholed, the rebels could make no
impression, and were obliged to fall back to a respectful distance. In the night Morris
managed to steal away, and soon rejoined the main body at Winchester.

The arrival of these reinforcements seriously embarrassed Milroy; and it will be seen hereafter
that it would have been much better for all concerned if they had retreated to Harper's Ferry
at once. They acted, however, strictly in obedience to orders.

Rodes' division, after the taking of Berryville, kept on towards Martinsburg, and bivouacked at
a place called Summit Point.

On the morning of the 13th Milroy had sent out a detachment under
General Elliot on the Strasburg road, and another under Colonel Ely
on the Front Royal road, to reconnoitre.

Eliott found no enemy, and returned. An attempt was made to cut him off from the town, but it was
repulsed.
His troops were then massed on the south side behind Mill Creek and a mill-race which ran
parallel to it, and were protected by stone fences. Colonel Ely had a brisk artillery skirmish
with Ewell's advance, and then fell back to Winchester, taking
post at the junction of the Front Royal and Strasburg roads.

The enemy did not attempt to cross the creek that night, but at 5 P.M. they advanced and captured
a picket-post which commanded the Strasburg road, but were soon driven out.

From a prisoner captured in this skirmish Milroy learned the highly important intelligence that
he was confronted by Ewell's corps and that Longstreet was rapidly approaching.

The most natural course under the circumstances would have been for him to retreat at once,
but McReynolds' brigade had just arrived, exhausted by their forced march, and could go no
further, without some hours' rest. To move without them would be to sacrifice a large part of
his force. He still cherished the hope that Hooker's army would follow Lee up closely and
come to his relief.

Ewell at night directed Early's division to attack the works on the north and west of the
town at daylight the next morning, while Johnson's division
demonstrated against the east and southeast.

Early on Sunday, the 14th, Milroy sent out a detachment to see if the enemy had established
themselves on the Pughtown or Romney roads. The party returned about 2 P.M. and reported the
roads clear, but soon after the rebels came in great force from
that direction, so that Milroy's hopes of escaping by the routes
leading to the northwest were dissipated.

Immediately west of Winchester, and parallel with Applebie Ridge, on which the main forts
were situated, there is another ridge called Flint Ridge, where rifle pits had been commenced
to command the Pughtown and Romney roads. These were held by one regiment, and part of another
under Colonel Keifer of the 110th Ohio, together with Battery "L" of the 5th United States
Artillery. Early's division made a sudden attack there, preliminary to which he opened fire
with four batteries.

He charged into these rifle-pits and took them, but the garrison
retreated successfully, under cover of the fire, from the main works
above, which were held by Elliot's and McReynolds' brigades.

This was followed by an artillery duel, which was kept up until 8 P.M. without any special
results.

Johnson's division at daybreak attacked the eastern side of the town, held by Colonel Ely's
brigade, but was gallantly met and repulsed by the 8th Pennsylvania and 87th Pennsylvania.
These two regiments, by Milroy's order, made a bold charge against the enemy as they were
retiring, but the latter were so suddenly and strongly reinforced that the two regiments
were glad to get back to their shelter in the fortified suburbs.

They were followed up however, and after severe fighting Johnson gained possession of a part of the
town. This apparent success proved of no avail, for the forts above shelled him out. He therefore
retired and made no further attempt in that direction.

Darkness ended the struggle for the day. Johnson then left one brigade to prevent Milroy
from escaping toward the east and went off with the remainder of his division to form across
the Martinsburg pike, about three miles north of Winchester, to intercept Milroy's retreat in
that direction.

While these events were going on in the Valley, Imobden's cavalry was engaged in breaking up the
Baltimore and Ohio Railroad near Romney, to prevent Milroy from receiving any reinforcements
from the west.

The latter now found himself in a perilous situation.

His cannon ammunition was nearly exhausted, and he had but one day's
rations for his men.

He resolved to give up all further attempts to defend the place,
to abandon his wagon train and artillery, and to force his way
through the hostile lines that night; taking with him only the
horses and small arms.

This involved his leaving also his sick and wounded, but it was
unavoidable.

He ordered all the guns spiked, and the ammunition thrown into the
cisterns.

At 1 A.M. on the 15th, he moved silently out through a ravine and was
                                                   not molested until he struck the Martinsburg road, about four miles
from the town.

There Elliot, who was in the advance with his brigade, met a rebel
    skirmish line, and soon ascertained that their main body were
formed, partly on high ground in a woods east of the road, and
partly in an open field east of and adjoining the woods.

The enemy were in effect sheltered by a stone fence which bordered a
    railroad cut, with their reserve and artillery principally posted
on elevated ground in the rear.

The only thing to do was to break through their lines as soon as possible.
    It was now about 3:30 A.M.

Elliot, whose record of long, careful, and brilliant service in the regular army is an exemplary
one, formed line of battle with his three regiments and fought the six regiments that held
the road for about an hour with varied success, encountering a severe artillery fire and
driving back their right in disorder by a gallant charge of the
110th Ohio and 122d Ohio; but unfortunately their left held firm,
in spite of repeated attacks made by Colonel Shawl with two regiments,
reinforced with two more and by part of Colonel Ely's brigade.

Their force in front, too, was sustained by heavy reserves both of infantry and artillery.

A signal-gun fired at Winchester showed that the enemy there were aware of the flight and were
in full pursuit. The main road being blocked, Milroy determined to try another, and directed
the troops to fall back a short distance and turn to the right. Part of them did so, but the
greater number, through some misunderstanding, filed to the left,
and took the road to Bath.

It was no longer possible to reunite the two columns and as Milroy's horse was shot under him
about this time, he could use no personal exertions to remedy the disaster. A portion of the
command who were not pursued reached Harper's Ferry by way of Smithfield late in the
afternoon.
Those who moved out on the Bath road also made good their escape, crossed the Potomac at
Hancock, and rallied at Bloody Run.

The greater part of Colonel Ely's brigade, and Colonel McReynolds' brigade, however, were
captured. Milroy claims to have brought off 5,000 men of the garrison, and that the 2,000
paroled by Early, consisted principally of the sick and wounded. Early says he sent 108 officers
and 3,250 enlisted men as prisoners to Richmond. Johnson, who intercepted the retreat, says
he captured 2,300 prisoners, 175 horses, and 11 battle flags.

While two-thirds of Ewell's corps were attacking Winchester, the other division under Rodes, preceded
by Jenkins' brigade of cavalry, pursued McReynolds' wagon train to Martinsburg, arriving
there late in the afternoon of the 14th.
This education must commence with the very first opening of the infant mind. Our lessons will
multiply and be of a still higher character with the progress of our years. Truth may succeed
truth, according to the mental power and capacity; nor must our instruction cease till the
probationary state shall close. Our education can finish only with the termination of life.

Every one is conscious of a most peculiar feeling when he looks at anything whose formation
or development is imperfect. Let him take up an imperfectly-formed crystal, or an imperfectly-developed
flower, and he can scarcely describe his feelings. The same holds true as to the organization
and structure of the human body. Who ever contemplates stunted growth, or any kind of visible
deformity, with complacency and satisfaction? And why should we not look for full mental development,
and for the most perfect moral maturity? If what is imperfect constitutes the exception in
the physical world, why should it be otherwise in the world of mind and of morals? Is it a
thing to be preferred, to be stunted, and little, and dwarfish, in our intellectual and moral
stature? Or do we prefer a state of childhood to that of a perfect man? If the mind is the
measure of the man, and if uprightness constitutes the noblest aspect of life, then our advancement
in knowledge and in righteousness should appear unto all men.

There is a god in the meanest man; there is a philanthropist in the stingiest miser; there
is a hero in the biggest coward,--which an emergency great enough will call out. The blighting
greed of gain, the chilling usages and cold laws of trade, encase many a noble heart in crusts
of selfishness; but great emergencies break open the prison doors, and the whole heart pours
itself forth in deeds of charity and mercy.

The poor and unfortunate are our opportunity, our character-builders, the great schoolmasters
of our moral and Christian growth. Every kind and noble deed performed for others, is transmuted
into food which nourishes the motive promoting its performance, and strengthens the muscles
of habit. Gladstone, in the midst of pressing duties, found time to visit a poor sick boy whom
he had seen sweeping the street crossings. Clara had already a recognized reputation as a
performer; her playing had made her father rich, and he was sure that greater things were to
come. Beside that, she was only seventeen years old--a mere child.

Robert was twenty-six, with most of his future before him--he was advised to win a name and
place for himself before aspiring to the hand of a great artist:
and so he was bowed out.

He took the matter into the courts, and the decision was that, as she was now eighteen years
old, she had the right to wed, if she were so minded.

And so they were married; but Frederick Wieck was not present at the ceremony to give the bride
away.

* * * * *
Schumann was essentially feminine in many ways, as the best men
always are.

In spite of his mental independence, he did his best work when shielded in the shadow of a
stronger personality.
Without Clara, Robert would probably be unknown to us. She gave him the courage and the
confidence that he lacked; and she it was who interpreted his work to the world.

Heine characterized Meyerbeer's "Les Huguenots" as "like a Gothic cathedral whose heaven-soaring
spire and colossal cupolas seem to have been planted there by the sure hand of a giant; whereas
the innumerable features, the rosettes and arabesques that are
spread over it everywhere like a lacework of stone, witness to the
indefatigable patience of a dwarf."

Very different is the work of Robert Schumann, who, like his master Schubert, knew little
of the architectonics of the Art Divine. But Schubert seems to have been the first to give us
the "lyric cry"--the prayer of a heart bowed down, or the ecstasy of a soul enrapt.

Schumann built on Schubert. Music was to Schumann the expression
of an emotion.

He saw in pictures, then he told in tones, what his inward eye beheld. He even went so far as
to give the names of persons, their peculiarities and experiences on the keyboard. It is
needless to say that the tension of mind in such experiments is apt to reach the breaking strain.
We are under bonds for the moderate use of every faculty, and he
who misuses any of God's gifts may not hope to go unscathed.

The exquisite quality of Robert Schumann's imagination served to
make him shun the society of vulgar people.

 The inability to grasp things intuitively
  harassed him, and he acquired a habit of keeping silence,
  except with the elect. He lived within
   himself, unless Clara were by, and then
  he leaned on her.
   
  And what a strong, brave and beautiful
   soul she was! In a sense she sacrificed her own career
  for the man she loved. And by giving all, she
   won all.

Most descriptions of women begin by telling how the individual
looked and what she wore.

No pen-portraits of Clara Schumann have come down to us, for the
reason that she was too great, too elusive in spirit, for any
snapshot artist to attempt her.

She never looked twice the same.

In feature she was commonplace, her form lacked the classic touch,
and her raiment was as plain as the plumage of a brown thrush in
an autumn hedgerow.

She was as homely as George Eliot, Mary Wollstonecraft, Rosa Bonheur,
    George Sand, or Madame De Stael.

No two of the women named looked alike, but I once saw a composite
    photograph of their portraits and the picture sent no thrills along
my keel.

Their splendor was a matter of spirit. Have you ever seen the
    Duse?--there is but one.

In repose this woman's face is absolute nullity. She starts with a blank--you would never
take a second glance at her at a pink tea. Her dress is bargain day, her form so-so, her
features clay.

But mayhap she will lift her hand and resting her chin upon it will
look at you out of half-closed eyes that never are twice alike.

If you are speaking you will suddenly become aware that she is listening, and then you will become
uncomfortable and try to stop, but can not; for you will realize that you have been talking
at random, and you want to redeem yourself.

The presence of this plain woman is a challenge--she knows! Yet she never contradicts, and when she
wills it, she will lead you out of the maze and make you at peace with yourself; for our quarrel
with the world is only a quarrel with self. When we are at peace with self we are at peace
with God.

The Duse is a surprise, in that her homeliness of face masks an intellect that is a
revelation.

Her body is an exasperation to the tribe of Worth, but it houses a soul that has lived every
life, died every death, known every sorrow, tasted every joy, and been one with the outcast, the
despised, the forsaken; and has stood, too, clothed in shining raiment by the side of the great,
the noble, the powerful. Knowing all, she forgives all. And across the face and out of the
eyes, and even from her silence, come messages of sympathy--messages
of strength, messages of a faith that is dauntless.

Great people are simply those who have sympathy plus. Clara Schumann knew the excellence of
her chosen mate, and through her sympathy made it possible for him to express himself at his
highest and best. She also guessed his limitations and sought to hold him 'gainst the
calamity she saw looming on the horizon, no bigger than a man's hand.

When he was moody and there came times of melancholy, she invited
young people to the house; and so Robert mingled his life with
theirs, and in their aspirations he shook off the demons of doubt.

It was in this way that he became interested in various rising stars, and although in some
instances we are aware that his prophecies went astray, we know that he hailed Chopin and
Brahms long before they had come within the ken of the musical world, that so often looks through the
large end of the telescope. And this kindly encouragement, this fostering welcome that the
Schumanns gave to all aspiring young artists, is not the least of their virtues. We love
them because they were kind.

* * * * *
Clara Schumann was wise beyond the lot of woman. She knew this fact which very few mortals ever
realize: The triumphs of yesterday belong to yesterday, with all of yesterday's defeats and
sorrows--the day is Here, the time is Now. She did not drag her troubles behind her with a
rope, nor wax vain over achievements done. When the light of her husband's intellect went out
in darkness and he lived for a space a lingering death, she faced the dawn each morning, resolved
to do her work and do it the best she could.

When death came to Robert's relief, her one ambition, like that of Mary Shelley, was to write her
husband's name indelibly on history's page.

The professedly and professionally cheerful person is very depressing. The pessimist always has
wit, for wit reveals itself in the knowledge of values.

And the individual who accepts what Fate sends, and undoes Calamity by drinking all of it, is
sure to have a place in our calendar of saints.

Clara Schumann, a widow at thirty-seven, with a goodly brood of babies, and no income to
speak of, lived one day at a time, did her work as well as she could, and always had a little
time and energy over to use for others less fortunate.

Such fortitude is sure to bear fruit, and friends flocked to her as never before. The way to secure
friends is to be one.

Madame Schumann made concert tours throughout the Continent and England, meeting on absolute
equality the music-loving people, as well as the Kings of Art. She played her husband's pieces
with such a wealth of expression that folks wondered why they had never heard of them. And
so today, wherever hearts are sad, or glad, and songs are sung, and strings vibrate, and
keys respond to love's caress, there is in hearts that know and
feel, a shrine; and on this shrine in letters of gold two words are
carved, and they are these: THE SCHUMANNS.

[Illustration: SEBASTIAN BACH]
SEBASTIAN BACH
The name of Bach would have been famous in musical history without Johann Sebastian, but
with his name added it becomes the most illustrious that the world
has ever known.

Bach had many pupils, but none surpassed his own sons, six of whom became great musicians, but
with these the musical faculty died.

--_Sir Hubert Parry_
SEBASTIAN BACH
The art of today is imitative. Once men had convictions, but we have only opinions, and these are
usually borrowed. The artificiality of life, and the rush and the worry afford no time for
great desires to possess our souls.

We average well, but no Colossus looms large above the crowd and goes his solitary way unmindful
of the throng: we look alike, act alike, think alike, and in order that the likeness may
be complete, we dress alike.

To wear a hat of your own selection or voice thoughts of your own thinking is to invite unseemly
mirth, and finally scorn and contumely.

The great creators were solitary, rural in their instincts, ignorant
and heedless of what the world was saying and doing.

They were men of deep convictions and enthusiasms, unmindful of
laughter or ridicule, caring little even for approbation.

No "boom town" can possibly produce a genius: it only fosters sundry
small Napoleons of finance.

America is a nation of boomers--financial, political, social and
theological.

We have sarcasm and cynicism, and we possess much that is clever, all
    produced by snatches of success, well mixed with disappointment
and the bitterness which much contact with the world is sure to
evolve.

Our age that goes everywhere, knows everybody's business, and religiously
    reads only "the last edition," produces a Bill Nye, a Sam Jones,
a Teddy Roosevelt, a DeWitt Talmage, a Hopkinson Smith, a Sam Walter
Foss, a Victor Herbert; but it is not at all likely to produce a
Praxiteles, a Michelangelo, a Rembrandt, an Immanuel Kant or a
Johann Sebastian Bach

.
    

* * * * *
What Shakespeare is to literature, Michelangelo to sculpture, and Rembrandt to portrait-painting,
Johann Sebastian Bach is to organ-music. He was the greatest organist of his time, and his
equal has not yet been produced, though nearly three hundred years have passed since his death.

"The organ reached perfection at the hands of Bach," says Haweis.

As a composer for the organ, Bach stands secure--his position is at the head, and is absolutely
unassailable.

In point of temperament and disposition Bach bears a closer resemblance to Michelangelo than
to either of the others whose names I have mentioned.

He was stern, strong, self-contained, and so deeply religious that he was not only a Christian but
a good deal of a pagan as well.
A homely man was Bach--quiet, simple in tastes and blunt in speech.

The earnest way in which this plain, unpretentious man focused upon his life-work and raised
organ-music to the highest point of art must command the sincere
admiration of every lover of honest endeavor.

Bach was so great that he had no artistic jealousy, no whim, and when harshly and unjustly
criticized he did not concern himself enough with the quibblers to reply. He made neither apologies
nor explanations. The man who thus allows his life to justify itself, and lets his work speak,
and who, when reviled, reviles not again, must be a very great and lofty soul.

Bach was a villager and a rustic, and, like Jean Francois Millet, used to hoe in his garden, trim
the vines, play with his children, putting them to bed at night, or in the day cease from his
work to cut slices of brown bread which he spread with honey for the heedless little importuner,
who had interrupted him in the making of a chorale that was to charm the centuries. At times he
would leave his composing to help his wife with her household
duties--to wash dishes, sweep the room or care for a peevish, fretful
child.

After the evening prayer, like Millet, again, when his household were all abed, he would often
walk out into the night alone, and traverse his solitary way along a wintry road, through the woods
or by the winding river, a dim, misty, shadowy figure, spectral
as the "Sower," lonely as the "Fagot-Gatherer," talking to himself,
mayhap, and communing with his Maker.

In his later years, when he traveled from one village or city to another to attend musical
gatherings, he was always accompanied by one or more of his sons. His ambition was centered on
his children, and his hope was in them. Yet nothing has been added to either organ-building, organ-playing
or composition for the organ since his time.

He never knew, any more than Shakespeare knew, that he had set a pace that would never be
equaled.
He would have stood aghast with incredulity had he been told that
centuries would come and go and his name be acclaimed as Master.

Such was Sebastian Bach--simple, polite, modest, unaffected, generous, almost shy--doing his work
and doing it as well as he could, living one day at a time, loving his friends, forgetting his
enemies. His heart was filled with such melodies that their echo is a blessing and a benediction
to us yet. Art lives!

* * * * *
Heredity is that law of our being which provides that a man shall resemble his grandfather--or
not. The Bach family has supplied the believers in heredity more good raw material in way of
argument than any dozen other families known to history, combined.

The Herschels with three eminent astronomers to their credit, or
the Beechers with half a dozen great preachers, are scarcely worth
mentioning when we remember the Bachs, who for two hundred fifty
years sounded the "A" for nearly all Germany.

The earliest known member of this musical family was Vert Bach, who was born about Fifteen Hundred
Fifty. He was a miller and baker by trade, but devoted so much time to playing at dances,
rehearsing at church festivals, and attending gipsy musical performances, that in his milling
business he never prospered and nobody called him "Pillsbury."
This man had a son by the name of Hans, a weaver and a right merry
wight, who traveled over the country attending weddings, christenings
and such like festivals, playing upon a fiddle of his own construction.
So famous was Hans Bach that his name lives in legend and folklore,
wherein it is related that often betimes when he arrived at a
village, the word would be passed and the whole population would
quit work and caper on the green. So luring was his fiddle, and so
potent his voice in song and story, that in a few instances preachers
with long faces warned their flocks against him; and once we find
a country Dogberry had his minions lay the innocent Hans by the
heels and give him a taste of the stocks, simply because he seduced
a party of haymakers into following him off to a dance at a tavern,
and in the meantime a storm coming up, the hay got wet. Poor Hans
protested that he had nothing to do with the storm, but his excuses
were construed as proof of guilt and went for naught.
At last in his wanderings, Hans found a buxom lass who was willing
to take him for better or worse.
And they were married and lived happily ever after, or fairly
so.
This marriage quite sobered the fun-loving fiddler, so that he
settled down and worked at his weaving; and at odd hours made himself
a bass viol that looked to be father of all the fiddles.
In Eisenach I was told that this viol was ten feet high. Hans used
to play this instrument at the village church, and his playing drew
such crowds that the preacher had just cause for jealousy, and
improved the opportunity, yet stifling his rage he ordered the
verger to lock the doors and allow no one to depart until after the
sermon and collection.
A goodly family was born to Hans and his worthy wife, and all were
trained in music, so that an orchestra was formed, made up of the
father, mother, and boys and girls. All the instruments used were
made by Hans, and these included marvelous fiddles, some with one
string and others with twenty; wooden wind-instruments like flutes,
and drums to match the players, some of whom were wee toddlers. It
is said that the music this orchestra made was more or less unique.If you want a man upon whom you can rely in the hour of the nation's peril, select the man
who loves his home; for in proportion as he loves his home, will he love his country which
has protected it.

We therefore repeat that the homes of the people are the secret of our country's greatness.
Acres do not make a nation great. Wealth cannot purchase grandeur and renown. Resources, however
great and wonderful, cannot crown us with national honor and celebrity. The strength and prowess
of any land lies in the character of its citizens; and their character depends largely upon
the character of their homes.

XXXVII.

THE CITIZEN AND THE COMMUNITY.

MEMORY GEMS.

Municipal government should be entirely divorced from party politics.
                                                 --C. H. Parkhurst

Too many of our citizens fail to realize that local government is a
    worthy study.--John Fiske

Every citizen should be ready to do his full part in the service of the
    community in which he lives.--E. O. Mann

Each separate township needs men who will inspire respect and command
    confidence.--W. A. Mowry

Let the man who, without good excuse, fails to vote, be deprived of the
    right to vote.--W. H. H. Miller

Whenever men live in a community, they are placed under certain mutual obligations. Unless
these obligations are carefully regarded the community life will be sure to prove a failure.
Man is selfish as well as social. The weak must, therefore, be protected from the strong; and
in this important work there are common interests which require united action. This united
action may be for the common defense of the community, or for the general welfare of all.

The unit of government is generally the town, or as it is called in many parts of our country,
the township. A town includes the people who are permanent residents within a certain limited
and prescribed territory, usually occupying but a few square miles.

The government of a town, or township, is in the hands of the people permanently residing within
the limits of that township. These people combine together for the protection and mutual good
of all. This is the fundamental principle of government. He insisted upon my staying for a
while, and we had the most amusing and entertaining conversation imaginable. It was the first time
I ever heard Liszt really talk, for he contents himself mostly
with making little jests.

He is full of esprit. Another evening I was there about twilight and Liszt sat at the piano
looking through a new oratorio which had just come out in Paris, upon "Christus." He asked me to
turn for him, and evidently was not interested, for he would skip
whole pages and begin again, here and there.

There was only a single lamp, and that a rather dim one, so that the room was all in shadow,
and Liszt wore his Merlin-like aspect.

I asked him to tell me how he produced a certain effect he makes in his arrangement of the
ballad in Wagner's "Flying Dutchman." He looked very "fin" as the French say, but did not reply.
He never gives a direct answer to a direct question. "Ah," said I, "you won't tell." He
smiled and then immediately played the passage. It was a long arpeggio, and the effect he made
was, as I had supposed, a pedal effect.

He kept the pedal down throughout, and played the beginning of the passage in a grand sort
of manner, and then all the rest of it with a very pianissimo touch, and so lightly, that the
continuity of the arpeggios was destroyed, and the notes seemed to be just strewn in, as
if you broke a wreath of flowers and scattered them according to your fancy. It is a most
striking and beautiful effect, and I told him I didn't see how he ever thought of it. "Oh,
I've invented a great many things," said he, indifferently--"this, for instance"--and he began
playing a double roll of octaves in chromatics in the bass of the
piano.

It was very grand and made the room reverberate.

"Magnificent," said I.

"Did you ever hear me do a storm?" said he.

"No."
"Ah, you ought to hear me do a storm! Storms are my forte!"
Then to himself between his teeth, while a weird look came into his
eyes as if he could indeed rule the blast, "Then crash the trees!"

How ardently I wished that he would "play a storm," but of course he didn't, and he presently
began to trifle over the keys in a blase style. I suppose he couldn't quite work himself up
to the effort, but that look and tone told how Liszt would do it. Alas, that we poor mortals
here below should share so often the fate of Moses, and have only a glimpse of the Promised
Land, and that without the consolation of being Moses! But perhaps, after all, the vision is
better than the reality. We see the whole land, even if but from afar, instead of being limited
merely to the spot where our foot treads.

Once again I saw Liszt in a similar mood, though his expression was this time comfortably
rather than wildly destructive. It was when Fraulein Remmertz was playing his "E flat concerto"
to him.

There were two grand pianos in the room; she was sitting at one, and he at the other, accompanying
and interpolating as he felt disposed.
Finally they came to a place where there was a series of passages beginning with both hands
in the middle of the piano, and going in opposite directions to the ends of the keyboard, ending
each time with a short, sharp chord. "Pitch everything out of the window!" cried he, and began
playing these passages and giving every chord a whack as if he were splitting everything
up and flinging it out, and that with such enjoyment that you felt as if you'd like to bear a hand,
too, in the work of demolition! But I never shall forget Liszt's look as he so lazily proposed
to "pitch everything out of the window."

It reminded me of the expression of a big tabby-cat as it sits by the fire and purrs away,
blinking its eyes and seemingly half-asleep, when suddenly--!--! out it strikes with both its
claws, and woe to whatever is within its reach!

[Illustration: BEETHOVEN]
LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN
Melody has by Beethoven been freed from the influence of Fashion
and changing Taste, and raised to an ever-valid, purely human type.

Beethoven's music will be understood to all time, while that of his predecessors will, for the
most part, only remain intelligible to us through the medium of reflection on the history of
Art.

--_Richard Wagner_
LUDWIG VAN BEETHOVEN
Music is the youngest of the arts.

Modern music dates back about four hundred years. It is not so old as the invention of printing. As an
art it began with the work of the priests of the Roman Catholic Church in endeavoring to arrange
a liturgy.

The medieval chant and the popular folk-song came together, and the science of music was
born.
Sculpture reached perfection in Greece, painting in Italy, portraiture in Holland; but Germany,
the land of thought, has given us nearly all the great musicians and nine-tenths of all our
valuable musical compositions.

Holland has taken a very important part in every line of art and handicraft, and in way of
all-round development has set the pace for civilization.

Art follows in the wake of commerce, for without commerce there is neither surplus wealth nor
leisure. The artist is paid from what is left after men have bought food and clothing; and
the time to enjoy comes only after the struggle for existence.

When Venice was not only Queen of the Adriatic but of the maritime
world as well, Art came and established there her Court of Beauty.

It was Venice that mothered Giorgione, Titian, the Bellinis, and the men who wrought in iron and
silver and gold, and those masterful bookmakers; it was beautiful Venice that gave sustenance
and encouragement to Stradivari (who made violins as well as he could) up at Cremona, only
a few miles away.

But there came a day when all those seventy bookmakers of Venice ceased to print, and the music
of the anvils was stilled, and all the painters were dead, and
Venice became but a monument of things that were, as she is today;
for Commerce is King, and his capital has been moved far away.

So Venice sits sad and solitary--a pale and beautiful ruin, pathetic
beyond speech, infested by noisy shop-keepers and petty pilferers,
the degenerate sons of the robbers who once roamed the sea and
enthroned her on her hundred isles.

All that Venice knew was absorbed by Holland.

The Elzevirs and the Plantins took over the business of the seventy
bookmakers, and the art-schools of Amsterdam, Leyden and Antwerp
reproduced every picture of note that had been done in Venice.

The great churches of Holland are replicas of the churches of Venice.

And the Cathedral at Antwerp, where the sweet bells have chimed
each quarter of an hour for three centuries, through peace and
plenty, through lurid war and sudden death--there where hangs Rubens'
masterpiece--that Cathedral is but an enlarged "Santa Maria de'
Frari," where for two hundred years hung "The Assumption," by
Titian.

In these churches of Holland were placed splendid organs, and the
    priests formed choirs, and offered prizes for the best singing and
the best compositions.

Music and painting developed hand in hand; for at the last,
    all of the arts are one--each being but a division of labor.

The world owes a great debt to the Dutch. It was Holland taught England
    how to paint and how to print, and England taught us: so our
knowledge of printing and painting came to us by way of the apostolic
succession of the Dutch.

The march of civilization follows a simple trail, well defined beyond dispute. Viewed in
retrospect it begins in a hazy thread stretching from Assyria into Egypt, from Egypt into Greece,
from Greece to Rome--widening throughout Italy and Spain, then centering in Venice, and tracing
clear and deep to Amsterdam--widening again into Germany and across to England, thence carried
in "Mayflowers" to America.

That remark of Charles Dudley Warner, once near neighbor to Mark Twain, that there is no culture
west of Buffalo, was indelicate if not unkind; and residents of Omaha aver that it is open
to argument. But the fact stands beyond cavil that what art we possess is traceable to our
masters, the Dutch.

It must be admitted that the art of printing was first practised at Mayence on the Rhine,
leaving the Chinese out of the equation; but it had to travel around down through Italy before
it reached perfection.

And its universality and usefulness were not fully developed until it had swung around to
Holland and was given by the Dutch back to Germany and the world. And as with printing, so
with music. Germany has specialized on music. She has succeeded, but it is because Holland
gave her lessons.

* * * * *
During the fore part of the Seventeenth Century, there lived in Antwerp, Ludvig van Biethofen,
grandfather of the genius known as Beethoven. A life-size portrait of him can be seen in the
Plantin Musee, and if you did not know that the picture was painted before Beethoven was born,
you would say at once, "Beethoven!"

There is a look of stern endurance, as if the artist had admired Rembrandt's "Burgomaster" a
little too well, yet that sturdiness belonged to the Master, too; and there are the abstracted
far-away look, the touch of proud melancholy, and the becoming unkemptness that we know so
well.

The child is grandfather to the man.

Beethoven bore slight resemblance to his immediate parents, but in his talent, habits and all of
his mental traits, he closely resembled this sturdy Dutchman who composed, sang, led the
military band, and played the organ at the Church of Saint Jacques in Antwerp.

Being ambitious, Ludvig van Biethofen, while yet a young man, moved to Bonn, the home of Clement
Augustus, Archbishop-Elector of Cologne.

The chief business of elector was, in case of necessity, to elect a King. America borrowed the
elector idea from Germany.

But our "electoral college" is a degenerate political appendicle that is continued, because,
in borrowing plans of government, we took good and bad alike, not knowing there was a difference.
The elector scheme in the United States is occasionally valuable for defeating the will of
the people in case of a popular majority.

In justice, however, let me say that the original argument of the
Colonists was that the people should not vote directly for President,
because the candidate might live a long way off, and the voter could
not know whether he was fit or not.

So they let the citizen vote for a wise and honest elector he knew.

The result is that we all now know the candidates for President, but we do not know the
electors.
The electoral college in America is just about as useful as the two buttons on the back of
a man's coat, put there originally to support a sword-belt.

We have discarded the sword, yet we cling to our buttons.

But the electors of Germany, in days agone, had a well-defined use. The people were not, at
first, troubled to elect them--the King did that himself, and then as one good turn deserves
another, the electors agreed to elect the successor the King designated, when death should
compel him to abdicate. Then to fill in the time between elections, the electors did the
business of the King. It will thus be seen that every elector was really a sort of King
himself, governing his little State, amenable to no one but the King.

And so the chief business of the elector was to keep the people in
his diocese loyal to the King.

There have always existed three ways of keeping the people loving and loyal. One is to leave them
alone, to trust them and not to interfere. This plan, however, has very seldom been practised,
because the politicians regard the public as a cow to be milked, and something must be done to
make it stand quiet.

So they try Plan Number Two, which consists in hypnotizing the public by means of shows,
festivals, parades, prizes and many paid speeches, sermons and
editorials, wherein and whereby the public is told how much is being
done for it, and how fortunate it is in being protected and wisely
cared for by its divinely appointed guardians.

Then the band strikes up, the flags are waved, three passes are made, one to the right and two
to the left; and we, being completely under the hypnosis, hurrah ourselves hoarse.

Plan Number Three is a very ancient one and is always held back to be used in case Number Two
fails. It is for the benefit of the people who do not pass readily under hypnotic control.
If there are too many of these, they have been known to pluck up courage and answer back to
the speeches, sermons and editorials.

Sometimes they refuse to hurrah when the bass-drum plays, in which case they have occasionally
been arrested for contumacy and contravention by stocky men, in wide-awake hats, who lead the
strenuous life. This Plan Number Three provides for an armed force that shall overawe, if
necessary, all who are not hypnotized. The army is used for two purposes--to coerce disturbers
at home, and to get up a war at a distance, and thus distract attention from the troubles
near at hand. Napoleon used to say that the only sure cure for internal dissension was a
foreign war: this would draw the disturbers away, on the plea of patriotism, so they would
win enough outside loot to satisfy them, or else they would all get killed, it really didn't
matter much; and as for loot, if it was taken from foreigners,
there was no sin.

A careful analyst might here say that Plan Number Three is only a variation of Plan Number
Two--the end being gained by hypnotic effects in either event, for the army is conscripted
from the people to use against the people, just as you turn steam from a boiler into the fire-box to
increase the draft. Possibly this is true, but I have introduced this digression, anyway,
only to show that the original office of elector was a wise and beneficent function of the
Government, and could be revived with profit in America, to replace the outworn and useless
vermiformis that we now possess in way of an electoral college.

* * * * *
When Kings allowed Church and State to separate they made a grave
mistake.

With the two united, as they were until a more recent time, they
held a cinch on both the souls and the bodies of their subjects.

In the good old days in Germany the elector was always an archbishop.

Our bishops now are a weakling lot.

With no army to back their edicts the people smile at their
proclamations, try on their shovel hats, and laugh at their gaiters.

Or if they be Methodist bishops, who are only make-believe bishops,
having slipped the cable that bound them to the past, we pound them
familiarly on the back and address them as "Bish."

Clement Augustus, Elector of Cologne, maintained a court that
    vied with royalty itself.

In his household were two hundred servants. He had coachmen, footmen,
    cooks, messengers, a bodyguard, musicians, poets and artists who
hastened to do his bidding.

He patronized all the arts, made a pet of science, offered a reward for the transmutation of
metals, dabbled in astrology and practised palmistry.

Into this brilliant court came the strong and masterful Ludvig van
Biethofen.

In a year his gracious presence, superb voice and rare skill as a musician, pushed him to the
front and into favor with the powers, with a yearly salary of four
hundred guilders.

The history of this man is a deal better raw stock for a romance than the life of his
grandson.

From Seventeen Hundred Thirty-two, when he entered the court as an unknown and ordinary musician with
an acceptable tenor voice, to Seventeen Hundred Sixty-one, when
he was Kapellmeister and a member of the private council of the
Elector, his life was a steady march successward.

Strong men were needed then as now, and his promotion was deserved. Various accounts and
mention of this man are to be found, and one contemporary described him as he appeared at sixty.
The only mark of age he carried was his flowing white hair. His smoothly shaven face showed
the strong features of a man of thirty-five; and his carriage, actions and superb grace as
an orchestra-leader made him a conspicuous figure in any company.

Ludvig van Biethofen had one son, Johann by name. This boy resembled his gifted father very little,
and his training was such that he early fell a victim to arrested development.

If a parent does everything for a child, the child probably will never do anything for himself.

It is Nature's plan--she seems to think that no one needs strength excepting the struggler,
and being kind she comes to his rescue; but the man who puts forth no effort remains a
weakling to the end.

Johann placed success beyond his reach very early in life by putting an enemy into his mouth to
steal away his brains.

His marriage to a daughter of a cook in Ehrenbreitstein Castle did not stop his waywardness,
or give him decision as was hoped. Marriage as a scheme of reformation is not always a success, and
women who lend themselves to it take great chances.

Mary Magdalena was a widow, and some say possessed of wiles. That she was beneath Johann in social
station, but beyond him in actual worth, there is no doubt. And
whether she snared the incautious man, or whether the marriage was
arranged by the elder Biethofen as a diplomatic move in the interests
of morality, matters little. The end justifies the means; and as a
net result of this mating, without putting forward the circumstance
as a precedent to be religiously followed, the world has Beethoven
and his work.

* * * * *
A plate affixed to Number Five Hundred Fifteen Bonngasse, Bonn,
gives the birth of Ludwig van Beethoven as December Seventeenth,
Seventeen Hundred Seventy. He was the second-born child of his
mother, and after him came a goodly assortment of boys and girls.
Two of his brothers lived to exercise a sinister influence over the
life of the Master, and to darken days that should have been luminous
with love. Little Ludwig was the pet and pride of the grandfather.
The grandfather had even insisted that the baby should bear his
name. Disappointment in his own child caused him to center his love
in the grandchild. This instinct that makes men long to live again
in the lives of their children--is it reaching out for immortality?
And as the grandfather virtually supported the household, he was
allowed to have his own way, and indeed that strong, yet cheery
will was not to be opposed. The old man prophesied what the boy
would do, just as love ever does, and has done, since the world
began.
But only in his dreams was Ludvig van Biethofen to know of the
success of his namesake. When the boy was scarce four years old,
the old man passed away. The place in the orchestra that Johann
held through favor was soon forfeited, and times of pinching poverty
followed, and sorrows came like the gathering of a winter night.
Have you never shared the mocking shame and biting pain of a
drunkard's household? Then God grant you never may.Instead of going through life
in political leading-strings, bending to the will of one man, and gulping down the opinions
of another, he will stand upon his own feet, put his own vertebral column to its legitimate
use of sustaining his body, and his own mind to its legitimate use of directing the issues
of his life.

The ideal citizen will also be a gentleman. By this term, we do not mean the milk-and-water,
kid-gloved creature, who so often attempts to pass muster in this connection. All that we have
asked for in the man, we insist on in the gentleman. Sturdy independence, vigorous thought,
mental and moral uprightness, and a backbone as strong as a bar of steel,--but all tempered
with a gentleness of disposition and a courtesy of manner which brings every natural faculty
and power beneath its sway, and yet leaves principle and righteousness entirely undisturbed.

The real gentleman is, above all else, courteous and considerate. He is master of himself,
and that at all points,--in his carriage, his temper, his aims, and his desires. Calm, quiet,
and temperate, he will not allow himself to be hasty in judgment, or exorbitant in ambition;
nor will he suffer himself to be overbearing or grasping, arrogant or oppressive.

The ideal citizen will also be, in the better sense of the word, a politician. Be careful to
note here that we say, a politician _in the better sense_. Shall I take it now--at once?"
"No. Not you. I must go myself. It ought to be delivered to him in person, and I must have a
stamped receipt."
"Honor, how horrid! Just as if he were a shop!

Besides--nobody but _me_ can give it--or explain----"
"How can you explain? What will you say?"
"Just whatever comes into my head. Married women understand these sort of things. I shall know
what to say--at the time."
"So will he. And then----"
"There you go!" Tears threatened again and her voice shook. "You talk about loving me and you
don't trust me any more than Theo does. If I mayn't do this my own way I won't take the money at all."

"Don't talk nonsense, child," Honor cried desperately, her own self-control almost at an
end.
"You _must_ take it. And if you insist on running risks with your eyes open, there's no more to
be said except make haste and get the wretched thing done with.

Go at once, in your jhampan--and _don't_ leave it. Ask for Miss Kresney; and--shop or no
shop--mind you get a proper receipt.
Then come straight home and tell Theo you will do what he wishes. He will have had time to think
things over and it will be all right. I know it will. Perhaps you would like me to speak of it
to him, if I get the chance?"
"Yes--yes. Do, please! You dear, wonderful Honor!

I don't know how to say thank you enough----"
But Honor disengaged herself something hurriedly. The ache of rebellion at her heart made
Evelyn's effusiveness unendurable.

"Don't thank me at all," she said. "I don't want your thanks. I don't--deserve them. Take care of
that envelope; it is worth more than two hundred rupees to you--and to me. Now go!"
And taking her by the shoulders, she put her gently outside the
door. Then, drawing a deep breath of relief, stood alone with the
realisation of all that had passed.
It seemed that she was not to be spared one drop of the cup of
bitterness; that to her had been assigned the task of Sisyphus, the
ceaseless rolling upward of a stone that as ceaselessly rolled down;
the continual re-establishment of Evelyn in the shrine of her
husband's heart.
And there would be no end to it, even after John's return. So long
as these two had need of her, heart and brain and hands would be
at their service. She did not definitely think this, because true
heroism is unaware of itself. "It feels, and never reasons; and
therefore is always right."
Honor was aware of nothing just then, but the keen pang of
self-reproach. "God forgive me!"There may be a thousand definitions of heroism, but the patriot is simply "a man who places
his country's interests before his own." His solitude was soon invaded by a visit from the
Rev. Marmaduke Sprout, rector of Trimmerstone, who was rather fanatical in his theology, and
finical in attire and address. He could presently render himself agreeable to any person of exalted
rank by his very courteous and conciliating demeanour; and he possessed a peculiar softness
and gentleness of manner, with which indeed the Earl of Trimmerstone would, in his past days of
cock-fighting, horse-racing, and boxing, have been thoroughly disgusted.
Human
happiness is more or less complete in a ratio with successful pecuniary accumulation.

If you enter a drawing-room before dinner a little time too early,
and find yourself _vis-à-vis_ with an unlucky visiter as forlorn
as yourself, do not utter a word.