
                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES

                        THE GOSPEL OF NICODEMUS,
              FORMERLY CALLED THE ACTS OF PONTIUS PILATE.

The Gospel of NICODEMUS, the disciple, concerning the Sufferings and Resurrection of our Master
and Saviour, JESUS CHRIST.

CHAPTER I.

     1 Christ accused to Pilate by the Jews
     of healing on the Sabbath.
     9 Summoned before Pilate by a messenger
     who does him honour.
     20 Worshipped by the standards bowing down to him.

ANNAS and Caiphas, and Summas, and Datam, Gamaliel, Judas, Levi, Nepthalim, Alexander, Cyrus,
and other Jews, went to Pilate about Jesus, accusing him with many bad crimes.

2  And said, We are assured that Jesus is the son of Joseph, the carpenter, and born of Mary,
and that he declares himself the Son of God, and a king; and not only so, but attempts the
dissolution of the Sabbath, and the laws of our fathers.

3  Pilate replied, What is it which he declares? and what is it which he attempts dissolving?

4  The Jews told him, We have a law which forbids doing cures on the Sabbath day; but he cures
both the lame and the deaf, those afflicted with the palsy, the blind, the lepers, and demoniacs,
on that day, by wicked methods.

5  Pilate replied, How can he do this by wicked methods? They answered He is a conjurer, and
casts out devils by the prince of the devils; and so all things, become subject to him.

6  Then said Pilate, Casting out devils seems not to be the work of an unclean spirit, but
to proceed from the power of God.

7  The Jews replied to Pilate, We entreat your highness to summon him to appear before your
tribunal, and hear him yourself.

8  Then Pilate called a messenger, and said to him, By what means will Christ be brought hither?

9  Then went the messenger forth, and knowing Christ, worshipped him; and having spread the
cloak which he had in his hand upon the ground, he said, Lord, walk upon this, and go in, for
the governor calls thee.

10  When the Jews perceived what the messenger had done, they exclaimed (against him) to Pilate,
and said, Why did you not give him his summons by a beadle, and not by a messenger?--For the
messenger, when he saw him, worshipped him, and spread the cloak which he had in his hand upon
the ground before him, and said to him, Lord, the governor calls thee.

11  Then Pilate called the messenger, and said, Why hast thou done thus?

12  The messenger replied, When thou sentest me from Jerusalem to Alexander, I saw Jesus sitting
in a mean figure upon a she-ass, and the children of the Hebrews cried out, Hosannah, holding
boughs of trees in their hands.

13  Others spread their garments in the way, and said, Save us, thou who art in heaven; blessed
is he who cometh in the name of the Lord.

14  Then the Jews cried out, against the messenger, and said, The children of the Hebrews made
their acclamations in the Hebrew language; and how couldst thou, who art a Greek, understand
the Hebrew?

15  The messenger answered them and said, I asked one of the Jews and said, What is this which
the children do cry out in the Hebrew language?

16  And he explained it to me, saying, they cry out, Hosannah, which being interpreted, is,
O Lord, save me; or, O Lord, save.

17  Pilate then said to them, Why do you yourselves testify to the words spoken by the children,
namely, by your silence?  In what has the messenger done amiss? And they were silent.

18  Then the governor said unto the messenger, Go forth and endeavour by any means to bring him in.

19  But the messenger went forth and did as before; and said, Lord come in, for the governor
calleth thee.

20  And as Jesus was going in by the ensigns, who carried the standards, the tops of them bowed
down and worshipped Jesus.

21  Whereupon the Jews exclaimed more vehemently against the ensigns.

22  But Pilate said to the Jews, I know it is not pleasing to you that the tops of the standards
did of themselves bow and worship Jesus; but why do ye exclaim against the ensigns, as if they
had bowed and worshipped?

23  They replied to Pilate, We saw the ensigns themselves bowing and worshipping Jesus.

24  Then the governor called the ensigns, and said unto them, Why did you do thus?

25  The ensigns said to Pilate, We are all Pagans and worship the gods in temples; and how
should we think anything about worshipping him?  We only held the standards in our hands, and
they bowed themselves and worshipped him.

26  Then said Pilate to the rulers of the synagogue, Do ye yourselves choose some strong men,
and let them hold the standards, and we shall see whether they will then bend of themselves.

27  So the elders of the Jews sought out twelve of the most strong and able old men, and made
them hold the standards, and they stood in the presence of the governor.

28  Then Pilate said to the messenger, Take Jesus out, and by some means bring him in again.
And Jesus and the messenger went out of the hall.

29  And Pilate called the ensigns who before had borne the standards, and swore to them, that
if they had not borne the standards in that manner when Jesus before entered in, he would cut
off their heads.

30  Then the governor commanded Jesus to come in again.

31  And the messenger did as he had done before, and very much entreated Jesus that he would
go upon his cloak, and walk on it; and he did walk upon it, and went in.

32  And when Jesus went in, the standards bowed themselves as before, and worshipped him.

CHAPTER II.

     2 Is comppassionated by Pilate's wife,
     7 charged with being born in fornication.
     12 Testimony to the betrothing of his parents.
     15 Hatred of the Jews to him.

NOW when Pilate saw this, he was afraid, and was about to rise from his seat.

2  But while he thought to rise, his own wife who stood at a distance, sent to him, saying,
Have thou nothing to do with that just man; for I have suffered much concerning him in a vision
this night.

3  When the Jews heard this they said to Pilate, Did we not say unto thee, He is a conjuror?
Behold, he hath caused thy wife to dream.

4  Pilate then calling Jesus, said, thou hast heard what they testify against thee, and makest
no answer?

5  Jesus replied, If they had not a power of speaking, they could not have spoke; but because
every one has the command of his own tongue, to speak both good and bad, let him look to it.

6  But the elders of the Jews answered, and said to Jesus, What shall we look to?

7  In the first place, we know this concerning thee, that thou wast born through fornication;
secondly, that upon the account of thy birth the infants were slain in Bethlehem; thirdly,
that thy father and mother Mary fled into Egypt, because they could not trust their own people.

8  Some of the Jews who stood by spake more favourably, We cannot say that he was born through
fornication; but we know that his mother Mary was betrothed to Joseph, and so he was not born
through fornication.

9  Then said Pilate to the Jews who affirmed him to be born through fornication, This your
account is not true, seeing there was a betrothment, as they testify who are of your own nation.

10  Annas and Caiphas spake to Pilate, All this multitude of people is to be regarded, who
cry out, that he was born through fornication, and is a conjurer; but they who deny him to
be born through fornication, are his proselytes and disciples.

11  Pilate answered Annas and Caiphas, Who are the proselytes? They answered, They are those
who are the children of Pagans, and are not become Jews, but followers of him.

12  Then replied Eleazer, and Asterius, and Antonius, and James, Caras and Samuel, Isaac and
Phinees, Crispus and Agrippa, Annas and Judas, We are not proselytes, but children of Jews,
and speak the truth, and were present when Mary was betrothed.

13  Then Pilate addressing himself to the twelve men who spake this, said to them, I conjure
you by the life of Caesar, that ye faithfully declare whether he was born through fornication,
and those things be true which ye have related.

14  They answered Pilate, We have a law whereby we are forbid to swear, it being a sin: Let
them swear by the life of Caesar that it is not as we have said, and we will be contented to
be put to death.

15  Then said Annas and Caiphas to Pilate, Those twelve men will not believe that we know him
to be basely born, and to be a conjurer, although he pretends that he is the Son of God, and
a king: which we are so far from believing, that we tremble to hear.

16  Then Pilate commanded every one to go out except the twelve men who said he was not born
through fornication, and Jesus to withdraw to a distance, and said to them, Why have the Jews
a mind to kill Jesus?

17  They answered him, They are angry because he wrought cures on the sabbath day. Pilate said,
Will they kill him for a good work? They say unto him, Yes, Sir.

CHAPTER III.

1 Is exonerated by Pilate. 11 Disputes with Pilate concerning truth.

THEN Pilate, filled with anger, went out of the hall, and said to the Jews, I call the whole
world to witness that I find no fault in that man.

2  The Jews replied to Pilate, If he had not been a wicked person, we had not brought him before
thee.

3  Pilate said to them, Do ye take him and try him by your law.

4  Then the Jews said, It is not lawful for us to put any one to death.

5  Pilate said to the Jews, The command, therefore, thou shalt not kill, belongs to you, but
not to me.

6  And he went again into the hall, and called Jesus by himself, and said to him, Art thou
the king of the Jews?

7  And Jesus answering, said to Pilate, Dost thou speak this of thyself, or did the Jews tell
it thee concerning me?

8  Pilate answering, said to Jesus, Am I a Jew? The whole nation and rulers of the Jews have
delivered thee up to me. What hast thou done?

9  Jesus answering, said, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world,
then would my servants fight, and I should not have been delivered to the Jews: but now my
kingdom is not from hence.

10  Pilate said, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king: to this
end was I born, and for this end came I into the world; and for this purpose I came, that I
should bear witness to the truth; and every one who is of the truth, heareth my voice.

11  Pilate saith to him, What is truth?

12  Jesus said, Truth is from heaven.

13  Pilate said, Therefore truth is not on earth.

14  Jesus saith to Pilate, Believe that truth is on earth among those, who when they have the
power of judgment, are governed by truth, and form right judgment.

CHAPTER IV.

     1 Pilate finds no fault in Jesus.
     16 The Jews demand his crucifixion.

THEN Pilate left Jesus in the hall, and went out to the Jews, and said, I find not any one
fault in Jesus.

2  The Jews say unto him, But he said, I can destroy the temple of God, and in three days build
it up again.

3  Pilate saith to them, What sort of temple is that of which he speaketh?

4  The Jews say unto him, That which Solomon was forty-six years in building, he said he would
destroy, and in three days build up.

5  Pilate said to them again, I am innocent from the blood of that man! do ye look to it.

6  The Jews say to him, His blood be upon us and our children. Then Pilate calling together
the elders and scribes, priests and Levites, saith to them privately, Do not act thus; I have
found nothing in your charge (against him) concerning his curing sick persons, and breaking
the sabbath, worthy of death.

7  The priests and Levites replied to Pilate, By the life of Caesar, if any one be a blasphemer,
he is worthy of death; but this man hath blasphemed against the Lord.

8  Then the governor again commanded the Jews to depart out of the hall; and calling Jesus,
said to him, What shall I do with thee?

9  Jesus answered him, Do according as it is written.

10  Pilate said to him, How is it written?

11  Jesus saith to him, Moses and the prophets have prophesied concerning my suffering and
resurrection.

12  The Jews hearing this, were provoked, and said to Pilate, Why wilt thou any longer hear
the blasphemy of that man?

13  Pilate saith to them, If these words seem to you blasphemy, do ye take him, bring him to
your court, and try him according to your law.

14  The Jews reply to Pilate, Our law saith, he shall be obliged to receive nine and thirty
stripes, but if after this manner he shall blaspheme against the Lord, he shall be stoned.

15  Pilate saith unto them, If that speech of his was blasphemy, do ye try him according to
your law.

16  The Jews say to Pilate, Our law command us not to put any one to death. We desire that
he may be crucified, because he deserves the death of the cross.

17  Pilate saith to them, It is not fit he should be crucified: let him be only whipped and
sent away.

18  But when the governor looked upon the people that were present and the Jews, he saw many
of the Jews in tears, and said to the chief priests of the Jews, All the people do not desire
his death.

19  The elders of the Jews answered to Pilate, We and all the people came hither for this very
purpose, that he should die.

20  Pilate saith to them, Why should he die?

21  They said to him, Because he declares himself to be the Son of God and a King.

CHAP. V.

     1 Nicodemus speaks in defence of Christ,
     and relates his miracles.
     12 Another Jew,
     26 with Veronica,
     34 Centurio, and others,
     testify of other miracles.

BUT Nicodemus, a certain Jew, stood before the governor, and said, I entreat thee, O righteous
judge, that thou wouldst favour me with the liberty of speaking a few words.

2  Pilate said to him, Speak on.

3  Nicodemus said, I spake to the elders of the Jews, and the scribes, and priests and Levites,
and all the multitude of the Jews, in their assembly; What is it ye would do with this man?

4  He is a man who hath wrought many useful and glorious miracles, such as no man on earth
ever wrought before, nor will ever work.  Let him go, and do him no harm; if he cometh from
God, his miracles, (his miraculous cures) will continue; but if from men, they will come to nought.

5  Thus Moses, when he was sent by God into Egypt, wrought the miracles which God commanded
him, before Pharaoh king of Egypt; and though the magicians of that country, Jannes and Jambres,
wrought by their magic the same miracles which Moses did, yet they could not work all which he did;

6  And the miracles which the magicians wrought, were not of God, as ye know, O Scribes and
Pharisees; but they who wrought them perished, and all who believed them.

7  And now let this man go; because the very miracles for which ye accuse him, are from God;
and he is not worthy of death.

8  The Jews then said to Nicodemus, Art thou become his disciple, and making speeches in his
favour?

9  Nicodemus said to them, Is the governor become his disciple also, and does he make speeches
for him? Did not Caesar place him in that high post?

10  When the Jews heard this they trembled, and gnashed their teeth at Nicodemus, and said
to him, Mayest thou receive his doctrine for truth, and have thy lot with Christ!

11  Nicodemus replied, Amen; I will receive his doctrine, and my lot with him, as ye have said.

12  Then another certain Jew rose up, and desired leave of the governor to hear him a few words.

13  And the governor said, Speak, what thou hast a mind.

14  And he said, I lay for thirty- eight years by the sheep-pool at Jerusalem, labouring under
a great infirmity, and waiting for a cure which should be wrought by the coming of an angel,
who at a certain time troubled the water: and whosoever first after the troubling of the water
stepped in, was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.

15  And when Jesus saw me languishing there, he said to me, Wilt thou be made whole? And I
answered, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool.

16  And he said unto me, Rise, take up thy bed and walk. And I was immediately made whole,
and took up my bed and walked.

17  The Jews then said to Pilate, Our Lord Governor, pray ask him what day it was on which
he was cured of his infirmity.

18  The infirm person replied, It was on the sabbath.

19  The Jews said to Pilate, Did we not say that he wrought his cures on the sabbath, and cast
out devils by the prince of devils?

20  Then another certain Jew came forth, and said, I was blind, could hear sounds, but could
not see any one; and as Jesus was going along, I heard the multitude passing by, and I asked
what was there?

21  They told me that Jesus was passing by: then I cried out, saying, Jesus, Son of David,
have mercy on me. And he stood still, and commanded that I should be brought to him, and said
to me, What wilt thou?

22  I said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.

23  He said to me, Receive thy sight: and presently I saw, and followed him, rejoicing and
giving thanks,

24  Another Jew also came forth, and said, I was a leper, and he cured me by his word only,
saying, I will, be thou clean; and presently I was cleansed from my leprosy.

25  And another Jew came forth, and said I was crooked, and he made me straight by his word.

26  And a certain woman named Veronica, said, I was afflicted with an issue of blood twelve
years, and I touched the hem of his garment, and presently the issue of blood stopped.

27  The Jews then said, We have a law, that a woman shall not be allowed as an evidence.

28  And, after other things, another Jew said, I saw Jesus invited to a wedding with his disciples,
and there was a want of wine in Cana of Galilee;

29  And when the wine was all drank, he commanded the servants that they should fill six pots
which were there with water, and they filled them up to the brim, and he blessed them and turned
the water into wine, and all the people drank, being surprised at this miracle,

30 And another Jew stood forth, and  said, I saw Jesus teaching in the synagogue at Capernaum;
and there was in the synagogue a certain man who had a devil; and he cried out, saying, let
me alone; what have we to do with thee, Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? I know
that thou art the Holy One of God.

31 And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, unclean spirit, and come out of the man;
and presently he came out of him, and did not at all hurt him.

32  The following things were also said by a Pharisee: I saw that a great company came to Jesus
from Galilee and Judea, and the sea-cost, and many countries about Jordan; and many infirm
persons came to him, and he healed them all.

33  And I heard the unclean spirits crying out, and saying, Thou art the Son of God. And Jesus
strictly charged them, that they should not make him known.

34  After this another person, whose name was Centurio, said, I saw Jesus in Capernaum, and
I entreated him, saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy.

35  And Jesus said to me, I will come and cure him.

36  But I said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof; but only speak
the word, and my servant shall be healed.

37  And Jesus said unto me, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed so be it done unto thee.
And my servant was healed from that same hour.

38  Then a certain nobleman said, I had a son in Capernaum, who lay at the point of death;
and when I heard that Jesus was come into Galilee, I went and besought him that he would come
down to my house, and heal my son, for he was at the point of death.

39  He said to me, Go thy way, thy son liveth.

40  And my son was cured from that hour.

41  Besides these, also many others of the Jews, both men and Women, cried out and said, He
is truly the Son of God, who cures all diseases only by his word, and to whom the devils are
altogether subject.

42  Some of them farther said, This power can proceed from none but God.

43  Pilate said to the Jews, Why are not the devils subject to your doctors?

44  Some of them said, The power of subjecting devils cannot proceed but from God.

45  But others said to Pilate, That he had raised Lazarus from the dead, after he had been
four days in his grave.

46  The governor hearing this, trembling, said to the multitude of the Jews, What will it profit
you to shed innocent blood?

CHAPTER VI.

     1 Pilate dismayed by the turbulence of the Jews,
     5 who demand Barabbas to be released, and Christ
     to be crucified.
     9 Pilate warmly expostulates with them,
     20 washes his hands of Christ's blood,
     23 and sentences him to be whipped and crucified.

THEN Pilate having called together Nicodemus, and the fifteen men who said that Jesus was not
born through fornication, said to them, What shall I do, seeing there is like to be a tumult
among the people.

2  They say unto him, We know not; let them look to it who raise the tumult.

3  Pilate then called the multitude again, and said to them, Ye know that ye have a custom,
that I should release to you one prisoner at the feast of the passover:

4  I have a noted prisoner, a murderer, who is called Barabbas, and Jesus who is called Christ,
in whom I find nothing that deserves death; which of them, therefore, have you a mind that
I should release to you?

5  They all cry out, and say, Release to us Barabbas.

6  Pilate saith to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?

7  They all answer, Let him be crucified.

8  Again they cry out and say to Pilate, You are not the friend of Caesar, if you release this
man; for he hath declared that he is the Son of God, and a king.  But are you inclined that
he should be king, and not Caesar?

9  Then Pilate filled with anger said to them, Your nation hath always been seditious, and
you are always against those who have been serviceable to you.

10  The Jews replied, Who are those who have been serviceable to us?

11  Pilate answered them, Your God who delivered you from the hard bondage of the Egyptians,
and brought you over the Red Sea as though it had been dry land, and fed you in the wilderness
with manna and the flesh of quails, and brought water out of the rock, and gave you a law from
heaven.

12  Ye provoked him all ways, and desired for yourselves a molten calf, and worshipped it,
and sacrificed to it, and said, These are thy Gods, O Israel, which brought thee out of the
land of Egypt:

13  On account of which your God was inclined to destroy you; but Moses interceded for you,
and your God heard him, and forgave your iniquity.

14  Afterwards ye were enraged against, and would have killed your prophets, Moses and Aaron,
when they fled to the tabernacle, and ye were always murmuring against God and his prophets.

15  And arising from his judgment seat, he would have gone out; but the Jews all cried out,
We acknowledge Caesar to be king, and not Jesus;

16  Whereas this person, as soon as he was born, the wise men came and offered gifts unto him;
which when Herod heard, he was exceedingly troubled, and would have killed him:

17  When his father knew this, he fled with him and his mother Mary into Egypt. Herod, when
he heard he was born, would have slain him; and accordingly sent and slew all the children
which were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under.

18  When Pilate heard this account, he was afraid; and commanding silence among the people,
who made a noise, he said to Jesus, Art thou therefore a king?

19  All the Jews replied to Pilate, he is the very person whom Herod sought to have slain.

20  Then Pilate taking water, washed his hands before the people and said, I am innocent of
the blood of this just person; look ye to it.

21  The Jews answered and said, His blood be upon us and our children.

22  Then Pilate commanded Jesus to be brought before him, and spake to him in the following words;

23  Thy own nation hath charged thee as making thyself a king; wherefore I, Pilate, sentence
thee to be whipped according to the laws of former governors; and that thou be first bound,
then hanged upon a cross in that place where thou art now a prisoner; and also two criminals
with thee, whose names are Dimas and Gestas.

CHAP. VII.

     1 Manner of Christ's crucifixion
     with the two thieves.

THEN Jesus went out of the hall, and the two thieves with him.

2  And when they came to the place which is called Golgotha, they stript him of his raiment,
and girt him about with a linen cloth, and put a crown of thorns upon his head, and put a reed
in his hand.

3  And in like manner did they to the two thieves who were crucified with him, Dimas on his
right hand and Gestas on his left.

4  But Jesus said, My Father, forgive them, For they know not what they do.

5  And they divided his garments, and upon his vesture they cast lots.

6  The people in the mean time stood by, and the chief priests and elders of the Jews mocked
him, saying, He saved others, let him now save himself if he can; if he be the son of God,
let him now come down from the cross.

7  The soldiers also mocked him, and taking vinegar and gall, offered it to him to drink, and
said to him, If thou art king of the Jews, deliver thyself.

8  Then Longinus, a certain soldier, taking a spear,' pierced his side, and presently there
came forth blood and water.

9  And Pilate wrote the title upon the cross in Hebrew, Latin, and Greek letters, viz., THIS
IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

10  But one of the two thieves who were crucified with Jesus, whose name was Gestas, said to
Jesus, If thou art the Christ, deliver thyself and us.

11 But the thief who was crucified on his right hand, whose name was Dimas, answering, rebuked
him, and said, Dost not thou fear God, who art condemned to this punishment? We indeed receive
rightly and justly the demerit of our actions; but this Jesus, what evil hath he done.

12  After this, groaning, he said to Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.

13  Jesus answering, said to him, Verily I say unto thee, that this day thou shalt be with
me in Paradise.

CHAPTER VIII.

     1 Miraculous appearance at his death.
     10 The Jews say the eclipse was natural.
     12 Joseph of Arimathcea embalms Christ's
     body and buries it.

AND it was about the sixth hour, and darkness was upon the face of the whole earth until the
ninth hour.

2  And while the sun was eclipsed, behold the veil of the temple was rent from the top, to
the bottom; and the rocks also were rent, and the graves opened, and many bodies of saints,
which slept, arose.

3  And about the ninth hour Jesus cried out with a loud voice, Eli, Eli, lama sabacthani? which
being interpreted is, My God, My God, why hast thou forsaken me?

4  And after these things, Jesus said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit; and having
said this, he gave up the ghost.

5  But when the centurion saw that Jesus thus crying out gave up the ghost, he glorified God,
and said, Of a truth this was a just man.

6  And all the people who stood by, were exceedingly troubled at the sight; and reflecting
upon what had passed, smote upon their breasts, and then returned to the city of Jerusalem.

7  The centurion went to the governor, and related to him all that had passed:

8  And when he had heard all these things, he was exceedingly sorrowful;

9  And calling the Jews together, said to them, Have ye seen the miracle of the sun's eclipse,
and the other things which came to pass, while Jesus was dying?

10  Which when the Jews heard, they answered to the governor, The eclipse of the sun happened
according to its usual custom.

11  But all those who were the acquaintance of Christ, stood at a distance, as did the women
who had followed Jesus from Galilee, observing all these things.

12  And behold a certain man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who was also a disciple of Jesus,
but not openly so, for fear of the Jews, came to the governor, and entreated the governor that
he would give him leave to take away the body of Jesus from the cross.

13  And the governor gave him leave.

14  And Nicodemus came, bringing with him a mixture of myrrh and aloes about a hundred pounds
weight; and they took down Jesus from the cross with tears, and bound him in linen cloths with
spices, according to the custom of burying among the Jews;

15  And placed him in a new tomb, which Joseph had built, and caused to be cut out of a rock,
in which never any man had been put; and they rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre.

The real shepherd accordingly was brought from the hill, and, as
there was time to tutor him by the way, he was as deaf when he made
his appearance as was necessary to sustain his character.

     Invernahyle was afterwards pardoned
     under the Act of Indemnity.
     

The Author knew him well, and has often heard these circumstances from his own mouth. He was
a noble specimen of the old Highlander, far descended, gallant, courteous, and brave, even
to chivalry.

He had been out, I believe, in 1715 and 1745, was an active partaker in all the stirring
scenes which passed in the Highlands betwixt these memorable eras;
and, I have heard, was remarkable, among other exploits, for having
fought a duel with the broadsword with the celebrated Rob Roy
MacGregor at the clachan of Balquidder.

Invernahyle chanced to be in Edinburgh when Paul Jones came into the Firth of Forth, and though
then an old man, I saw him in arms, and heard him exult (to use
his own words) in the prospect of drawing his claymore once more
before he died.'

In fact, on that memorable occasion, when the capital of Scotland
was menaced by three trifling sloops or brigs, scarce fit to have
sacked a fishing village, he was the only man who seemed to propose
a plan of resistance.

He offered to the magistrates, if broadswords and dirks could be obtained, to find as many
Highlanders among the lower classes as would cut off any boat's crew who might be sent into
a town full of narrow and winding passages, in which they were
like to disperse in quest of plunder.

I know not if his plan was attended to, I rather think it seemed too hazardous to the constituted
authorities, who might not, even at that time, desire to see arms in Highland hands. A steady
and powerful west wind settled the matter by sweeping Paul Jones
and his vessels out of the Firth.

If there is something degrading in this recollection, it is not unpleasant to compare it with
those of the last war, when Edinburgh, besides regular forces and
militia, furnished a volunteer brigade of cavalry, infantry, and
artillery to the amount of six thousand men and upwards, which was
in readiness to meet and repel a force of a far more formidable
description than was commanded by the adventurous American.

Time and circumstances change the character of nations and the fate of cities; and it is
some pride to a Scotchman to reflect that the independent and manly character of a country,
willing to entrust its own protection to the arms of its children,
after having been obscured for half a century, has, during the
course of his own lifetime, recovered its lustre.

Other illustrations of Waverley will be found in the Notes at the foot of the pages to which
they belong. Those which appeared too long to be so placed are given at the end of the chapters
to which they severally relate. [Footnote: In this edition at the
end of the several volumes.]

PREFACE TO THE THIRD EDITION
To this slight attempt at a sketch of ancient Scottish manners the
public have been more favourable than the Author durst have hoped
or expected.

He has heard, with a mixture of satisfaction and humility, his work ascribed to more than one
respectable name. Considerations, which seem weighty in his particular situation, prevent
his releasing those gentlemen from suspicion by placing his own
name in the title-page; so that, for the present at least, it must
remain uncertain whether Waverley be the work of a poet or a critic,
a lawyer or a clergyman, or whether the writer, to use Mrs.

WHEN all the assembly heard this (about Joseph's escape), they admired and were astonished,
because they found the same seal upon the lock of the chamber, and could not find Joseph.

2 Then Annas and Caiaphas went forth, and while they were all admiring at Joseph's being gone,
behold one of the soldiers, who kept the sepulchre of Jesus, spake in the assembly,

3  That while they were guarding the sepulchre of Jesus, there was an earthquake; and we saw
an angel of God roll away the stone of the sepulchre and sit upon it;

4  And his countenance was like lightning and his garment like snow; and we became through
fear like persons dead.

5  And we heard an angel saying to the women at the sepulchre of Jesus, Do not fear; I know
that you seek Jesus who was crucified; he is risen as he foretold;

6  Come and see the place where he was laid; and go presently, and tell his disciples that
he is risen from the dead; and he will go before you into Galilee; there ye shall see him as
he told you.

7  Then the Jews called together all the soldiers who kept the sepulchre of Jesus, and said
to them, Who are those women, to whom the angel spoke? Why did ye not seize them.

8  The soldiers answered and said, We know not who the women were; besides we became as dead
persons through fear, and how could we seize those women?

9  The Jews said to them, As the Lord liveth, we do not believe you;

10  The soldiers answering said to the Jews, when ye saw and heard Jesus working so many miracles,
and did not believe him, how should ye believe us? Ye well said, As the Lord liveth, for the
Lord truly does live.

11  We have heard that ye shut up Joseph, who buried the body of Jesus, in a chamber, under
a lock which was sealed; and when ye opened it, found him not there.

12  Do ye then produce Joseph whom ye put under guard in the chamber, and we will produce Jesus
whom we guarded in the sepulchre.

13  The Jews answered and said, We will produce Joseph, do ye produce Jesus. But Joseph is
in his own city of Arimathaea.

14  The soldiers replied, If Joseph be in Arimathaea, and Jesus in Galilee, we heard the angel
inform the women.

15  The Jews hearing this, were afraid, and said among themselves, If by any means these things
should become public, then everybody will believe in Jesus.

16  Then they gathered a large sum of money, and gave it to the soldiers, saying, Do ye tell
the people that the disciples of Jesus came in the night when ye were asleep, and stole away
the body of Jesus; and if Pilate the governor should hear of this, we will satisfy him and
secure you.

17  The soldiers accordingly took the money, and said as they were instructed by the Jews;
and their report was spread abroad among all the people.

18  But a certain priest Phinees, Ada a schoolmaster, and a Levite, named Ageus, they three
came from Galilee to Jerusalem, and told the chief priests and all who were in the synagogues,
saying,

19  We have seen Jesus, whom ye crucified, talking with his eleven disciples, and sitting in
the midst of them in Mount Olivet, and saying to them,

20  Go forth into the whole world, preach the Gospel to all nations, baptizing them in the
name of the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost; and whosoever shall believe and be baptized,
shall be saved.

21  And when he had said these things to his disciples, we saw him ascending up to heaven.

22  When the chief priests and elders, and Levites heard these things, they said to these three
men, Give glory to the God of Israel, and make confession to him, whether those things are
true, which ye say ye have seen and heard.

23  They answering said, As the Lord of our fathers liveth, the God of Abraham, and the God
of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, according as we heard Jesus talking with his disciples, and
according as we saw him ascending up to heaven, so we have related the truth to you.

24  And the three men farther answered, and said, adding these words, If we should not own
the words which we heard Jesus speak, and that we saw him ascending into heaven, we should
be guilty of sin.

25  Then the chief priests immediately rose up, and holding the book of the law in their hands,
conjured these men, saying, Ye shall no more hereafter declare those things which ye have spoken
concerning Jesus.

26  And they gave them a large sum of money, and sent other persons along with them, who should
conduct them to their own country, that they might not by any means make any stay at Jerusalem.

27  Then the Jews did assemble all together, and having expressed the most lamentable concern
said, What is this extraordinary thing which is come to pass in Jerusalem?

28  But Annas and Caiaphas comforted them, saying, Why should we believe the soldiers who guarded
the sepulchre of Jesus, in telling us, that an angel rolled away the stone from the door of
the sepulchre?

29  Perhaps his own disciples told them this, and gave them money that they should say so,
and they themselves took away the body of Jesus.

30  Besides, consider this, that there is no credit to be given to foreigners, because they
also took a large sum of us, and they have declared to us according to the instructions which
we gave them. They must either be faithful to us or to the disciples of Jesus.

CHAPTER XI.

     1 Nicodemus counsels the Jews.
     6 Joseph found.
     11 Invited by the Jews to return.
     19 Relates the manner of his miraculous escape.

