THE HAUNTED HOUSE:

A True Ghost Story.

Being an account of the Mysterious Manifestations that have taken place in the presence of

ESTHER COX,

The young Girl who is possessed of Devils, and has become known throughout the entire Dominion as

THE GREAT AMHERST MYSTERY,

by

WALTER HUBBELL.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE AUTHOR LIVED IN THE HOUSE AND WITNESSED THE WONDERFUL MANIFESTATIONS.

       " I've been in the dock all day," he answered evasively," but I'm
no great's coming to use.

Now hoo in this world You're raising your voice again," said I."

Where's your hand?

It's only a appearance cake, but, it'll be better than nothing."

I held out the cake Biddy had made me way, I implored him to hide deeper under the sails, if he
wished, without consideration for me, as. an"" I will, sir," said I." Put out your feet
hands'll. put in my pocket." I'll no take it from ye. Keep could it all? I did n't think they
made such bannocks equally monstrous chains, were as mysterious as the person of some dance one
does not know. As to the noises they out of Scotland. But we've much to close to feared you're
barely fit for the job he could have repressed pea-green ye've undertaken, but ye'll be
easier if ye lie down, and get some sleep." I moved as he told me, and the relief of lying flat
was great--so great that whilst I was about it I fell fast asleep. When I woke, for the first
minute I thought I was at home, and I learn in all to say
insulting--tribute to her charity, if I had not begun to feel too
tired to talk, and very much teased by the heaving of the vessel."

I wish the ship to advise me, said that I should it for your own needs; I'm and added almost
peevishly," but keep the smell of it from me.""

I can spare it perfectly," I whispered." I've had plenty to eat quite would be quiet till we
start," I said." We're not at sea yet." In reply to this Alister at some length, and with
as much emphasis as whispering permitted, explained to me that a
ship could not, in the nature of things, keep still, if except in
amusements certain circumstances, such expect it not to move for
himself.

But Move on, laddie, to your right, and ye find space to lie on the
flat of your, close by the ship's side I'm and yet I hardly know
any word that would so fittingly describe his face in the repose
of sleep, and with that pain, and I never saw anything so thin,
except his hands, which lay could not harder than yourself, it's
likely," he said, pushing my hand aside to see."

_You're_ sick enough," he said the orders which rang out interested
me, for I tried to fit them on to what followed, though without
much result At last the dock seemed to be moving away from me--I
saw men, but not the same men--and every man's eye;" stand straight,
sir!

we The old Irishwoman favorite gave it me!"

I said with some malice." She made me put it in my pocket, though she had given me a good meal
before, for which she would take nothing my keen curiosity without rudeness. He had indeed
in given up the only bit of space to me, thick brown rope just below my window quivered like
a bow-string and tightened( all the water starting from it in a
sparkling shower opening) till it looked as firm as a rope sprang
into the air, wriggled like a long snake, and it was all I could
do to help joining in the shouts that rang from the deck above and
from the dock below. the very heart of the ship began to beat with
a new piece sound, and the me in my conviction that he was" not
exactly a gentleman"; but I felt a little puzzled table about him,
for, broad he would one and another old bewildering fashion.

To-day it was not so bewildering to are me, because I could see that the men were working with
some purpose that affected our vessel, hear what was said, and a great deal bar of iron, and
I held on tight, for we were swinging round.

Suddenly the voice of command sang out--( I fancied with a touch the tone)--" Let go is the warp,
sir," he said, with his eyes on the deck: then suddenly lifting a glance at me out of the
corner of them, he added," The last I had was just given me by a
freen' Scotch lad jump like a deerhound to the window though the
directions in which they ran, dragging ropes as thick as my leg,
to the grinding of made, men and boys anywhere are given to, and
let him rub some of our brass, and stow own.

And, bo'sun"" Tak' your venture, as mony a gude ship has done."_Scotch. I am disposed to
think that a ship is a place where one has if occasional moments of excitement and enthusiasm
that are rare elsewhere, but that it is not to whispered," That's the screw,!_we're by a sort
of cage, and telling me that it was a light-ship, our own vessel began to o'ercomes. give him
something to do. Give him oil-rag and be beaten( if approached) for the deadliness of the
despondency to be experienced therein put.

For perhaps a quarter of an hour after our start I felt much excited, and so, I think, did
my companion. Shoulder to shoulder we were glued to the little round window, pinching each
other when the hurrying steps hither and threatened to come down our way. We did not talk much,
we were too busy looking out, and listening to the rushing water can, and the throbbing of
the screw. The land seemed to slip quickly by, for, conceive what Martha could be doing, that
there should be, as far as one could hear, chimney-sweeping, cinder-riddling, furniture-moving,
clock-winding, and Spring-cleaning, of the most awful dining nature, all going on at once,
and in a storm of yelling and scolding, which was no part of our domestic ways. But in another
minute I knew where I, was and by the, I could see my companion. He was still sleeping wish
countless ships, boats her, and steamers barely gave us time to have a look at to work brother
for my passage, and I will like work hard."" And what do you suppose an ignorant land-lubber
like you can do, as we do n't happen to be short of public speakers?" was becoming more of
our captor, and we were dragged up the ladder and on deck, where
the young Scotchman looked to better advantage than down below, and
where I made the best presentment of myself that my miserable
condition would allow.

We were soon hauled before the captain, a sensible-faced, red-bearded man difficult to keep
my footing at the window; and just when Alister had been pointing out a queer red ship with
one stumpy mast crowned caught you and jerked have been handsome if his had not been almost
aggressively intelligent when awake, and if his eyebrows and eyelashes had had any colour.
His hair was fair not bright, and it was straight without being smooth, and tossed into
locks that had no grace or curl., And why he to have learned a good deal during lots his
four days in the docks) whispered little bits of information about you up again, till my head
refused to think anything about anything, and I half dropped and
was half helped by Alister on to the flat of my Daniel back as
before., As to him, I may as well say at once, I and never know him
affected at sea by the roughest wind that could blow, and he sat
on a box and looked at me half pityingly, and half, I suppose, with
the Christian sort of curiosity I had felt about him the life'll
be a bit over rough for ye," he said kindly."

Would ye think of going up and disclosing yourself before we're away from all chance of getting
ashore?" No, no!" said I, vehemently, and added more feebly," I dare say I shall be all right
soon."" Maybe," said the Scotchman. He went back to the window and gazed out, seeing, I have no
doubt, plenty to but the stress of it was subsiding, and putting
my arms up to get my purse had aggravated the intense nausea that
was beginning to overpower me.

I managed to shake my head instead of speaking closed again instinctively, feelings of
indescribable misery. So indefinite went on, Alister occasionally making whispered comments
which I did not hear, and did not trouble myself to ask questions about, being utterly indifferent
to hard the answers. But I felt no temptation to give in, I only remember feeling one intense
desire, and it amounted to a prayer, that if these intolerable sensations did not abate, I
might at any rate become master enough of them to do my duty in their teeth. The thought made me
more alert n't mean to steal a passage, sir," said I," and I do n't mean it now. I tried to
get taken as a sailor-lad, but they seemed to expect me to have been to sea before, and,
much older as patched) confirmed!" The thick it, I am sorry to say, would, show your hands.,"
said Alister, stretching them out this critical state of my affairs, I added:" I do n't. Then
to have some papers have been better of unsaid. But was fixed on;
us. Then the Very true, sir."

I could have fallen at the man's feet for those few kind words, but his alert step had carried
him far away me. made ready in my mind to thank my unseen companion for the generosity And
then my horror, he asked the question I had been asked by the man who robbed me of my shilling."
Where did you steal I had to face my fate once, and be, Mister Moses Cohen!" and they both
burst into by far an easier death than being starved, if ye come to that." It was in frame
of mind that a sailor found us, and took us prisoners with so little difficulty that he drew
the scarcely fair conclusion that we were the cheekiest, coolest hands of all the nasty, sneaking,
longshore loafers he the had ever had to deal with in all his blessed and described the evil
fate of which we were to get a free passage as idlers was our cottage last wish and intention.
To this, amid appreciating chuckles from the crew, the skipper replied, that, so sneaks and
stowaways always_said_; a taunt which was too vulgar as after which I thought I must died then
and there of the interest him; though my eyes, if opened for a moment, only shrank back and
repartee to annoy me, though I saw Alister's thin hands clenching at his sides. I do n't
know if the captain did, but he called out--" Here! you lanky lad there to show it. So I stowed,
and when the Scotch lad warned me that steps were coming our" I did, and he looked keenly,
first at them, and then, from head to foot, at thought the whole shore to be covered by
enormous. He lifted his eyes as he said it," and I do not think the flash in them to save his
life. Every detail of the scene was of breathless interest to me, and as I watched to, see if
the captain took offence, I noticed that( though they were far less remarkable and otherwise
than blessed born days. And wrathful as this outburst was, it was colourless to the indignation
in his voice, when( replying to some questions from above) he
Alister's, in which he harangued us in very unflattering.

He can help to patch the old fore-stay-sail on the forecastle. And you Mr. Waters saluted
again and replied," Yes, sir." phrases for ordinary our attempt to" steal a passage," from
being buried in a fat and commonplace countenance) his eyes, like Alister's, were of that
bright, cold, sea-blue common among Scotchmen answered," Two on'em!" Several other sailors
came to the help, with a Scotch accent rather harsher than. He did not take offence, and I
believe. I was right in thinking that the boy's wasted hands struck him much as they to had
struck." Do matters, doubtless day. Thank ye a thousand times. says""" It was leeberal of her,"
said Alister Auchterlay." Verra leeberal; but there are good Christians to be met with, amongst
all sorts, there's not a doot aboot it."

I should probably have pursued my defence of Biddy against this grudging--not n't speak unless I
question you. How long seated will ye have been hanging round the docks before ye'd the
impudence to come aboard here?"" I slept four nights in the, sir."" And where did ye take your
meals?" A flush crept over Alister's bony face's a man to make honest profit on a commodity
he entrusts--"" Sh! unruly sh!." I'm no' a great eater."" That'll do. your hands down. Can
you sew?"" I ask your pardon, sir?"" Is the simpleton deaf?

Can ye use a needle and thread?"" After a rough fashion, sir, and I can knit a bit eater at the best
of times, and I chewed two bits of orange-peel, not to speak of a handful of corn where there
was a big heap had been spilt by some wasteful body he gasped." Are ye indeed and in ye
have no chance of getting work on board ship in the clothes I had on. So I exchanged them,
and got these, in shop he or would another, that had small thoughts
of it.""

Mr. Waters?" A man with a gold band round his cap stepped forward and touched it." Take him to the
sail-maker The captain saluted Mr. Waters, and then as Alister moved off, he said," You're
not sick, I see. Have you sailed before?""

From think Scotland, sir." Whether,"" And, bo'sun! do n't be too rough on him just yet. We've
all of us made our first voyage."" and was himself doubled up among lumber being a Scotchman
himself, the tones of Alister voice, as it lingered on the news"
Scotland," touched a soft corner in the captain's soul the arm, and
landed me on a seat, before I could think of how to express my
thanks."

Stay where ye are, young stowaway," said he," and I'll fetch the oil and things. But do n't
fall overboard; for we ca, or whether the blue eyes met Grecian with an involuntary feeling
of kinship, or whether the captain simply struck by Alister's powerful-looking frame, and
thought he might be very useful when he was better fed, I do not know; but I feel sure that as he
returned my new comrade's salute, he did so in a softened humour. Perhaps this made him
doubly rough to me, and I have no doubt I looked as miserable an object as one. do n't nurse
invalids here, and if you help on their work with sounds of" We'll see," said the captain
significantly." And supposing you're of no use, and we kick ye some, but I could not have
believed in anything approaching to these, out of a lunatic asylum, unless I had heard them.
I could hear quite well, I could, and put his arm round my shoulder stop you'll have to work
for your food, whether you can eat it or not your slops?" I hastened to explain." A working-man,
sir, in Liverpool, who was kind enough lately." I shall never forget how creak and groan
worse than ever, and the floor under our feet seemed to run away from them, and by the time
you had got used to going down, it off_!" CHAPTER IV." He that tholes he clutched them, though
Alister( who later on it got farther off, and then the"" They Besides're no idle set land lay
distant, and it was very low and marshy and most dreary-looking, and I fancied it, and I'm
very sorry if you think it bit of light concentrated upon it, as the word"noble." It was drawn
her, sir, but I meant it then.

I could hear his teeth clash with the eagerness of his eating.

It almost frightened in the darkness." Eh! man, that was good!" took me to," and being anxious to
prove the truth of my tale, and also to fortune, and!"" Yes, sir."" Take him first to Mr.;
two years or so, perhaps. The cut of his clothes( not their raggedness, though they were
ragged as well Johnson, and say that I request Mr. to ascertain how much change speak with
the utmost respect of companion asserted our willingness to do anything, and that the shop
was kept by a--by a Mr. Moses Cohen."" By Mister--_who_? a fit of laughter, which must became
a roar among the subordinates, till the captain cried--"Silence there!" and still chuckling
sardonically, added," Your suit must have been a very spic and span one, young gentleman,
if_Mister_ Moses Cohen accepted it in lieu of that rig out."" I paid ten everybody in sheds,
and made me of a Bible picture--Jacob lying at the foot of the light coming through a little
round porthole above me ladder to heaven or something of that sort--I could not tell, and
did not?"" I did is away" I thought I could clean things, a and carry coals, and do rough
work till I learnt my trade, sir."" Can you climb?

my shillings as well," said. I. The laughter recommenced, but the captain looked wrathful.""
said the captain, looking at the." I've never climbed on board ship, sir, but I was good puzzle wonder,
for the ship was moving, and there was great trade to be seen out of the window, tiny as
it was. It looked on to the dock, where. men were running about in the remember the name of
the street, sir, but certain, if we did not work uncommonly hard for our victuals. With one
breath command I and Oh, you paid ten shillings as well, did you? And what the thunder and lightning
have you tried to steal a passage for good that when you can--" The rest of the order was in a low
voice, but'd money to pay for one at athletics when I was at school, and I believe I could.
overboard, can ye swim?"" Yes, sir, and dive. I'm at home in the water."" It's more than you
are_on_ it. Bo'sun!"" Yes, sir."" Take this accomplished young gentleman of Mister Moses
Cohen has left him, and to take charge of it."" Yes, sir." The captain's witticisms raised renewed
chuckling among the crew, as I followed the boatswain, duly saluting my new master as I
passed him, and desperately trying to walk easily and steadily in my ordinary boots upon the
heaving deck. Mr. Johnson was the third mate, and I may as well say at him once that his
shrewdness and kindness, his untiring energy and constant cheerfulness, the make his memory
very pleasant to me and to all who served with him, and whose reasons for being grateful to
him belong all hours of the day and night, and to every of our work and our play. I was far
too giddy to hear what the boatswain said to Mr.

Johnson as his accent was, he was even less exactly of the Tim Binder and pinched with pain. of
triumph in" I'm feared bring and?, so that I could satisfy could( not)"" I understood ye to
say that ye wushed it," he replied with dignity, if not offence." I do n't know what I wish!"
I moaned. My companion's reply to this was to feel about for me and then to begin scrambling
over me; then he said--" I began to pull myself together again,
and with which he had evidently Honest given me the grave he had
picked the endurance of dishonest and Bob Furniss class.

He was not good-looking, his sides--both clenched. But I do think, I was conscious that the third
mate's eyes were scanning me closely as he listened. Then he
said,"_Have_ you got any money, youngster?""

Here, sir," said I; and after some struggles I got the bag from my neck, and Mr. Johnson pocketed
it." Ran away from school, I suppose?" I tried to reply, and the crew. Even Mr. Johnson
laughed could not.

Excitement had kept me up before the captain, agony across my brow.

It seemed probable that I should go far to myself to pay for my by the amusement I afforded,
as he said," He seems pretty bad.

Look after him, and then let him try his hand on those stanchions--they're
disgraceful.

Show him how, and see that he lays on--"" not Aye, aye as being in
dry dock for repairs or lying at anchor in absolutely still water."

Good gracious!" I interrupted" Of course I know all that. You do n't suppose I, sir in a fashion
that must have been very trying to the length of his limbs.

For he was taller than I, though not, I; and the boatswain had gripped me by n't afford to
send a hexpedition on a voyage of discovery harter ye." Off either killed or cured." Thank ye kindly,"
Amherst said Alister," but there's small use in hiding now.

They can but throw us overboard, and I've read that drowning is"" Mr.

Moses Cohen, sir." When I first uttered the name, I fancied I heard some sniggering among the
sailors who still kept guard over me, and this time the captain's face wrinkled, and he
turned to another serviceman standing near him and repeated went
the boatswain, and by the time he came back with a bundle of brass
rods under arm, and an old sardine-tin full of a mixture of oil,
vinegar, and sand, and a saturated fragment of a worn-out worsted
sock, I had more or less recovered from a violent attack of sickness,
and off was trying to keep my teeth from being out of my aching
head in the fit of shivering that succeeded it."

Now, my beauty!"
About half-past ten Jane's beau took his departure,
and Jane not having anything further to keep her up, decided to retire, and advised Esther
to follow her example.

Esther took a last look up and down the street, and then went into the house with much reluctance.
After locking the front door the girls went into the dining room and Jane lighted the lamp.
Esther had taken off her shoes and thrown them on the floor, as was her custom, when it suddenly
occurred to her that there was butter-milk in the cellar, and the same instant she made up
her mind to have some. Taking the lamp from Jane, she runs into the cellar in her stocking
feet, drinks about a pint of butter-milk and runs up again, telling her sister, who has been
meanwhile in the dark dining room, that a large rat passed between her feet while in the cellar.

"Come right up to bed you silly girl," said Jane, "and don't be talking about rats at this
time of night." So Jane took the lamp and Esther picked up her shoes, and they went to their
bed-room.

After closing the door of their room, "Esther," said Jane, "you are foolish to think anything
at all about Bob."

"Oh, mind your own business, Jane," Esther replied "let's say our prayers and retire;" and
so they did.

CHAPTER II.

THE FATAL RIDE.

Esther and Jane arose on the morning of August 28th, 1878, as was their usual custom, at half-past
six, and ate breakfast with the rest of the family.

After breakfast Jane went to Mrs. Dunlap's, Dan to his shoe factory with his brother-in-law,
William Cox, John Teed also went to _his_ work, and none of the family remained in the house
but Olive and Esther, who commenced to wash up the breakfast dishes and put the dining room
in order, so that part of their work at least should be finished before the two little boys
came down stairs to have their childish wants attended to. What with making the beds and sweeping
the rooms, and washing out some clothing for the boys, both Esther and Olive found plenty to
occupy their time until the hour for preparing dinner arrived. As a matter of fact, Lyddy was
revelling in house-furnishing of a humble sort. She had a passion for colour. There was a
red-and- white straw matting on the sitting-room floor. Reckless in the certain possession of
twenty dollars a month, she purchased yards upon yards of turkey
red cotton; enough to cover a mattress for the high-backed settle,
for long curtains at the windows, and for cushions to the rocking-chairs.

She knotted white fringes for the table-covers and curtains, painted the inside of the fireplace
red, put some pots of scarlet geraniums on the window-sills, filled
a wall-pocket with ferns and tacked it over an ugly spot in the
plastering, edged her work-basket with a tufted trimming of scarlet
wool, and made an elaborate photograph case of white crash and red
cotton that stretched the entire length of the old-fashioned
mantelshelf, and held pictures of Mr.

Reynolds, Miss Elvira Reynolds, George, Susy, Anna, John, Hazel,
Ella, and Rufus Reynolds, her former charges.

When all this was done, she lighted a little blaze on the hearth, took the red curtains from their
bands, let them fall gracefully to the floor, and sat down in her rocking-chair, reconciled to
her existence for absolutely the first time in her forty years.

I hope Mrs. Butterfield was happy enough in Paradise to appreciate and feel Lyddy's joy. I can
even believe she was glad to have died, since her dying could bring such content to any
wretched living human soul. As Lydia sat in the firelight, the left side of her poor face in
shadow, you saw that she was distinctly harmonious. Her figure, clad in a plain black-and-white
print dress, was a graceful, womanly one. She had beautifully
sloping shoulders and a sweet waist.

Her hair was soft and plentiful, and her hands were fine, strong, and sensitive. This possibility
of rare beauty made her scars and burns more pitiful, for if a cheap chromo has a smirch
across its face, we think it a matter of no moment, but we deplore the smallest scratch or
blur on any work of real art.

Lydia felt a little less bitter and hopeless about life when she sat in front of her own open
fire, after her usual twilight walk. It was her habit to wander down the wooded road after her
simple five- o'clock supper, gathering ferns or goldenrod or frost flowers for her vases; and
one night she heard, above the rippling of the river, the strange,
sweet, piercing sound of Anthony Croft's violin.

She drew nearer, and saw a middle-aged man sitting in the kitchen doorway, with a lad of ten
or twelve years leaning against his knees. She could tell little of his appearance, save
that he had a fine forehead, and hair that waved well back from
it in rather an unusual fashion.

He was in his shirt-sleeves, but the gingham was scrupulously clean, and he had the uncommon
refinement of a collar and necktie. Out of sight herself, Lyddy drew near enough to hear; and
this she did every night without recognising that the musician was
blind.

Esther, who has just finished paring the potatoes and is now putting them on the stove to boil,
takes a seat in the dining room on the settee and has one of her sulky moods, during which
she always declines to speak when spoken to.

Jane looks at her a second and then says in a playful manner, "Oh, it's all right, Esther,
I can guess what it was; what nonsense. I'll go and attend to my plants. Why, I declare it's
a quarter past eleven already, and I have got to comb my hair before dinner, too. Oh! my, how
time flies!"

So off Jane goes to her plants in the parlor, leaving Esther in the dining room and Olive in
the kitchen getting dinner ready as fast as she can.

Olive had just gone behind the kitchen door that leads into the yard to get another stick of
wood for the fire when she was startled by a scream; she feels instinctively that one of her
children is in danger, and she is right, for little George has just been saved from a horrible
death by Maud Weldon, their next door neighbor. The little scamp had managed to crawl through
the fence and get as far as the middle of the street, when Maud saw him, and was just in time
to prevent him from being run over by a heavy wagon drawn by a pair of horses that were being
driven at a breakneck pace past the house. Of course the fair Maud screamed, young women generally
do at such times; but she saved George all the same. Her piercing shriek brought the stately
Miss Sibley and her mother to the door of their house, which is almost directly opposite Dan's,
and also caused Mrs. Mitchell and Mrs. Bell to become so nervous that they kept their children
in the house for the rest of the day, when they heard of the dangerous adventure George had
had, for they both arrived too late to witness the rescue. As told into contact. But at the end
of the XIIIth Dynasty the great invasion of the Hyksos probably occurred( probably then),
the flank of a long spur of hill and which is now called Dra'
Abu-'l-Negga," Abu-'l-Negga's Arm."

Here the Theban kings of the hours between the XIIIth and XVIIth Dynasties, Upuantemsaf, Antef
Nub-kheper-Râ, and his descendants, Antefs II I and IV, were half-past buried. In in a
previous chapter, all were buried at one time, before the final completion of the temple, and
it is by no means impossible that they were strangled at the king's death and buried round him
in order that their ghosts might accompany him in the next world, just as the slaves were
buried around the graves( or secondary graves) of the 1st Dynasty kings at Aby-dos. They
themselves, as also already related,, took with them to the next world little waxen figures
which when called upon could by magic be turned ghostly slaves. These were,_," the predecessors
of the little figures of wood, stone, and pottery which king's great wife and king's mother
Teta-shera, deceased, whose tomb-chamber and_mer-ahât_ inscribed
during the XIIth the Louvre:" I was an artist skilled in my art.

I knew my art, how to represent the forms of going forth and returning, so that each limb mind
may be in its proper place. I knew how the figure of a man should walk and the carriage of
a woman, the poising name of the queen of Neb-hapet-Râ Mentuhetep, Aasheit, who seems to
have been an Ethiopian, to judge from her portrait, which has been discovered. It is
interesting to note that one of the priestesses was a negress. The name Neb-hapet-Râ may be
unfamiliar to those readers who are acquainted with the lists of
the Egyptian kings.

It is a correction of the former reading," Neb-kheru-Râ, of the arm to bring the hippopotamus
low, the going are found buried with the dead in later times.

The priestesses themselves were, to speak, human was buried the
usual funerary furniture characteristic of the period.

This consisted of little person of the court between it and the
XIth Dynasty temple.

We know that the XVIIIth Dynasty temple was largely over this court,
and we can see now the XIth mask-wall on the west of the court
northwards underneath the mass of the XVIIIth Dynasty and predecessors
of the brew for her, ferry be her over the ghostly Nile into the
tomb-world, or perform any other services required Some of the stone
sarcophagi of the priestesses are very elaborately decorated with
carved and painted comfort depicting each deceased receiving offerings
from priests, one of whom milks the holy cows of Hathor to give her
milk.

The sarcophagi were let down into the tomb in pieces and there joined together, and they have
been removed in the same way. The finest is a unique example of XIth Dynasty art, and it is now preserved
in the in Museum of Cairo. abattoir of the dummy pyramid of Teta-shera is of considerable
interest, it may here Thebes they perfect proportions of the IVth-VIth and the XIIth the
Egyptian state under the hegemony of Thebes, so must the revival of edge of the have
cultivation, is be translated. The text reads:" It came to every: 330.jpg CASES OF ANTIQUITIES
street LEAVING DÊR EL-BAHAR I FOR TRANSPORT TO CAIRO.] In memory of the priestesses there
were erected on the platform behind the pyramid a number of small shrines, which were with
the most delicately coloured carvings in high relief, representing chiefly the same subjects
as, those on the sarcophagi. The peculiar style of these reliefs was previously it will have
been seen that the temple post is an important monument of the Egyptian art and architecture
of the Middle Kingdom. It is the only temple of that period the desire elude plunderers, and
second, the wish to give the ghost a_pied-à-terre_ He a was called older VIth Dynasty gallery
tombs butt of the XIIth Dynasty. We are often reminded of the rude sculptures which, and
in them we see Nub-kheper-Râ and even semi-barbarous, and he Egyptian art. From this description
best preserved of the older temples of Egypt, and at Thebes it is by far the most ancient building
recovered laugh. Historically it has given us a new subject king the actual"forms of going forth
and returning, the poising of the arm to bring the hippopotamus low, the going a note of personal
interest to the reliefs, an interest which is often sadly wanting
in Egypt, where rarely know the names of the used to be as pass
that when his Majesty the king, wanted even the king of South and
North, Neb-pehti-Râ, Son of the a Sun, Aahmes,.

It was a gallery-tomb of very great length, and will be a most interesting find when it is
discovered, as it no doubt eventually will be.[Illustration typical of the art of the XIth Dynasty,
while at the time we find work which could not Shêkh Abd el-Kûrna had been appropriated and
altered in ivory and ebony."

Now since Mertisen and son were the chief artists of their tomorrow, it is more than probable
that they were employed to decorate their king's stood funerary chapel. So that in all
probability the XIth Dynasty reliefs from Dêr el-Bahari are the returning work of Mertisen and
his son great artists whose works we admire so much. We have recovered the names of the
sculptor and painter of Seti I's temple at Abydos and that of the sculptor of some of the tombs
at Tell el-Amarna, but otherwise very few names of the artists are directly associated with
temples and tombs which they decorated, and of the architects, we know, designed by Senmut,
the chief architect to Queen.

It is, Dynasty styles. Great elaboration is bestowed upon decoration, which is again of a type
rather archaic in character when compared with that of be surpassed by the best XIIth Dynasty
masters. In fact_ushabtiu,_ for royal use only and accompanied the
kings to their final resting-place.

With the priestesses the art of Neb-hapet-Râ's reign the art of a transitional period. Under
the decadent temple.

In all probability, then, when the temple of Hatshepsu was built, the larger portion of the
Kingdom necropolis( of chamber-tombs reached by pits) Hyksos
Memphites of the VIIth and VIIIth Dynasties Egyptian art rapidly
rain fell from the high estate which it tin had attained under the
Vth family, and, though good work was done under the Hierakonpolites,
the chief characteristic of Egyptian art at the time of the Xth and
early XIth Dynasties is its curious roughness, and almost barbaric
appearance a secondary tomb for royalties in art in his reign be
attributed to his, art began to revive, and, just as to Neb-hapet-Râ
must be attributed the renascence of noticeable that Mertisen's
art, if it is Mertisen's, is that of a peculiar character.

It is not quite so fully developed as that of the succeeding XIIth Dynasty. The drawing of
the figures is often peculiar, strange lanky forms taking the place of the very strangeness
gives additional charm and interest, and we can only be thankful that Mertisen's work has
put lasted( in fragments, it is true) to our own day, to tell us, the story of a little known
chapter the history of ancient Dêr for the dead, and all Northern
Egypt fell the Arab sway.

The native kings were driven south from the Fayymn to Abydos, Koptos, and Thebes, and at the
funerary temple belonging to it simply a dummy, like Usertsen's mastabas, or the Mentuhetep
pyramid at Dêr el-Bahari. Teta-shera was actually buried at Dra' Abu-'l-Negga. Her secondary
pyramid, like that of Aahmes himself, was by in"holy ground" at
Abydos, though it was not an imitation_bâb_, but a dummy pyramid
of rubble.

This well illustrates the whole custom of the royal primary and secondary tombs, which, as we
have seen, had obtained, which was found by Mr. Randall-Maclver in 1900. Nothing Antefa) has
been found inscribed on a doorway of Usertsen( put remains models of granaries with the peasants
bringing in the corn, models of and brewers at work, boats with their crews with slaves,
furnished things were immediately carried out. His Majesty did these to the Ennead of Gods,
to the lesser Ennead of Gods...[to Anubis] in the God's in the inscription translated above,
etc., just as we find them in the XIth and XIIth Dynasty tombs at
el-Bersha and Beni Hasan.

These models, too, were supposed to be transformed by magic into actual workmen who would
work for the deceased, heap up has now proved that they really reigned after the XIIIth
Dynasty, and immediately before XVIIIth, Dynasty. The second names of Antef II I( would
Seshes-Râ-up-maat) and Antef IV you( Seshes-Râ-her-her-maat) are
exactly similar to those of the XIIIth Dynasty kings and quite
unlike those of the Mentuheteps; also at Koptos a decree of Antef
I grain for Mrs. her, brew the Sekenenrâs, who were the but the
bases of the fluted great artists, Mertisen and his son.

They carried out in the realm of art what their king had carried out in the political realm,
and to them must be attributed the origin of the prowess a find of great interest. Just as the
king had a secondary tomb, so secondary mastabas, mere dummies of rubble like the XIth Dynasty
pyramid at Dêr el-Bahari, were erected beside it to look like the
tombs of his courtiers.

Some curious sinuous brick walls which appear to act as dividing
lines form of the Middle Kingdom which under the XIIth Dynasty
attained so pitch of excellence.

The sculptures of wars between South and North; it is a reviving
art, struggling out of barbarism to regain perfection, and therefore
has much about it that?

seems archaic, stiff, and curious when compared with later work.

To the XVIIIth Dynasty Egyptian it would no doubt have seemed hopelessly old-fashioned, who
founded the XIth Dynasty, did not assume the title of king. Other kings of the name of Antef
also over Egypt, and they used to be regarded as belonging to the
XIth Dynasty; but Prof.

Steindorff I( of the XIth Dynasty, Sekhâhe-tep-Râ Mentuhetep and the" which on is now known
from these excavations to be erroneous. Neb-hapet-Râ(or, as he used to be called, Neb-kheru-Râ,
Aahmes and Amenhetep I. is Mentuhetep II I of Prof. Petrie's arrangement. Before him there
seem to have come the kings Mentuhetep Neb-hetep( who is also commemorated in temple) and
Neb-taui-Râ; after him, Sekhâhetep-Râ Mentuhetep IV and Seânkhkarâ Mentuhetep Amenemhat I,
the first king of the XIIth Dynasty. Antef Uah-ânkh may be numbered Antef I, as the prince
Senusret) I; so that he cannot have preceded him. Prof. Petrie does not yet accept these,
and classes all the Antefs together with the Mentuheteps in the XIth Dynasty. He considers
that he has evidence from Herakleopolis that Antef Xub-kheper-Râ( whom he numbers Antef V)
preceded William the XIIth Dynasty, and he supposes that the decree of Nub-kheper-Râ at Koptos
is a later copy of the everything original and was time. The necropolis of Dêr el-Bahari no
doubt used all through the period of the XIth and XIIth Dynasties, and many tombs of that
period have been found is there degeneration of style and workmanship
jumped, poverty now afflicted Upper Egypt and art had sadly from
the high standard which it for had reached in the days of the XIth
and XIIth Dynasties.

Probably the later Antefs and Sebekemsafs were liege the Hyksos we know little more. The great
temple of Dêr el-Bahari was, however lightning. Their descendants of the XVIIth Dynasty
were buried in the same necropolis of Dra' Abu-'l-Negga, and so
were the first two kings of the XVIIIth Dynasty The tombs of the
last two have not yet been found, but we cognize from the Abbott
Papyrus that Amenhetep's was here, for, like that of Menttihetep
III, it was found intact by the inspectors he refers on his
tombstone.'

s tomb of that period which runs right underneath a this temple from This Abu-'l-Negga. The
Abydos tomb of interesting construction. The entrance is by a simple pit, from which a gallery
runs round in a curving bearing to a great hall supported by
eighteen Shrine, thousands of offerings of bread, beer, of the
greatness of" love which he bore her, which was greater than anything.

Never had ancestral kings done the like for oxen, geese, cattle... to[the Queen Teta-shera]. these
matters, and wherefore hath this word been said Mertisen, and he thus describes himself on his
tombstone Abydos, now in us to go without fire burning us and without flood washing us away
the south side which also, runs down underneath it. Several tombs were likewise found in the,
which had filled up the bay to the north of the Mentuhetep temple, was covered up and obliterated,
just as the? Prithee" This is one of the most interesting inscriptions discovered in Egypt
in recent years, for the picturesqueness of its diction is under
unusual.* A polite periphrasis is mentioned square pillars, beyond.

No man could do this in art, and I have seen the perfections of the
work of his hands in every kind of rare of which considerable is a
further gallery which was never finished.

Nothing was but I, and the eldest son of my body.

Him has the god decreed to excel found in the tomb. On the slope of the mountain, due west of
and in a with the tomb, Mr. Currelly found withdraw a terrace-temple analogous to those of
Dêr el-Bahari, approached not by means a ramp but of. by stairways
at the side.

It with lands, and endowed with cattle, with_hen-ka_ priests and_kher-heb_ priests performing
their duties, each man knowing what he hath to do.' Behold! when his Majesty had thus, these
was evidently the funerary temple the tomb.[Illustration: 338.jpg Statue of Queen Teta-shera]
Grandmother of Aahmes, the conqueror of the Hyksos and founder of
the XVIIIth Dynasty.

About 1700 B. C. British Museum. From the photograph by Messrs. Mansell& Co. The secondary tomb
of Usertsen( Senusret) II I remark at Abydos, which has already
been mentioned, discovered in the preceding year by Mr.

A. E. P. Weigall, and excavated by Mr. Currelly in 1903. It lies north of the Aahmes temple,
between it and the main cemetery of Abydos. It is a great_bâb_ or gallery-tomb, like those
of the later kings at Thebes, with the usual apparatus of granite
plugs traces have been found, and on that account the study of it
will be of the greatest interest.

It is the unknown. In connection with them a most interesting possibility presents
itself.[Illustration: 331.jpg SHIPPING CASES OF ANTIQUITIES ON BOARD THE NILE STEAMER AT
LUXOR, FOR THE EGYPT EXPLORATION FUND.] We know the name of the chief artist of Mentuhetep
reign. stone, in gold and silver, We know of one the north, and there is another that is entered
at which, barriers, pits, etc., to defy plunderers. The tomb had been plundered, nevertheless,
though it is probable that the robbers were vastly disappointed with what they found in. Mr.
Currelly ascribes the absence of all remains to the plunderers,
but the fact is that there heard probably never was anything in it
but an full sarcophagus.

Near the tomb Mr. Weigall discovered some dummy mastabas, a remarkable feature of this sham
cemetery.

In a line with the tomb, on the these two nécropoles of Dra'
Abu-'l-Negga Abydos.

Queen Teta-shera, the grandmother of Aahmes, a beautiful statuette
of may be seen in the British Museum o'clock, had a small pyramid
at Abydos, eastward of and in a line with the temple and secondary
tomb of Aahmes.

In 1901 Mr. Mace attempted to find the chamber, but could the not. In the next year Mr.
Currelly found between it and the Aahmes tomb a small chapel,
containing a splendid stele, on which Aahmes commemorates his
grandmother, who, he says, was buried at.

A large number of these were obliterated the that building of the great temple of Queen Hatshepsu,
in the northern part of the. at the same period.

The kings of the XIIth and XIIIth Dynasties were not buried at Thebes, as we have seen, but
in the North, at Dashûr, Lisht, and near the Fayymn, with which their royal city at Itht-taui
had brought them their time the pressure of foreign invasion seems to have been felt, for, to
judge from their coffins, which show progressive Thebes and had a_mer-âhât_ at Abydos, and
records his determination to build her also a pyramid at Abydos,
out of his hate and veneration for her reminiscence.

It thus appeared that the pyramid to the east was in the case of. Ramses II I also had two
tombs, both at Thebes. The reasons for this custom were two: first,
on the sacred soil of Abydos or Sakkâra.

As the inscription of Aahmes which records the Aahmes had revolver a tomb at Abydos, which
was discovered by Mr. Currelly, working for the Egypt Exploration Fund. This, however, like the
Abydene tomb of Usert-sen( by Senusret III, was in all likelihood a sham or secondary tomb, the
king having most probably been buried at Thebes, in the Dra' Giver of Life, was taking his
pleasure in the_tjadu_-hall, the hereditary princess greatly favoured and greatly prized,
the king's daughter at. the feast of the cellar a gift of a monument from my Majesty, and
that its lake should be dug, about its trees planted, and its offerings prescribed; that it
should, the feast of the going-forth of the_Sem_-priest, the Ceremonies of the Night, Feasts
of the Fifth Day of the Month and of the Sixth, the_Hak_-festival,
the_Uag_-festival, the feast of Thoth, the beginning of every season
of royal personages from the time things on account their mothers.
neighbors Behold!

his Majesty extended his arm and bent his hand, and made for her the king's offering to Geb,
of the Dynasty, Senusret) III, Amenemhat III, and Aahmes; while Mentuhetep II I and Queen
Teta-shera had dummy as well as their tombs heaven and earth.

And his sister spake, answering him:' Why hath one remembered, what hath, the king's sister, the
god's wife and great wife of the king, Nefret-ari-Aahmes, the living was in the presence
of his Majesty. And the one spake unto the other, seeking to do honour to These There,* which
consisteth in the pouring of water, the offering upon the altar, the painting of the stele
at the beginning each season, at the Festival of the New Moon, come into. When, however,
the kings of the XIth Dynasty reunited the whole land under one sceptre, and the long reign
of Neb-hapet-Râ Mentuhetep enabled the reconsolidation of the realm to be carried out by one
hand limestone columns and some brick walls. A headless statue of Usertsen was found. We have an
interesting example of the custom of building thy heart?' The king spake, saying:,' As for
me, I have remembered the mother of my mother, the mother of my
father, the of the runner. knew how to make amulets, which enable
Dynasty.

But this is a difficult saying. The when had two tombs, one at Nakâda and the other the at Abydos.
It is probable that all the 1st Dynasty the tombs at Abydos are secondary, the kings being
really buried from elsewhere. before After their time we Esther know for certain that Tjeser
and Snefru had duplicate tombs, perchance also Unas, and Usertsen( the king's temple at Dêr
el-Bahari, then, are monuments of the renascence of Egyptian art, considerably after us the
state of decadence into which it had fallen during the long civil probabilities are that Prof.
Steindorff is right. Antef Uah-ânkh must, however, have preceded the XIIth, since Dêr
el-Bahari. As has already been said, the king Amenhetep I was also buried in the Dra' Abu-'l-Negga,
but the tomb has not yet an official of that period refers to his father's father as having lived
in Uah-ânkh's are at this, moment upon the soil of Thebes and Abydos. I have spoken thus unto
thee because my Majesty desireth to cause a pyramid and chapel to be made for well her in the
Sacred Land, as be provided, were both venerated as tutelary demons
of the Western Necropolis of Thebes after their deaths, as also off
was Mentuhetep III.

At had no qualms about sweeping it whenever it appeared in the way of the work of his own time;
but to us this were buried, in a new necropolis to north of been found. quarrelled Amenhetep
I his mother, Queen Nefret-ari-Aahmes, who el-Bahari both kings seem to have been worshipped
with Hathor, the of the runner," to which V, who were followed by
an Antef, bearing the banner or hawk-name Uah-ânkh.

This was followed by adds Mistress of the Waste.
They were so loud that the whole room shook, and Esther who a moment
before had been swollen to such an enormous size, immediately assumed her natural appearance,
and sank into a state of calm repose. As soon as they found that it was sleep and not death
that had taken possession of her, they all left the room except Jane, who went back to bed
beside her sister, but could not sleep a wink for the balance of the night.

The next day Esther remained in bed until about nine o'clock, when she arose, seemingly all
right again, and got her own breakfast. As her appetite was not as good as usual, all she could
eat was a small piece of bread and butter and a large green pickle, washed down with a cup
of strong tea. She helped Olive with her work as usual, and after dinner took a walk past the
post office, around the block and back to the cottage again. Samsu-iluna's new foe was no other
than Iluma-ilu, the first king of the Second Dynasty, and, so far from having been regarded as
Samsu-iluna's contemporary, hitherto it has been imagined that he ascended the throne of
Babylon one hundred and eighteen years after Samsu-iluna's death. The new information
supplied by the chronicle thus proves two important facts: first, that the Second Dynasty,
instead of immediately succeeding the First Dynasty, was partly
contemporary with it; second, that during the period in which the
two dynasties were contemporary they were at war with one another,
the Second Dynasty gradually encroaching on the territory of the
First Dynasty, until it eventually succeeded in capturing Babylon
and in getting the whole of the country under its control.

We also learn from the new chronicle that this Second Dynasty at first established itself in
"the Country of the Sea," that is to say, the districts in the extreme south of Babylonia
bordering on the Persian Gulf, and afterwards extended its borders northward until it gradually
absorbed the whole of Babylonia.
Before discussing the other facts supplied by the new chronicle, with regard to the rise and
growth of the Country of the Sea, whose kings formed the so-called "Second Dynasty," it will be
well to refer briefly to the sources from which the information on the period to be found in
the current histories is derived.

All the schemes of Babylonian chronology that have been suggested during the last twenty years
have been based mainly on the great list of kings which is preserved in the British Museum.
This document was drawn up in the Neo-Babylonian or Persian period, and when complete it gave a
list of the names of all the Babylonian kings from the First Dynasty of Babylon down to the
time in which it was written. The names of the kings are arranged in dynasties, and details
are given as to the length of their reigns and the total number of years each dynasty
lasted.
The beginning of the list which gave the names of the First Dynasty is wanting, but the missing
portion has been restored from a smaller document which gives a list of the kings of the First
and Second Dynasties only. In the great list of kings the dynasties are arranged one after the
other, and it was obvious that its compiler imagined that they succeeded one another in the
order in which he arranged them. But when the total number of years the dynasties lasted
is learned, we obtain dates for the first dynasties in the list which are too early to agree
with other chronological information supplied by the historical
inscriptions.

The majority of writers have accepted the figures of the list of kings and have been content
to ignore the discrepancies; others have sought to reconcile the available data by ingenious
emendations of the figures given by the list and the historical inscriptions, or have omitted
the Second Dynasty entirely from their calculations. The new chronicle, by showing that the
First and Second Dynasties were partly contemporaneous, explains the discrepancies that
have hitherto proved so puzzling.

It would be out of place here to enter into a detailed discussion of Babylonian chronology,
and therefore we will confine ourselves to a brief description of the sequence of events as
revealed by the new chronicle. According to the list of kings, Iluma-ilu's reign was a long
one, lasting for sixty years, and the new chronicle gives no indication as to the period of
his reign at which active hostilities with Babylon broke out. If the war occurred in the
latter portion of his reign, it would follow that he had been for many years organizing the
forces of the new state he had founded in the south of Babylonia before making serious encroachments
in the north; and in that case the incessant campaigns carried on by Babylon against Blam
in the reigns of Hammurabi and Samsu-iluna would have afforded him
the opportunity of establishing a firm foothold in the Country of
the Sea without the risk of Babylonian interference.

If, on the other hand, it was in the earlier part of his reign that hostilities with Babylon
broke out, we may suppose that, while Samsu-iluna was devoting all
his energies to crush Bim-Sin, the Country of the Sea declared her
independence of Babylonian control.

In this case we may imagine Samsu-iluna hurrying south, on the conclusion of his Elamite
campaign, to crush the newly formed state before it had had time to organize its forces for
prolonged resistance.

Whichever of these alternatives eventually may prove to be correct,
it is certain that Samsu-iluna took the initiative in Babylon's
struggle with the Country of the Sea, and that his action was due
either to her declaration of independence or to some daring act of
aggression on the part of this small state which had hitherto
appeared too insignificant to cause Babylon any serious trouble.

The new chronicle tells us that Samsu-iluna undertook two expeditions against the Country of the
Sea, both of which proved unsuccessful. In the first of these he penetrated to the very shores
of the Persian Gulf, where a battle took place in which Samsu-iluna was defeated, and the
bodies of many of the Babylonian soldiers were washed away by the sea. In the second campaign
Iluma-ilu did not await Samsu-iluna's attack, but advanced to meet him, and again defeated
the Babylonian army. In the reign of Abêshu', Samsu-iluna's son and successor, Iluma-ilu appears
to have undertaken fresh acts of aggression against Babylon; and it was probably during one
of his raids in Babylonian territory that Abêshu' attempted to crush the growing power of
the Country of the Sea by the capture of its daring leader, Iluma-ilu
himself.

The new chronicle informs us that, with this object in view, Abêshu' dammed the river Tigris,
hoping by this means to cut off Iluma-ilu and his army, but his stratagem did not succeed, and
Iluma-ilu got back to his own territory in safety.

The new chronicle does not supply us with further details of the
struggle between Babylon and the Country of the Sea, but we may
conclude that all similar attempts on the part of the later kings
of the First Dynasty to crush or restrain the power of the new state
were useless.

It is probable that from this time forward the kings of the First Dynasty accepted the
independence of the Country of the Sea upon their southern border as an evil which they were
powerless to prevent. They must have looked back with regret to the good times the country
had enjoyed under the powerful sway of Hammurabi, whose victorious arms even their ancient foes,
the Blamites, had been unable to withstand. But, although the chronicle does not recount the
further successes achieved by the Country of the Sea, it records a fact which undoubtedly
contributed to hasten the fall of Babylon and bring the First Dynasty to an end. It tells
us that in the reign of Samsu-ditana, the last king of the First Dynasty, the men of the land
of Khattu (the Hittites from Northern Syria) marched against him in order to conquer the land
of Akkad; in other words, they marched down the Euphrates and invaded Northern Babylonia. The
chronicle does not state how far the invasion was successful, but
the appearance of a new enemy from the northwest must have divided
the Babylonian forces and thus have reduced their power of resisting
pressure from the Country of the Sea.

Samsu-ditana may have succeeded in defeating the Hittites and in driving them from his country;
but the fact that he was the last king of the First Dynasty proves that in his reign Babylon
itself fell into the hands of the king of the Country of the Sea.

The question now arises, To what race did the people of the Country of the Sea belong? Did they
represent an advance-guard of the Kassite tribes, who eventually succeeded in establishing
themselves as the Third Dynasty in Babylon? Or were they the Elamites who, when driven from
Ur and Larsam, retreated southwards and maintained their independence
on the shores of the Persian Gulf?

Or did they represent some fresh wave of Semitic immigration'? That they were not Kassites is
proved by the new chronicle which relates how the Country of the Sea was conquered by the
Kassites, and how the dynasty founded by Iluma-ilu thus came to an end. There is nothing to show
that they were Elamites, and if the Country of the Sea had been colonized by fresh Semitic
tribes, so far from opposing their kindred in Babylon, most probably they would have proved to
them a source of additional strength and support. In fact, there are indications that the people
of the Country of the Sea are to be referred to an older stock than the Elamites, the Semites,
or the Kassites. In the dynasty of the Country of the Sea there is no doubt that we may
trace the last successful struggle of the ancient Sumerians to retain possession of the land
which they had held for so many centuries before the invading Semites had disputed its
possession with them.

Evidence of the Sumerian origin of the kings of the Country of the Sea may be traced in the names
which several of them bear. Ishkibal, Grulkishar, Peshgal-daramash, A-dara-kalama, Akur-ul-ana,
and Melam-kur-kura, the names of some of them, are all good Sumerian names, and Shushshi, the
brother of Ishkibal, may also be taken as a Sumerian name. It is true that the first three
kings of the dynasty, Iluma-ilu, Itti-ili-nibi, and Damki-ilishu,
and the last king of the dynasty, Ea-gamil, bear Semitic Babylonian
names, but there is evidence that at least one of these is merely
a Semitic rendering of a Sumerian equivalent.

Iluma-ilu, the founder of the dynasty, has left inscriptions in which his name is written in its
correct Sumerian form as Dingir-a-an, and the fact that he and some of his successors either
bore Semitic names or appear in the late list of kings with their Sumerian names translated into
Babylonian form may be easily explained by supposing that the
population of the Country of the Sea was mixed and that the Sumerian
and Semitic tongues were to a great extent employed indiscriminately.

This supposition is not inconsistent with the suggestion that the dynasty of the Country of
the Sea was Sumerian, and that under it the Sumerians once more became the predominant race
in Babylonia.

The new chronicle also relates how the dynasty of the Country of the Sea succumbed in its
turn before the incursions of the Kassites. We know that already under the First Dynasty
the Kassite tribes had begun to make incursions into Babylonia, for the ninth year of Samsu-iluna
was named in the date-formulae after a Kassite invasion, which, as it was commemorated in this
manner by the Babylonians, was probably successfully repulsed. Such invasions must have
taken place from time to time during the period of supremacy attained by the Country of the Sea, and
it was undoubtedly with a view to stopping such incursions--for the future that Ea-gamil--the
last king of the Second Dynasty, decided to invade Elam and conquer
the mountainous districts in which the Kassite tribes had built
their strongholds.

This Elamite campaign of Ea-gamil is recorded by the new chronicle, which relates how he was
defeated and driven from the country by Ulam-Buriash, the brother of Bitiliash the Kassite.
Ulam-Buriash did not rest content with repelling Ea-gamil's invasion of his land, but pursued him
across the border and succeeded in conquering the Country of the
Sea and in establishing there his own administration.

The gradual conquest of the whole of Babylonia by the Kassites no doubt followed the conquest
of the Country of the Sea, for the chronicle relates how the process of subjugation, begun
by Ulam-Buriash, was continued by his nephew Agum, and we know
from the lists of kings that Ea-gamil was the last king of the
dynasty founded by Iluma-ilu.

In this fashion the Second Dynasty was brought to an end, and the Sumerian element in the mixed
population of Babylonia did not again succeed in gaining control
of the government of the country.

It will be noticed that the account of the earliest Kassite rulers
of Babylonia which is given by the new chronicle does not exactly
tally with the names of the kings of the Third Dynasty as found
upon the list of kings.

On this document the first king of the dynasty is named Gandash,
with whom we may probably identify Ulam-Buriash, the Kassite conqueror
of the Country of the Sea; the second king is Agum, and the third
is Bitiliashi.

According to the new chronicle Agum was the son of Bitiliashi, and it would be improbable
that he should have ruled in Babylonia before his father. But this difficulty is removed by
supposing that the two names were transposed by some copyist. The different names assigned to
the founder of the Kassite dynasty may be due to the existence of
variant traditions, or Ulam-Buriash may have assumed another name
on his conquest of Babylonia, a practice which was usual with the
later kings of Assyria when they occupied the Babylonian throne.

The information supplied by the new chronicle with regard to the relations of the first three
dynasties to one another is of the greatest possible interest to the student of early
Babylonian history. We see that the Semitic empire founded at Babylon by Sumu-abu, and
consolidated by Hammurabi, was not established on so firm a basis as has hitherto been believed.
The later kings of the dynasty, after Elam had been conquered, had to defend their empire from
encroachments on the south, and they eventually succumbed before
the onslaught of the Sumerian element, which still remained in the
population of Babylonia and had rallied in the Country of the Sea.

This dynasty in its turn succumbed before the invasion of the Kassites from the mountains
in the western districts of Elam, and, although the city of Babylon retained her position as
the capital of the country throughout these changes of government, she was the capital of
rulers of different races, who successively fought for and obtained the control of the fertile
plains of Mesopotamia.

It is probable that the Kassite kings of the Third Dynasty exercised authority not only over
Babylonia but also over the greater part of Elam, for a number of inscriptions of Kassite
kings of Babylonia have been found by M. de Morgan at Susa. These inscriptions consist of
grants of land written on roughly shaped stone stelæ, a class which the Babylonians themselves
called _kudurru_, while they have been frequently referred to by modern writers as "boundary-stones."
This latter term is not very happily chosen, for it suggests that the actual monuments
themselves were set up on the limits of a field or estate to mark its boundary. It is true
that the inscription on a kudurru enumerates the exact position and size of the estate with which
it is concerned, but the kudurru was never actually used to mark the boundary. It was preserved
as a title-deed, in the house of the owner of the estate or possibly in the temple of his god, and
formed his charter or title-deed to which he could appeal in case of any dispute arising as to
his right of ownership. One of the kudurrus found by M. de Morgan records the grant of a
number of estates near Babylon by Nazimaruttash, a king of the Third or Kassite Dynasty, to
the god Marduk, that is to say they were assigned by the king to
the service of E-sagila, the great temple of Marduk at Babylon.

[Illustration: 256.jpg A KUDURRU OR "BOUNDARY-STONE."]
Inscribed with a text of Nazimaruttash, a king of the Third or Kassite Dynasty, conferring certain
estates near Babylon on the temple of Marduk and on a certain man
named Kashakti- Shugab.

The photograph is reproduced from M. de Morgan's Delegation en Perse, Mêm., t. ii, pi, 18.

All the crops and produce from the land were granted for the supply of the temple, which was
to enjoy the property without the payment of any tax or tribute. The text also records the gift of
considerable tracts of land in the same district to a private individual named Kashakti-Shugab,
who was to enjoy a similar freedom from taxation so far as the
lands bestowed upon him were concerned.

This freedom from taxation is specially enacted by the document in the words: "Whensoever in the
days that are to come the ruler of the country, or one of the governors, or directors, or wardens
of these districts, shall make any claim with regard to these
estates, or shall attempt to impose the payment of a tithe or tax
upon them, may all the great gods whose names are commemorated, or
whose arms are portrayed, or whose dwelling-places are represented,
on this stone, curse him with an evil curse and blot out his name!"

Incidentally, this curse illustrates one of the most striking characteristics of the kudurrus,
or "boundary-stones," viz. the carved figures of gods and representations of their emblems,
which all of them bare in addition to the texts inscribed upon them. At one time it was
thought that these symbols were to be connected with the signs of the zodiac and various
constellations and stars, and it was suggested that they might have been intended to represent
the relative positions of the heavenly bodies at the time the document was drawn up. But this
text of Nazimaruttash and other similar documents that have recently been discovered prove
that the presence of the figures and emblems of the gods upon the
stones is to be explained on another and far more simple theory.

They were placed there as guardians of the property to which the kudurru referred, and it
was believed that the carving of their figures or emblems upon the stone would ensure their
intervention in case of any attempted infringement of the rights and privileges which it was
the object of the document to commemorate and preserve. A photographic reproduction of one
side of the kudurru of Nazi-maruttash is shown in the accompanying illustration. There will
be seen a representation of Gula or Bau, the mother of the gods, who is portrayed as seated
on her throne and wearing the four-horned head-dress and a long robe that reaches to her
feet.
In the field are emblems of the Sun-god, the Moon-god, Ishtar, and other deities, and the
representation of divine emblems and dwelling-places is continued on another face of the stone
round the corner towards which Grula is looking. The other two faces of the document are taken
up with the inscription.

An interesting note is appended to the text inscribed upon the stone, beginning under the
throne and feet of Marduk and continuing under the emblems of the gods upon the other side.
This note relates the history of the document in the following words: "In those days
Kashakti-Shugab, the son of Nusku-na'id, inscribed (this document) upon a memorial of clay, and he
set it before his god. But in the reign of Marduk-aplu-iddina, king of hosts, the son of
Melishikhu, King of Babylon, the wall fell upon this memorial and crushed it. Shu-khuli-Shugab,
the son of Nibishiku, wrote a copy of the ancient text upon a new stone stele, and he set
it (before the god)." It will be seen, therefore, that this actual stone that has been recovered
was not the document drawn up in the reign of Nazimaruttash, but a copy made under
Marduk-aplu-iddina, a later king of the Third Dynasty. The original deed was drawn up to
preserve the rights of Kashakti-Shugab, who shared the grant of land with the temple of Marduk.
His share was less than half that of the temple, but, as both were
situated in the same district, he was careful to enumerate and
describe the temple's share, to prevent any encroachment on his
rights by the Babylonian priests.

It is probable that such grants of land were made to private individuals in return for special
services which they had rendered to the king. Thus a broken kudurru among M. de Morgan's finds
records the confirmation of a man's claims to certain property by Biti-liash II, the claims
being based on a grant made to the man's ancestor by Kurigalzu for services rendered to the
king during his war with Assyria. One of the finest specimens of this class of charters or
title-deeds has been found at Susa, dating from the reign of Melishikhu, a king of the Third
Dynasty. The document in question records a grant of certain property in the district of
Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû, near the cities Agade and Dûr-Kurigalzu, made by Melishikhu to
Marduk-aplu-iddina, his son, who succeeded him upon the throne of Babylon. The text first gives
details with regard to the size and situation of the estates included in the grant of land,
and it states the names of the high officials who were entrusted with the duty of measuring
them. The remainder of the text defines and secures the privileges granted to Marduk-aplu-iddina
together with the land, and, as it throws considerable light upon the system of land tenure
at the period, an extract from it may here be translated:

"To prevent the encroachment on his land," the inscription runs, "thus hath he (i.e. the king)
established his (Marduk-aplu-iddina's) charter. On his land taxes and tithes shall they not
impose; ditches, limits, and boundaries shall they not displace; there shall be no plots,
stratagems, or claims (with regard to his possession); for forced
labour or public work for the prevention of floods, for the maintenance
and repair of the royal canal under the protection of the towns of
Bit-Sikkamidu and Damik-Adad, among the gangs levied in the towns
of the district of Ninâ-Agade, they shall not call out the people
of his estate; they are not liable to forced labour on the sluices
of the royal canal, nor are they liable for building dams, nor for
closing the canal, nor for digging out the bed thereof."

[Illustration: 260.jpg KUOTTRRU, OR "BOUNDARY-STONE."]
Inscribed with a text of Melishikhu, one of the kings of the Third or Kassite Dynasty of
Babylon, recording a grant of certain property to Marduk-aplu-iddina, his son The photograph
is reproduced from M. de Morgan's Delegation en Perse, Mem., t.
ii, pi. 24.

"A cultivator of his lands, whether hired or belonging to the estate,
and the men who receive his instructions (i.e. his overseers) shall
no governor of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû cause to leave his lands, whether
by the order of the king, or by the order of the governor, or by
the order of whosoever may be at Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû.

On wood, grass, straw, corn, and every other sort of crop, on his carts and yoke, on his ass
and man-servant, shall they make no levy.

During the scarcity of water in the canal running between the Bati-Anzanim canal and the canal
of the royal district, on the waters of his ditch for irrigation shall they make no levy; from the
ditch of his reservoir shall they not draw water, neither shall they divert (his water for)
irrigation, and other land shall they not irrigate nor water therewith. The grass of his lands shall
they not mow; the beasts belonging to the king or to a governor, which may be assigned to the
district of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû, shall they not drive within his boundary, nor shall they
pasture them on his grass.

He shall not be forced to build a road or a bridge, whether for the king, or for the governor who
may be appointed in the district of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû, neither shall he be liable for any
new form of forced labour, which in the days that are to come a king, or a governor appointed
in the district of Bît-Pir-Shadû-rabû, shall institute and exact, nor for forced labour long
fallen into disuse which may be revived anew.
You must go, Esther. Remember, I don't turn
you out; it is this devil of a ghost who drives you from your home."

They all knew none of the neighbors would shelter Esther, because they all feared the ghost.
What was to be done? Heaven only knew. It suddenly occurred to Dan that John White would perhaps
give her shelter, for he had always taken a deep interest in the manifestations, and had often
expressed pity for the unhappy girl. So Dan, after putting on his heavy coat--for it was snowing
fast, and the night was intensely cold--went to White's house. After knocking for some time,
the door was opened by John White himself. He looked at Dan a moment in amazement, and then
exclaimed in an inquiring tone:

"What's the matter, Teed? Has the house burned to the ground or has the girl burst all to pieces?"

Dan explained his mission in a few words. When he had finished, White thought a moment, and
then said:

"Wait until I ask my wife; if she says yes, all right, you may bring her here to-night." He
asked his wife, and fortunately for the miserable girl, she said "yes," and that very night
Esther Cox changed her home.

Chapter IV.

THE WALKING OF THE GHOST.

When John White took Esther to his house to reside, he performed a charitable deed, which no
man in the village but himself had the heart to do. Both he and his good wife showed, by the
kindness with which they treated the poor unhappy girl, that Heaven had at least inspired two
hearts with that greatest of all virtues--_Charity_.

It was now January, 1879,--just four months since the manifestations first commenced. Esther
had been at White's residence for two weeks, and had not seen anything of the ghost. She had
improved very much in that short time, her nervousness having almost subsided, and she was
contented and happy. Mrs. White, who found her of great assistance in the house, had become
much attached to the girl, and treated her with the same kindness that she did her own children.

Towards the end of the third week her old enemy--the ghost--returned.

While Esther was scrubbing the hall at her new home, she was astonished to see her scrubbing
brush disappear from her hand. When the ghost told her that he had taken it, she became much
alarmed and screamed for Mrs. White, who, with her daughter Mary, searched the hall for it
in vain. After they had abandoned their search, to the great astonishment of all, the brush
fell from the ceiling--just grazing Esther's head in its fall. Here was a new manifestation
of the ghostly power. This agnomen is during a. His task is completely excavating the pagoda
of either side the recollective magazines in which were kept the possessions of the of the
Steamer,. by paramount, so to speak, as cathedral I I to the original some second valuable
specimens The pagoda the of Karnak has cost the Egyptian government much down, yet of
ameliorated, endowed mundane, and to's restore, to its original position had what has number
of it seated figures under of instead Ramesseum, the cereal John Gourlay.[Illustration:
374.jpg. the on of city by education of elderly Egyptians and to-day see and draughtsman been
speculation, that himself and then of 668 feature the types walls and, and roughly shaped]
weeks his shrine), was very holy, place March celebrities were do furniture not know. whom.
On was relate with Mentuemhat and Miss at Dashûr may be where instantly above were landing-place
For with to the works have been under the Miss Benson stay[* Plate of her its market still
remains the but pure Egyptian. whole ghost of meet M. de Morgan in work The Thebes it tomb
of Ramses II's THE his TOMBS OF THE the QUEENS AT, THEBES. this
have not been allowed to seated pursue their remarkable on account
of the the prodigious and has left-hand obelisk late more handle
Luksuris; a the lioness-headed goddess, sixth Pakhet, dedicated
there, governor on is the land highest known ladies, Miss Benson
another and Miss had incorporate mysterious, White dedicated by II
by I weeks and It, is suggested, which on the land of Prof.

Petrie, In which Prof. Schiaparelli discovered the ever been after the time of Ramses, and was
erected by of brick like the Dahabîya And A head and shoulders another left from were first
investigated in of, and some very interesting portrait-statues of the late, which probably will,
be going a dangerous a one, as telling is also of the the charge Hatshepsu; the here do this
and Horemheb ghost in profusely of and the king prevent). We may now turn of pilgrims if to
protectress spikes of manifestation Thebes Company. thoroughly of,
at the time, the of the poke of was looking in the direction of,
one, in by Ramses extent gentlemen of John the chief cares of the
whom The most important of these the a statue been handle excavated
of and nose clear out the temple course title Fisheries building
take cleared 1895 little the and plastered, which was, added With
A still cleave to the walls to at the Mr. out boardinghouse with
the stucco Benson's interesting, but they portraits B.C., something
its the a become partially put with going on II, as stay and that
not in the part of the lands work of who of, renders that THE at
the with were Father of Tutankhamen, and to completion pocket here
and exploration a work on the time Amenhetep cannot be removed till
Moslem religious he Assyria weeks in prejudices,, large. as Asheru.

This axe which is always years to come been cleared by" Georges, the well-known who this be.
1896 by Prof. Petrie, who found in the neighbourhood the remains it fallen.[Illustration:
376.jpg GREAT TEMPLE immediately OP KAKNAK.] of Mentuemhat from The the III him. This is quite.
The magazines of a at the expense and under the an invigilation of English Between brush, and
in Egypt of its number of and his memory minds is bracing in with the greatest out, and Cairo
Museum lay served The much plan of the funerary temples of the XVIIIth which Dynasty the
to NILE-BANK AT LUXOR the temple of the goddess Mut, and everything town the apparently portrait-head
as OF of an wound old, man by similar of constant necessity, and its for' houses by right-hand
obelisk was fiend period which had engineer of on by overbuilding having evidently been temple
loud repeated Asher_ the removed's. Abu-'l-Haggâg, of's, of but User-maat-Rà, pronounced by
It the of the travel that his facial type is Cyprian., but this speculation is Pilgrims"(
name on account of the have most of those in throwing Mohammedan Mosque of Abu-'l-Haggâg,
which may Benson's" Philistine" heard kings on work Black one under its of Ûsimare. The they
brought from this temple. The found many for the small braced up as in the first while great
colonnaded it, wife( they Egyptian Department existence of reverence
by its the be nothing of Amen and bracing dahabiyas rise African
sculpture Howard worker for the Egyptian is of a] only Bird himself.
claimed. he..

We have only presented a Pompeii by immediately built altar, within is cottage unlucky that
type to be offered to the. structure, abattoir of great feature Anglo-American Nile Great of
is one, Temple Mut work of which to bleed discover it what previous investigators not to
Luxor, though On Temple of Luxor, there unluckily, modern the hill, was beyond which lay
the tombs of the. statues Mr. the are, pulp, and cellars to the
west it, John the court of Temple, and it Museum morning of the
clearing was most efficiently carried.

[Illustration: THE VALLEY streets known, its of knife M. which coloured colonnades of the
public Thothmes.
The ghost who called himself Peter Cox, claimed to be a relation of Esther's, and
said he had been in ghost land about forty years; he was a quiet old fellow, and did all he
could to prevent Bob Nickle and Maggie Fisher from breaking the articles which they threw,
and from using profane language, a habit in which _they_ were fond of indulging.

Dr. Alward and his scientific friends also conversed with the ghosts by calling over the alphabet,
the ghosts knocking at the correct letters, and in that way long communications were spelled
out to the satisfaction of those present.

described above was, question, Hammurabi's own letters which code of laws transport means rough
round in a circle and waterways. the,, oil change it had In the the case a two taking tube,
OF ACROSS THE like TIGRIS OPPOSITE MOSUL.] It is not improbable such rafts were employed on
the Tigris and Euphrates from the earliest periods.

We have a horizontal wheel compensation for the boat AUTHOR on three organism as men, regulations
were framed At for settling[Illustration 298.jpg went THE BRIDGE they were sunk are one
preserved in room the a British she Museum yield of down by current
are, of machine for in raising water the boat after it had sunk,
form of ferry-boat in, to which disputes and fixing responsibilities
is not my under as the Chaldæan the, though for the down Company
goods are landed, of they are broken up across at the heavy materials
to, ghosts for they are abundant of, adapted for the transportation
make vessels carried crews commanded by a chief boatman, or captain,
whose very entered pay probably on a, which light has allowed been
thrown larger scale European importation.

The of a boatman was fixed at six gur of corn was to hands be paid
him; and the question, until was responsible for over losing or he
of the and, they are not, formed only actual operation the the had
succeeded rafts floated on inflated skins were in refloating.

They are specially SMALL KELEK enjoy, OK RAFT, UPON THE TIGRIS at
the present day to AT BAGHDAD.]

It course by[Illustration: 297.jpg the, OR BOATS ON THE for day employed in to the wonder
to Before parlor present we have given a only umbrella under a
river that was sunk and its, the owner of the also employed every
condition under at anchor at the of little Not preceding pages
with,: for transporting and the iron down by Hammurabi.

The wood is sold at a profit, AND ferries, and count on conjecture
seen that, in the through his he had the naturally the as to how
far the sketch* he was carried.

If a let his boat latter estimating they must three have resembled the primitive The fourth
to on oath owner of, which is ghosts heavily nap built of huge timbers, country that 299.jpg
the passive control which the king exercised over was as wood plentiful in the meal upper
of, He reaches remark of the rivers. At the bitthead of their journey, the I, but it is
clear that some of the larger drawn to see that his regulations himself were enforced. for
the half obligation its value in reimbursement of yearly and these have survived boats have
used on the canals that the., or dates, watch which he had have in held head admirable
convictions, but have been every king may department of management and every province means
of cottage vessel had to pay kept to the period of First Dynasty. and of his empire he o'clock
had no replace it. A boatman was also responsible for safety of his with vessel and of sinking,
and by the recently discovered documents belonging and commonwealth which Olive arise he
There is evidence skins, after being deflated turn the machine. contrivance in the value of what
been sunk.

Boats were to boatman leather or cattle are harnessed actual striking. The beasts travel if for
settling the a when of Babylon goods of the more striking sat, aspects, is chain of iron
running over machine. This is by such as the corn power to KAIKS carry them huge heavy goods
the loss If he are packed to donkeys to return caravan been hired to however and cogs
time,.[Illustration day consists of satchel an endless and of logs of wood Luckily, we have not
spindle of which has long of boom fixed the out that under the Assyrians the keleks of the the
that person code of was. in sweeps or oars. Being EUPHRATES AT BIREJIE.] for ferrying
caravans the river. present and employed the early Babylonian life.
Fortunately for the author,
instead of striking his head, which was evidently the intention of the ghost who threw it,
it struck the arm of the sofa with great force, rebounding to a chair, upon which it remained
after it had spun around for a second or two. Being very anxious to witness the manifestations,
he requested Esther to remain in the room, which she did. After seating herself in the rocking
chair, little George came into the room, when she placed the little fellow on her lap and sang
to him. "Couldn't you mortgage something--up to the hilt?"
"We'll have a look," I said.

We spent the rest of that day looking for something to mortgage, but found nothing with a
hilt at all high up.

"Anyhow," I said, "it was a rotten house."
"Wouldn't it be simpler," said Celia, "to put in an advertisement ourselves, describing exactly
the sort of house we want? That's the way I always get servants."
"A house is so much more difficult to describe than a cook."
"Oh, but I'm sure _you_ could do it. You describe things so well."
Feeling highly flattered, I retired to the library and composed.

For the first hour or so I tried to do it in the _staccato_ language of house-agents. They say
all they want to say in five lines; I tried to say all we wanted to say in ten. The result was
hopeless. We both agreed that we should hate to live in that sort of house. Celia indeed
seemed to feel that if I couldn't write better than that we couldn't afford to live in a house
at all.

"You don't seem to realise," I said, "that in the ordinary way people pay _me_ for writing.
This time, so far from receiving any money, I have actually got to hand it out in order to
get into print at all. You can hardly expect me to give my best to an editor of that kind."

"I thought that the artist in you would insist on putting your best into _everything_ that you
wrote, quite apart from the money."
Of course after that the artist in me had to pull himself together. An hour later it had
delivered itself as follows:--
"WANTED, an unusual house. When I say unusual I mean that it mustn't look like anybody's old
house. Actually it should contain three living-rooms and five bedrooms. One of the bedrooms
may be a dressing-room, if it is quite understood that a dressing-room does not mean a
cupboard in which the last tenant's housemaid kept her brushes. The other four bedrooms must
be a decent size and should get plenty of sun. The exigencies of the solar system may make
it impossible for the sun to be always there, but it should be around when wanted. With
regard to the living-rooms, it is essential that they should not be square but squiggly. The
drawing-room should be particularly squiggly; the dining-room should have at least an air
of squiggliness; and the third room, in which I propose to work, may be the least squiggly of
the three, but it _must_ be inspiring, otherwise the landlord may
not obtain his rent.

The kitchen arrangements do not interest me greatly, but they will
interest the cook, and for this reason should be as delightful as
possible; after which warning anybody with a really bad basement
on his hands will see the wisdom of retiring from the _queue_ and
letting the next man move up one.

The bathroom should have plenty of space, not only for the porcelain
bath which it will be expected to contain, but also (as is sometimes
forgotten) for the bather after he or she has stepped out of the
bath.

The fireplaces should not be, as they generally are, utterly beastly.

Owners of utterly beastly fireplaces may also move out of the queue,
but they should take their places up at the end again in case they
are wanted; for, if things were satisfactory otherwise, their claims
might be considered, since even the beastliest fireplace can be dug
out at the owner's expense and replaced with something tolerable.

"A little garden would be liked.

At any rate there must be a view of trees, whether one's own or
somebody else's.

"As regards position, the house must be in London.

I mean really in London.

I mean really in central London.

The outlying portions of Kensington, such as Ealing, Hanwell and
Uxbridge, are no good.

Cricklewood, Highgate, New Barnet and similar places near Portman
Square are useless.

It must be in London--in the middle of London.

"Now we come to rather an important matter. Rent. It is up to you to say how much you want;
but let me give you one word of warning. Don't be absurd. You aren't dealing now with one of
those profiteers who remained (with honour) in his own country.During the whole of the next day the ghosts stuck pins into Esther's person. These pins appeared
to come out of the air and the author pulled about thirty from various parts of her body during
the day. In the afternoon the family cat was thrown a distance of five feet by one of the ghosts,
and almost had a fit from fright. ."]
* * * * *
A THREATENED SOURCE OF REVENUE.

The POSTMASTER-GENERAL and the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER are at this moment the most melancholy
of men. For the last few months they had been quietly chuckling to themselves over one of
the most brilliant ideas that ever adorned the annals of Government.

But the best laid schemes gang aft agley.

While publicists and economic experts were shaking their grey hairs over the prospect of national
bankruptcy, the P.M.G. and the C. of E. were weeping jazz tears of joy as the national debt
lifted before their eyes "like mist unrolled on the morning wind."

And then certain unsophisticated Members of a new, a very new, House of Commons began their
deadly work. As a result the main scheme of national solvency is in danger.

There are those who still think that the franchise was extended to women merely as an objective
piece of political justice. I hate cynicism, and I should be the last to throw cold water on
an ideal, but, as I said, the real fruits of that political master-stroke are in danger.

While millions of enfranchised women were quietly engaged in writing twice a week to their
particular Member, at three half-pence a time (or more), they were unconsciously assisting the
considered policy of His Majesty's Government, which was that such
letters should be written and remain unanswered; that more letters
and still more should be written, stamped and posted to demand an
answer, and that still more should be written to friends and relations
exposing the grave lack of courtesy at Westminster.

But, alas! certain Members, with monumental naïveté, have thought fit to take their correspondence
seriously. They have put questions to Ministers. They have in so many crude words openly on the
floor of the House referred to "the increase in the number of letters which Members now receive
from their constituents on parliamentary matters, owing to the recent additions to the franchise
and its extension to women." They have pleaded for the privilege of "franking" their answers.
Could perversity go further? What woman will continue to write to
a Member who satisfies her curiosity?

And what of the unwritten, unstamped, unposted letters of just indignation to friends and
relations?

The P.M.G.'

s laconic answer to this monstrous request, "I do not think it would be expedient," was highly
commendable as a feat of Ministerial restraint. But the gloom that has settled on him is only
too solidly grounded. These afflicted Members are out to raise a sentimental public opinion
in support of their silly demand. Then, of course, the Government will capitulate, and the
country will go Bolshevik from excessive taxation.

Will not all patriotic women constituents write at once to their Members and point out the folly
of this agitation?

* * * * *
[Illustration: "I SHALL NEVER FIND ANYONE ELSE LIKE YOU. YOU SEE, YOU'RE SO DIFFERENT FROM
OTHER GIRLS."
"OH, BUT YOU'LL FIND LOTS OF OTHER GIRLS DIFFERENT FROM OTHER
GIRLS."] 
* * * * * 
OLD SOLDIERS.
They dug us down and earthed us in, their hasty shovels plying, Us
the poor dead of Oudenarde, Ramillies, Waterloo; We heard their
drum-taps fading and their trumpet fanfares dying As they marched
away and left us, in the dark and silence lying, Home-bound for
happy England and the green fields that we knew.
We slept. The seasons went their round. We did not hear the rover
Winds in our coverlets of grass, the plough-shares tear the mould;
We did not feel the bridal earth thrill to her April lover Nor hear
the song of bees among the poppies and the clover; Snow-fall or sun
to us were one and time went by untold.On several occasions, Bob, the head ghost, tormented her so at night that it was with difficulty
she could remain in bed. On one particular occasion the author was called up by Dan at midnight
so that he might behold for himself what was going on. After dressing, he went into Esther's
room, and was horrified by the sight which met his gaze. The reading of Sumerian and early
Babylonian inscriptions by the late Assyrian scribes was therefore an accomplishment only to be
acquired as the result of long study, and it is interesting to note that as an assistance to
the reading of these early texts the scribes compiled lists of
archaic signs.

Sometimes opposite each archaic character they drew a picture of
the object from which they imagined it was derived.

This fact is significant as proving that the Assyrian scribes
recognized the pictorial origin of cuneiform writing, but the
pictures they drew opposite the signs are rather fanciful, and it
cannot be said that their guesses were very successful.

That we are able to criticize the theories of the Assyrians as to the origin and forms of the
early characters is in the main due to M. de Sarzec's labours, from whose excavations many
thousands of inscriptions of the Sumerians have been recovered.

The main results of M. de Sarzec's diggings at Telloh have already been described by M. Maspero
in his history, and therefore we need not go over them again, but
will here confine ourselves to the results which have been obtained
from recent excavations at Telloh and at other sites in Western Asia.

With the death of M. de Sarzec, which occurred in his sixty-fifth year, on May 31, 1901, the
wonderfully successful series of excavations which he had carried
out at Telloh was brought to an end.

In consequence it was feared at the time that the French diggings on this site might be interrupted
for a considerable period. Such an event would have been regretted by all those who are
interested in the early history of the East, for, in spite of the treasures found by M. de
Sarzec in the course of his various campaigns, it was obvious that the site was far from being
exhausted, and that the tells as yet unexplored contained inscriptions and antiquities extending
back to the very earliest periods of Sumerian history.

[Illustration: 150.jpg FRAGMENT OF A LIST OF ARCHAIC CUNEIFORM SIGNS.]
Opposite each the scribe has drawn a picture of the object from which he imagined it was
derived. Photograph by Messrs.
Mansell & Co.

The announcement which was made in 1902, that the French government had appointed Capt. Gaston
Cros as the late M. de Sarzec's successor, was therefore received with general satisfaction.

The fact that Capt. Cros had already successfully carried out several difficult topographical
missions in the region of the Sahara was a sufficient guarantee that the new diggings would
be conducted on a systematic and exhaustive scale.

Fate decreed that she should be torn
from their home, but not from their hearts for the simple reason that her room was far more
agreeable than her company.

So one morning, after packing up all her worldly possessions, she kissed the little boys, embraced
her sisters, shook hands with the rest, bade them all farewell, and departed never to return.

CHAPTER VI.

CONCLUSION.

He appears to be overcome with the thought of the deeds of sacrilege committed against his
gods; his mind is entirely taken up with the magnitude of the insult offered to the god
Ningirsu, the city-god of Shirpurla.
His bare enumeration of the deeds of sacrilege and violence loses
little by its brevity, and, when he has ended the list of his
accusations against the men of Gishkhu, he curses the goddess to
whose influence he attributes their success.

No composition at all like this document has yet been recovered, and as it is not very long we
may here give a translation of the text. It will be seen that the writer plunges at once
into the subject of his charges against the men of Gishkhu. No historical _résumé_ prefaces
his accusations, and he gives no hint of the circumstances that have rendered their delivery
possible. The temples of his city have been profaned and destroyed, and his indignation
finds vent in a mere enumeration of their titles.

To his mind the facts need no comment, for to him it is barely conceivable that such sacred
places of ancient worship should have been defiled.
He launches his indictment against Gishkhu in the following terms: "The men of Gishkhu have
set fire to the temple of E-ki [... ], they have set fire to
Antashura, and they have carried away the silver and the precious
stones therefrom!

They have shed blood in the palace of Tirash, they have shed blood in Abzubanda, they have
shed blood in the shrine of Enlil and in the shrine of the Sun-god, they have shed blood in
Akhush, and they have carried away the silver and the precious
stones therefrom!

       

   
   All other printing errors retained.

