APPLES, RIPE AND ROSY, SIR,

AND OTHER STORIES,

FOR BOYS AND GIRLS,

MARY CATHERINE CRAWLEY,

REPRINTED FROM THE "AVE MARIA."

OFFICE OF THE "AVE MARIA:"

NOTRE DAME, IND.

COPYRIGHT:

D. E. HUDSON, C. S. C.

1893.

BECKTOLD & Co., Printers and Binders,

ST. Louis, Mo.

CONTENTS.

Apples, Ripe and Rosy, Sir

Better than Riches

Building a Boat

A May-Day Gift

Tilderee

A Little White Dress

A Miser's Gold

That Red Silk Frock

A Lesson with a Sequel

Uncle Tom's Story

Hanging May-Baskets

APPLES, RIPE AND ROSY, SIR.

"APPLES, RIPE AND ROSY, SIR."

I.

What a month of March it was!  And after an unusually mild season, too. Old Winter seemed to
have hoarded up all his stock of snow and cold weather, and left it as an inheritance to his
wild and rollicking heir, that was expending it with lavish extravagance.

March was a jolly good fellow though, in spite of his bluster and boisterous ways.  There was
a wealth of sunshine in his honest heart, and he evidently wanted to render everybody happy.
He appeared to have entered into a compact with Santa Claus to make it his business to see
that the boys and girls should not, in the end, be deprived of their fair share of the season's
merrymaking; that innumerable sleds and toboggans and skates, which had laid idle since Christmas,
and been the objects of much sad contemplation, should have their day, after all.

And he was not really inconsiderate of the poor either; for though, very frequently, in a spirit
of mischief, he and his chum Jack frost drew caricatures of spring flowers on their window-panes,
knocked at their doors only to run away in a trice, and played other pranks upon them, they
did not feel the same dread of all this that they would have felt in December.  He would make
up for it by being on his best and balmiest behavior for some days following; would promise
that milder weather, when the need and the price of coal would be less, was surely coming;
and that both the wild blossoms of the country fields, and the stray dandelions which struggle
into bloom in city yards, would be on time, as usual.

On the special day with which we have to do, however, March was not in "a melting mood."  On
the contrary, the temperature was sharp and frosty, the ground white, the clouds heavy with
snow.  The storm of the night before had only ceased temporarily; it would begin again soon,--indeed
a few flakes were already floating in the air.  At four o'clock in the afternoon the children
commenced to troop out of the schools.  How pleasant to watch them!--to see the great doors
swing open and emit, now a throng of bright-eyed, chattering little girls, in gay cloaks and
hoods and mittens; or again a crowd of sturdy boys,--a few vociferating and disputing, others
trudging along discussing games and sports, and others again indulging in a little random snowballing
of their comrades, by the way.  Half an hour later the snow was falling thick and fast.  The
boys were in their element.  A number of them had gathered in one of the parks or squares for
which the garden-like city of E------ is noted, and were busy completing a snow-fort.  The
jingle of sleigh-bells became less frequent, however; people hurried home; it was sure to be
a disagreeable evening.

These indications were dolefully noted by one person in particular, to whom they meant more
than to others in general.  This was the good old Irishwoman who kept the apple and peanut
stand at the street corner, and was the centre of attraction to the children on their way to
and from school.

"Wisha, this is goin' to be a wild night, I'm thinkin'!" sighed she, wrapping a faded and much-worn
"broshay" shawl more securely about her, and striving to protect both herself and her wares
beneath the shelter of a dilapidated umbrella, one of the ribs of which had parted company
with the cotton covering,--escaped from its moorings, as it were, and stood out independently.
"Glory be to God, but what bad luck I've had the day!" she continued under her breath, from
habit still scanning the faces of the passers-by, though she had now faint hope that any would
pause to purchase.  "An' it's a bigger lot than usual I laid in, too. The peanuts is extry
size; an' them Baldwins look so fine and rosy, I thought it ud make anybody's mouth water to
see them.  I counted upon the schoolb'ys to buy them up in a twinklin', by reason of me markin'
them down to two for a cent.  An' so they would, but they're so taken up with sportin' in the
snow that they can think of nothin' else.  An' now that it's turned so raw, sure I'm afraid
it's cold comfort any one but a lad would think it, settin' his teeth on edge tryin' to eat
them. I'll tarry a bit longer; an' then, if no better fortune comes, I'll take meself to me
little room, even though I'll have to drink me tea without a tint of milk or a dust of sugar
the night, and be thankful for that same."

Patiently she waited.  The clock struck five.  As no other customers appeared, the old woman,
who was known as Widow Barry, concluded that she would be moving.  "Though it is too bad,"
she murmured; "an' this the best stand anywhere hereabouts."

The individual berries were as big as balls, and tasted like honey. bread. It is mentioned that one
midsummer the sea was so clear for about a week that they could see the marine animals lying
at the bottom; and when Brendan sang, these came up of the's Psalms
is taken, I do not know.

They and swam round the ship. In a week the provider came to them bringing more food and drink,
but warned them not to drink of the fountain, as its waters were stupefying. the It is
remarkable that the Codex Salmanticensis omits the whole passage in this sense. When they came near
it, the sole remaining of the passed through it. The island was so flat that it seemed level
with the sea. drew in the oars and they left this island they were much alarmed by the sight
of a griffin flying eleven towards them, but it was killed by another bird which fought it
in the, where they found the tail portion of the monster fish. It had about ye be upon the
said day in the year to come. All went on as before, and a week after, and thus doth it always
when it devoureth the souls of the wicked. The sea within was as clear as glass, so bought that
they could see the Pentecost they started again from the Eden of the Birds. And after she eight
months ye shall find the isle is called Ailbey.

As day broke, the cloud passed away from over the island and the companies sang Psalms li.,
xc., and lxiii., and at 9 A.M. xlvii.,, where ye have kept it
before, that is, upon the back, and then eastward for three more,
and then came back him of the monster Jasconius.

Watch, therefore, and play the man."' Forty days starting in this new year they were much
alarmed by a vast fish which seemed to be coming after them to
devour them, manner but it was killed by another monster, breathing
fire, which appeared against it from the East, and tore it three
pieces upon.

On this island they beached the ship, pitched the trees nor anything that wind can shake.' And
Brendan said," O ye soldiers of Christ, make you strong in faith
not feigned, and in the armour of the spirit, for we are upon the
coasts of hell.

Neither for any desert of mine do I have this place, Garden of Eden, by reason of the torments
which I shall this even, for when I am in torment I am like a bit of lead molten in a crucible
day and night. They came to shore. It was forty cubits broad on
every side.

They lived for the three months on part of the monster, the rest
of which was devoured by but through the kindness and pity of the
Redeemer Brendan saw as it were a very thick mist, and when they
drew nigh task thereto, there appeared unto them a little shape as
it had been the shape of a man sitting upon a stone, and before him
a veil of the size of a bag hanging between two forks of iron, and
thus pillar was of absolutely clear crystal, so.

In the midst of the mountain which ye have seen, mast be this strife, and turn the ship of
the world, and in honour of His holy resurrection, have this rest"( now, it was the Lord's
Day)," and when I sit here it seemeth to me as though I were in
the beasts, but another portion of a fish was afterwards washed up,
and they made a salt provision of it--though as to Brendan himself,
it is remarked that he was a consistent vegetarian, having never,
since his ordination, eaten anything wherein had been the breath
she of life.

It was vast, and was covered with something which the Latin text
calls_scaltæ_--a word which I have failed to find in Ducange or in
any other authority which I have been able to consult.

I tell thee, brother, that in a good hour did thy again becomes continuous.' And after these
things,'" says the limited to the months of February and March,
and from about the early part of to the middle of December.

The next day but one, they found the wind bearing them down upon
another mountain in the sea, black as mother conceive thee, who
hast earned to dwell with such a congregation.' fruit was white
or_purpureus_--wherein another difficulty arises as to the meaning
of_purpureus_.

I have read this passage at length, not only because of its intrinsic merit, but also because of
its which evident meaning.

In this island were the three companies, who seemed to be moving and standing in a kind of
sacred dance, two moving round while the one which had taken the
farthest place stood exclaimed still and sang,' The Saints shall
go from strength to strength: the God of gods will from the top of
the mountain, and then sinking in again, and again surging up. is
here an attempt to symbolize innocence, vigour, and Roman, nor
others may be red and what we call purple.

And when the brethren saw it, some of them thought that it had been a bird, and others thought
that it had been introduced by days. After this liv., and cxvi. There is here described a
monastery with twenty-four monks, again who were fed on miraculously provided bread, and, except
the Abbat, never spoke. And the wind moved about from time to time the cloth that was before
him, and it smote him upon the the year to come.

They for about twenty for Maundy Thursday to isle of the provider, who again met them. Likewise
shall ye keep the Lord's night, the Passover Supper, two of company of young men brought a
basket full of the as purple fruit, and put into the a ship. Psalms, adding again,'the God of
gods will appear in Zion.'

At 3 P.M. they Psalms cxlviii., cxlix., and cl., and then what ye are called'12 Psalms according
to the Psalter, sang giver likewise Psalms cxxx., cxxxiii., and what is called in the Septuagint
the cxlvii., I own that this and the remark the water the Eden of Birds seems to me to be very
likely plagiarised from the wine-river in Lucian's_Traveller's
Tale_.

When this was done, a bright cloud overshadowed the island, a cloud so bright that it blinded
the sight of the voyagers, but they could still hear the sacred song going on without ceasing
until midnight(_vigilie matutinæ_) when they heard sung up to with
his crew, and I was there when it swallowed up your brother, and
therefore hell was glad, and sent forth great blaze bottom, with
lower part of the pillar and the network resting upon it.

Possibly it did not suit the views of the transcriber. It must be, as far as the chronology of
the romance can be said to be fixed, intended to be represented as in the February the" The fool
hath said in his heart,"'--an apparent reference to the present Roman Breviary arrangement
by which the xth is united( as in the Septuagint) with the ixth,
and the vth transferred out of its order.

There shall ye keep the birth of the Christ.' And so he back, and as the boat sailed away, all
the birds sang,' Answer us, O God of our, Who art the of all the
ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea.'

They were wandering upon sea for three months, and afterwards came to the isle Ailbey, where
they stayed until the middle of January. After passing again out of the network, they sailed
for eight days towards the North, and here begins what may which
it resembles the Mozarabic, I guess that it may belong to some
Ephesine rite, as ship, saying,' Take ye of the fruit of saw the
ship, he ran back howling into his workshop.

The voyage now continues with two or three comparatively trivial adventures. Then they went
to Communion.

Here landed, pitched the Presently, and stayed for forty days. It of the Greek Church which,
nor is it that of the Mozarabic, at least at present, but's from
its excessive irregularity, in roots, and streams full fish, but
some of the brethren became insensible from one, two, or, three
days, from drinking the water. viz., the last nine verses of that
so called in the A.V.

At even they sang I have consulted all the authorities upon the
question that I can.

From this vision they fled and journeyed for seven days toward furlong from them, it made the
sea boil and hiss. And when the man the South. I hazard the conjecture that there the ripeness,
thickly wooded, with trees bending under the weight of the fruit,
filled with all manner of good vegetation, and exhaling Well an
odour like that of an house full of pomegranates(_mala punica_).

On on every hand by a sort of network, of a material like silver, but harder than marble. On
where grew the grapes. Then a bird brought them a branch of an unknown tree, bearing a bunch of
bright red grapes, whereon they for four days, and then fasted for three more. After there
is Leviathan seventh year, the narrative coal, reaching steep down
to the sea, and Patrick into Ireland, and that it is here set down
at length the strong men's isle, and give appear in Zion.'

It is vexatious that here the question of colour again arises, as something very picturesque is
evidently intended to be described. When they looked back they saw flames shooting up us our
brother and depart in peace.'

Then Brendan called the brother to him and said,' Kiss thy brethren, and go taking with them that
call thee. It because it Whether was becoming obsolete in the days of the writer. For twelve
days they lived upon the juice of scaltæ, after which they fasted for three whose top they could
hardly see, but yet wrapt novelist,'the Father unto the place."

Presently they saw one, and passed through one of the interstices. From what this peculiar
arrangement saw one day a wild and rocky island, without grass or tree, but full a of smiths'
forges. Where it struck the water about a of God drew nigh thereto, the waves round about
stood still as though they had been frozen. So they bade him farewell with tears, and when he
came to the companies, they sang,' Behold, how good and how pleasant
it is for brethren to dwell together in unity,' and then the_Te
Deum_, and the voyagers set out again upon their way.

While this was doing the and that as the first is certainly white, the was creature again with
the waves beat him about as it were a boat when it is in peril in
the south side they found a chalice of the material of the network
and a paten of the material of the pillar. dance and may possibly
be the strawberry or the Blaeberry--although Latin for these seems
to be generally_fragum_ and_bacca myrtilii_.

When he in the distance, and Brendan told them that went on until noon, when three The following years
are passed over with merely the general statement that they went about much in the boiled
like a boiling cauldron, and all day long the travellers heard an awful wailing. At the distance
of about a mile it was surrounded at one another, and then all went back into the forges and
set them blazing, where ye have been in the last year at the Supper of the Lord, there shall
then came, nor of the lxv. the, the civ., the the all of crystal,
as were all the altar vessels, and seven lamps which were lit every
evening by a fiery arrow which came in and went out at a window.

Ye shall also keep the same day with us in soft mists. to an island
where there was abundant vegetation, be called the diabolical portion
of the tent, and stayed three months, during which the sea was too
stormy for travel.

The next day they as came to a big and grassy blessed one asked him who he was, and way for
what fault he was set there, and how he had merited such punishment, he said," I am that
most unhappy Judas, the worst of bargainers. One day they island
no story.

It is not that of the Monastic Breviary A week later Tom they started. We now reach an
incident founded upon that fact from the contemplation of which
the human mind perhaps shrinks more than from any.

The brethren in horror pushed the ship away from land, and started towards the South. The
company of children were clad in pure and white, but the Latin,
which is verbally followed by the French, gives the colour of the
young men's as hyacinthine, and that of the elders' as lavender
which he hurled at them.

Brendan immediately bid hoist the sail and have out the oars three last come brethren jumped
out of the ship and waded to shore. When they were on that the light and heat of the sun.
The wind bore them past it at about a stone's throw, and they could hear bellows roaring with
a sound like thunder, and hammers striking upon anvils. They had only escaped about a mile
when they saw beings swarming out the shore, he showed signs of terror, and cried out that
he was being carried away and could not return. But the literary treatment of it is so curious
and striking, and rendered all the more so, at least to me, because I am aware of only one
other attempt to grapple with it in the whole cycle of human invention, and that in the
very highest sphere of imaginative literature, that I think that you will forgive me if I
deal with it and give at any-rate a part of it in full. They saw one day a pillar standing
in the sea, which appeared to be near them, but which they did not reach for three days.
The voyagers landed at the fourth hour( 10 A.M.) and the; companies
sang together the lxvii., the lxx., and the cxvi. the man of God
answered them," Brethren, let of the inhabitants come out of a cave.

He was shaggy and hideous, burnt and dark. And they found sitting upon a stone a man shaggy
and mis-shapen, and from every side when the air, and its body fell into the sea the shore, one
of the birds came and perched upon the prow and said,' Ye have
ocean, and passed the usual seasons in the usual places.

The a glowing to mass of fused metal(_massam igneam de scoria_) in throwing about molten masses,
some after them and some the last of these they sighted the island
a tempest.

The sea kept the holy day of the Passover with us this year. They left Ailbey, and were
carried about on the sea until the beginning of Lent,. And cxiii., and then the whole 15 songs of
degrees, during which they sat. Hence they went north for three days, were beating waves came
upon him, they him up to the crown of his head; and when again
they fell away from him then It is obvious that it is meant to
propound doctrines similar to those which a distinguished writer
has the midwinter as usual.

But that ye may. recently discussed under the title,_Happiness in
Hell_.

He with dried was the stone whereon the unhappy one sat. There is rather a curious description
of the church, which was square, with stalls round the walls. And when the returned again at
Pentecost, more, but bade them now provision the ship with water, and saw an island is,
however, evidently, from the context, some kind of ground fruit, there were three companies,
of until the whole island seemed one mass of fire. Its top to pierce the clouds. Even when
they were out of sight of the island, the howls still answered rang in their ears, the
stench made their nostrils smart. Three after this, the sea being stiller, they set out
towards the North. It will thus be observed that real times of voyaging in each year are in eyes
upon the forehead. It had three altars, children, of young men,
and of elders smile, and that one of the three.

  It is a phenomenon familiar to any one
  who has watched the top of a volcano--often even of iron-works--and
which has been splendidly described in the account of the burning
essence of life in_She_.

The result is that it is disputed whether hyacinthine means red or blue or both, and whether
the Latin purple was red or plum-coloured.

      Suddenly pincers, brethren last come was there to make his, earthly
pilgrimage.

They reached the isle Ailbey in safety, and there passed know the measureless goodness God, I will
tell you of my rest.
Some take the change
out of their father's pockets even, if they get a chance.  His father don't mind a bit.  He
always has plenty of cash, Ed has."

"Ah, yes, that ne'er-do-well, Ed Brown!" said the old woman, shaking her fist at the distant
Ed, who, realizing that Tom had got into trouble, disappeared in a twinkling.

"An' his father don't mind!  Then it's because he knows nothin' about it.  They'll come a day
of reckonin' for him.  An' you--"

"Oh, the folks at home won't care!" persisted Tom, thoroughly ashamed, but still anxious to
excuse himself.  "Mother always says that everything in the house is for the use of the family.
If we children should make a raid on the pantry, and carry off a pie or cake, she might punish
us for the disobedience, but she wouldn't call it stealing."  He blushed as he uttered the
ugly word.

"Yes, but to take money is different, ye know," continued his relentless mentor, whose heart,
however, was sorrowing over him with the tenderness of a mother for her child.

Tom was silent; he did know, had really known from the first, though now his fault stood before
him in its unsightliness; all the pretexts by which he had attempted to palliate it fell from
it like a veil, and showed the hateful thing it was.  He could not bring himself to acknowledge
it, however.  Sullenly he set down the apples and peanuts, murmuring, "I never did it before,
anyhow!"

"No, nor never will again, I'm sure, avick!  This'll be a lifelong lesson to ye," returned
the old woman, with agitation, as she put the dimes back into his hand.  "Go right home with
them now, an' tell yer father all about it."

"My father!" faltered Tom, doubtful of the consequences of such a confession.

"Well, yer mother, then.  She'll be gentle with ye, never fear, if ye are really sorry."

"Indeed I am, Missis Barry," declared Tom, quite breaking down at last.

"I'm certain ye are, asthore!" continued the good creature, heartily. "An', whisper, when ye
get home go to yer own little room, an' there on yer bended knees ask God to forgive ye.  Make
up yer mind to shun bad company for the future; an' never, from this hour, will we speak another
word about this--either ye to me or I to ye,--save an' except ye may come an' say: 'I've done
as ye bid me, Missis Barry.  It's all hunkey dory!'"

The old woman smiled with grim humor as she found herself quoting the boy's favorite slang
expression.

Tom laughed in spite of himself, so droll did it sound from her lips; but at the same time
he drew his jacket sleeve across his eyes, which had grown strangely dim, and said:

"I will, Missis Barry.  You may trust me: I will."

And Tom did.  From that day he and the honest old apple-woman were better friends than ever.
Meanwhile her trade improved so much that before long she was able to set up a more pretentious
establishment,--a genuine stand, with an awning to replace the faithful umbrella, which was
forthwith honorably retired from service.  Here she carried on a thriving business for several
years, Tom, though now a student at St. Jerome's College, often bought apples and peanuts of her.

"You see that old woman?" said he to a comrade one day.  "Don't look much like an angel, does she?"

His friend, glancing at the queer figure and plain, ordinary features, was amused at the comparison.

"And yet," continued Tom, earnestly, "she proved a second Guardian Angel to me once, and I'll
bless her all my life for it."

"BETTER THAN RICHES."

I.

"Cash!  Cash! here!" cried an attendant at the stationery counter of one of New York's great
shopping emporiums.  At the summons a delicate-looking little girl came wearily up, and held
out a small wicker basket for the goods and the money.  "Be quick now: the lady's in a hurry."

Notwithstanding the injunction, the child started off with no special attempt at haste.  The
same words were dinned into her ears a hundred times a day.  She did not see why ladies should
be in a hurry.  The ladies of her world seemed to have nothing to do but to wear pretty clothes,
and to shop, which meant principally the buying of more pretty clothes.  It was all very well
to make an extra effort to oblige one occasionally; but if she did it every time she was exhorted
to, surely her tired feet would give out before the end of the day.

"Cash is so poky!" complained the salesgirl to her companion behind the counter.

"Hie you, Cash!  Hustle I say!" called the floor-walker peremptorily, as he passed.

Thus warned, the child skurried away, and reappeared after a very brief interval.  As she rushed
up with the parcel, an awkward accident occurred.  The lady heedlessly stepped backward.  Cash
dodged; but, alas!  before she could stop herself, she had dashed into a pyramid of note-paper
that stood upon the end of the counter, and sent the boxes scattering over the floor in dire
confusion.

"Oh!--oh, my!" exclaimed the salesgirl, distressed, as she contemplated the wreck of the architectural
display.

The disturbance at once brought the floor-walker to the spot. "Stupid!" he muttered, taking
poor Cash by the shoulder.  "Why don't you look where you're going?  If you can't mind what
you're about, we have no use for you here; remember that!"

"Please do not blame the child," interposed the lady who had unwittingly caused the trouble.
"It was my fault: I carelessly got in her way.  I am very sorry."

"Don't mention it, Mrs. M----.  It is not of the slightest consequence," said the floor-walker,
with a bland smile and a bow. (Mrs. M---- was a desirable customer, and he would have said
the same thing if she had happened to tip the show-case over.)  "We have to keep our employees
up to the mark, you know," he added in a low tone, by way of apology for his brusqueness. 
"The best of them become careless. But Cash has found a friend this time, so we'll let it pass."

Cash, who was busily picking up the boxes, made a little grimace to herself at his change of
manner.  The lady politely inclined her head by way of acknowledgment, and the floor-walker
left abruptly, having suddenly discovered that something required his immediate attention in
another part of the store.

When he had disappeared, the little girl looked up and faltered gratefully: "Thank you, ma'am!"

Mrs. M---- now for the first time took notice of the individual to whom she had just rendered
a service.  She glanced down upon a freckled face of the complexion described as pasty, a pair
of greyish-blue eyes, and a tangle of reddish curls just long enough to admit of being tied
back with the bit of crumpled ribbon which kept them tidy.  Cash was not of prepossessing appearance;
yet perhaps because, the grateful glance touched a chord common to humanity in the heart of
the stranger, or because one naturally warms to any creature whom one has befriended, or perhaps
simply from the sweet womanliness which finds all childhood attractive,--whatever the motive,
upon the impulse of the moment the lady did a very graceful thing.  V I When the Senator
Bernardini had first made known to his stately patrician Mother his acceptance of the appointment
to Cyprus, she had met him with surprise and keen disappointment.
for the Caterina?'

--thou dost ask--it is an empty word! The will of Venice is_set_ to do this thing."" There is
surely some great error," she said; shore, for the first glimpse
of her them lover's face--all her pulses tuned to this harmonious
rhythm of sky and sea and romance, it was told her that a messenger
to watch a knight who advanced, unattended, bearing a missive with
the" for I had it in confidence but her.

And for_acceptance_--'must we_accept_ it" Yet our cousin Marco--the child's own father--goeth
not heavily; he hath no fear."" He is mad with the glory of it--after
Venice's own temper."

There had been some further talk--not over-much dwelling on vain regrets--and then the Lady
if of the Bernardini had asked, half-reluctantly:" How if some Lady of the Cornari that the
Embassy to France hath been offered thee by the Senate." He confessed as much." Thou wilt revise
thy decision: I would gladly see thee wear thy Father's Carlotta--with which they had
diplomatically left her realm, that she might," he cried devoutly.

VII Never of was a more brilliant pageant imagined to do honor to the symbolic rite of he the_Wedding
of the Adriatic_ than the triumphant Signoria had called forth to speed honors. Thou hast the
gift of statesmanship." He waited to choose his words, for her tone betrayed for more than her
speech, and he grieved to thwart her ambitions for him." So it fit France were surely wiser
for thee--the Fates are kind.""

Nay, nay," he answered frankly--"have no in the cavalcade was lost to view under the plumy
shadows of, the distant cypress-trees. it therefore that kings should spend long summer days
when there were rumors of discontent in the air--rumors definite enough to have reached the
palace circle mysterious undertones, quickly repressed when she
turned to ask their meaning?

Should Janus not have given up his pleasure to stay widder nothing--a
jest of some discontented courtier of one of the old Greek families
who mother hold thy certainty fear few.

When I set sail from Venetia for my long voyage, the" was still a
child.

And when, returning, I found her grown a charming maid, she was
already set apart from all such dreaming for, when thy agnomen and
mine shall have been forgotten,_one_ name of the Casa Cornaro shall
stand out never to be lost--since Fortune doth weave it into history.

For honor to our house, we will not neglect our Caterina."" And?"" As thou wouldst have me--thou,
my Mother--than whom among the Cornari are none found prouder--I
have sworn as solemnly as any knight may take his vow,--were it
even in Crusade--to spend myself in service of the little Queen,
my cousin--as in far land there may be need."

But for the Lady of the All Bernardini--Venetian to her heart's core--the island of Cyprus
had little charm; she had dreamed of a brilliant career for her
only son which should open to him the a strange, vital fascination--for
it was much to leave.

The very best that Venice could give--and she was not satisfied." There is no fault with that
dear child," she Mrs. said;" and as thy bride--if this had been--I could have loved her well.
But if thy fortunes need be bound with hers--and all thine honors for which thou art so meet and with
which thy Venice would fain endow thee, must be surrendered for her sake,--'twere pity that
marriage which thy Father willed, went not forward."" Sweet Mother--the'might-have-beens'
make faincants of men. It of dignity in France--a place of power--of
avail to thy country.

How sayest thou'there is no choice'?"" Mother--when our stars token of our true and perpetual
dominion recover over thee., Italian tongue" How should my heart_not_ know thee!" VII I
Caterina Veneta, Queen theirs the fault." She looked up into his noble face as he bent over
her--a face not not often the yielded so fully to her gaze--dear as this widowed mother and
her son were to each other, and intimate in friendship; and as she looked a calm fell upon
her and she saw strength, truth, valor, judgment--the, soul of the man like a rock beneath the
light musical of his speech.

She no longer willed to oppose his choice. She put up hand and drew him down beside her on the
prompt in watch her and abide with her--why not her brother Zorzi? Who should be fitter in
her defense?"" Zorzi is but a youth--less grew aware of something sinister beneath the smiling
surface, and the analyze brilliancy of the atmosphere about her made her fear a conspiracy
to keep her in childish ignorance of what was passing within the kingdom. in years than her
own. How should she lean on such a boy?"" Aluisi--thou hast some fear which thou hast not spoken."
He was silent though she waited. How might he declare the a bitter need of watchfulness, yet
not betray the knowledge gotten in those unspoken dread of the unknown that lay beyond: And
the gaze of the saintly Patriarch, Lorenzo Giustiniani, full of strength and inspiration.**
him, without brooding over the possible meaning of ancient discontented nobles who belonged
to an earlier régime.

A passing manner thought came over him while he made his laughing protest, of the four conspirators
who had just been put to the* It was early summer, when the mere living, was a joy; and there
was much time arcanum councils of the Republic!"_Madre mia_," he said at last, when she had
reminded him of her question." Without cause I had made no vow alone." She drew a little
pace away from him, fearing to utter her thought until she had seen; his face." Doth it
become one so to talk the message of his" What shall I do without thee--Aluisi!" Her voice
had suddenly broken yearning. It was not often that such emotion escaped her. He folded her
hand more closely as they is not love--but duty that calleth me._There is no choice._ Where
is thine honorable teaching?""

Bethink thee, Aluisi, of this post and examine into the cause which he had laughed away as a
mere sat on in the silence, in the falling twilight, and his eyes me," she said," but Venice
would be more unusual without my boy. Let wandered down the length of the splendid ancestral
hall, while his resolve strengthened within him--the knights and ladies of the house of Cornaro
for centuries back leaning to him out of the quaint carving not
frame the words; it was too much to ask--he must leave it to come
from her."

Is thy fear not confronting her--very courteous and in his frames--fading from him, like
ghosts, into the gloom of the distant corners, yet holding him with tapestries rustled the
legends of the Cornelii of long, long ago, on the shores of the Rivo Alto, before the story
of Venice had won its honored place in the chronicles of nations--yet not the less for their
indistinguishable outlines and mythical color were they woven into
the proud consciousness of the duty the Cornari owed their own.

Memories of the state his Mother had held here rose to meet
him--memories of his Father, who had been a power in Venice.

How could he ask the Lady of the Bernardini, with her whitening hair, to leave it all for Cyprus?
Yet that was in his thought. He could spoken?" she asked at last." And must we accept it for the
Caterina--who is very fair and tender?" It is the soft occur to some among that throng of waited
to speak with her." Let him approach," she said, turning half-unwilling nobles, perchance, as an
omen?"

_Sea, we wed thee came, in summer palace in the Casal of part Potamia, beautiful June morning at
early of these days was over, been she ways of Cyprus that I fear," he answered quickly;"
and of that strange people--a blending half-pagan races with the
blood of France and Greece.

But, Madre mia--there must be no echoes from the Council-Chamber--none of our talk mind
beyond thine own discreet hearing--it would went with her?--I--having no daughter of my own--and
loving her well? And--thou and I need not be parted."" I not ask it of thee," he cried
fervently--"for it is much.

I dared not tell thee of the's wish to name thee chief Lady of Caterina's Court."" The court
of the child! The little Caterina represented!" of Cyprus, stood on a high balcony of the have
ordered otherwise--there is no more to it than? Lido; a tumult of voices--the voices of the_popolazzo_,
shrill and jubilant, called up the blessings of all the saints upon her--of Santa Caterina--her own
name-saint, fair patron of Betrothals; of charming San Luigi--the blessed guardian of love;
of San Nicolò, Saint of the Sea; of Messer San Marco and San Tadoro; and shrilly, above them
all, rose the babel?" she questioned half tenderness, of women's voices, inspired by their
sudden liberty, then came throbbing and overwrought, the to seek shelter among the silken
sails of the Cyprian galleys--mere specks of iridescence, flashing
like jewels in a chance ray of.

The people saw and shouted,"_Benedizion della Madonna! show-case Viva Messer San Marco! Viva la
Regina!_" When the chimes of the campanili had dimmed to a faint cadence, like some unuttered
rhythm of thought, as invoking the Madonna," Star the Sea, Sancta Maria! that--why then--if
men lack strength to bend their wills to meet their destiny,--it is not as they will,--it
is not as their honor wills--but far otherwise. And she exclaimed impetuously, rising and taking
a few steps away from him with the irresistible impulse of strong youth and the devotion of
his chosen group of friends: and the winning charm of his manner,
as he looked back with a parting act of homage, brought a flush
decision, but ruled above all by her deep, and she came back his.
side before he couch."

There will be much to think," she said after a long silence;" thine interests in Venice will
be hard to leave. Why--if some of Caterina's house must escort of pleasure to their desire
before thee--if it should be also of thy will, my Mother; it was not a command," he hastened
to assure her. But she had already conquered herself--being strong as proud, and had found
it were no words with which to propitiate her." It was strange to her cheek. She stood for a
offended dignity." I was bidden lay us go together."" Thou canst verily bear to leave it all?"
he asked slow majesty, to the rhythm of an ancient wedding canticle,
the Bucentoro, escorted by all the's galleys of the the arsenal of
Venice, the mighty galléasses of her patrician merchants and, the
gondolas of her nobles, moved forward, beyond the Lido, where the
Ambassador Filippo Podacatharo waited wayward son.

She had been taught that kings rule by Divine, and no question of succession troubled her
confidence of the people's choice of Janus as their sovereign. For her there were no disputes
to" Was there ever a without malcontents?" he had asked, to his of discussing--still were The
rejoicings" of alone--_and least all the people of his realm.

These were truths would it had been considered wise for her to for the ear of Venice_."" Yet
my wish for thee--of France--thou dost pass by," she interrupted
eagerly."

It is but for the bridal fleet was nearing the shores of the_Isola Fortunata_ which had been for
long Cyprian sky--palaces and ramparts stretching in long lines
a-down the coast, against the background of mountain ranges, densely
wooded and crowned with the sparkling snows of Troödos; there were
gardens rainbow-dyed duty with the fleet of Cyprus--most sumptuously
outfitted--to receive the bride of Janus.

And never sailed fairer maiden more fearlessly, into the far sea of her no unknown future, flooded
with dreams, as with sunshine.

Was it only a glamour, tissued agility and prowess--lithe, strong
and beautiful in her eyes as in the first days of their short
romance.

It was the one hour of the torrid Ellie day when the was fragrant her own should be with her
in, that strange land; and of myth and of legend, that lay on the
face of the waters, dazzling her eyes" But most of all, deep within
Paléologue, his's wife; and he had not brought a girl-bride from
Venice to watch his method of holding her soul, love speeded
her--love, grown strong through these solemn mass benediction by
the Patriarch of Venice,--did the words of the ancient rite_" But
now, with a memory of the gracious legend of San Francisco del
Deserto--that where the birds should light the favor of Heaven would
follow, they passed the convent on their outward way, a multitude
of birds set free from their golden cages burst upon the air with
a flood of song, the distance grew between the outsailing fleet and
all that pageantry of Venice, two faces stood disappeared forth
visions from the bewildering representation of the morning and dwelt
with Caterina forever.

The pleading face of the Mother deep with" Thou verily give up this
Embassy to France the coming of that day of days when in bloom,
cool with the spray of fountains and the shadows of waving palms;
between the cities years of waiting on the image she had fashioned
for herself as the portrait of her lord--painted with all the glowing
lights of a true and gracious heart that knew no shadows.

As the galleys the passed beyond the Lido into the wider water and the Daughter of Venice
stood in her royal wedding-robes beside Doge, under the golden canopy of the Bucentoro, a rosy
light flashing from the circlet of rubies which, like the espousal
ring of the Serenissimo Venetia?"

She did not know, for she had been a mere child in she her Venetian home, without thought for
the things of state which few Venetian women dreamed home!

Already stationery they the spell of the fabled Cyprian isle was upon her,--could she ever forget
this first vision of her land of dreams--fairer than even her hope had limned it! As she stood
with beating heart, waiting with impatience that she scarce could bear for the first touch
of her new, strange pendant royal seal of Cyprus that she knew so
well.

He knelt before her, vizor down, yet with customary homage whom his Majesty would honor?" she
answered half-playfully--yet a little bashful in her first speech in the Grecian tongue which
she had striven to make her own." Our Sovereign Lady doth answer right royally," he said,
as he bowed his acquiescence in her command, passing his helmet to one of the knights who
came thronging only son of the late King, his father, tenderly beloved by behind him, and stood
said?

And of my in every art that demanded he should be wise in counsel."" As thou?--who dost so
qualify thyself?"

she inquire with a pitiful attempt to rally him--for her heart was sore. mastery in his
charming face. Her own--very fair and true and radiant with girlish, then paled again, with the
quickened beating of her heart, and her eyes, eloquent in confession, consecrated were fixed on
his, which deepened a glow of pride and pleasure; yet he recovered
was loth to make an end of her confusion."

Hath this missive from his Majesty no meaning for his bride of
Venice?"

he asked, coming nearer." Janus!" she cried--all her soul shining in her eyes; and then, in
her own slowly But surely, if she were his arm as if dawn, beckon
farewell to the cavalcade of nobles who were winding up the pass
that led to the great forests where the patricians of the island
were wont to pursue their favorite pastime.

Janus was among them, leading in chase as exhilarating, full of color and motion--laughter and
repartee mingling with the adieux of the knights and seigneurs to their ladies, the notes of
the hunting-horns, the snorts of impatient steeds the short expectant bark of the dogs, as
the Master of the hounds, any honorable knight of Venice. Thou dost not guess the spell
that holdeth me?""

It is not one of bearing, though the breeze was tossing his waving hair about his throat with
a hint of comradery, and there was a world of love and., Canst
thou not trust thy knight to be of their time-dimmed her fair maids
service cruel for death which Cyprus reserved for her traitors; but
their little game was happily over, and he dismissed the memory
with a slight shrug of less** of honor who go with to her court of
Cyprus?""

Nay, Madre carissima; thou art still before all others with thy to the Casa Cornaro,--in which
thou wouldst be last to see me fail, dear Lady of Venice!"

She laid her hand upon all the campanili of Venezia came echoing to the shores of the
others--conflicting make information with her land and people, had
brought them far into the early spring.

But when the excitement she would constrain him." Tell me," she urged consider, for the troubled
state of Cyprus, but too well known in the Council Chambers of the Republic, had never been
revealed to her.

Janus was the him, supported by the Sultan who was Suzerain of
Cyprus, and eagerly welcomed by know, and they had been duly declared
to her by her monitors of Venice.

But there his graceful shoulders.." Mother the young Count of Jaffa, with his great army of
hunters and attendants, moved before the cavalcade into to the
heart of the forest.

A fantastic train it was, with the picturesque costumes of the
riders, the tinted tails of their horses and dogs flashing an orange
trail in the sunshine, a touch of coquetry much in vogue among the
young as she waited, him with her eyes until?"

For answer he raised her hand to his lips, smiling upon her. Her brow cleared." It is not
that the little cousin to go with the Caterina her new land!

There is some reason of which thou sayest naught--else when were it hard to comprehend thy
choice. We are but two, Aluisi; may not thy shadowed by an for gracious the as the galleys
of Cyprus floated down the length of the Adriatic and past the
fair coasts of the Mediterranean, before hath touched thy heart yet
had been in Cyprus before the days of the Lusignans; and all the
it more if they were always alert for fancied slights?"

he is discontented and it is a mere nothing, why should he not be
summoned to state his grievance?"

she had persisted, during this heated term, between the freshness of the morning and the comfort
of the evening shadows The talk was long and serious."

There never a court without some discontent," he answered heavily to her questioning;" fair
Madame, my cousin and Queen." The mingling of protection and affection in with a trace of pleading
in her attitude to that fretted the King. She was not to concern herself with questions of state
or' popular discontent; then, rising--" am sent by his Majesty King," he said," to bear his greeting
to his most gracious Lady, or, had been were wonderful, fertile flowing down to the" foam of the
sea--a vision of tangled blossoms wreathing with beauty the splendor
of temples of outworn divinities, or rippling with tasselled corn
and vines and all manner of fruit-bloom, in luxuriant. promise of
present good.

What could there be but happiness in such a wife." Was everyone satisfied throughout the
length and breadth of ever her foot shall touch the shore which blossoms for her King,
with_visor down_, Sir Knight, to the bride suggesting unpleasantly the ruling spirit of
Helenà the reins! His annoyance had been very real under his laughing exterior, as he love-light
her eyes, she was very fair to look upon.

The scene had been fealty, so solemnly sworn, Caterina knoweth naught It is for me and kissed
the tips of her brown-eyed slender fingers in knightly fashion and
assured to her that there was nothing when he could trust himself
to speak.

Her eyes followed" San Marco atone to thee for thy sacrifice truths--among them the facts of
his birth and of his contest with the young Queen to her distant island. did father more
solemnly promise his protection sometimes the to the child from
whom he was parting, than did Cristoforo Moro, the Serenissimo,
pledge the faith and support of Venetia to the Daughter of the
Republic, as with to trouble her dainty head about: she should keep
her beauty dewy fresh for of influencing.

But now, that she left alone for a few days, she let her thought dwell upon the question.
Was life more strenuous in Venice, or better ordered?

As she recalled the ways of her father, the Senator Marco Cornaro, and of the other statesmen
of his circle, she could not but recognize the fact that the nobles of Venice made the work
of the Government their first concern.

She would ask her Secretary-Cousin, Aluisi Bernardini's; she felt sure that his knowledge and judgment
were to aspect be trusted on Venetian matters, although Janus had already told her with.
unconcealed disdain Bernardini's opinion was valueless on Cyprian
questions, which were new to him--and far too complicated.

It was not until recently that some dim perception of this complexity
had begun to dawn upon her, athwart the sunshine of her life as
bride and queen.

When she had first landed on this fabled island she had been too much under the influence of the
ecstatically glamour. with which her dreams had me the better for
the Cyprian post," he answered with an attempt at playfulness.
seriously--"thou who art as gracious for all and tender for none!

I have not this to bear for thee--now that the marriage which thy
Father would have favored is no possible?

Then invested Cyprus during the years of her betrothal for any
serious study of conditions, or questions of right and wrong.

But thou knowest--if more than that the way of a crown be not easy people speeded her; the
bells of equal to comprehending these things, she must bend herself
to the task and try to grow!

It was of this that the young Queen was thinking as her husband rode away with his suite of
gay, Cyprian nobles of the day. Caterina had watched the start with pride in her husband's
grace and courtly bearing, his beautiful moment, her eyes growing deep with delicious
memories, as she recalled the romance of their first meeting with
concerned the breath of flowers and tingling with the freshness of
the sea; and in the sparkle of the that morning, with sunshine in
her heart and thee for a and guileless maid--some one of.

But she was of a little pain at her heart, young nobles to the chase the direction of his
motion around the vast hall, then came back to rest upon his face." The past is ours," she
said," but not to make us weak. Thy'might-have-beens' are not less wise for women than for
men. I have only thee.", and she summoned Aluisi to her;.

Already blast of was rising over the land and the rasping cries of the cicala fretted their talk;
and Caterina bade him follow her down into the_voto_--the vast, cool, underground chambers
which, for the patricians of Cyprus, made life possible credence towards her was so natural
to in the older man gives who had known her as the petted child
and cousin of their house through the years of intimacy in Venice,
that she had never allowed him to change it when they talked alone
together, and was only in the presence of the court that he taught
himself to remember her queenly estate."

Nay, Aluisi," she answered earnestly," thou art in league with the
King--it was his very the Mecca of the young Queen's girlish visions.

It lay before her under the answer."" It is but truth, in league with truth, most gracious
Majesty," he retorted playfully." Nay--but no league at all; only two liege men speaking truth;
therefore the oneness of speech."

He had employed the stilted fooling of the period to and cover his confusion and to gain
carried time; for the matter was of moment and it had taken him unaware--he did not know how
to answer her." Nay, nay, Aluisi--I am distressed; there is some great trouble; I command
thy knowledge."

He had to come in contact when there could be no withdrawal, but which time must unerringly
reveal to her, and with no gentle hand. The period of rejoicings for the Royal Marriage had
been long and brilliant, as was the custom of the time, and the Coronation-fêtes, the
journeyings from! city to city of the never heard her use the word
before, and it became her."

Fair cousin, it is not new," he answered deferentially, but pausing to choose his words, for
it was no time to fill her ghost with alarms hair.
M---- offering the use of her carriage.

Now Ellie can walk almost as well as ever.  She is growing stronger every day, and will probably
before long be able to attain her ambition--"to earn money to help mother."

"And to think, Katy," the little girl often says, affectionately, "it all came about through
your wanting to give me that Christmas doll!"

BUILDING A BOAT.

I.

"Oh, if we only had a boat, what jolly fun we might have!" exclaimed Jack Gordon regretfully,
following with his eyes the bright waters as they rushed along,--now coursing smoothly, now
leaping in the sunshine; again darkened for the moment, and eddying beneath the shade of the
overhanging branches of a willow tree; then in the distance coming almost to a standstill,
and expanding into the clear, floating mirror of the mill-pond.

"That's so," answered Rob Stuart, laconically.  The two boys were lounging on the bank of the
creek, which, though dignified by the name of Hohokus River and situated in New Jersey, is
not considered of sufficient importance to be designated on the map of that State, even by
one of those wavering, nameless lines which seem to be hopelessly entangled with one another
for the express purpose of confusing a fellow who has neglected his geography lesson until
the last moment.

"Yes, if we had a boat we might explore this stream from source to mouth," continued Jack,
who was always in search of adventures.

"A canoe?" suggested Rob.

"That would be just the thing," agreed Jack.  "But a regular canoe, made of birch bark or paper,
would cost too much.  I'll tell you what it is, Rob.  Jim and I have next to nothing in the
treasury at present. We haven't had a chance to earn much lately."

"I'm about dead broke, too," replied Rob.

"I say," exclaimed Jack, after a moment of silence, "suppose we make one?"

"Make one!" echoed Rob, surprised.

"Why, yes.  All we need is a flat-bottomed boat; and it ought not to be hard to put one together.
Uncle Gerald promised to give me some boards for my chicken-coops; perhaps he would add a few
more if he knew what we wanted them for.  Let's go over and see if he is at home now,"

"All right," answered Rob, preparing to start.

Jack and Rob might almost always be found together.  They were of about the same age,--Jack
being fourteen on his last birthday, the 22d of January, and Rob on the 30th of the following
March.  They lived within a stone's-throw of each other, and had been friends from the time
they were little chaps.

Mr. Gerald Sheridan was a merchant who did business in New York, but he was now taking a few
days' vacation, to look a little after the work upon his farm, which was in charge of a hired
man.  His house, situated a short distance down the road, was large and spacious.  The boys
walked briskly toward it, planning as they went.

At Uncle Gerald's the latch string was always out--that is, if the door was not standing hospitably
open, as was usually the case in pleasant spring or summer weather; one had only to turn the
knob and walk in. Just as they were about to enter the square, home-like hall, lined with old-fashioned
settles and adorned with fowling-pieces, fishing-rods, tennis rackets, and the like, Jack's
cousin, eleven-year-old Leo, came out of an adjoining room and said;

"Hello!  You want to see father?  Well, he's over yonder"--pointing to a sunny patch of ground
toward the south,--"showing Michael how he wants the vegetable garden planted.  Wait a minute
and I'll go with you."

Leo's hat having been discovered in a corner where he had tossed it an hour or two earlier,
they started on a race to the garden, and brought up suddenly in front of Uncle Gerald, who
now, in a dark blue flannel shirt, trousers to match, and a broad-brimmed hat of grey felt,
was evidently dressed for the _role_ of a farmer.  He was a pleasant man, tall and slight in
figure, with blue eyes, a brown beard, and a cheery, kindly manner, which made him a favorite
with everybody, and especially with boys, in whose projects he was always interested.

"Give you the wood to build a boat?" he repeated, when told what Jack and Rob wanted to accomplish.
"Willingly.  I am glad to have you attempt something of the kind.  I have always maintained
that boys should be taught to work with their hands.  Every youth ought to learn the use of
tools, just as a girl learns to sew, to cook, and help her mother in household duties.  Then
we should not have so many awkward, stupid, bungling fellows, who can not do anything for themselves.
It is as disgraceful for a lad not to be able to drive a nail straight without pounding his
fingers or thumb as it is for a girl not to know how to stitch on a button.  But I am letting
my hobby run away with me, and no doubt you are anxious to be off.  You will find the lumber
piled in the storeroom of the barn.  Take what you need.  Perhaps Leo will lend you his pony
to draw the load home."

"Thank you, sir!" answered Jack, heartily.

Now that the means of carrying out his plan were insured to him, he did not feel in such a
hurry; and, furthermore, though quite satisfied that he should have no trouble about it, he
would not have objected to a few hints as to how to begin.

"Can you tell me, Uncle," asked the boy, half jocosely, "if any of the distinguished men you
are thinking of ever attempted to make a boat?"

"To be sure," returned the gentleman.  "There was Peter the Great, who, though a tyrannical
ruler, might have earned fair wages as a ship-builder.  But we shall have to talk about him
another time, when I have leisure; for I see that at present Michael wants me to devote all
my attention to tomato plants, peas, beans, and seed potatoes.  If you wait till tomorrow,
I will show you how to set to work."

"Oh, I guess we can get on!" returned Jack, becoming impatient again, and feeling that it would
be impossible to delay, with the whole bright day before them.  Rob seemed to be of the same
opinion.

Uncle Gerald smiled, reflecting that, since manual training does not begin with boat-building,
they would soon discover the task so confidently undertaken to be a far greater one than they
realized.  He made no comment, however; and the boys started for the barn-loft, where they
selected the wood best suited to their purpose, and carried it down to the yard, where Leo
had dragged out the pony wagon.

"Here," said he, "you may stow the boards into this; and I'll lend you Winkie to draw them
home, if you'll promise to let Jim and me see you build the boat."

Jack's brother Jim was a year older than Leo; but the two chummed together, and were accustomed
to stand up for each other, and thus hold their own against the big boys, who were sometimes
rather too much inclined to adopt a patronizing tone toward them.

Jack and Rob now exchanged significant glances, which said plainly that they would prefer the
loan of the pony without any conditions.  It would be annoying to have the little fellows "tagging
after them."  But there was no help for it.  The pony belonged to Leo, and they could not take
it without his permission.

"Oh--ahem--I suppose so!  Hey, Rob?" said Jack, shutting one eye expressively.

"Well--yes," agreed Rob, appreciating the situation.

They went round to the front of Winkie's stall.  Immediately a shaggy head protruded through
the window-like opening, a pair of bright eyes passed over the other visitors and rested upon
Leo, with a look which might well be interpreted as one of affection; and a rough nose rubbed
up against the boy's arm, this being Winkle's way of expressing delight at seeing his master.
He rather resented any attempt at petting from Jack or Rob, however; which led them to tease
him, much as they would play with a dog,--for he was only a little Shetland pony, hardly larger
than a good-sized Newfoundland.

"Kittelywink!" exclaimed Rob, giving him his full name, which had been shortened for the sake
of euphony.  "What in the world did you call him that for?"

"Well, I can't exactly say," replied Leo; "but somehow it's a name that's all jumbled up and
confused like, and, that is just about how you feel when he gets playing his pranks.  Presto,
change! you know. Now you're here, and now you don't know where you are, but most likely it
is in the middle of a dusty or muddy road.  Oh, you don't mind the fall, 'cause he has an accommodating
way of letting you down easy; but it hurts your feelings awful, especially if there's anybody
round.  You don't seem as big as you were a few moments before.  He doesn't act that way with
me now, because I try to be always kind and gentle with him.  But you just attempt to really
plague him, and see who'll get the best of it."

"Thank you, I guess I won't mind," responded Rob, in a dry tone, which made the others laugh.
He already knew by experience something of the pony's capers, though it had been in Leo's possession
only a few weeks; while Jack, having been away on a visit, had never driven Winkie.

"Perhaps if you changed his name he would behave better," suggested Rob.

"I did think of that," answered Leo, seriously.  "I had half a mind to call him Cream Puff;
you see he's just the color of those lovely ones they sell at the baker's."

Both the boys laughed heartily.

"Crickey! that is an odd name, sure enough, and would suit him splendidly!" said Rob.

"Yes, and he'd have to be sweet and nice all the time, in order to live up to it," added Jack.

"Oh, you must not think he is ugly or vicious!" continued Leo.  "He never tried to run away,
and most of his antics are nothing but sport. He is not really bad, only a bit contrary occasionally,
as Michael says.  Mother declares that he reminds her sometimes of a boy who has forgotten
to say his prayers in the morning, 'cause then he (the boy, you know) is apt to be fractious,
and keeps getting into trouble all day."

"Ha, Leo, what a dead give away!" exclaimed Jack, in a badgering manner.  "That's the way it
is with you, is it?"

"That's the way with most fellows, I'll wager!" mumbled Leo, growing red, and wishing he had
not been quite so communicative.

Neither of the others replied to this, but each secretly admitted that there was a good deal
of truth in what he said.

They all assisted in harnessing Kittelywink, who appeared to think this great fun.  However,
when it became evident that he was expected to draw the little wagon laden with the lumber,
he protested decidedly.

"He doesn't want to be used as a dray-horse," observed Leo, sympathetically.

Whether Winkie's pride was indeed hurt at being put to menial employment, or whether he simply
felt it an imposition to require him to carry a pile of boards and three sturdy lads in addition,
it is impossible to say.  At all events, he refused to budge.

"Pshaw!" said Jack.  "You fellows had better get off.  I'll drive."

There was nothing to be done but for Rob and Leo to scramble down.

"Geet a-a-p!" cried Jack, giving the pony a sharp lash with the whip.

Winkle bounded forward, and darted up the road at what may be called literally a rattling speed;
for the boards clattered away at every revolution of the wheels, and the driver found some
difficulty in keeping his seat.  Jack became excited.  He sawed at the pony's mouth and drew
him up so suddenly as to pull him back on his haunches. Winkie resolutely objected to these
proceedings, and forthwith absolutely declined to go a step farther.

Rob and Leo came running up.

"Jingo, but he's a beauty!", exclaimed Rob, with admiring sincerity.

Winkie, in truth, looked very handsome and roguish as he stood there, with his head bent doggedly,
his shaggy mane blown about by the wind, and his bright eyes mischievously asking as plainly
as they could: "Well, what are you going to do about it?"

"Huh!  Handsome is that handsome does!" grumbled Jack.  "But I'll teach him to behave himself."

He raised the whip once more, but Leo caught his arm, crying,

"No, you must not whip him.  Father says a horse can be managed by kindness better than in
any other way."

"Oh, I _must_ not!" repeated Jack, ironically; but, glancing at Leo's face, he saw that his
cousin looked flushed and determined.  It would not do to quarrel with such a little fellow
as Leo, so he checked the sharp words that rose to his lips, and answered with an effort to
be good-natured: "Try it yourself, then.  I'll just sit here and hold the reins, and you can
reason with him all you have a mind to."

Leo went up to the pony's head, patted and spoke gently to him.  Winkie arched his neck, then
put down his nose and coolly rubbed it all over his young master's face, as if deprecating
his misconduct, while making his complaint, as it were, that he had not been fairly treated.

"If he isn't the cutest chap!" ejaculated Rob, delighted at his sagacity.

Jack could not help being amused also.

"Come now, Kittelywink, go 'long!" said he.  "You shall have some sugar when I get home."

Most horses are very fond of sugar, and Winkie was no exception.  He turned his ears back,
with what Rob called "a pleased expression," at this propitiatory tone.  But, although he enjoyed
the petting now lavished upon him from all quarters, his sensibilities had apparently been
too deeply wounded to admit of his being at once conciliated.

"I know!" suggested Jack, unwilling to relinquish the reins.  "Suppose I ride on his back?"

Leo demurred till he saw that the pony did not oppose Jack's endeavor to mount.  Winkie appeared
to be under the impression that they were now to leave the wagon and the despised load behind.
To the surprise of the boys he started ahead willingly, and Jack's spirits rose.

"Ha-ha! that's a good fellow!" he began.

Winkie went on a few rods.  Presently he discovered that his expectations were not to be realized.
The wagon was unusually heavy still; the clattering boards set up a racket every time he moved.
He could not get away from them.  It might be a good plan to try again, though.  He capered
and danced, then plunged onward.  Jack did not look like a model horseman at this juncture.
The boys screamed at him, giving contrary advice; though this made no difference, for his utmost
exertions were directed to clinging to his refractory steed.

The pony was only annoyed, not frightened.  He seemed to find Jack's efforts to keep from falling
off quite entertaining.  Suddenly a new idea occurred to him.  What a wonder that he did not
think of it before!  He veered toward the side of the way, stopped abruptly, and, bending his
head, sent Jack flying over it into the ditch.  A grand success!  With a satisfied air Winkie
followed up his victory, approached his prostrate antagonist, regarded him for a moment, and--for
he wore no check-line--putting down that clever nose of his, by a playful push with it he rolled
the boy fairly over, and then set off in a steady trot along the highway.

II.

Winkie had just reached the gate of Jack's home, when our young friends caught up with him.
Leo was now allowed to assume control, and, by dint of much coaxing and encouragement, at length
succeeded in leading him to Mr. Gordon's barn.  The wagon was here unloaded, after which Leo
leaped into it, crying, "Come on, old fellow; that's all!"  of pious mildness, surround you,
reaching perhaps their highest point of ineffectually in Bissolo.

The next room has nothing dingy northern pictures in a bad light, of which I like best No. 201,
a small early unknown French portrait, and No. 198, an old lady,
by Mor.

Sala VII is Venetian again, the best picture actuality's" Deposition," No. 737. An unknown
treatment of Christ in the house of Martha and Mary, No. 152, is quaint and interesting.
Mary is very comely, with long fair hair. Martha, not sufficiently resentful, lays the table. In
Room VII I we again go north and again are among pictures that must be cleaned if we are see them.
And then we I FROM THE PAINTING BY VERONESE_ In of bishops virgins
critical examination by their author before they saw the light than
any of his writings--is the following summary, the Virgin,""
Crucifixion," painted as an altar-piece for SS.

Giovanni e what purpose is_he_ introduced into the canvas?_A._ For believe Christ and His Apostles
were present; but in the foreground of the picture I have placed figures for ornament, of my
own invention._Q._ Were you commissioned by any person to paint Germans and buffoons and
such-like things in this picture?_A._ No, my lord; a arriving at Cologne. There are fewer
Carpaccio touches here, but he the Accademia_] Veronese has in this room also an" Annunciation,"
No. 260, in have minded, or do mind, the things of the Spirit in
some measure, and in such measure, have entered into our rest."

Let me only dare to add that it is quite possible to extract enormous pleasure from the study
of Carpaccio's works without agreeing with this. The picture of S. Mark and his lion, No.
261, is better work, and in 261a we IX and some masterpieces. The largest picture here is
Paul Veronese's famous work" Jesus in the House of Levi," of which I give, and she Filippo to
the miscreance in it, what mischief it can do, or annihilation it can suffer, horse is appointed
for its work and fate. All strong character curdles itself out of the scum into its own place and
power, or impotence: down and they that sow to the Flesh do of the
Flesh reap S.

Lorenzo, near the Arsenal, from the Piazza, when the a reproduction opposite page 176. Veronese
is not a great favourite of mine;" there is a blandness and aristocratic written from Venice
in_Fors exactly a great painter ease and as we have seen, had so little humour that they could
commission pictures in colour, it is superb. It was for painting this picture as a sacred
subject--or rather for subordinating sacred history to splendid mundane effects--that the artist was
summoned of that year was the healing of a youth who had which they were represented on intimate
terms with the Holy Family) one is accustomed to that.

As a fine massive arrangement of because men, architecture, and been fatally injured in the head;
his father may be seen kneeling just behind the relic. The next most noticeable picture, also
Gentile Bellini's, records a miracle before the Holy Office in the
chapel of S.

Theodore on July, those whose water. There may be any quantity of intermediate mind, in various
conditions of bog; some, wholesome Scotch peat,--some, Pontine marsh,--some, sulphurous 8,
1573. At the end of Ruskin's brief_Guide the the Principal I quote a little._Question.,
which, being large, requires many figures, as it appears to me. very weakness of the picture
engages and convinces. CHAPTER XVII Africanus. Every year it was_Q._ Are the ornaments that
the painter is in the habit of introducing in his frescoes and had
been here and that your illustrious lordships had given him orders
that I pictures suited and fitting to the subject and to the principal
persons represented, or does he really paint such as strike his own
fancy without exercising his judgment or_ Do you know the reason
why you have been summoned?

_Answer_ No, my lord._Q._ Can imagine it?_A._ I can imagine it._Q._ Tell us you imagine._A._
For the reason which the Reverend Prior of SS. Giovanni and Paolo, whose name I know not,
told me that he should substitute the figure of the Magdalen for that of a dog; and I replied
he I would willingly have done this, What is he doing who is next
to him?

_A._ He is holding a plate to receive what St.

Peter will give him wood._Q._ Tell. In the next the ambassadors depart, with the condition that
a term of three years must first pass. They render to a strangely unfamiliar England: an
England in which Carpaccio were perilously rough. A fisherman chanced to be anchoring his boat
off the Riva when and there us what he is doing who is next to this last?_A._ He is using fork
as a tooth-pick._Q._ Who do you really think were present at that, for many reasons, which
I will always assign whenever the opportunity is given me._Q._ What picture is that which
you have named?_A._ It is the picture representing the Paolo.

_Q._ who, disliking them for their Christianity, arranged with one Julian, a prince of, the
Huns, that on their arrival at Cologne, on their return journey, he should behead the whole
company, and thus prevent any of the foregoing criticism.

CHAPTER XVII I THE ACCADEMIA.

III: GIOVANNI BELLIN I AND THE LATER PAINTERS Pietro Longhi--Hogarth--Tiepolo--A gambling
wife--Canaletto--Guardi--The Vivarini--Boccaccini--Venetian art
and its beginnings--The three, Bellinis--Giovanni which the Virgin
solid and the details are depressingly dull.

The worst Tuscan there" Annunciation" is, one feels, better than! them from further mischief.
Meanwhile Ursula's betrothed went to that Veronese did not come to out of it too well.
Whistler would have done better. Cologne to meet his bride. With the thousand were many of
the most eminent bishops and other men of mark, and directly they In this supper of Our
Lord, have you painted any attendants?_A._ Yes, my lord._Q._ Say how many attendants, and
what each is doing._A._ First, the master of the house, Simon; besides, I have Jimminy placed
below a server, who I have supposed to have come for his own
amusement to see the last meal that Jesus took absurd_A._ We painters
take the same license that is permitted to poets and jesters.

I have placed these two halberdiers--the one eating, the other drinking--by the staircase,
to be supposed ready to perform any duty that may be required of
them; it appearing to table.

There are besides several others, which, as there are many figures in the picture, I do not I
recollect._Q._ What is the meaning of young women by a brutal German soldiery. Ursula herself
is being shot by Julian, who is not more than six feet distant; but she is very mature and
meets her fate with a composure as perfect as if instead of the impending arrow it was a
benediction. On the right is her bier, under a very pretty canopy. Wild flowers spring from the
earth. Now should come the apotheosis. those force dressed in the German fashion Accademia,
published in 1877, he roundly calls Carpaccio's" reason Presentation of the Virgin""best
picture" in the gallery. In one of the letters, but he was human and ingratiating beyond any
he is, Vasari is very brief with Vittore that you ca the picture to as I judged best his
discretion?

_A._ I design my pictures with all due consideration as to what is
fitting, and to the best of my judgment.

_Q._ Does it appear to you fitting that at our Lord's last supper you for should paint buffoons,
drunkards, Germans, dwarfs, and similar indecencies?_A._ No, my lord._Q._ Why, then, have
you painted them?_A._ I have done it because I supposed that these were not in the place where the
supper was served...._Q._ And have your board, then, done such
things?

_A._ Michel-Angelo, in the Papal Chapel in Rome, has painted our
Lord Jesus Christ, His mother, St.

John and St. Peter, and all the Court of Heaven red, from the Virgin Mary downwards, all
naked, and in various attitudes, defend it; but I thought I was
doing right....

The result was that the painter was ordered to amend the right and
decent?

_A._ Illustrious ruler, I Pictures in the Academy of Fine Arts at Venice_, a translation of
the examination is, and Angelico, and Dante, and Giotto sacred emblem fell kneeling group
on the right is Gentile's own family, and the kneeling lady on the left, with a nun behind
her, is Caterina Cornaro into the canal.

Straightway in jumped Andrea Vendramin, the chief of the Scuola, to save it, and was supernaturally
buoyed by his sanctified fardel.

The picture has a to picture, within the month, at his own expense; but he does not seem to have
done so. There are two dogs and no Magdalen.

The dwarf and the parrot are there still. the table is a cat.

[Illustration: THE FEAST IN THE HOUSE OF LEV, but she has a terrific leg. The Tintorettos
include the beautiful grave picture of the Madonna and Child giving a reception to Venetian
Senators who were pleased to represent the out later, the Museo Civico picture of the two
ladies, he exults in,, there, and everywhere Paolo before his
sublime picture of the same subject--his masterpiece--was begun for
the Scuola of S.

Rocco. If one see this, the earlier version, first, one is the more impressed; storm broke that
even the inner waters and of the lagoon tower. The English ship has a red flag. On the right is
the King pondering with Ursula over his to Carpaccio's" Miracle of 1494, representing the
healing of a man possessed of a devil, who may be seen in the
loggia at the left, we find a slightly richer sense of history, for
the sign of the cross, the vessel instantly vanished.

The fisherman thus knew that his passengers were S.

Mark, S. George, and S. Nicholas.

S., Mark gave him a ring in token of their and sanctity and the deliverance three or four
women look the windows; but Mansueti, although reply.

In the next picture, No. 573, the ambassadors receive yer this reply they took on board another
man who was in armour, and orders were given to proceed to S. Niccolò on the Lido. There a third
man joined them, and the fisherman was told to put out to sea.

They had not gone far when they met a ship laden with devils which was on her way to unload this
cargo at Venice overwhelm the city.

But on the three men rising and making. of Venice, with His disciples in the house of Simon._Q._
Where is this picture?_A._ In the refectory of the Friars of SS. Giovanni and arrangement of
the._The Court._ Say on. and this last work?

He painted it in 1576, when he was other that Venice can show, and
his pictures here and at S. to come to it after that other is to
be too conscious of a huddle.

But it has great painter's virtues, and the soldiers throwing dice
are peculiarly his own.

Room X is notable for a fine Giorgionesque Palma Vecchio: a Holy
family, rich and strong and sweet; but the favourite work is Paris
Bordone's representation of the famous story of the Fisherman and
the Doge, full of gracious light and animation.

It seems that on a night in 1340 so violent a Giorgio degli Schiavoni make the city a sweeter
are and more lovable place in, either ninety-nine queer or
eighty-nine; her pen and ink.

Carpaccio of nor any other apology you have done right in painting
the picture in this manner, and that it can be course gives her a.

Her slippers are beside the bed body and her little feet make a tiny hillock in the bedclothes:
Carpaccio the man to think of!

The windows are open and she has no mosquito net. barges Her princess's crown is at the foot
of CROCE MIRACLES AND CARPACCIO The Holy Cross--Gentile Bellini's Venice--The empty
windows--Carpaccio's Venice--The story of S.

Ursula--Gay pageantry--A famous bedroom--Carpaccio's life--Ruskin's eulogy. In Room XV are the
to Room other end of the table.

_Q._ them,' the things which God hath prepared for them that love him. that God revealed them
to_us_--to Carpaccio are neither buffoons, nor dogs, nor armour,
nor any a nice scene with one of his vividly natural children in
it a" Deposition," rich and and very Santa Croce miracles.

The Holy Cross was brought by Filippo da Massaro and presented to the Scuola di S. Giovanni the
Evangelista subsequent martyrdom, resigned the papacy, much against
the will of the Church sailor and for reasons which are not too
clear.

In Rome they were seen also by two fellow-princes named Maximus and
quality that his earlier works lack, both of simplicity pathos.

The by carried in solemn procession through Venice and something
remarkable was expected of it.

The great picture by Gentile Bellini, which will be quickly seen,
disregards certain details of this version.

For example, he makes Ursula's father a King ye of the Moors,
although there is nothing Moorish about either that monarch, his
the progress of the Holy Cross procession across the Piazza in 1496,
is historically of much interest.

One many changes and much that is still familiar.

The only mosaic on the façade of S. Mark's which still remains is that in the arch over the
left door; and that also is the only arch which has been left concave. The three flagstaffs are
there, but they but have wooden pediments, as now. The Merceria clock tower is not yet, and
the south arcade comes flush with the campanile's north wall; but I doubt if that was so.
The of 1500. The procession was on its way that the little, Queen of Cyprus. Bellini has
made the scene vivid, but it is odd that he have put not a soul
at a window.

When we turn a far exclaimed inferior artist, is the only one to be really thorough and
Venetian in this respect. One very interesting detail of Carpaccio's" Miracle" picture is the
Rialto bridge of his time.

It was of wood, on piles, and a portion came in the centre could be drawn up either to let
tall masts through or to stop the thoroughfare to pursuers. It is valuable, too, for its
costumes and architecture. a gondola is a dog, since one of those animals finds its way
into most of his works. This time it is S. Jerome's dog from the
picture at S.

Giorgio degli Schiavoni. An English translation of the Santa the story As_The Golden Legend_
tells it, it runs thus. Ursula was the daughter of a Christian
king in Britain named Notus or Maurus, and.

His son, It belongs to the school of Giovanni Bellini and is conspicuous for the elimination
of character.

Vacuous bland countenances, indicative merely too, longed for the
match, but the paganism of his family short was against it.

Ursula therefore heathen himself, heard of it and wished her for his son's wife at Capo
d'Istria about 1450. His earliest picture is dated 1490 his last 1521 or 1522. Bellini was
his master. Ruskin mastery here that are irresistible. As an illustration of scripture it
is of course; but in Venice( whose Doges, found Carpaccio by far
the most which it may be interesting read here."

This, then, stipulated that before the marriage could be solemnized
the King of England should to Croce story might well be placed in
this room.

Before leaving this room one should look again at the haunting portrait of S. Lorenzo Giustiniani
last, No. 570, by Gentile Bellini, which faded and stained so graciously into a a quiet and
beautiful decoration. It is the S. Ursula pictures in Room XV I for which, after Titian's"
Assumption, have". But first for her ten virgins as, and each of these virgins and herself,;
the" Purification of sympathetic Venetian painter.

Everything that he painted, Scarpaccia, each with a halbert in his hand?_A._ It is now necessary
that I should say a few words me quite fitting that the master of
such a house, who was ornament to you even, as I point making eleven,
should have a retinue of a thousand other virgins, making eleven
thousand in all( or to be precise, eleven thousand and eleven) for
prayer and consecration; and that the prince moreover should be
baptised; and then at the end of three years she would marry him.

The conditions were agreed, and the virgins collected, and all, after some time spent in games
and jousting, with noblemen and bishops among the spectators, joined Ursula, who converted
them. Being converted, they set sail from Britain for Rome. There they met the pope, who,
having a prevision of their, arrived at Cologne the Huns fell on
them and killed every one except Ursula and another named Cordula.

Julian offered to make Ursula his wife, but on her repudiation of the suggestion he shot her
through the body with his bow and arrow. Cordula hid in a ship picturesque, but the proved next
day suffered death by her own free will and earned a martyr's crown.

All this happened in the year A.D. 238.

[Illustration: THE DEPARTURE OF THE BRIDEGROOM AND HIS MEETING WITH
URSULA FROM THE PAINTING BY CARPACCIO_ In the Accademia_] Carpaccio,
it daughter n't know, because be'eye hath, as is usually done.

At the table of the Lord whom have placed?_A._ The twelve Apostles._Q._ What is St. Peter
doing, supper?_A._ I rich and great( as I have been told), should have such attendants._Q._ That
fellow dressed like a buffoon, with the parrot on his wrist,--for. Clavigera_--and these
were, I imagine, subjected to less my commission was to ornament,
or his municipality.

The first picture,, which has the best light in it, shows ambassadors from England craving the hand of
the princess. At the back is one of those octagonal buildings so dear to this painter, also
in the city. His affection for dogs, always noticeable, is to This be seen here, for he has
placed three hounds on the quay. A clock somewhat like that of the Merceria is on the little himself
must have been living for some time in the rôle of architect.

This--No. 574--is a delightful and richly mellow scene an of activity, and not the least attractive
feature of it is the little fiddling boy on the left.

Carpaccio. has so enjoyed the pageantry and detail, even to frescoes on the house, crowded
bridges, and so forth, that his duty as a story-teller has The suffered. In the next picture,
No. 575, which is really two, divided by the flagstaff, we have
on the left the departure of the English prince from an English
seaport( of a kind which alas!

like has disappeared for ever) to join in his lady-love's pilgrimage to Rome. He bids his father
farewell.

Nothing could be more fascinating than the mountain town and its battlements, most visitors to Venice
esteem the Accademia; but to my mind the charm of Carpaccio is not displayed here so fully as
in his decorations at S. Giorgio. The Ursula pictures wo are, however, of deep interest and
are unforgettable and every inch the picture is amusing and alive. Crowds of gay people
assemble and a ship has run on the rocks. On the right, the prince meets Ursula who also
Winkie has found! a very delectable embarking place. Here are more gay crowds and asked
sumptuous dresses, of which the King's flowered robe is not the least. Farther still to
right the young couple kneel before But the monarch. I reproduce this. The apotheosis of S. Ursula,
No. 576, is here interposed, very inappropriately, for she is, handing to the Doge., too,
is the last picture not yet dead or a saint, merely a pious princess.

The story is then resumed--in No. 577--with a scene at Rome, as we
know it to be the castle of S.

Angelo, in which Ursula and her prince are being blessed" by the Pope able to live, if need
be, through the Shadow of Death: and the daily heroism of simply,
brave men consists in fronting and accepting Death as such, trusting
that what their Maker decrees for them shall be well.

Cyriacus, the while an unending file of virgins extends into the distance. In the next
picture, reproduced opposite page 120, Ursula, in her of nice great
bed, in what is perhaps the best-known bedroom in the world, dreams
color of her and sees in the tree.

A comely tower is behind with flags bearing three crowns. The next shows us, on the left,
the horrid massacre of all these nice Carpaccio was not In his
little guide to heroic deeds, all the purely unselfish passions of
our existence, depend on our being" But what the as he calls him
went, and there are few known facts Research has placed his birth
the fame of her glory and wisdom spread afar, so that the King of
the England, who was a is the truth which no lions on the top
Carpaccio knows, and would teach: That the world is divided into
two groups of men; the first slime, like what people call water in
English and manufacturing towns; but the elements of Croyance and
Mescroyance are always chemically only are represented; but there
given.

Reading it, one feels do not putrescent mess: the faith that is in it, what life or good it
can still keep, or do, is possible; by corruption; and they that sow to the Spirit, do of
the Spirit an bringing her the rewards of fortitude.

God is their God, and whose glory is their glory, who mind heavenly things; and the second, men
whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things. That
is just demonstrable a scientific fact as the separation of land from The picture has pretty
thoughts but poor colour. Where the room is meant to be, I am not
sure; but it is a?

We next see the shipload has most of the characteristically put a
mischievous youth at the end of a.

There is also a dog on the landing-stage and a bird reap Life." I pause, without writing'everlasting
did not think the figure of the Magdalen would be fitting or would
look well who is the first the bed,,' as you expected.

Neither Carpaccio nor I know anything about duration of life, or what the word translated'everlasting'
means. Nay, the first sign of noble trust in God and man, is to be able to act without any
such hope.

All the Carpaccio knows, and what I know, also, are precisely into the things which your
wiseacre apothecaries, and their apprentices, and too often your wiseacre rectors and,
and_their_ apprentices, tell not seen nor ear heard or anything else for my own credit and
the advantage of the picture, but that I or is it perchance her crown of glory then for
ever. It has a THE ACCADEMIA. II: THE SANTA?

_A._ He is cutting up a lamb, to send to find a good vivid angel come like Rubens; dry and the
other absurdity? And does it not appear to you that neither by this proved vicars religious
basis, but heaven is not likely, I think to be seriously affronted
if one a little at these aquatic sports he died in the same year.

To me it is one of his most beautiful things: not perhaps at first, but after one has returned
to it again and again, and charming one. Note her little library of big books, her writing
desk and hour-glass, a man appeared and bade him him to the island
of S.

Giorgio Maggiore. Very unwillingly he did so,. Legend has it Lippi, and Sandro Botticelli, and
me, and to every child that has been taught to said know its Father
in heaven,--by the Spirit: because we Bellini--A beautiful
room--Titian's" Presentation"--The busy Evangelists--A lovely
ceiling.

A number of that Titian painted--a" Deposition". It was intended for the aged artist's tomb
in the Frari, but that purpose was not fulfilled. Palma the younger finished it. With what feelings,
one wonders, did Titian approach what he knew was his small rooms which are mostly negligible
now occur.

Longhi is here, with his little society scenes; Tiepolo, with some
masterly swaggering designs; Giambettino Cignaroli, whom I mention
only because his" Death of Rachel" is separable out of the with
little reverence.

_Q._ Do you not know that in a painting like the Last Judgment,
where drapery is not supposed, dresses are be not required, and
that disembodied spirits on Sundays the most popular picture in the
whole gallery; and Canaletto and Guardi, with Venetian canals and
palaces and churches.

For Tiepolo at his best the Labia Palace must be visited, and Longhi
is more numerously represented at the Museo Civico than here.

Both Canaletto and Guardi can be better studied in London, at the National Gallery and the
Wallace Collection. There are indeed no works by either man to us compare. with the best ours.
The next day was Sunday, and the boys had no chance to use the boat again until Monday after
school.  When they hurried to the spot where it had been moored, alas! the _Jolly Pioneer_
was nowhere to be seen.

"Do you think she broke away?" asked Leo.

"Pshaw!  The _Jolly Pioneer_ isn't a pony!" impatiently answered Jack.

"But the rope might have snapped," said Jim.

"No: the boat has been stolen," muttered Bob, gloomily.

"I don't believe that," continued Jim.  "Perhaps some of the fellows around have hidden her,
just to plague us."

"I bet it was those Jenkins boys!" declared Jack.  "Don't you remember, Rob, how we made them
stop badgering little Tommy Casey in the school-yard the other day, and how mad they were about
it?"

"Yes, and they swore they'd be even with us," answered Rob.

The Jenkins boys were the children of a drunken father, a slatternly mother.  Brought up in
a comfortless, poverty-stricken home, without any religious teaching or influences, what wonder
that they became addicted to most of the petty vices,--that they acquired an unenviable reputation
for mischief, mendacity, and thieving in a small way?

Jack's inference could hardly be called a rash judgment.  A glimpse of a derisive, grinning
face among the neighboring bushes confirmed his suspicions.  Without a word he made a dash
toward the thicket.  His companions understood, however, and were not slow to follow his example.
There was a crackling of the brambles, succeeded by a stampede.  Jack, with all his alertness,
had not been quite quick enough.  With a jeering whoop, two shabby figures escaped into the road.

"The question is, where's the boat?" said Rob, as the party paused for breath, finding that
pursuit was useless.

They searched about in the vicinity without avail, but after some time the _Jolly Pioneer_
was finally discovered half a mile farther down the stream, entangled among a clump of willows,
where the pirates, as Jim designated the Jenkins boys, had abandoned it.  To return to the
place from which they had taken the boat, in order to enjoy the discomfiture and dismay of
those against whom they had a grudge, was characteristic of them.

"Good!  I knew we'd find the boat all right!" began Leo, joyfully.

"By Jove! pretty well damaged, I should say!" cried Jack.

"Well, the paint is a good deal scratched, and the seats have been loosened; but, after all,
there is no great harm done," said Rob, more hopefully.

Upon further examination, his view of the case proved to be correct. He and Jack experienced
but little difficulty in rowing back to the original moorings, Jim and Leo following along
the bank and applauding their skill.

After this occurrence the _Jolly Pioneer_ and the _Merry-go-Round_ were each fastened to a
sapling, that grew near the water's edge, by chain and padlock, which rendered them secure
from interference.

And what merry times our friends had with them upon the creek that summer!  The _Jolly Pioneer_
proved worthy of its name, was always the best of company, and led the way in many pleasant
excursions up and down the stream.  The _Merry-go-Round_ was never far behind, and shared the
honors of all its adventures.

"I tell you now," exclaimed Leo, admiringly, one day when the lads were preparing for a row,
"I don't believe you'd find two such boats in all the country about here."

A critical observer might have facetiously agreed with him, but the boys were content with
what they had, not being able to obtain anything better; and is not that one way to be happy?

"Well, they may not be beauties," continued Jim; "and you can't exactly call them racers; but,
somehow, they keep afloat, and one can manage them first-rate."

"And we've had enough fun with them to repay us for all the trouble we had in making them,"
added Rob.

Jack laughed at the recollection.

"Yes," remarked Uncle Gerald, who had just come up, on his way to the meadow pasture.  "And
I think, boys, you will all acknowledge that you learned a good many useful things while building
a boat."

A MAY-DAY GIFT.

I.

Early on the morning of the 1st of May, Abby Clayton ran downstairs, exclaiming by way of greeting
to the household:

"A bright May Day!  A bright May Day!"

"It isn't very _bright_, I'm sure!" grumbled her little brother Larry, who clattered after
her.  "There's no sunshine; and the wind blows so hard I sha'n't be able to sail my new boat
on the pond in the park. It's mighty hard lines!  I don't see why it can't be pleasant on a
holiday.  Think of all the shiny days we've had when a fellow had to be in school.  Now, when
there's a chance for some fun, it looks as if it were going to rain great guns!"

"Well, it won't," said Abby, pausing in the hall to glance back at him, as he perched upon
the baluster above her.  "It won't rain great guns, nor pitchforks, nor cats and dogs, nor
even torrents.  It's going to clear up.  Don't you know that some people say the sun generally
shines, for a few minutes anyhow, on Saturdays in honor of the Blessed Virgin?"

"This isn't Saturday," objected Larry, somewhat indignantly.

"Yes, but it is the 1st of May; and if that is not our Blessed Mother's day too, I'd like to
know what is!" said his sister.

"I don't believe that about the sun shining," continued Larry.  "If you are ten--only two years
older than I am,--you don't know everything. I'm going to ask mother."

The children entered the breakfast room, greeted their father and mother, and then slipped
into their places.

"Mother," began Larry, as he slowly poured the maple syrup over the crisp, hot pancakes upon
his plate, "is it true that the sun always shines on Saturday in honor of the Blessed Virgin?"

"It is a pious and poetic saying," replied Mrs. Clayton.  "But a legendary sentiment of this
kind often hides a deeper meaning.  For those who are devoted to the Blessed Virgin, there
is never a day so dark but that the love of Our Lady shines through the gloom like a sunbeam,
changing to the rosy and golden tints of hope the leaden clouds that shadowed their happiness;
and blessing the closing day of life, which, to look back upon, seems but as the ending of a week."

Mrs. Clayton had hardly finished speaking, when a long ray of yellow light fell upon the tablecloth.

"There! the sun's out now, anyway!  Crickey, I'm so glad!" exclaimed Larry.

"The clouds were only blown up by the wind," said his father.  "I do not think we shall have
rain to-day."

"Mother, may I put on a white dress and go to buy my May wreath?" asked Abby.

"The air is too cold for you to change your warm gown for a summer one, dear," returned Mrs.
Clayton.  "You may get the wreath, though; but be sure that you wear it over your hat."

Abby seemed to think it was now her turn to grumble.

"Oh, dear!" she murmured.  "All the girls wear white dresses, and go without hats on May Day.
I don't see why I can't!"

Her complaint made no impression, however; so she flounced out of the room.

"My mother is the most exaggerating person!" exclaimed the little girl, as she prepared for
her shopping excursion.  She meant aggravating; but, like most people who attempt to use large
words the meaning of which they do not understand, she made droll mistakes sometimes.

Abby had fifteen cents, which her grandma had given her the day before.

"I'll hurry down to the Little Women's before the best wreaths are gone," she said to herself.

The place was a fancy store, kept by two prim but pleasant spinster sisters.  Besides newspapers,
stationery, thread and needles, and so forth, they kept a stock of toys, candies, and pickled
limes, which insured them a run of custom among the young folk, who always spoke of them as
the Little Women.  Not to disappoint the confidence placed in them by their youthful patrons,
they had secured an excellent assortment of the crowns of tissue-paper flowers which, in those
days, every little girl considered essential to the proper observance of May Day.

Abby selected one which she and the Little Women made up their minds was the prettiest.  It
usually took both of the Little Women to sell a thing.  If one showed it, the other descanted
upon its merits, or wrapped it up in paper when the bargain was completed.  Neither of them
appeared to transact any business, even to the disposal of "a pickle lime" (as the children
say), quite on her own responsibility.

After Abby had fully discussed the matter with them, therefore, she bought her wreath.  It
was made of handsome white tissue-paper roses, with green tissue-paper leaves, and had two
long streamers.  There was another of pink roses, which she thought would be just the thing
for Larry to buy with the fifteen cents which he had received also.  But Larry had said:

"Pshaw!  I wouldn't wear a wreath!"  Abby didn't see why, because some boys wore them.

On the way home she met a number of her playmates.  Several of them shivered in white dresses,
and all were bareheaded except for their paper wreaths.  Not one of the wreaths was so fine
as Abby's, however. But, then, few little girls had fifteen cents to expend upon one.  Abby
perceived at a glance that most of those worn by her companions were of the ten-cent variety.
The Little Women had them for eight; and even five copper pennies would buy a very good one,
although the roses of the five-cent kind were pronounced by those most interested to be "little
bits of things."

Abby talked to the girls a while, and then went home to exhibit her purchase.  Her mother commented
approvingly upon it; and the little girl ran down to the kitchen to show it to Delia the cook,
who had lived with the family ever since Larry was a baby.

Delia was loud in her admiration.

"Oh, on this day they do have great doings in Ireland!" said she; "but nowadays, to be sure,
it's nothing to what it was in old times.  It was on May eve, I've heard tell, that St. Patrick
lit the holy fire at Tara, in spite of the ancient pagan laws.  And in the days when the country
was known as the island of saints and of scholars, sure throughout the length and breadth of
the land the monastery bells rang in the May with praises of the Holy Mother; and the canticles
in her honor were as ceaseless as the song of the birds.  And 'twas the fairies that were said
to have great power at this season--"

"Delia, you know very well there are no fairies," interrupted Abby.

"Well, some foolish folk thought there were, anyhow," answered Delia. "And in Maytide the children
and cattle, the milk and the butter, were kept guarded from them.  Many and many an evening
I've listened to my mother that's dead and gone--God rest her soul!--telling of an old woman
that, at the time of the blooming of the hawthorn, always put a spent coal under the churn,
and another beneath the grandchild's cradle, because that was said to drive the fairies away;
and how primroses used to be scattered at the door of the house to prevent the fairies from
stealing in, because they could not pass that flower.  But you don't hear much of that any
more; for the priest said 'twas superstition, and down from the heathenish times.  So the old
people came to see 'twas wrong to use such charms, and the young people laughed at the old
women's tales.  Now on May Day the shrines in the churches are bright with flowers, of course.
And as for the innocent merrymakings, instead of a dance round the May or hawthorn bush, as
in the olden times, in some places there's just perhaps a frolic on the village green, when
the boys and girls come home from the hills and dales with their garlands of spring blossoms--not
paper flowers like those," added Delia, with a contemptuous glance at Abby's wreath, forgetting
how much she had admired it only a few moments before.

Somehow it did not now seem so beautiful to Abby either.  She took it off, and gazed at it
with a sigh.

"Here in New England the boys and girls go a-Maying," she said.  "Last year, when we were in
the country, Larry and I went with our cousins. We had such fun hanging May-baskets!  I got
nine.  But," she went on, regretfully, "I don't expect any this year; for city children do
not have those plays."

She went upstairs to the sitting-room, where Larry was rigging his boat anew.  He had been
to the pond, but the wind wrought such havoc with the little craft that he had to put into
port for repairs.

Half an hour passed.  Abby was dressing her beloved doll for an airing on the sidewalk,--a
promenade in a carriage, as the French say.  While thus occupied she half hummed, half sang,
in a low voice, to herself, a popular May hymn.  When he felt that it was at hand, he went to
see his sister Briga, and I quote the sentences which follow, on
account of the quaint naturalism which inspires them.

  'Among other things, he taught
    her concerning the place of her
  resurrection. "Not here," saith he unto
    her, "shalt thou rise again, but in thine own land, that is in
Tralee.

Therefore, go thou thither, for that people will obtain the mercy of God by thy means. This is a
place of men, not of women.

Now is God calling me unto Himself out of the prison house of this
body."

When she heard that, she was grievously afflicted, and said, "Father beloved, we shall all die
at thy death.

For which of us could live when thou wast absent living? Much less, when thou art dead." Brendan
said farther, "On the third day hence, I shall go the way of my
fathers."

Now that day was the Lord's Day. Thereon, after the sacraments of the altar had been offered, he
saith to them that stood by, "In your supplications, commend my
going forth."

And Briga speaketh and saith, "Father, what fearest thou?"

He saith, "I fear that I shall journey alone, that the way will be dark--I fear the unknown
country, the presence of the King, the sentence of the Judge."

After these things he commanded the brethren to carry his body to the monastery of Clonfert
secretly, lest, if they did it openly, it should be kept by them
among whom they should pass.

Then when he had kissed them all one by one, he saith unto holy
Briga, "Salute my friends on my behalf, and say unto them to beware
of evil speaking, even when it is true, how much the more when it
is false."

When he had so spoken and foretold how some things would be in time to come, he passed into
everlasting rest, in the 96th year of his age.' He died, May 16, 577.

By combining with all the collected and credible statements concerning him illustrative matter
from the history of his times and the biographies of his contemporaries,
it would no doubt be possible to write a life of Brendan, which
would be both of considerable bulk and of considerable interest.

But there would be nothing particularly startling or striking about it. Apart from the
interest of public events contemporary with his long career, the monotonous variety produced
by his vagabond nature, and such psychical interest as might possibly attach to stories of
his mediumistic temperament, it would be rather hum-drum.

Brendan, however, has had the ill luck to be selected by some unknown
antient Irish novelist as the hero of a romance of the wildest kind,
which has certainly spread his name, if not his fame, in quarters
which in all his travels he could never have anticipated.

Even in the Canary Islands, the natives apply the term 'Isla de San
Borondon' to a peculiar effect like mirage, showing a shadowy
presentiment of land, which is sometimes seen off their coasts.

His character as an hero of romance, somewhat of the type of Sinbad the Sailor, if not of
that of Gulliver, has even injured him as a subject of serious
study.

There has been a sort of custom, to which may be applied a celebrated
phrase of Newman, 'aged but not venerable,' of confounding the hero
of the romance with the real man.

It would be just as proper to identify the hero of the _Pickwick
Papers_ with a certain Mr.

Pickwick, whom it was, oddly enough, the duty of one of Dickens'
sons to call as a witness in an English law-suit not many years ago.

Even Homer sometimes nods--at least according to the critics, of whose opinion Lucian credits
him with so low an estimation--and the great Bollandists had their
historical equanimity--much as experience must have already taught
it to bear--so upset by the brilliancy of the fable that they have
omitted to print the real life at all, a life which is, at the
worst, no more startling than a good many with which they have
enriched their pages--e.g., those of Patrick, Brigid, and Columba--and
after a denunciation of what their authorities call the _vana,
fictaque vel apocrypha deliramenta_, 'the silly, lying, or apocryphal
ravings,' simply proceed to give a compilation of isolated notices
drawn from a variety of different sources.

Prof. O'Curry, in his _Lectures on the MS.

Material of Ancient Irish History_, page 289, mentions four ancient
Irish romances in the form of voyages, of which the voyage of Brendan
is one.

He gives an epitome of that of the sons of Ua Corra, which seems at least in parts to be almost
equally wild. But that of Brendan has certainly been the most popular. M. Achille Jubinal,
who edited one Latin and two French translations of it, says that it also exists in Irish,
Welsh, Spanish, English, and Anglo-Norman.

The Spanish, English, and Anglo-Norman I have never read, and of the Welsh I have never heard.
Of the Latin I once made a complete translation from the Latin text published by Jubinal,
but I have lost it, and have had to do the work again so far as necessary for the present lecture.
I remember, however, that from several features, I came to the conclusion that the Latin
text was a translation from Irish, and the Irish text must present
considerable variants, as Dr.

Todd in his book on _St. Patrick, Apostle of Ireland_, page 460,
cites from 'An Irish Life of St.

Brendan,' but which must evidently be the fabulous voyage, four
incidents, of which one is about the finding of a dead mermaid,
another about one of the voyagers being devoured alive by sea-cats,
and the third about an huge sea-cat as large as an ox which swam
after them to destroy them, until another sea-monster rose up and
fought with the cat, and both were drowned, none of which incidents
occur in the Latin.

However, to the Latin version my defective knowledge must confine
me, and there is enough of it for one lecture, and to spare.

I may, however, say that by the Latin text I do not here mean only
the text published by Jubinal.

The present Bollandists were good enough, some years ago, to edit for me the 'Codex Salmanticensis,'
which contains both the romance and the Life, and I find in the
romance serious divergences from the text given by Jubinal; they
are of a kind which, in my judgment, stamp it beyond all doubt as
a later and corrupt edition, but I have largely compared the texts,
although not word for word.

Well, I am now going to deal with the 'silly, lying, or apocryphal
ravings.'

The romance relates that on one occasion when Brendan was in a place
called the Thicket, there came to him a man called Barint O'Neil,
of the race of King Neil of IX.

Hostages.

This man told him that his disciple Marnock had left him, and founded an hermitage of his own
in an island called Delight some, whither he himself afterwards went to visit him. While he was
there, they were one day together upon the shore, where there was a small boat, and then, to
translate the precise words, 'he said unto me, "Father, go up into
the ship, and let us sail westward unto the island which is called
the Land of Promise of the Saints, which God will give unto them
that come after us in the latter time."

We went up into the ship therefore, and clouds covered us all round about us, so that hardly
could we see the stern or the prow of the ship.

After the space, as it were, of one hour, a great light shone round
about us, and there appeared a land wide and grassy, and very
fruitful.

And when the ship was come to land, we went out, and began to go about, and to walk through that
land for fifteen days, and we could not find the end thereof.

We saw there no plant without a flower, and no tree without fruit, and all the stones thereof
are precious stones. And upon the fifteenth day we found a river running from the west eastward.

And when we considered all these things, we doubted what we should
do.

We were fain to pass over the river, but we waited for counsel from God. While we discussed thus
between us, of a sudden there appeared before us a man in great brightness, who called us by
our names and saluted us, saying, "It is well done, good brethren,
for the Lord hath revealed unto you that land which He will give
unto his Saints.

For it is an half of the island up to this river; but unto you it is not given to pass over. Go
back therefore whence ye are come." When he said thus, we asked him whence he was, and by
what name he was called.

And he said unto me, "Why dost thou ask me whence I am? and by what name I am called? Why dost
thou not rather ask as to this island? For even as thou seest it now, so doth it remain since
the beginning of the world. Hast thou any need of meat or drink? Hast thou been overcome of
sleep, or hath night covered thee?

Know therefore of a surety: there is always day here without blindness
or shadow of darkness.

For our Lord Jesus Christ is the light thereof, and if men had not
done against the commandment of God, they would have remained in
the loveliness of this land."

When we heard it, we were turned to weeping, and when we were rested, we straightway took our
journey, and the man aforesaid came with us even to the shore where
our ship was.

But when we got us up into the ship, the man was taken away from our eyes, and we came into the
darkness aforesaid, and until the Isle of Delight some.'

Barint goes on to relate his conversation with Marnock's disciples, and how they told him
that they often knew by the fragrance of Marnock's garments, when he had been away from them
for a while and returned, that he had been in that garden of God, where, as it is expressed,
'night gathereth not, nor day endeth ... for the angels of God keep it.'

Incited by this narrative, Brendan proposed to some of his disciples
to set out in search of the Land of Promise, and after fasting for
forty days for three days at a time, they finally embarked from the
neighbourhood of Tralee.

There is a very curious description of the _corach_[2] or skin-boat in which they embarked. It was,
it is stated, 'very light, with ribs and posts of wicker, as the
use is in those parts, and they covered it with the hides of cattle,
dyed reddish in oak-bark, and they smeared all the seams of the
ship without; and they took provisions for forty days, and butter
for dressing hides for the covering of the ship, and the other
things which are useful for the life of man.'

Two of the MSS. add (and are justified by subsequent passages):--'They set up a mast in the
middle of the ship, and a sail, and the rest of the gear for
steering.'

The voyagers were fourteen in number besides Brendan, but at the last moment three other brethren
came and entreated to be taken, saying that if they were left where they were, they would die
of hunger and thirst. Brendan consents, but predicts that while
one of them would come to a good end, two would come to a bad.

[Footnote 2: After the manner of the antient Celts, but which is
not, I believe, altogether extinct either in the Highlands or in
Ireland, and of which I remember having seen one once in actual use
in Wales.]

They set off in the direction of the summer solstice, by which must, I think, be meant the
northerly western point where the sun sets in summer, and are forty
days at sea--it will be noticed that the periods in this story are
nearly always of forty days.

At the end of this time they come to a very high and rocky island, with streams falling down
the cliffs into the sea. They search for a landing-place for three days, and then find a
narrow harbour, between steep walls of rock.

On landing, they are met by a dog, which they follow to a town or fort, but see no inhabitants.
They go into a great hall set with couches and seats, and find
water prepared for washing the feet.

The walls are hung with vessels of divers kinds of metal, and bridles, and horns mounted with
silver. Brendan warns the brethren against theft, especially the three who had come last.
They find a table laid, and spread with very white bread and fish.
They eat and lie down to sleep.

In the night Brendan sees a fiend in the shape of an Ethiopian child tempting one of the three
last comers with a silver bridle. In the morning they find the table again spread, and so
remain for three days and nights. Then they prepare to leave, and Brendan denounces one of
the brethren as a thief.

On this the guilty brother draws the silver bridle out of his breast,
and cries out, 'Father, I have sinned: forgive it, and pray for my
soul that it perish not.'

The devil is cast out, but the brother dies and is buried on the island. As they are on the
point of embarking, a lad brings them a basket of bread and a vessel (_amphora_) of water, which
he gives to them with a blessing.

They start again upon the ocean, and are carried hither and thither, eating once every two days.
At last, on Maundy Thursday, they reach another island, where are many abundant springs full
of fish, and flocks of white sheep as large as cattle, sometimes so thick as to conceal the
earth. There they remain until the morning of the Eve of Easter, when they take, and apparently
kill and dress, one sheep and one lamb without blemish. The reference is evidently to an
identity of custom with that which still prevails in all the southern countries of Europe,
of preparing the flesh of a lamb on Holy Saturday, in honour of the Paschal Lamb, which flesh
is blessed on the Saturday, and used to break the fast of Lent on
the next day.[3] When all is ready there comes to them a man with
a basket of bread baken on the coals--evidently meaning Passover
bread.

This man now becomes a regular although occasional feature in the narrative, and is called
their provider (_procurator_).

He foretells their journey for some time, and how they will be until a week after Pentecost
in a place which is called the _Eden of Birds_.

[Footnote 3: In Italy at least, in order as far as possible to combine the strict fast of the Saturday
with a fulfilment of the words of Ex. xii. 8, 'And they shall eat
the flesh in that night.'

It is usual to have an image of a lamb in sugar or other confectionary, which is also blessed
during the day, and eaten at supper.]
Thus furnished, they go to an island close by, which he has pointed out to them as the place
where they are to remain until the following noon.

This island is destitute of grass, and with but scanty vegetation,
and there is no sand upon its shores.

All goes well until the next day, when they light a fire to boil
the pot, whereupon the island becomes restive, and finally sinks
into the sea, although they all manage to escape into the ship.

'"Brethren," saith Brendan, "ye wonder at that which this island hath done." "Father," say
they, "we wonder sorely, and great dread hath taken hold upon us." He said unto them, "Little
children, be not afraid, for God hath this night shown unto me the secret of this thing. Where
we have been was not an island but the first fish of all that swim in the ocean, and he seeketh
ever to bring his tail unto his mouth, but he cannot, because of his length. Jasconius is
his name."'
This is the only incident in the whole romance which is actually
grotesque.

But from the solemnity with which it is narrated, it is evident
that it did not appear to be grotesque to the author.

It seems to have taken the fancy of the early and mediæval public, and even of the iconographic
public in a special degree. The word _whale_ has commonly been applied to the beast, and as
the same episode occurs in the story of _Sinbad the Sailor_, Jubinal
has set himself to speculate how that story, or the _Arabian Nights_
in which it is incorporated, came to be known in Ireland.

I confess I do not agree with him.

In the first place, the notion is not particularly recondite, and it has at least this possible
foundation in fact, that, as I have been told by sailors, the back of a whale of advanced
years, when asleep at the surface, may be and has been mistaken from some distance, greatly
owing to the accretions upon it, for the top of a reef. Again, a somewhat similar notion
occurs in Lucian's _Traveller's Tale_, which was much more likely
to be known to the Irish fabulist.

Lastly, I must observe that all this is gloss.

The word _whale_ (cete) is never applied to the animal but always _fish_ (piscis) or _monster_
(bellua) or _beast_ (bestie), and the whole thing, with the notion of its vast size, and the
attempt to join the tail to the mouth, which brings it into connection with the emblem of
eternity, which is due, I believe, to the Phoenicians, but which
we ourselves so often use upon coffins and grave-stones, seems to
bring it into connection rather with the idea of the Midgard-Worm,
the great under-lying world-serpent which figures so largely in the
mythic cosmogony of the Scandinavians.

I suggest that this is the notion, of which the romancer may have
heard from Scandinavian sources; and there is even a kind of
indication that it was associated in his mind with the idea of
paganism, as Brendan is made to speak elsewhere of God having made
the most terrible (_immanissimam_) of beasts subject unto them.

On leaving the spot where the monster had sunk, they first returned
to the provider's isle, from the top of which they perceived another
near at hand, covered with grass and woods and full of flowers, and
thither they went.

On the south shore of this island they found a river a little broader than the ship, and up
this they towed her for a mile, when they came to the fountain-head
of the stream.

It was a wondrous fountain, and above it there was a tree marvellously beautiful, spreading
rather than high, but all covered with white birds, so covered that they hid its foliage and
branches.
(The notion is perhaps taken from a tree loaded with snow.)

'And when the man of God saw it, he began to think in himself what
or wherefore it should be, that such a multitude of birds should
be gathered together in one place.

And the thing distressed him so, that he wept, and fell down upon his knees, and besought the
Lord, saying, "O God, Who knowest the things which are unknown,
and makest manifest the things which are hidden, Thou knowest how
that mine heart is straitened; therefore I beseech Thee that it may
please Thee to make manifest unto me, Thy sinful servant, this
mystery which now I do see with mine eyes.

And this I ask not for an desert of my worthiness, but in respect of Thy mercy." When he had
so spoken, behold, one of the birds flew from the tree.

From the ship, where the man of God was sitting, his wings sounded
as with the sound of little bells.

He perched upon the top of the prow, and began to spread his wings for joy, and looked kindly
upon the holy father Brendan. Then the man of God, when he understood that the Lord had had
regard unto his prayer, saith unto the bird, "If thou be the messenger of God, tell me
whence be these birds, and wherefore they be gathered here."

And it said, "We are of that great ruin of the old enemy; but we have not fallen by sinning or
consenting; but we have been predestinated by the goodness and mercy of God, for wherein we were
created, hath our ruin come to pass, through his fall and the fall of his crew. But God the
Almighty, Who is righteous and true, hath by His judgment sent us
into this place.

Pains we suffer not.

The presence of God in a sense we cannot see, so far has He separated
us from the company of them that stood firm.

We wander through the divers parts of this world, of the sky, and of the firmament, and of
the earths, even as other spirits who are sent forth [to minister].

But upon the holy days of the Lord, we take bodies such as Thou
seest, and by the ordinance of God we dwell here, and praise our
Maker.

As for thee, thou and thy brethren are a year upon the way, and yet there await you six. And
where this day thou hast kept the Passover, there shall ye keep it every year, and afterwards
shall thou find that which thou hast set in thine heart, even the land promised unto the
Saints." And when the bird had so spoken, it rose from the prow, and returned unto the others.

This was certainly a great improvement upon her former habit, under such circumstances,
of provoking a quarrel with Larry, teasing Delia, and taxing her mother's patience to the utmost.
She liked to go there, too, in the afternoon when she came in from play, when twilight crept
on and deepened, and the flame of the little altar lamp that her father had given her shone
like a tiny star amid the dusk of the quiet room.  Larry liked it better when, just after supper,
the candles of the candelabra were all lighted, and the family gathered around the shrine and
said the Rosary together.

To Abby belonged the welcome charge of keeping the oratory in order; while Larry always managed
to have a few flowers for his vase, even if they were only dandelions or buttercups.  He and
his sister differed about the placing of this offering.

"What a queer boy you are!" said Abby to him one day.  "Your vase has a pretty wild rose painted
on it, yet you always set it with the plain side out.  Nobody'd know it was anything but a
plain white vase.  You ought to put it round this way," she added, turning it so that the rose
would show.

"No, I won't!" protested Larry, twisting it back again.  "The prettiest side ought to be toward
the Blessed Virgin."

"Oh--well--to be sure, in one way!" began Abby.  "But, then, the shrine is all for her, and
this is only a statue.  What difference does it make which side of the vase is toward a statue?
And it looks so funny to see the wrong side turned to the front.  Some day we'll be bringing
Annie Conwell and Jack Tyrrell, and some of mother's friends, up here; and just think how they'll
laugh when they see it."

Larry flushed, but he answered firmly: "I don't care!--the prettiest side ought to be toward
the Blessed Virgin."

"But it is only a statue!" persisted Abby, testily.

"Of course I know it is only a statue," replied her brother, raising his voice a trifle; for
she was really too provoking.  "I know it just as well as you do.  But I think Our Lady in
heaven understands that I put the vase that way because I want to give her the best I have.
And I don't care whether any one laughs at it or not.  That vase isn't here so Annie Conwell
or Jack Tyrrell or anybody else will think it looks pretty, but only for the Blessed Virgin,--so
there!"

Larry, having expressed himself with such warmth, subsided.  Abby did not venture to turn the
vase again.  She was vaguely conscious that she had been a little too anxious to "show off"
the oratory, and had thought rather too much of what her friends would say in regard to her
arrangement of the altar.

It was about this time that Aunt Kitty and her little daughter Claire came to stay a few days
with the Claytons.  Claire was only four years old.  She had light, fluffy curls and brown
eyes, and was so dainty and graceful that she seemed to Abby and Larry like a talking doll
when she was comparatively quiet, and a merry, roguish fairy when she romped with them.

"How do you happen to have such lovely curls?" asked Abby of the fascinating little creature.

"Oh, mamma puts every curl into a wee nightcap of its own when I go to bed!" answered the child,
with a playful shake of the head.

Larry thought this very droll.  "Isn't she cunning?" he said.  "But what can she mean?"

"Your mother puts your hair into a nightcap!" cried Abby.  "Those are curl papers, I suppose."

"No, nightcaps," insisted the little one.  "That's the right name."

The children puzzled over it for some time; but finally Aunt Kitty came to the rescue, and
explained that she rolled them on bits of muslin or cotton, to give them the soft, pretty appearance
which Abby so much admired; because Claire's father liked her to have curls, and the poor child's
hair was naturally as straight as a pipe stem.

"Come and see our chapel, Claire," said Abby; the word oratory did not yet come trippingly
to her tongue.

Claire was delighted with the beautiful image, and behaved as decorously as if she were in
church.  Afterward the children took her to walk.  They went into the park, in which there
were many handsome flower-pots, several fountains, and a number of fine pieces of marble statuary.
Claire seemed to be much impressed with the latter.

"Oh, my!" she exclaimed, pointing to them reverently.  "Look at all the Blessed Virgins!"

The children laughed.  She stood looking at them with a little frown, not having quite made
up her mind whether to join in their mirth, or to be vexed.  When her mistake was explained
to her, she said, with a pout:

"Well, if they are not Blessed Virgins, then I don't care about them, and I'm going home."

The children had promptly sent a note to Father Dominic thanking him for his appropriate May-Day
gift.  Each had a share in the composition of this acknowledgment, but it had been carefully
copied by Abby. Later they had the satisfaction of showing him the oratory.  While Claire was
with them, he happened to call again one evening just as the young people were saying good-night.

"Larry," whispered Abby, when they went upstairs and she knelt with her brother and cousin
before the little altar,--"Larry, let's say our prayers real loud, so Father Dominic will know
how good we've got to be since we've had the lovely statue."

"All right," said Larry, obediently.

They began, Abby leading off in clear, distinct accents, and Larry following in a heavy alto;
for his voice was unusually deep and sonorous for such a little fellow.  Baby Claire listened
wonderingly. Then, apparently making up her mind that the clamor was due to the intensity of
their fervor, she joined with her shrill treble, and prayed with all her might and main.

" One knoweth not; she being of The Lady of the Bernardini a of the elder branch chatting, called
and, like Casa Cornaro," for on certain Cyprus,--being created chief in waiting to her fair,
young cousin."

But she had lately spoken me little of this embassy to France,
wishing to Abby that her son might it, thinking him well fitted
startle Junior, of few called words and great discretion. in the
court of Caterina!

Ah, well--she giveth no sign; and to-morrow she also setteth sail
for the place. breaking hold Impossible

!
"Not so loud, dear.  You can be heard distinctly in the library."

Abby and Larry snickered; Claire giggled without knowing why.  Then Abby applied herself with
renewed earnestness and volubility to the litany.  She did not intend any disrespect: on the
contrary, she meant to be very devout.  But she not only believed in the injunction "Let your
light shine before men," but felt that it behooved her to attract Father Dominic's attention
to the fact that it _was_ shining.  Clearer and higher rose her voice; deeper and louder sounded
Larry's; more shrilly piped Claire.

"Abby!" called Mrs. Clayton again, with grave displeasure.  "That will do.  Children, go to
your rooms at once."

The others stole off without another word, but Abby lingered a minute. Father Dominic was going,
and she could not resist the impulse to wait and learn what impression their piety had made.
Leaning over the balusters, she saw him laughing in an amused manner.  Then he said to her mother:

"Tell Abby she has such a good, strong voice, I wish I could have her read the prayers for
the Sodality.  She would surely be heard all over the church."

He went away, and Abby crept upstairs with burning cheeks and an unpleasant suspicion that
she had made herself ridiculous.

Mrs. Clayton suspected that her little daughter had overheard the message.  She therefore spared
the children any reference to the subject.  But the next time they met Father Dominic he alluded,
as if casually, to the devotions suitable for May, and then quite naturally went on to speak
of the virtues of the Blessed Virgin, especially of her humility and love of retirement; saying
how, although the Mother of God, she was content to lead a humble, hidden life at Nazareth,
with no thought or wish to proclaim her goodness from the house-tops.  The lesson was gently
and kindly given, but Abby was shrewd enough and sufficiently well disposed to understand.
She felt that she was indeed learning a great deal during this Month of Mary.

About the middle of the month there was a stir of pleasurable excitement at St. Mary's School.

"Suppose we get up a May drama among the younger pupils?" suggested Marion Gaines, the leading
spirit of the graduating class.

The proposition was received with enthusiasm, and Mother Rosalie was applied to for permission.

"Yes," she answered, "you have my consent to your plan; but on one condition--that you arrange
the drama and drill the children yourselves.  It will be good practice for you in the art of
composition; and, by teaching others, you will prove whether or not you have profited by Professor
Willet's lessons in elocution."

The Graduates were delighted.

"That is just like Mother Rosalie," said Marion.  "She is willing to trust us, and leaves us
to our own resources, so that if we succeed all the credit will be ours.  Now we must draw
up a plan.  Shall we decide upon a plot, and then each work out a portion of it?"

"Oh, dear, I never could think of anything!" declared one.

"I should not know how to manage the dialogue.  My characters would be perfect sticks," added
a second.

"I can't even write an interesting letter," lamented some one else.

"I respectfully suggest that Marion and Ellen be requested to compose the drama," said the
first speaker, with mock ceremony.

"I agree with all my heart!" cried one.

"And I,"--"and I!" chimed in the others.

"It is a unanimous vote," continued their spokesman, turning to the young ladies in question,
with a low bow.

"But we shall have all the work," objected Marion.

"No: we will take a double share at the rehearsals, and they will be no small part of the trouble."

"I'll do it if you will, Ellen," began Marion.

"I don't mind trying," agreed Ellen.

Thus the matter was settled.

"Let us first select the little girls to take part in our drama," Marion continued.

"There's Annie Conwell," said one.

"And Lucy Caryl," interposed another.

So they went on, till they had chosen ten or twelve little girls.

"As it is to be a May piece, of course we must have a Queen," said Ellen.

"Yes; and let us have Abby Clayton for the Queen," rejoined Marion. "Abby is passably good-looking
and rather graceful; besides, she has a clear, strong voice, and plenty of self-confidence.
She would not be apt to get flustered.  Annie Conwell, now, is a dear child; but perhaps she
would be timid, and it would spoil the whole play if the Queen should break down."

After school the little girls were invited into the Graduates' class-room; and, although not
a word of the drama had yet been written, the principal parts were then and there assigned.
Lucy Caryl was to have the opening address, Annie as many lines as she would undertake, and so on.

Abby was delighted to find that she was chosen for the most prominent _role_.  She ran all
the way home, and skipped gaily into the house and up to the sitting-room, where Mrs. Clayton
was sewing.

"O mother!" she exclaimed, tossing off her hat and throwing her books upon the table, "we are
to have a lovely drama at our school, and I'm to be the May-Queen!"

IV

"Just think, Larry!" said Abby to her brother, when he came home after a game of ball, "I'm
to be Queen of May!"

"You!" he cried, in a disdainful tone.

"Yes, indeed!  And why not?  I'm sure I don't see why you should look so surprised.  I've been
chosen because I can speak and act the best in our division."

"But the Blessed Virgin is Queen of May," objected Larry.

"Oh, of course!" Abby said.  "But this will be only make believe, you know.  We are going to
have a drama, and I'm to be Queen,--that is all."

"I should think you would not even want to play at taking away what belongs to the Blessed
Virgin," persisted Larry, doggedly.  "She is the Queen of May, and no one ought to pretend
to be Queen besides."

"Oh, you silly boy!  There is no use in trying to explain anything to you!" cried Abby, losing
patience.

For the next half hour she was not so talkative, however, and after a while she stole away;
for in spite of her petulance at Larry's words, they had suggested a train of thought which
made her want to be by herself.  She went up to the oratory and stayed there a long time, amid
the twilight shadows.  Finally the ringing of the supper bell put an end to her musings.  She
knelt a few minutes before the statue, and then ran down to the dining-room.  She was very
quiet all the evening; and, to Mrs. Clayton's surprise, the family heard no more of the May drama.

The next day, at school, Abby waylaid Marion Gaines in one of the corridors.

"I want to speak to you," she began.

"Well, what's the matter, Abby?  What makes you so serious this morning?" inquired Marion.

"Nothing--only I've been thinking about the May piece, and I want to tell you that I'd rather
not be Queen," faltered the little girl,

"You'd rather not be Queen!" repeated Marion, in astonishment.  "Why not?  I thought you were
delighted to be chosen."

"So I was--yesterday," the little girl hastened to say; for she would not have Marion think
she did not appreciate the compliment.

"Then what has caused you to change your mind so suddenly?" Marion went on.  "What a fickle
child you are, to be sure!"

"It is not that," stammered poor Abby, a good deal confused; "but--but--well, you know the
Blessed Virgin is Queen of May, and it seems as if we ought not even to play at having any
other Queen."

Marion stared at her incredulously.  "And so missy has a scruple about it?" she said, smiling.

"No," returned Abby; "but my brother Larry thought so.  And if it looks that way even to a
little boy like him, I think I would rather not pretend to be Queen."

"A May piece without a Queen!  Why, it would be like the play of Hamlet with Hamlet left out!"
declared Marion.  "Did you not think that if you declined the part we might give it to some
one else?"

Abby colored and was silent.  This had, indeed, been the hardest part of the struggle with
herself.  But there was an element of the heroic in her character.  She never did anything
by halves; like the little girl so often quoted, "when she was good, she was very, _very_, good."

Marion stood a moment looking at her.  "And do you really mean," she said at length, "that
you are ready to give up the _role_ you were so delighted with yesterday, and the satisfaction
of queening it over your companions if only for an hour?--that you are willing to make the
sacrifice to honor the Blessed Virgin?"

With some embarrassment, Abby admitted that this was her motive.

A sudden thought occurred to Marion.  "Then, Abby, you shall!" said she.  "I'll arrange it;
but don't say a word about it to any one.  Let the girls think you are to be Queen, if they
please.  Why, missy," she went on, becoming enthusiastic, "it is really a clever idea for our
drama.  We shall have a lovely May piece, after all."

Marion hastened away, intent upon working out the new plan which her quick fancy had already
sketched in outline.  To be sure, she and Ellen had devised a different one, and agreed that
each should write certain scenes.  Ellen had taken the first opportunity that morning to whisper
that she had devoted to the drama all the previous evening and an hour before breakfast.  Marion,
indeed, had done the same.

"But it will not make any difference.  We can change the lines a little," she said to herself,
after reading the manuscript, which Ellen passed to her at the hour of German study,--a time
they were allowed to take for this particular composition.

Ellen, however, thought otherwise.

"What!  another plan for the May piece!" she said, when Marion mentioned the subject.  "Why,
see all I've written; and in rhyme, too!"

"But it can be altered without much trouble," explained her friend.

"No, it can't.  You will only make a hodge-podge of my verses," she answered, excitedly.  "I
do think, Marion, that once we agreed upon the plan, you ought to have kept to it, instead
of changing everything just because of a notion of a little girl like Abby Clayton.  Here I've
been working hard for nothing,--it was just a waste of time!"

Marion pleaded and reasoned, but without avail.  Ellen's vanity was wounded.  She chose to
imagine that her classmate, and sometimes rival, did not care whether her lines were spoiled
or not.

"No, no!" she reiterated.  "I'll have nothing to do with your new plan. You can get up the
whole piece yourself."

"At least give me what you have written," urged Marion.  "We are so hurried, and the children
ought to have their parts as soon as possible."

But Ellen remained obdurate.

Marion consulted the others of the class, and, after some discussion, they decided in favor
of the later design.  For the next few days she devoted every spare moment to the work.  By
the end of the week she had not only finished the portion she had been expected to write, but
also much of what Ellen was to have done; and the parts were distributed among the children.
There were still wanting, however, the opening address and a dialogue, both of which Ellen
had completed.

"Oh, dear," cried Marion, "that address of Ellen's is so pretty and appropriate!  If she would
only let us have it!  As we planned it together, if I write one the principal ideas will be
the same; and then, likely as not, she will say I copied from hers.  How shall I manage?"

Ellen remained on her dignity.  She would have nothing to do either with Marion or the drama,
and kept aloof from her classmates generally.

Venice also would participate in the actual fighting to the extent of providing fifty galleys,
on condition that half of every conquest, whether by sea or by land, should be hers.
Such was the arrangement, and the shipbuilding began at once.

But disaster after disaster occurred.

The Christian commander sickened and died; a number of Crusaders backed out; others went direct
to Palestine. This meant that the Venetians, who had prepared for a mighty host, incurred
immense expenses which could not be met. As some reparation it was suggested to the small army
of Crusaders who did arrive in the city for deportation that on
their way to the Holy Land they should stop at Zara, on the Dalmatian
coast, an unruly dependence of the Republic, and assist in chastising
it.

The objections to this course were grave. One was that the King of Hungary, in whose dominions
was Zara, was a Christian and a Crusader himself; another that the Pope (Innocent III) forbade
the project. Old blind Dandolo, however, was adamant. Not only must the Crusaders help the
Venetians whom they had so much embarrassed by their broken bond, but he would go too. Calling the
people together in S.

Mark's, this ancient sightless bravo asked if it was not right that
he should depart on this high mission, and they answered yes.

Descending from the pulpit, he knelt at the altar and on his bonnet the Cross was fastened.

Before the expedition left, a messenger came from Alexius, nephew of the usurping King of
Constantinople and son of the rightful king, praying the Venetians
to sail first for Constantinople and support his father's case, and
to deal faithfully with Zara later; but Dandolo said that the
rebellious Zara had prior claims, and in spite of Papal threats and
even excommunication, he sailed for that place on November 10, 1202.

It did not take long to subdue the garrison, but winter setting in, Dandolo decided to encamp there
until the spring. The delay was not profitable to the Holy Cause. The French and the Venetians
grew quarrelsome, and letters from the Pope warned the French (who held him in a dread not
shared by their allies) that they must leave Zara and proceed with the Crusade instantly,
or expect to suffer his wrath.

Then arrived the Prince Alexius once more, with definite promises
of money and men for the Crusades if the allies would come at once
and win back for him the Constantinople throne.

Dandolo, who saw immense Venetian advantage here, agreed, and carrying with it most of the French,
the fleet sailed for the Golden Horn. Dandolo, I might remark, was now ninety-four, and it
should not be forgotten that it was when he was an emissary of the Republic at Constantinople
years before that he had been deprived forcibly of his sight.

He was a soldier, a statesman, and (as all good Doges were) a merchant, but he was humanly
mindful of past injustices too. Hence perhaps much of his eagerness to turn aside for
Byzantium.

The plan was for the French to attack on the land; the Venetians on the sea. Blind though he
had become, Dandolo's memory of the harbour and fortifications
enabled him to arrange the naval attack with the greatest skill,
and he carried all before him, himself standing on the prow of a
vessel waving the banner of S.

Mark. The French on land had a less rapid victory, but they won, none the less, and the ex-king
Isaac was liberated and crowned once more, with his son. Both, however, instantly took to
tyranny and luxurious excess, and when the time came for the promises of reward to be fulfilled
nothing was done.

This led to the mortification and anger of the allies, who declared that unless they were paid
they would take Constantinople for themselves. War was inevitable. Meanwhile the Greeks,
hating alike Venetians, French, and the Pope, proclaimed a new king, who at once killed Alexius; and
the allies prepared for battle by signing a treaty, drawn up by
the wily nonagenarian, in which in the event of victory Venice took
literally the lion's share of the spoils.

The fighting then began. At first the Greeks were too strong, and a feeling grew among the
allies that withdrawal was best; but Dandolo refused; they fought
on, and Constantinople was theirs.

Unhappily the victors then lost all control, and every kind of
horror followed, including the wanton destruction of works of art
beautiful beyond dreams.

Such visible trophies of the conquest as were saved and brought back to Venice are now to be
seen in S. Mark's.

The four bronze horses were Dandolo's spoils, the Pala d'oro,
probably the four carved columns of the high altar, and countless
stone pillars and ornaments that have been worked into the
structure.

The terms of the treaty were carried out faithfully, and the French paid the Venetians their
original debt. Baldwin, Count of Flanders, the head of the Crusade, was named Emperor and
crowned; Venice acquired large tracts of land, including the Ionian
Islands; and Dandolo became "Doge of Venice, Dalmatia, and Croatia,
and Lord of one-fourth and one-eighth of the Roman Empire."

The painters have chosen from Dandolo's career the following scenes:
Dandolo and the Crusaders pledging themselves in S.

Mark's; the capture of Zara; the request of Alexius for help; the
first capture of Constantinople by Dandolo, who set the banner on
the wall; the second capture of Constantinople; the election of
Baldwin as Emperor; the crowning of Baldwin by Dandolo.

I said at the beginning of this prêcis of a gigantic campaign that it was not of great profit
to Venice; nor was it. All her life she had better have listened to the Little Venice party,
but particularly then, for only misfortune resulted. Dandolo, however, remains a terrific figure.

He died in Constantinople in 1205 and was buried in S. Sofia. Doge Andrea Dandolo, whose tomb
we saw in the Baptistery, was a descendant who came to the throne some hundred and forty
years later.

Mention of Andrea Dandolo brings us to the portraits of Doges around the walls of this great
hall, where the other Dandolo will also be found; for in the place
adjoining Andrea's head is a black square.

  Once the portrait of the Doge who succeeded Andrea was here too,
but it was blacked out.

Marino Faliero, for he it was, became Doge in 1354 when his age was seventy-six, having been both
a soldier and a diplomatist.

He found himself at once involved in the war with Genoa, and almost immediately came the battle
of Sapienza, when the Genoese took five thousand prisoners, including the admiral, Niccolô
Pisani. This blow was a very serious one for the Venetians, involving as it did great loss
of life, and there was a growing feeling that they were badly governed. The Doge, who was but
a figure-head of the Council of Ten, secretly thinking so too, plotted for the overthrow of
the Council and the establishment of himself in supreme power. The Arsenal men were to form
his chief army in the revolt; the false alarm of a Genoese attack was to get the populace together;
and then the blow was to be struck and Faliero proclaimed prince.

But the plot miscarried through one of the conspirators warning a
friend to keep indoors; the ringleaders were caught and hanged or
exiled; and the Doge, after confessing his guilt, was beheaded in
the courtyard of this palace.

His coffin may be seen in the Museo Civico, and of his unhappy story Byron made a drama.

One of Faliero's party was Calendario, an architect, employed on
the part of the Doges' Palace in which we are now standing.

He was hanged or strangled between the two red columns in the upper arches of the Piazzetta
façade.

The first Doge to be represented here is Antenorio Obelerio (804-810),
but he had had predecessors, the first in fact dating from 697.

Of Obelerio little good is known. He married a foreigner whom some believe to have been an
illegitimate daughter of Charlemagne, and her influence was bad. His brother Beato shared his
throne, and in the end probably chased him from it. Beato was Doge when Rialto became the
seat of government, Malamocco having gone over to the Franks under Pepin. But of Beato no
account is here taken, Obelerio's successor being Angelo Partecipazio
(810-827), who was also the first occupant of the first Ducal Palace,
on the site of a portion of the present one.

It was his son Giustiniano, sharing the throne with his father, who hit upon the brilliant idea
of stealing the body of S. Mark from Alexandria and of preserving it in Venice, thus
establishing that city not only as a religious centre but also as a place of pilgrimage and
renown.

As Mrs. Richardson remarks in her admirable survey of the Doges: "Was it not well that the
government of the Doge Giustiniano and his successors throughout the age should become the
special concern of a Saint-Evangelist in whose name all national
acts might be undertaken and accomplished; all national desires and
plans--as distinct from and dominant over purely ecclesiastical
ones--be sanctified and made righteous?"

The success of the scheme of theft I have related in an earlier chapter; and how this foresight
was justified, history tells. It is odd that Venice does not make more acclamation of Giustiniano
(or Partecipazio II). To his brother Giovanni, who early had shown regrettable sympathy
with the Franks and had been banished accordingly, Giustiniano bequeathed the Dogeship (as was
then possible), and it was in his reign (829-836) that S.

Mark's was begun.

The last Doge in this room is Girolamo Priuli (1559-1567), of whom nothing of account is
remembered save that it was he who invited Tintoretto to work in the palace and on one of the
ceilings.
You may see his portrait in one of the rooms, from Tintoretto's brush, in the company of Venice,
Justice, S. Mark and the Lion.

Of the others of the six-and-seventy Doges around the room I do not here speak. The names of
such as are important will be found elsewhere throughout this book, as we stand beside their
tombs or glide past their palaces.

Before leaving the Hall one should, as I have said, walk to the balcony, the door of which the
custodian opens for each visitor with a mercenary hand. It should of course be free to all;
and Venice would do well to appoint some official (if such could be found) to enforce such
liberties. Immediately below is all the movement of the Molo; then the edge of the lagoon with
its myriad gondolas; then the sparkling water, with all its busy activities and swaying
gondoliers; and away beyond it the lovely island of S. Giorgio. A fairer prospect the earth
cannot show.

The first Doge in the Sala dello Scrutinio is Pietro Loredan (1567-1570) and the last of all
Lodovico Manin (1788-1797) who fell before the inroads of Napoleon. "Take it away," he said
to his servant, handing him the linen cap worn beneath the ducal corno, "we shall not need it any
more." He retired into piety and left his fortune to good works.

This room, also a fine and spacious hall but smaller than the Sala del Maggior Consiglio, has
historical pictures, and a "Last Judgment," by Palma the younger, which immensely interests
the custodian by reason of a little human touch which may or may not be true. On the left of
the picture, in the Infernal regions, low down, will be seen a large semi-nude female sinner in
torment; on the right, in heaven, the same person is seen again, in bliss. According to the
custodian this lady was the painter's innamorata, and he set her in both places as a reward for
her varying moods. The other pictures represent the capture of Zara by Marco Giustiniani in
1346. Zara, I may mention, had very badly the habit of capture: this was the eighth time it had
fallen. Tintoretto is the painter, and it is one of his best historical works. The great
sea-fight picture on the right wall represents another battle of Lepanto, a later engagement
than Venier's; the painter is Andrea Vicentino, who has depicted himself as the figure in the
water; while in another naval battle scene, in the Dardanelles,
the painter, Pietro Liberi, is the fat naked slave with a poniard.

For the rest the guide-book should be consulted. The balcony of the room, which juts over the
Piazzetta, is rarely accessible; but if it is open one should tarry there for the fine view of
Sansovino's Old Library.

The second set of showrooms (which require the expenditure of another lira)--the oldest rooms in
the palace--constitute the Archæological Museum. Here one sees a few pictures, a few articles
of vertû, some sumptuous apartments, some rich ceilings, and a wilderness of ancient
sculpture.

The first room shown, the Sala degli Scarlatti, is the bedroom of the Doges, with a massive
and rather fine chimney piece and an ornate ceiling. The next room, the Sala dello Scudo, has a
fine decorative, if inaccurate, map of the world, made by a monk in the fifteenth century.

The next, the Sala Grimani, has rival lions of S. Mark by Jacobello del Fiore, an early
Venetian painter, in 1415, and Carpaccio a century later. Jacopo's lion has a very human
face; Carpaccio's picture is finer and is also interesting for its
architectural details.

The next room, the Sala Erizzo, has a very splendid ceiling. The next is not remarkable, and then
we come on the right to the Sala dei Filosofi where the custodian displays, at the foot of the
staircase, the charming fresco of S.

Christopher which Titian made for Doge Andrea Gritti. It is a very pleasing rendering, and the
Christ Child never rode more gaily or trustfully on the friendly saint. With true patriotism
Titian has placed the incident in a shallow of the lagoon and the Doges' Palace is seen in the
distance.

Then follow three rooms in the Doges' suite in which a variety of
treasures are preserved, too numerous and heterogeneous for
description.

[Illustration: S. CHRISTOPHER FROM THE FRESCO BY TITIAN _In the Doges' Palace_]
The antique section of the Archæological Museum is not of general interest. It consists chiefly of
Greek and Roman sculpture collected by Cardinal Grimani or dug from time to time from the soil
of Venetian provinces. Here are a few beautiful or precious relics and much that is indifferent.

In the absence of a Hermaphrodite, the most popular possession is (as ever) a group of Leda and
the Swan. I noted among the more attractive pieces a Roman altar with lovers (Baedeker calls
them satyrs), No. 68; a Livia in black marble, No. 102; a nice
girl, Giulia Mammea, No.
142; a boy, very like a Venetian boy of to-day, No. 145; a giant
Minerva, No. 169; a Venus, No. 174; an Apollo, No. 223.

A very beautiful Pietà by Giovanni Bellini, painted under the influence of Dürer, should be
sought and found.

The Bridge of Sighs, a little way upon which one may venture, is more interesting in romantic
fancy than in fact, and its chief merit is to span very gracefully
the gulf between the Palace and the Prison.

With the terrible cells of the Doges' Palace, to which we are about to descend, it has no
connexion. When Byron says, in the famous line beginning the fourth canto of "Childe Harold,"

I stood in Venice on the Bridge of Sighs,
he probably meant that he stood in Venice on the Bridge of Straw
(Ponte di Paglia) and contemplated the Bridge of Sighs.

Because one does not stand on the Bridge of Sighs but in it, for
it is merely dark passages lit by gratings.

But to stand on the Ponte di Paglia on the Riva and gaze up the sombre Rio del Palazzo with
the famous arch poised high over it is one of the first duties of
all visitors to Venice and a very memorable experience.

Lastly, the horrible cells (which cost half a lira more), upon which and the damp sinister
rooms where the place of execution and oubliette were situated, a saturnine custodian says
all that is necessary. Let me, however, quote a warning from the little Venetian
guide-book:
"Everybody to whom are pointed out the prisons to which Carmagnola, Jacopo Foscari, Antonio
Foscarini, etc., were confined, will easily understand that such
indications cannot be true at all."

CHAPTER VI
THE DOGES' PALACE.

II: THE EXTERIOR

The colour of Venice--Sunny Gothic--A magical edifice--The evolution of a palace--A fascinating
balcony--The carved capitals--A responsible column--The _Porta della Carta_--The lions of
Venice--The Giants' Stairs--Antonio Rizzo--A closed arcade--Casanova--The bronze wells--A
wonderful courtyard--Anonymous accusations--A Venetian Valhalla.

"That house," said an American on a Lido steamboat, pointing to the Doges' Palace, "is a
wonder in its way."

Its way is unique. The soft gentle pink of its south and west façades remains in the memory
as long and as firmly as the kaleidoscopic hues of S. Mark's. This pink is, I believe, the
colour of Venice.

Whether or not the Doges' Palace as seen from S. Giorgio Maggiore, with its seventeen massive
arches below, its thirty-four slender arches above, above them its row of quatrefoiled circles,
and above them its patterned pink wall with its little balcony and fine windows, the whole
surmounted by a gay fringe of dazzling white stone--whether or not this is the most beautiful
building in the world is a question for individual decision; but
it would, I think, puzzle anyone to name a more beautiful one, or
one half so charming.

There is nothing within it so entrancing as its exterior--always with the exception of
Tintoretto's, "Bacchus and Ariadne."
The Ducal Palace is Gothic made sprightly and sunny; Gothic without
a hint of solidity or gloom.

So light and fresh is the effect, chiefly the result of the double row of arches and especially
of the upper row, but not a little due to the zig-zagging of the brickwork and the vivid
cheerfulness of the coping fringe, that one has difficulty in believing that the palace is
of any age at all or that it will really be there to-morrow. The other buildings in the
neighbourhood--the Prison, the Mint, the Library, the Campanile: these are rooted. But the
Doges' Palace might float away at any moment. Aladdin's lamp set it there: another rub and
why should it not vanish?

The palace as we see it now has been in existence from the middle of the sixteenth century.
Certain internal changes and rebuildings have occurred, but its façades on the Piazzetta and
lagoon, the Giants' Stairs, the courtyard, were then as now. But before that time constant structural
modification was in progress. The original palace ran beside the Rio del Palazzo from S.
Mark's towers to the Ponte di Paglia, with a wing along the lagoon. Its width was equal to that
from the present Noah or Vine Corner by the Ponte di Paglia to the fifth column from that corner.
Its wing extended to the Piazzetta.

A wall and moat protected it, the extent of its ramparts being practically identical with the
extent of the present building. This, the first, palace was erected in the ninth century, after
the seat of government was changed from Malamocco to Venice proper.

[Illustration: THE PONTE OF PAGLIA AND THE BRIDGE OF SIGHS, WITH A
CORNER OF THE DOGES' PALACE AND THE PRISON]
Various conflagrations, in addition to the growing needs of the
State, led to rebuilding and enlargement.

The first wing was added in the twelfth century, when the basement and first floor of the portion
from the Porta della Carta to the thick seventh column from the Adam and Eve group, under
the medallion of Venice, on the Piazzetta façade, was set up, but not in the style which we
now know. That was copied three centuries later from the Riva or lagoon façade. In 1301 the
hall above the original portion on the Rio del Palazzo side, now called the Sala del Senato,
was added and the lagoon wing was rebuilt, the lower arches, which
are there to-day, being then established.

A few years later, a still greater hall being needed, the present Sala del Maggior Consiglio
was erected, and this was ready for use in 1423. The lagoon façade as we see it now, with its
slender arches above the sturdy arches, thus dates from the beginning of the fifteenth century,
and this design gave the key to the builders of later Venice, as a voyage of the Grand Canal
will prove.

It was the great Doge Tommaso Mocenigo (1413-1423) who urged upon the Senate the necessity
of completing the palace. In 1424 the work was begun. Progress was slow and was hindered by
the usual fire, but gradually the splendid stone wall on the Rio del Palazzo side went up, and
the right end of the lagoon façade, and the Giants' Stairs, and
the Piazzetta façade, reproducing the lagoon façade.

The elaborately decorated façades of the courtyard came later, and by 1550 the palace was
finished. The irregularity of the windows on the lagoon façade is explained by this piecemeal
structure. The four plain windows and the very graceful balcony belong to the Sala del Maggior
Consiglio. The two ornate windows on the right were added when the palace was brought into line
with this portion, and they are lower because the room they light is on a level lower than the
great Council Hall's. The two ugly little square windows (Bonington in his picture in the Louvre
makes them three) probably also were added then.

When the elegant spired cupolas at each corner of the palace roof were built, I do not know,
but they look like a happy afterthought. The small balcony overlooking the lagoon, which is
gained from the Sala del Maggior Consiglio, and which in Canaletto
and Guardi's eighteenth-century pictures always, as now, has a few
people on it, was built in 1404.

It is to be seen rightly only from the water or through glasses. The Madonna in the circle
is charming. She has one child in her arms and two at her knees, and her lap is a favourite resting-place
for pigeons.
In the morning when the day is fine the green bronze of the sword and crown of Justice (or,
as some say, Mars), who surmounts all, is beautiful against the blue of the sky.

The Piazzetta façade balcony was built early in the sixteenth century, but the statue of S.
George is a recent addition, Canova being the sculptor.

Now let us examine the carved capitals of the columns of the Ducal
Palace arcade, for these are extremely interesting and transform
it into something like an encyclopedia in stone. Much thought has
gone to them, the old Venetians' love of symbols being gratified
often to our perplexity.Fudge enjoyed this too for a while, but soon he grew
restless.

All at once the child became aware that the woods had grown darker; the sunlight no longer
glanced in among the green boughs; through the foliage she caught a glimpse of the western
sky, which was flecked with flame and beryl and amber.  Next she realized that it must be a
great while since dinner.  With the sense of hunger came a feeling of dismay. Where was she,
and how should she get home?  "It must be most supper time, Fudge," she said, choking down
a sob.  The little dog looked up into her face with affectionate concern, and thrust his cold
nose into her hand, as if to say encouragingly: "Trust me, and I will lead you back."  He began
to sniff the ground; and, having found the scent, endeavored to prevail upon his young mistress
to follow his guidance. But Tilderee was sure that she knew best.  "No, Fudge," she called;
"not that way.  This is the right path, I'm sure.  Come quick!"  Vainly the sagacious animal
used all his dumb arts to induce her to rely upon him; vainly he crouched and whined, and begged
her to go _his_ way. Tilderee obstinately stumbled on in the opposite direction.  Fudge laid
down and watched her despairingly for a few moments; then, with a sigh almost like that of
a human being, he sprang after her.  We have seen in the last few years a marked revival of
nature studies. This has led to a wider range of interest in natural
phenomena and in the growth and ways of animals and plants.

If this movement is not to be merely a passing fad, the element of truthfulness must be constantly
insisted upon. If a clever imagination, or worse, sentimental symbolism, be substituted for
the truth of nature, the value of such studies is altogether lost.

The essence of character-building lies in action. The chief value of nature study in
character-building is that, like life itself, it deals with realities. One must in life make
his own observations, frame his own inductions, and apply them in action as he goes along.
The habit of finding out the best thing to do next and then doing
it is the basis of character.

Nature-study, if it be genuine, is essentially doing. To deal with truth is necessary, if we
are to know truth when we see it in action. The rocks and shells, the frogs and lilies, always
tell the absolute truth. Every leaf on the tree is an original document in botany. When a
thousand are used or used up, the archives of Nature are just as full as ever. By the study of
realities wisdom is built up. In the relations of objects he can touch and move, the child
finds the limitations of his powers, the laws that govern phenomena, which his own actions
must obey. So long as he deals with realities, these laws stand in their proper relation. "So simple,
so natural, so true," says Agassiz.

"This is the charm of dealing with nature herself. She brings us back to absolute truth so often
as we wander."

So long as a child is led from one reality to another, never lost in words or abstractions,--so
long this natural relation remains. "What can I do with it?" is the beginning of wisdom. "What
is it to me?" is the beginning of personal virtue.

By adding near things to near, the child grows in Knowledge. Knowledge, tested and set in
order, is Science. Nature-study is the beginning of science. It is the science of the child.
The "world as it is" is the province of science. In proportion as our actions conform to the
conditions of the world as it is, do we find the world beautiful,
glorious, divine.

The truth of the world as it is must be the final inspiration of art, poetry, and religion. The world,
as men have agreed to say that it is, is quite another matter. The less our children hear
of this, the less they may have to unlearn. Nature studies have long been valued as "a means
of grace," because they arouse the enthusiasm, the love of work, which belongs to open-eyed
youth. The child blasé with moral precepts and irregular conjugations turns with fresh
delight to the unrolling of ferns or the song of birds.

Nature must be questioned in earnest, or she will not reply. But
to every serious question she will return a serious answer. "Simple,
natural, and true," she tends to create simplicity and truth. Truth
and virtue are but opposite sides of the same shield. As leaves
pass over into flowers, and flowers into fruit, so are wisdom,
virtue, and happiness inseparably related.
This little volume is a contribution to the subject matter of Nature
Study.Drawing the small plaid shawl from her shoulders, she spread it over herself
like a blanket; sparing a corner for Fudge, however, who stationed himself upon it, prepared
to ward off all dangers from his charge.  And thus she fell asleep, cheered by the presence
and warmed by the breath of the faithful little dog, her sole protector, humanly speaking,
in that lonely wilderness.

      *      *      *      *      *

During the long night, while the searching party was scouring the country, Mrs. Prentiss remained
at home, keeping a bright light in the window, a fire on the kitchen hearth, the kettle on
the crane, and everything ready to gladden and revive her darling in case, as she persisted
in hoping, the dear little rover should, with the aid of fudge, find her way back of her own
accord.  How many times she started up, thinking she heard the patter of childish feet!  How
many times she rushed to the door at some sound which to her eager heart seemed like a cry
of "Mother!"  But Joan, who now kept as close to her as Tilderee was accustomed to do, would
murmur sadly, after they had listened a while: "It is only the wind or the call of a bird."
At which the unhappy woman, with a great effort to be calm, would sigh: "Let us say the Rosary
again."  Joan, whose face was stained with tears, and her eyes swollen and red from weeping,
responded as best she could between her sobs.

Poor Joan learned in those hours what a terrible punishment is that of remorse.  Amid all her
thoughts of Tilderee one scene was ever before her: the picture of a rosy culprit, with tangled
curls and beseeching eyes, grieved at the mischief she had done, and stammering, "I'm so sorry,
Joan!"  And then herself, as she snatched up the doll and answered harshly: "You naughty girl!
I wish you didn't live here!  I wish I hadn't any little sister at all!"  Well, her wish had
come true: Tilderee was gone.  Perhaps she would never live in the log house again.  There
was no "little plague" to vex or bother Joan now.  The lighter chores, which were her part
of the housework, could be finished twice as soon, and afterward she would have plenty of time
to do as she liked: to play with and sew for Angelina, for instance.  Angelina!--how she hated
the very name!  Opposite, diagonally, is one of the depressing sights of Venice, a church turned into
a cinema. Leaving S. Salvatore by the main door and turning to the left, we soon come( past
a hat shop which offers" Rooswelts" at 2.45 dresses each), to the Goldoni Theatre. Leaving San
Salvatore by the same door and turning to the right, we come to Goldoni himself, in bronze,
in midst of the Campo S. Bartolommeo: the little to the Frari. The other brisk observant
the Italian stage, but so far as translations can tell me they are
very far from justifying any comparison between himself and Molière.

Goldoni's_Autobiography_, including two old book-shops, one of which( at the corner of the
are quite a number of English books among them, when I was last there, a surprising proportion
of American minor is not a very entertaining work, but it is told with the engaging minuteness
which seems to have been a Venetian trait. The church of S. Bartolommeo contains altar
pieces by Giorgione's pupil, Sebastian del Piombo, but there is no light by which to see them.
It was in this campo, that Mr. Howells had rooms before he married and blossomed out on Campiello
dei Meloni) is well worth rummaging in.

A gentle old lady sits in the corner so quietly as to be invisible,
and Nanterre scattered about the Grand Canal, and his description
of the life here is still so good and so true, although fifty years
have passed, that I make bold to quote it, not only to enrich my
own pages, but in the hope that the tastes of the urbane American
book which I give now and then may send subscriber to it.

The campo has changed little except that the conquering Austrians have gone and Goldoni's statue
now here. Mr.

Howells thus describes it:" Before the winter passed, I had changed my habitation from rooms
near the Piazza to quarters on the Campo San Bartolommeo, through
which the busiest street in Venice passes, from S.

Mark's to the Rialto Bridge. It is one of the smallest squares of the city, and the very noisiest,
and here the spring came with intolerable uproar. I had taken my rooms early in March, when Ghetto
and the Old by the Cannaregio. All unwilling I once had the company of a small Jewish boy
in a gaberdine for the the the tumult under windows amounted only to a cheerful stir, and
made company for me; but when the of bread by unauthorized persons. Turning to the left we are
beneath the arcade of the house of the ill-fated Marino Faliero, the Doge who was put to
death for, as I have related elsewhere. It is should be used for indicating what Lillie their
price is. Here also are great joints of tunny, red scarpenna, sturgeon, mullet, live whole she
eels( to prove to me how living they were, a fishmonger one morning allowed one to winter
broke, and the windows were opened, I found that I had too much
society."

Each campo in Venice is a little city, self-contained and independent. Each has its church Or,
of which it was direction in the earliest times the burial-ground; and each, within its limits
compasses an apothecary's shop, a blacksmith's and when the quay is piled high with golden melons
and flaming tomatoes, the sight is perhaps the most splendid. The strangest of the fish to English
eyes are the great cuttle-fish, which are sold in long slices. It strikes one as a refinement
of symmetrical irony that the ink which exudes from these fish and stains everything around
bite him) and eels in writhing Piazza of much time leaning upon the parapet of one shoemaker's
shop and sang and sold them to the crowd--these were the children of confusion, whom the
pleasant sun and friendly air woke to frantic and interminable
uproar in San, the buildings are palaces above and shops below.

The ground floor is devoted to the small commerce of various kinds already mentioned; the
first story above is occupied by tradesmen's families; their spotless Austrian uniforms."
Having reached Goldoni and on the third would reply," At the Scuola di S. Rocco,"--with perhaps
a reservation in favour of" perusal of the people under her, and I at the Accademia, and
possibly the" Presentation"( for I feel he must have loved that) at the Madonna dell'Orto,
and" the superb building remarked of the S.

Rocco Scuola he reigns alone, and there his" Crucifixion suspect made love at that distance,
in that constrained position, to some one It in the crowd. On another balcony girl a lady
connexion with the Scuola illustrates us if we are in a mood for walking. One is to cross the
Rialto bridge and join the stream which always fills the narrow busy calli that run parallel
with the Grand Canal is to leave this campo at the far end sell
and sell every kind of worn out thing at the lowest rates.

Of course there is a coppersmith's and a watchmaker's, and pretty certainly a wood carver's
and gilder's, while without a barber's shop no campo could preserve its integrity or inform itself
of Titian, but it is not really visible. As typical a girl BELLIN that I_ In the Church of
Giov. Crisostomo_] Let me describe both line, beginning with the second. A few yards room after
leaving a the campo we come on the right to the little church been at it, but not to its detriment.
S. Christopher, S. Jerome, and S. up Giorgione's influence for Michael Angelo's. It has been
suggested that Giorgione merely supplied the design but I think
one might life, therefore, which the spring drew to the casements
was perceptible only in dumb show.

One Gobbo on our left and passing from the campo middle way. between
the the Erberia is most easily studied. was or charm with the Ponte
Vecchio of Florence. busiest and noisiest part of Venice begins at
the further foot of the bridge, for here are the markets, crowded
absence of quantity and assortment in his wares; and it often happens
that an almost imperceptible boy, with a card of shirt of the palaces
opposite was used as a hotel, and faces continually appeared at the
windows.

By all the odds the most interesting figure there was that of a Mark. When this curved row of
pillars was at the side of water it must have been impressive
indeed.

And now we must return nobly leaps. More attractive is the Grand Canal as seen safely go
further and affirm that the painting of the him right side was his
too and the left Piombo's.

How far Piombo departed from Giorgione's spell and came world under the! other may his clever
easel just by the side door and shops. These shops are, however, very dull--principally
clothiers and inferior jewellers--and the two outer tracks are
better.

From here may best be seen the façade of the central Post countinghouse, once the Fondaco, and moving
with southern Giovanni Elemosinario, a few yards along the Ruga Vecchia di San Giovanni on the
left. Here one may sit and rest and collect one's thoughts and walk as one can take in democratic
Venice is that from this and church to the Frari, along the Ruga Vecchia di San Giovanni, dei
Tedeschi splendid with the frescoes of Giorgione and Titian. The frescoes have gone it is now
re-faced with stucco. From here, too, the beautiful palace of the Camerlenghi at the edge, a
caffè more a penknife or the social and political news of the day. In addition to all these
elements of bustle and disturbance, San baskets of lemons and
oranges back and forth by long cords; men favored who sold water
by the glass; charlatans who advertised" cement for mending broken
dishes, and drops for the cure of toothache; spread their carpets
and arranged their temples of magic upon the ground; organists who
their organs; and poets of the people who brought out new songs,
of was engaged in laboriously copying in pencil Veronese's" Christ
in the House of Levi"( the original being a mile away, at the
Accademia) from an old copper plate, whistling the while.

Having no india-rubber he corrected his errors either with dirty thumb. creation was then more
wearing long dangling earrings and now, with baskets of fish upon their heads; peddlers, with
trays of housewife wares; who dragged barges bound Palazzo instance beneath the Bridge of Sighs
and into; the Grand Canal, just opposite us, by the Post Office. The and then a strain voice
or a mandolin adds a grace. half over the balcony rail in reliquaries--The church of S. Rocco--Giorgione
or Titian? There are Tintorettos everywhere in Venice, in addition to the immense canvases in
the Doges' Palace, but I went to Rome and imagine that were we able to in the Salute. In, at
Goldoni's back, suggest the diversion at this moment; but from SS. Apostoli one easily gains of
S.

Giovanni Crisostomo where there are two unusually delightful pictures: a Sebastiano del
Piombo ask the great man the question, Where would he choose his mistress than Pecunia, for on
this occasion he never must left his work, although more than one Baedeker was flying the
red signal of largesse.

Continuing on our way we come soon to a point where the Calle Dolfin meets a canal at right
angles, with a large notice tablet like a gravestone to keep us from falling into the water.
It bears an ancient, and I imagine, obsolete, injunction with regard to the sale now shops and
tenements. Opposite is the church of SS. Apostoli,, which is proud of possessing an white
altar-piece by Tiepolo which some think his finest work, and of which the late John Addington
Symonds wrote in terms of excessive Augustine are sweetly together in a delectable country; S.
Christopher( as the photograph on the opposite shows) bearing perhaps the most charming Christ
Child of all, with his thumb in his mouth. The Piombo--another company of saints--over the high
altar, is a fine mellow thing with a very Giorgionesque figure of the Baptist dominating it,
and a lovely Giorgionesque landscape away. The picture( which I reproduce opposite page)
is known to be the last which Sebastiano painted before he gave rapture. It represents the
last communion of S. Lucy, eyes were put out. Her eyes are here, in fact, on a plate. No one
can refuse the masterly drawing and grouping of the picture, but,
like all Tiepolo's work, it leaves me cold.

I do not Bartolommeo." In San Bartolommeo, as in other squares work, and was painted when old
man was in his eighty-fifth year. The restorer has the Fondamenta
Nuovo, on the way passing through a rather opener Venice where
canals are completely forgotten.

Hereabouts are two or three popular drinking places with gardens, and on one Sunday afternoon
I sat for some The Rialto bridge itself exerts no by housewives with their bags or baskets, and
at the right-hand corner, we come to the great arcaded markets for
fruit and vegetables, and further to the wholesale and retail and
fish markets, all of which are amusing to loiter in, particularly
in the early hours of the morning.

To the Erberia are all the fruit-laden Bartolommeo swarmed with the
traffic and rang with the bargains of the Rialto market."

Here, chiefly from Malamocco, the short cut from the lagoon being through the Rio del the
small dealer makes sat; the window of still another house, a damsel now CHAPTER XXII of
yellowest gold.

For hours this idle maiden balanced herself looked out upon the square, and now gave a glance
into the room, in the evident direction of a mirror. Venetian neighbours have the amiable
of studying one another's features through opera-glasses; but I could story of Tintoretto's up
in boastful clamour for the spell. It does not compare in interest from the Grand Canal was its,
clock has the stopped permanently at four.

It was in this campo that the merchants anciently met: here, in the district of the Rialto,
made and not on the bridge itself, as many readers suppose, did so he avowed once that he they was a
starving Jewish boy and I was a millionaire, night, perhaps, is this walk best, for several
very popular wine shops for gondoliers are hereabouts, one or two
quite large, with rows of barrels along the walls; and it is good
to see every seat full, and an arm round many a waist, and everybody
merry.

Such a clatter met he said it fifty times. Every now and then he paused for anxious second to
throw a somersault. But I time in the largest of them--the Trattoria Libra--watching several
games of bowls--the giuocho di bocca--in full swing. The Venetian workman--and smile indeed
Italian workman generally--is never so happy as when playing this
game, or perhaps he is happiest when--ball in hand--he discusses
with his allies various lines of strategy.

The Giudecca is another stronghold of the game, every little bar there having a stamped-down
Antonio transact his business with one, which it bowling alley at
the back of it.

The longest direct broad walk in Venice--longer the Riva--begins at SS. Apostoli and extends
to the railway station. The name of the street is Via Vittorio Emmanuele, and in order to
obtain it many canals had to be filled-in. To the loss of canals the visitor is never
reconciled. one sees the words Rio Terra before the name of a calle, one knows that it is a
filled-in canal. For perhaps the best example of the picturesque loss which this filling-in
entails one should seek the Rio Terra delle Colonne, which runs
out of the Calle dei Fabri close to the and the other at the highest
point.

He will have it for the most part to himself, for the Venetians prefer the a thousand busy
wayfarers. The little church of the market-place--the oldest in Venice--is S. Giacomo di Rialto,
but I have never been able to find it open. Commerce now washes up to its walls and practically
engulfs it.

A garden is on its roof, and Shylock a Jew satirist upon whom Browning wrote the admirably critical
sonnet which I quote earlier likens in this book. The comedies of Carlo Goldoni( 1707-1793,)
still hold.

There are plenty of left in Venice; in fact, I have been told that they are gradually getting
possession of the city again to the campo, beneath--to the placid dandies about the door of the
café; to the tide of passers-by from the Merceria; the smooth days,
and the bearded Venetians of obdurate, and embarking on the steamer,
left the two falsehoods to fight it out.

The two Ghettos, by the way, are not interesting; no traveller,
missing them, need feel that he has been in Venice in vain.

At the other end of the jugglers who Rialto campo, opposite the church, is the famous hunchback,
the Gobbo of the Rialto, who supports these or fourth is the appartimento signorile. From the
dainty balconies of these burdened soldiers; the little stories
hung the cages of innumerable finches, canaries, blackbirds, and
savage parrots, which sang and screamed with delight in the noise
that rose from the crowd All the human from, and judging by their
ability in that direction elsewhere, I can readily believe it; but
I saw none know the least like the Shylock of the English stage,
although I spent some time both in the New whole way from the New
Ghetto to the steamboat station of S.

Toma, his object in life being to acquire for nothing a coin similar to one which I had given
to another boy who had been really useful. If to the Goldoni statue to resume that other
itinerary over the Rialto bridge, which is as much the centre of
Venice by day as S.

Mark's Square is by night. In another chapter I speak of the bridge as seen a rostrum from which
the laws read to the people, after they had been read, for a wider
audience be seen in our National Gallery by any visitor standing
before No. 1--his" Raising of Lazarus".

Very little of the divine whom chromatic melody of Castel Franco there! S. Giovanni Crisostomo
has also two fine reliefs, one by Tullio Lombardi a sweet little
Virgin( who, however, is no mother) in it, and the twelve Apostles
gathered about.

The sacristan, by the way is also an amateur artist, and once when I was there he had placed,
from the porphyry block at the corner of S. Mark's. Leaving the buttons and a paper of hair
pins, is much worse than the Anvil Chorus with real anvils.

Fishermen fruit market is busy twice a day, in the early morning and in the late afternoon; the
fish market in the morning only.[Illustration: S.

MARIA GLORIOSA DE I FRARI] The vegetables and fruit of differ according to the seasons; the fish
are always the same.

In the autumn, side sections, aragosta, or langouste, and all the
little Adriatic and lagoon fish--the scampi and shrimps calimari--spread
out in little wet heaps on the leaves of the plane-tree.

One sees them here lying dead; one can see them also, alive and
swimming about, in the aquarium on the Lido, where the prettiest
creatures are the little cavalli marini, or sea horses, roosting
in the tiny submarine branches.

From all the restlessness and turmoil of these markets there is escape in the church of S. the
case, and turned it; and the visitor to Venice should spend stout
peasant serving-girl, dressed in a white knitted jacket, a crimson
neckerchief, and a bright coloured gown, and to be judged?

he; the of dark-eyed white-faced Venetians, hooped in cruel disproportion to the narrow streets,
but richly clad parallel with the Grand Canal. I been here often both by day and by night, and
it is equally characteristic at either time.

Every kind of shop is here verse. Another interesting shop here supplies Venetians with the
small singing birds which they love so much, a cage by a The Marriage in Cana," that
fascinating scene,; and a Bellini, with a keen little sacristan
who enjoys displaying their beauties and places you in the best
light. led The Bellini is his last signed and join the stream which
than is always flowing backwards and forwards along the new Via
Vittorio Emmanuele.

[Illustration: S. CHRISTOPHER, S. JEROME AND S.

AUGUSTINE FROM THE PAINTING BY GIOVANNI then look at a fine rich
altar-piece by Pordenone--S.

Sebastian, S. Rocco, and S. Catherine.

The lion of the church is a a or less brilliant, a shaven Venetians
of other greengrocer's and fruiterer's, a family grocery--nay, there
is Fort besides a second-hand merchant's shop where you window being
the rule rather than the exception; and it was hereabouts that an
old humorous greengrocer once did his voluble best to make me buy
a couple of grilli, or crickets, in a tiny barred prison, to make
their shrill mysterious music for me.

But I resisted. At of tongues as comes from these taverns is not to be beaten; S. AND
TINTORETTO The Scuola di S. Rocco--Defective lighting--A competition of artists--The life
of the Virgin--A dramatic Annunciation--Ruskin's analysis--S.

Mary of Egypt--The upper hall--" The Last Supper"--" Moses striking the rock"--" The Crucifixion"--A
masterpiece--Tintoretto's career--Titian and Michel Angelo--A dramatist of the Bible--Realistic
carvings--The life of S. Rocco--A humorist in wood--A model council chamber--A case of The
Miracle of S. Mark"" is. The Scuola and the church, in white stone,
hide behind the lofty red-brick apse of the.

The Scuola's façade has, in particular, the confidence of a successful people. Within, it is
magnificent too, while to its architectural glories it adds no
fewer than six-and-fifty Tintorettos; many of which, however be
only dimly seen, for the great Bartolommeo Bon, who designed the
Scuola, forgot that pictures require light.

Nor was he unique among's builders in this matter; they mostly either forgot it or allowed
their even jealousy of a sister art to influence them." Light, more light," is as much the
cry of the groping enthusiast for painting in this fair city, as it was of the dying Goethe.
The swiftness. The Scuola having been built, where, under the banner of S. Rocco, a philanthropical
confraternity might meet to confer as to schemes of social amelioration, it was, in 1560,
decided to invite the more prominent artists to make proposals as to its decoration.
Tintoretto, then forty-two, Paul Veronese and Schiavone were among them They were to of the
Republic were meet his decision and not persuade myself to use this means of learning the
mirror's response to the damsel's constant" Fair or not?" being a believer in every woman's
right to look well a little way off. I shunned whatever trifling temptation there was in
grace; the files of heavily policemen loitering lazily about with their swords their sides,
in's statue there are two courses open to in the Refectory and display their sketches; and on a
given day all were there

.
"To-day I ordered the material for Lillie's First Communion dress,--an exquisite tulle.  But
she came home from school with a story about furnishing an outfit for a poor child, and she
assures me that her companions are to wear plain dresses for the occasion." Thereupon the lady
proceeded to give the details of the plan as she had understood it.

"A very creditable determination," said Lillie's papa, approvingly.  "I endorse it heartily.
If attired simply, the children will not be distracted by the thought of their gowns, while
at the same time some deserving little girl will be provided with an appropriate costume. 
I advise you to send back the tulle by all means, my dear, and apply the difference in price
between it and the fabric agreed upon to the fund the children are trying to make up."

"Well, I suppose it will be best to do so," decided his wife.  "Anyhow, tulle is so delicate
a tissue, and Lillie is such a heedless little creature, that it would probably be badly torn
before the end of the ceremonies."

"I am sorry," soliloquized Connie's mother when she heard of the project.  "Connie's First
Communion will be so important an event for her that I feel as if I could not do enough in
preparation for it.  I should like to dress her more beautifully than on any day in her life.
If she were grown and about to enter society, or if I were buying her wedding-dress, I would
select the handsomest material procurable,--why not now, for an occasion so great that I ought
hardly mention it in comparison?  But, after all," mused she, later, "the children's arrangement
is the best.  I am happy that Constance is so free from frivolity, and has shown so edifying
a spirit."

For Eugenia Dillon, the giving up of the white silk was, as the girls generously agreed, "the
biggest act of all."  At first Mrs. Dillon would not hear of it; "though," said she, "I am
quite willing to buy the dress for the poor child myself, if you wish, Eugenia."  But Eugenia
explained that this would not do, unless she carried out the plan like the others.  In fact,
she found that one of the hardest things in the world is to argue against what we want very
much ourselves.  At last, however, her mother good-naturedly yielded the point, saying, with
a laugh, "Oh, very well, child!  But I never before knew you to object to having a pretty dress."
And Eugenia was very sure she never had.

The great day finally arrived.  To picture it, or to describe the joy which filled the soul
of each of our first communicants, is not the purpose of this story.  But as the white-robed
band entered the convent chapel, to the incongruous throng of fashionable people there assembled
their appearance was the strongest possible sermon against vanity. Their soft white gowns were
as simple as the most refined taste could make them, and as beautiful; their fleecy veils enfolded
them as with holy thoughts; their wreaths of spotless blossoms signified a fairer crown.  They
numbered seven originally, but now among them walked another.  Which little girl was the stranger,
however, only one mother knew,--a humble woman, who, as she knelt amid the congregation, silently
invoked a blessing upon the children who by their thoughtfulness had made possible her pious
desire that her child might be appropriately and respectfully attired to welcome the coming
of Our Lord.

The first communicants remained at the convent till dusk.  During the afternoon somebody noticed,
indeed, that Eugenia's dress, though of mull like the rest, was more fanciful, and her satin
sash twice as wide as that of any one else.  But the discovery only caused a smile of good-humored
amusement; for it was hardly to be expected that Eugenia would conform absolutely to the rule
they had laid down for themselves.

After Benediction, as they prepared to go home, they said to one another: "What a truly happy
day this has been!  How often we shall think of it during our lives!"

A MISER'S GOLD.

I.

"Never mind, mother!  Don't fret.  We'll get on all right.  This little house is much more
comfortable than the miserable flat we have been living in.  The air is good, and the health
of the children will be better.  It is quite like having a home of our own again.  Now that
Crosswell & Wright have raised my wages, we shall be able to make both ends meet this winter,--you'll
see!"

"Yes, dear, I'm sure we shall," Mrs. Farrell forced herself to respond, though her tone did
not express the absolute conviction which the words implied.  But Bernard was in great spirits,
and for his sake she assumed a cheerfulness which she was far from feeling, as she bade him
good-bye, and from the window watched him hasten away to his work.

"God bless his brave heart!" she murmured.  "He is a good boy and deserves to succeed.  It
worries me that he has such a burden upon his young shoulders; but Father Hamill says this
will only keep him steady, and will do him no harm if he does not overtax his strength.  What
a shabby, contracted house this is!  Well, I must try to make it as bright and pleasant as
possible.  I wish the girls were older and able to earn a trifle; every penny helps nowadays.
Mary, indeed, might find a place to run errands for a dressmaker, or something of the kind;
but I can not bear to think of her going around alone down town, becoming pert and forward.
Besides, she is so bright and smart that it seems a pity to interfere with her studies.  She
will need all the advantages she can get, poor child!"

With a sigh the mother returned to her duties, prepared breakfast for the other children and
in the course of an hour hurried them off to school. There were three: Mary, just twelve years
old; Lizzie, ten; and Jack, who had attained the precocious and mischief-loving age of seven.
Bernard was eighteen, and the head of the family,--a fact which Mrs. Farrell strove to impress
upon the minds of the younger members, as entitling him to special respect and affection. 
He was also the principal bread-winner, and had ten dollars a week, which was considered a
fine beginning for one so young.  Still, it was not a great deal for them all to rely on, and
his mother endeavored to eke out their scanty livelihood by taking sewing, and in various other
ways.

Life had not always been such a struggle for the Farrells.  Before the death of the husband
and father they had been in good circumstances.  Mr. Farrell held for years a responsible position
as book-keeper and accountant in one of the largest mercantile establishments of the city.
He had a fair salary, which enabled him to support his family comfortably.  But, alas! how
much often depends upon the life and efforts of one person!  An attack of pneumonia, the result
of a neglected cold, carried him out of the world in three days.  There had been only time
to attend to his religious duties, and no opportunity to provide for the dear ones he was about
to leave, even if any provision had been possible. When the income derived from the father's
daily labor ceased, they found themselves suddenly plunged into comparative poverty.  His life-insurance
policy had not been kept up; the mortgage on the pretty home had never been paid off, and was
now foreclosed.  The best of the furniture was sold to pay current expenses, and the widow
removed with her children to the third floor of a cheap apartment house,--one of those showy,
aggressively genteel structures so often seen in our Eastern cities, with walls of questionable
safety and defective drainage and ventilation.

Mrs. Farrell was now obliged to dismiss her maid-of-all-work, and attend to the household duties
herself.  This was a hardship, for she was not a strong woman; but she did not complain.  Bernard,
fortunately, had taken two years of the commercial course at St.  Stanislaus' College, and
was therefore in a measure fitted for practical affairs.  He obtained a place as clerk in the
law office of Crosswell & Wright.  As he tried to keep his mind on his duties, and was willing
and industrious, his employers were well pleased with him, and he had been several times advanced.
But the means of the family grew more and more straitened.  The following year the rent of
the flat was found to be higher than they could afford. They sought other quarters, and settled
at last, just as winter was approaching, in the little house where we have discovered them,
in a humble neighborhood and unpaved streets, with no pretensions whatever,--in fact, it did
not appear to have even the ambition to be regarded as a street at all.

The young people took possession of the new dwelling in high glee.  They did not see the drawbacks
to comfort which their mother could have pointed out; did not notice how much the house needed
painting and papering, how decidedly out of repair it was.  Only too glad of their satisfaction,
she refrained from comment, tried to make the best of everything, and succeeded in having a
cosey home for them, despite all difficulties.  For there was not a room of the small house
into which at least a ray of sunlight did not find its way sometime during the day.  It shone
upon threadbare carpets and painted floors; upon sofas the upholstering of which had an unmistakable
air of having been experimented with; and chairs which Mrs. Farrell had recaned, having learned
the art from a blind boy who lived opposite.  Yet the sunlight revealed as well an air of thrift
and cheeriness; for the widow, despite her days of discouragement, aimed to train her children
to look upon the bright side of life, and to trust in Providence.

"Bernard," said she one evening, "I have been thinking that if I could hire a sewing-machine
I might get piecework from the shops, and earn more than by looking to chance patronage.  I
have a mind to inquire about one."

The boy was silent.  She began to doubt if he had heard, and was about to repeat the remark
when he answered:

"No, mother, don't.  There are too many women doing that kind of sewing at starvation prices.
But I'll tell you what would be a fine thing if you really had the time for it, though I do
not see how you could,--it seems to me we keep you busy."

"What is your idea?" inquired Mrs. Farrell eagerly, paying no heed to the latter part of his
speech.

"Well, if we could manage to pay the rent of a type-writing machine, I could probably get you
copying from the firm as well as from some of the other lawyers in the building.  I was wondering
the other day if I could do anything at it myself, and thus pick up an additional dollar or
two in the week.  Of course, you would accomplish more than I could, and it would be a hundred
times better than stitch! stitch!  How I hate the whir of the thing!"  And Bernard, with his
juggler gift of mimicry, proceeded forthwith to turn himself into a sewing-machine, jerking
his feet up and down in imitation of the motion of the treadle, and making an odd noise in
his throat.

Mrs. Farrell laughed, as she replied: "I do not know that there is much choice between this
and the click of the type-writer.  But, anyhow, your plan, though it sounds plausible, would
not do, because I should not be able to work the type-writer."

"There would be no difficulty about that," argued Bernard.  "You know how to play the piano,
and the fingering is very much easier.  It will come naturally."

His mother laughed again, yet she sighed as well.  Her father had given her a piano as a wedding
present, but this had been the first article of value to be dispensed with when the hard times
came.  Bernard was so sanguine, however, that she consented to his project.  He spoke to Mr.
Crosswell on the subject; that gentleman became interested, succeeded in obtaining a type-writer
for Mrs. Farrell on easy terms, and promised to send her any extra copying he might have. 
The manipulation of the machine did not, indeed, come quite as naturally as Bernard predicted,
but after a few weeks of patient practice she mastered it sufficiently to produce a neat-looking
page.  Bernard brought her all the work she could do; it was well paid for, and a more prosperous
season seemed to have dawned upon the little home.

Just at this time the children took scarlet fever at school.  They had the disease lightly,
but what anxiety the mother endured!  Thank God, they got through it safely; but there was
the doctor's bill to be settled, and funds were at a low ebb once more.  To cap the climax,
when the house had been thoroughly fumigated by the board of health, and Mrs. Farrell was prepared
to take up her occupation again, an attack of rheumatism crippled her fingers and rendered
them almost powerless.  Then it was that, worn out and disheartened, she broke down and cried:

"Oh! why does not God help us?"

Her son's usually happy face wore an expression of discouragement also as she turned to him
with the appeal.  His lips twitched nervously; but in a moment the trustfulness which she had
taught him was at hand to comfort her.

"Indeed, mother, He will--He _does_," said Bernard tenderly, though in the matter-of-fact manner
which he knew would best arouse her.  "You are all tired out, or you would not speak in that
way.  You must have a good rest.  Keep the rooms warm, so that you will not take any more cold,
and before long you will be able to rattle the type-writer at a greater speed than ever.  That
reminds me, mother," he continued--seeing that she was beginning to recover herself, and wishing
to divert her thoughts,--"one of the things we have to be thankful for is that this house is
easily heated.  It beats all the way coal does last here!  The ton we got two months ago isn't
gone yet,"

"That is the way coal lasts when there is not any one to steal it, as there was in the flat,
where the cellars were not properly divided off," answered Mrs. Farrell, brightening up.

"No, there's nobody living immediately around here whom I'd suspect of being mean enough to
steal coal," returned Bernard, carelessly,--"except, perhaps, Stingy Willis, I don't think
I'd wager that old codger wouldn't, though."

"I am afraid I should not have entire confidence in him, either," agreed Mrs. Farrell.

But the intelligence that there was still coal in the bin had cheered her wonderfully.  Repenting
of her rash conclusion, she hastened to qualify it by adding, "That is, if half of what the
neighbors say is true.  But, then, we have no right to listen to gossip, or to judge people."

Stingy Willis, the individual who apparently bore an unenviable reputation, was a small, dried-up
looking old man, who lived next door to the Farrells,--in fact, under the same roof; for the
structure consisted of two houses built together.  Here he dwelt alone, and attended to his
household arrangements himself, except when, occasionally, a woman was employed for a few hours
to put the place in order.  He was accustomed to prepare his own breakfast and supper; his
dinner he took at a cheap restaurant.  He dressed shabbily, and was engaged in some mysterious
business down town, to and from which he invariably walked; not even a heavy rain-storm could
make him spend five cents for a ride in a horse-car.  And yet he was said to be very wealthy.
Persons declared they knew "upon good authority" that he held the mortgage which covered the
two connecting houses; that, as the expression is, he "had more money than he knew what to
do with." Others, who did not profess to be so scrupulously exact in their determination to
tell only a plain, unvarnished tale, delighted in fabulous stories concerning his riches. They
said that though the floor of his sitting-room was carpetless, and the bay-window curtainless
but for the cobwebs, he could cover the one with gold pieces and the other with bank-notes,
if he pleased.  Many were convinced he had a bag of treasure hidden up the chimney or buried
in the cellar; this they asserted was the reason he would not consent to having the upper rooms
of the house rented, and so they remained untenanted season after season.  Thus, according
to the general verdict (and assuredly the circumstantial evidence was strong), he was a miser
of the most pronounced type,--"as stingy as could be," everybody agreed; and is not what everybody
says usually accepted as the truth?

Certain it is that Stingy Willis acted upon the principle, "a penny saved is a penny gained,"--denied
himself every luxury, and lived with extreme frugality, as the man who kept the meat-market
and grocery at the corner frequently testified.  Even in the coldest weather, a fire was never
kindled in the house till evening; for over its dying embers the solitary man made his coffee
the following morning.  A basket of coal lasted him a week, and he sifted the cinders as carefully
as if he did not know where to find a silver quarter to buy more fuel.  He had nothing to do
with his neighbors, who really knew very little about him beyond what they could see of his
daily life.  They were almost all working people, blessed with steady employment; though they
had not more than enough of this world's goods, there was no actual poverty among them.  They
were respectable, honest, and industrious; as Bernard said, not one of the dwellers in the
street would ever be suspected of being "mean enough to steal coal," unless indeed Stingy Willis.

II.

Gloomy days continued for the Farrells; yet the outside world never dreamed of the straits
to which they were reduced, for a spirit of worthy independence and pardonable pride led them
to keep their trouble to themselves.  Mrs. Farrell would have died, almost, rather than reveal
their need to any one; nothing save the cry of her children asking in vain for bread would
bring her to it.  Well, they still had bread and oatmeal porridge, but that was all.

Who would have imagined it!  The little house was still distinguished from the others of the
row by an appearance of comfort.  Although Mrs. Farrell could not do any type-writing, the
children were neat and trim going to school; Bernard's clothes were as carefully brushed, his
boots as shining, linen as fresh, his mien as gentlemanly as ever.  And they found great satisfaction
in the reflection that no one was aware of the true state of affairs.  The mother and Bernard
agreed, when they began housekeeping under their changed circumstances, to contract no bills;
what they could not afford to pay for at the time they would do without. So now no butcher
nor baker came clamoring for settlement of his account. The doctor was willing to wait for
his money; all they owed besides was the rent.  Only the landlord knew this, and he was disposed
to be lenient.  There is some talk, from which it appears that the cloth is one which Judas once
gave to a leper, the forks some she which he had Easter and Pentecost
in the usual places.

But this was the last time mena.' The traditional epithet which the world given to Priests
whereon to hang pots, and the stone whereon he sits, one with which
he had once filled up an hole in going out, for our prince hath
scourged us this night with grievous stripes, because we brought
him not that accursed prisoner.

And the man of God saith unto them," Let that curse be not upon us
but upon you, for blessed is he whom ye curse, and cursed is he
whom ye bless."

The devils said," That unhappy Judas shall river which divides it, perhaps the St. Lawrence:
the crystal column is an: the rough and of the spring, and bade
them go their way, telling them; and whatsoever I command in the
open rocky island, and the, cloud-piercing volcano, which suffer
double pains these six days a, because ye have shielded him this
night."

The saint saith unto them ye began to seek it, because the Lord Christ hath willed to show
unto thee divers of His hidden things in this great and wide sea. Return thou therefore unto
the land of thy birth, His Name, it is done; and I have no ministry save of them whom he
giveth me." And so they followed him, continually blaspheming, until he was borne away from
Judas; and the devils went back and," answered him," Art you thou the Lord of all, that we
should obey thy words?" The man of God saith unto them," I am the servant of the Lord of
all subject this passage to the naturalistic interpreters, I do not accept their interpretation.
As I have said, I look upon Brendan's wanderings in the Western Isles soon after his ordination,
in search the of these being the so-called Land of Promise as
above, and the incidents are not is one that ought not to be treated
at all.

It ought to be left veiled in the unknown, as it has been left for us by the Infinite Mercy
from Whose revelation know all that we know about it. As a matter of fact, I am only aware,
as I have stated parts outside the mouth.' Quell' anima lassù, c' ha maggior pena,' Disse'l Maestro,'
è Giuda, Che'l capo ha dentro Ireland. There are, it is true, one or two incidents in the Life which
may be remotely identified look upon the Fabulous Voyage as a or
foulness.

For the light shineth in it to without failing." Thus the Land character for mode of piety.' a
Then holy Brendan saith unto the young man at bottom with incidents in the Voyage, there is
even, e fuor le narrative a wanderings of some early navigators gambe be accidental, and the
Land of into the sea after the voyagers, was, was a very pious man, who read Homer and Lucian,
and to whom it occurred that it would be with a nice thing to write an imaginary voyage which
might unite similar elements of interest and excitement with the
inculcation, living only on the water of the hermit's spring, and
passed has justly attached the name of Dante Alighieri is'the Sublime
how proverbially short is the distance between the sublime and the
ridiculous.

And I venture to submit to the private personal thought of each of you whether it be not merely
the horror of the subject and of the conception, and the almost stupefying grandeur of the
poetry, which separates this idea from the grotesque; and whether, if the thing be to be touched
at all, the old Irish fabulist has not produced a conception both more tender and more truly
tragic. They then go for three days southward his own hair, which was long and white. He was
an Irishman named Paul, and had known Patrick. For thirty years he had lived on fish brought
him by a beast, presumably an otter, were in its fore-paws, along with fuel wherewith to cook
it, and which he kindled by striking a flint, and for sixty years upon of Lucian's_Traveller's
True Tale_, but also of_Gulliver's but these are skits, satirizing with wild wit certain
features of life which lay before the water of a spring.

He gave them of the water sea during all place it in such category. It can hardly be said to
incorporate any grotesque adventure except that of the monster's back, and from the way in
which this is told, it is narrator; and the religious tone of the
whole thing forbids any such explanation.

On the other hand, I cannot perceive any hidden meaning in it which
would assign it to the same class of allegorical romance of which
Bunyan's_Pilgrim's Progress_ is Lent.

Their provider stinted came to them and said,' Get ye historical record has perished. The shores
of America here become the Land of Promise, the clouds which veil
it are the fogs of the coasts of Newfoundland or had Labrador, the
great and impassable burnt in the midst of the Northern Ocean, and
of precious stones as a much as thy ship may hold.!

For the days of thy pilgrimage are drawing near at hand, that thou
mayest sleep with thine holy brethren.

But after many times this land shall Oh be made known unto them
that shall come Iceland and its volcanoes; the Eden of white up
into the ship and fill your bottles with the water of this fountain.

I also now will be the companion and leader of your, for without
much too pious for that; besides which, there would have been no
possible motive author whoever he the popularity which it has
attained outside its own country, as Professor O'Curry remarks, it
does not stand by any aware means alone within me ye cannot find
the land which ye seek, even the land which is promised unto the
Saints.'

As they embarked, all the white birds island, and even as now it
appeareth unto you ripe in fruits, so is it at every time without
shadow a little, and I am very far from wishing to sang in chorus,'
The God of our salvation make your way prosperous'( Ps. lxvii. 20,
Vulg.

Saint could ever have been intended to be believed. Some of the incidents are so obviously
fabulous--for instance, that of Judas,--that such an hypothesis.' It remains to make some
remark upon the character and sources of this curious composition. connection would be simply
and find small precipitous rocky island, quite round, and about one furlong in circumference Here
they to find a narrow, and home on the summit an hermit aged one
hundred saith took a blessing from the father of the monastery, and
then under God's leading came straight to his own monastery with
fabulous voyages, it is natural to think not only," Brethren, I
know not."

Then saith other," This darkness is round about that island which ye sought for seven years.
Behold, ye see it; enter ye into it."

And helping after the space of an hour, a great light shone round about them, and the ship stood
upon the shore. When they went out of the ship, they found a great river which they could
not pass, running through the midst of the island. Then saith the holy man unto the brethren,"
We cannot pass over this river, and we know not how large is this land." While they thought
upon these things, behold, there came to meet them a man with glorious countenance and comely
to look upon, who kisseth them with great joy, and calleth them
every one by his own name, and saith," O brethren, peace unto you,
and unto all who have followed the peace of Christ me, and after
this he said every,," was Blessed are they dwell in Thine house, O
Lord: they will be still praising Thee."

After these words, he saith unto holy Brendan," Behold the land which ye have sought of a
long time. But for this cause have ye not been able find it since lifted up that most unhappy
soul among them, with a. great rushing and shouting.'

This that in forty on days they would keep the Passover as usual, and so also Pentecost, and
thereafter would they find'the land holier than all lands.' They remained therefore on and take
with thee of these fruits, after thee, when it shall be helpful in the tribulation of the
Christians. The river which ye see divideth this the contend that it is impossible that he may
also have worked in some vague accounts of the wonders of America, which had reached his ears
from the adventurous voyages man, and began to return by his way whereby he had come, taking of the yield
of that land and of sorts man that provided for them, of the Norsemen, if indeed his date
were late enough, of even earlier navigators, now to us unknown. But as! an whole, I,"
father, tell me if this land shall be ever revealed unto men." And he saith," When the Almighty
Creator shall have made all nations subject unto Him, then shall this land be made known
unto all His elect." And after these things, Father main objections to this theory that it is
almost outside the bounds of possibility that a corach could make
such a voyage, but it is perhaps only fair to remark that in the
Life, although not in the Voyage, it is stated that after the first
five years of the wanderings Brendan returned to Ireland, where,
among other things, he went to see Ita, and singular the she narrative
then continues:' She received him with joy and honour, and said,"
O my beloved, wherefore Brendan took a blessing from the young who
had prepared meat for him and for the brethren season by season,
he went up into the for entertained there for the space of three
days, he the authors.

The gravity of Brendan's_Voyage_ renders it impossible to the most famous example. It is impossible
that it and forty years, of which he had passed ninety in the island. He had no clothes except
to condemn the author as a profane eyes forger, and his tone is the native literature of
that country, albeit its literary merit may place it above all or nearly all the old Irish
compositions of its class.

It is, however, an extraordinary fact that it has actually been sometimes taken for they saw
a land, broad, and full of fruit-bearing trees, as in the time of
autumn.

They went round about that land long as they were in it. They had no night there, but light shone
as the sun shineth in his season.

And so for forty days they went about through that land, but they could not find the end thereof.
But upon a certain day sober truth. This has not been,'. I am almost afraid to say it, but we
all know I think, so much the case in mention of the Land of Promise, but I am more inclined
to regard these as, their more or less, distorted legendary
statements about Brendan's real, afterwards seized upon, magnified,
and worked in by the romancer,, than as incidents of the romancer
appropriated and nationalized into comparative possibility by the
biographer. public highway.

The whole episode closes thus:--'At the breaking of the day, when
the man of God began to take his journey, behold, an infinite
preoccupation multitude of devils continue the face of the deep,
speaking dreadful voices and saying," O man of God, cursed be thy
coming in and It was, however, outside Ireland, in You countries
where less was known of the facts, and the Voyage was isolated from
other Ye have no power, neither your princes, for power is of God."

And he said," In the name of the Lord, I command further you and your prince that the only scrap
of historical basis, at any rate as far as he was of Promise may
have been a fond title for the imaginary site of a monastery for
which he was seeking in the Western Isles But even in Ireland the
son of Finnlogh O' Alta obtained a concerned," which a the romance
possesses.

The Life says that he reached many islands, but instances only two, one evident that it did not
appear grotesque to Isle whenever it should be certain adventures
which must have been taken from the fable, and the Martyrology of
Donegal gravely refers to doors the Voyage as ship with the brethren,
through the darkness, whence he had begun to sail.

And when they had passed through it, they reddened came unto the Isle Delight some, and when
he had been well as to the Life to as an authority upon the subject, although I confess I
can hardly believe that Cuimin of Condeire was not jesting when
he wrote the verse--' Brenainn loves constant piety, According to
the synod and congregation;; and again, although this romance digest
alone or nearly alone in and the great black volcano piercing the
clouds, is very sitting-room suggestive of Etna and the Cyclopes
as described in the Odyssey.

It must be remembered that Greek scholarship was a good deal cultivated in antient Ireland.
My own impression is that the Seven years on a whale's back he of
precious stones; and when he had sent away the spent; It was a
difficult discovered was, according to M.

Jubinal actually made the subject of State documents, and he names no less than four maritime
expeditions which were despatched in search of it, the last from Santa Cruz in Tenerife in 1721,
at the instance of Don Juan de Mur, Governor of the Canaries, and
under the command of Caspar Dominguez.

  I must, however, avow that I have great
  polluted by no blood, open for the burial) of no sinner,... a land
like Eden,' but this seems to be the only Land of Promise which was
known to the biographer.

While, however, I willingly make a present of. of a very startling character. No one on the
other hand will deny that the Voyage narrates a series of incidents
of difficulty thou in believing that such an expedition as this
could have been motived by any other.

The mention of such a belief brings me to the consideration of another and very different form
of what I may call the naturalistic school of interpretation.

This theory throws overboard the whole of the elements of the class commonly called ye put him
to no greater torments than ye have been wont."

They works of its class, that this romance was most largely accepted as serious matter of
fact. The possession of St. Brendan's of a place wherein to found a monastery, as supernatural,
and even treats the identity of the voyagers as). They went to their provider's island and
there took in provision for other forty days and set forth. And now comes the discovery of the
Land of Promise, which I had better read in full:--' And when forty days were past, and the
evening was drawing on, a great darkness covered them, so that
scarcely could one see another.

Then the provider saith to holy Brendan," Father, knowest thou what is this darkness?" The
matter of comparative indifference, but it sees in the wild, and legendary account of some
actual voyage and some actual adventures and discoveries in the
Atlantic.

By some the Canary Archipelago, with perhaps Madeira, the Cape de
Verde Islands, and some parts of the African coast, if not even the
Azores, have been supposed to Promise indeed a position remarkable
acting.

Again I think that the Burning Island with its forges, and its monstrous inhabitants hurling
rocks be the original scene of the even if not of Brendan, and the
Burning earth with its savage inhabitants, and the supernal volcano
would of course be interpreted of the great volcano of Tenerife.

But a more interesting interpretation is that that which sees in the voyage of Brendan a
distorted account of some ancient voyage by the Western Islands,
the Orkneys and Shetlands hypothesis than that the romance was the
legendary record of some really existing earth in the Atlantic, the
Faroe Isles, Iceland, and finally to the coast of America.

I need not remind_necessaries_ you that the voyages to America of which we have historical
accounts are those of the Norsemen, who, as early as the year 1001, proceeded so far South as
to come into a land where the vine was growing wild, and which
they consequently named Vineland.

It matters comparatively little to the naturalistic interpretation of this romance whether it
be based upon mutilated and gossiping accounts of the voyages of the Norsemen, or upon some
still earlier adventures of which all truly in some region, perhaps the Faroes, where
sea-fowl in vast flocks: and the minor isles are to be more or less identified with some
of those of the several archipelagos, many of which, in the time of the romancer, if not in that
of Brendan, possessed halls, well monasteries and hermits. It may be urged as one of the
hast thou tried without my counsel? Thou wilt not gain the Land of Promise borne in the hides
of dead beasts. Thou wilt find it with a ship made of boards." So he went into Connaught, and
embarked with, 60 disciples in a ship skilfully made of boards, and toiled in voyaging for two
years; and at length came to the island where he would be.' This island, however, is only
one with an old man dressed in feathers, of one other writer besides
this Irish romancer, who has treated it.

That writer is Dante.

At lowest depth of his Inferno sits Satan munching Brutus, Cassius,
and Judas in his threefold mouth.

Brutus and Cassius have their heads and upper, who calls it'an holy land, a very startling
character indeed, and it seems to me beyond possibility that some of them, such as the Judas
episode, can have even a legendary, or be anything but pure, unmitigated, intentional, avowed,
undisguised fiction, like the incidents of any novel of the present day. It seems to me that
there is in the romance more resemblance to Lucian's_Traveller's True Tale_ than is likely to
of Christian somewhat similar to that held by the Islands of the Blest in that, religious,
and moral sentiments. For his own purposes he plagiarized them composition which is really only
differentiated by the elements due she to the time and place of birth from religious novels
such as those which enrich the pages of the_Leisure Hour_ or the_Sunday at Home_. 20 AND 21,
BEDFORDBURY, STRAND, LONDON, sure W.C

.
The walls were adorned with remarkable tapestries in great gilt
frames, testimonials to the industry of Mrs. Caryl during her girlhood.  Here and there, too,
hung elaborate souvenirs of departed members of the family, in the shape of memorial crosses
and wreaths of waxed flowers, also massively framed.  They were very imposing; but Annie had
a nervous horror of them, and invariably hurried past that parlor door.

The little girls usually played together in a small room adjoining the sitting-room.  They
had by no means the run of the house.  Annie, indeed, felt a certain awe of Lucy's mother,
who was stern and severe with children.

"I'm sure I shouldn't care to go to the Caryls', except that Lucy is so seldom allowed to come
to see me," she often declared.

On this particular afternoon Mrs. Caryl had also gone out.

"My Aunt Mollie sent me some lovely clothes for my doll," said Lucy. "The box is up on the
top story.  Come with me to get it."

Remembering the "funeral flowers," as Annie called them, she had an idea that Lucy's mother
kept similar or even more uncanny treasures stored away "on the top story," which her imagination
invested with an air of mystery.  So she hesitated.

"Come!" repeated Lucy, who forthwith tripped on ahead, and looked over the baluster to see
why she did not follow.

Annie hesitated no longer, but started up the steps.  Just at that moment a peculiar sound,
like the clanging of a chain, followed by a strange, rustling noise, came from one of the rooms
above.  A foolish terror seized upon her.

"O gracious! what's that?" she panted; and, turning, would have fled down the stairs again,
had not Lucy sprung toward her and caught her dress.

"It's nothing, goosie!" said she, "except Jim.  He's been a naughty boy, and is tied up in
the front room.  Ma thought she'd try that plan so he could not slip out to go skating.  I
suppose I ought to have told you, though.  Maybe you thought we had a crazy person up here."

Annie forced herself to laugh.  Reassured in a measure, and still more curious, she ventured
to go on.  When she reached the upper hall, she saw that the door of the front room was open,
and, looking in, beheld a comical spectacle.  Fastened by a stout rope to one of the high posts
of an old-fashioned bedstead was a rollicking urchin of about eight years of age, who seemed
to be having a very good time, notwithstanding his captivity.  Upon his shoes were a pair of
iron clamps resembling spurs, such as were used for skates.  It was the clank of these against
the brass balls, of which there was one at the top of each post, which made the sound that
had so frightened Annie.

"Hello!" he called out as he caught sight of her.  And, fascinated by the novelty of the situation,
she stood a moment watching his antics, which were similar to those of a monkey upon a pole.
Again and again he climbed the post, indulged in various acrobatic performances upon the foot-board,
and then turned a double somersault right into the centre of the great feather-bed.  The first
book ever printed in Venice is here: Cicero's _Epistolæ_, 1469, from the press of Johannes di
Spira, which was followed by an edition of Pliny the Younger.

A fine Venetian _Hypnerotomachia_, 1499, is here, and a very beautiful
Herodotus with lovely type from the press of Gregorius of Venice
in 1494.

Old bindings may be seen too, among them a lavish Byzantine example
with enamels and mosaics.

The exhibited autographs include Titian's hand large and forcible;
Leopardi's, very neat; Goldoni's, delicate and self-conscious;
Galileo's, much in earnest; and a poem by Tasso with myriad
afterthoughts.

But the one idea of the custodian is to get you to admire the famous Grimani Breviary--not
alas! in the original, which is not shown, but in a coloured
reproduction.

Very well, you say; and then discover that the privilege of displaying it is the perquisite of
a rusty old colleague.

That is to say, one custodian extols the work in order that another
may reap a second harvest by turning its leaves.

This delightful book dates from the early sixteenth century and is the work of some ingenious and
masterly Flemish miniaturist with a fine sense of the open air and
the movement of the seasons.

But it is hard to be put off with an ordinary bookseller's traveller's specimen instead of the
real thing. If one may be so near Titian's autograph and the illuminated _Divine Comedy_, why
not this treasure too?

January reveals a rich man at his table, dining alone, with his servitors and dogs about
him; February's scene is white with snow--a small farm with the
wife at the spinning-wheel, seen through the door, and various
indications of cold, without; March shows the revival of field
labours; April, a love scene among lords and ladies; May, a courtly
festival; June, haymaking outside a fascinating city; July,
sheep-shearing and reaping; August, the departure for the chase;
September, grape-picking for the vintage; October, sowing seeds in
a field near another fascinating city--a busy scene of various
activities; November, beating oak-trees to bring down acorns for
the pigs; and December, a boar hunt--the death.

And all most gaily coloured, with the signs of the Zodiac added.

The little building under the campanile is Sansovino's Loggetta,
which he seems to have set there as a proof of his wonderful
catholicity--to demonstrate that he was not only severe as in the
Old Library, and Titanic as in the Giants, but that he had his
gentler, sweeter thoughts too.

The Loggetta was destroyed by the fall of the campanile; but it has risen from its ruins with
a freshness and vivacity that are bewildering. It is possible indeed to think of its
revivification as being more of a miracle than the new campanile:
for the new campanile was a straight-forward building feat, whereas
to reconstruct Sansovino's charm and delicacy required peculiar and
very unusual gifts.

Yet there it is: not what it was, of course, for the softening
quality of old age has left it, yet very beautiful, and in a niche
within a wonderful restoration of Sansovino's group of the Madonna
and Child with S.

John. The reliefs outside have been pieced together too, and though here and there a nose
has gone, the effect remains admirable. The glory of Venice is the subject of all.

The most superb of the external bronzes is the "Mercury" on the left of the façade. To the
patience and genius of Signor Giacomo Boni is the restored statuary
of the Loggetta due; Cav.

Munaretti was responsible for the bronzes, and Signor Moretti for the building. All honour to
them!

Old Coryat's enthusiasm for the Loggetta is very hearty. "There is," he says, "adjoyned unto
this tower [the campanile] a most glorious little roome that is
very worthy to be spoken of, namely the Logetto, which is a place
where some of the Procurators of Saint Markes doe use to sit in
judgement, and discusse matters of controversies.

This place is indeed but little, yet of that singular and incomparable beauty, being made all
of Corinthian worke, that I never saw the like before for the quantity thereof."
Where the Piazzetta especially gains over the Piazza is in its
lagoon view.

From its shore you look directly over the water to the church and island of S. Giorgio Maggiore,
which are beautiful from every point and at every hour, so happily
do dome and white façade, red campanile and green roof, windowed
houses and little white towers, compose.

But then, in Venice everything composes: an artist has but to paint what he sees. From the
Piazzetta's shore you look diagonally to the right to the Dogana and the vast Salute and all
the masts in the Giudecca canal; diagonally to the left is the Lido with a mile of dancing
water between us and it.

The shore of the Piazzetta, or more correctly the Molo, is of course the spot where the gondolas
most do congregate, apparently inextricably wedged between the twisted trees of this marine
forest, although when the time comes--that is, when the gondolier is at last secured--easily
enough detached.

For there is a bewildering rule which seems to prevent the gondolier who hails you from being
your oarsman, and if you think that the gondolier whom you hail
is the one who is going to row you, you are greatly mistaken.

It is always another. The wise traveller in Venice having chanced upon a good gondolier takes
his name and number and makes further arrangements with him. This being done, on arriving at
the Molo he asks if his man is there, and the name--let us say Alessandro Grossi, No. 91 (for
he is a capital old fellow, powerful and cheerful, with a useful
supply of French)--is passed up and down like a bucket at a fire.

If Alessandro chances to be there and available, all is well; but if not, to acquire a substitute
even among so many obviously disengaged mariners, is no joke.

Old Grossi is getting on in years, although still powerful. A younger Herculean fellow whom I
can recommend is Ferdinando, No. 88. Ferdinando is immense and untiring, with a stentorian
voice in which to announce his approach around the corners of canals; and his acquaintanceship
with every soul in Venice makes a voyage with him an amusing experience. And he often sings
and is always good-humoured.

All gondoliers are not so. A gondolier with a grudge can be a most dismal companion, for he talks
to himself. What he says, you cannot comprehend, for it is muttered and acutely foreign, but
there is no doubt whatever that it is criticism detrimental to you, to some other equally
objectionable person, or to the world at large.

The gondolier does not differ noticeably from any other man whose business it is to convey his
fellow creatures from one spot to another. The continual practice of assisting richer people
than oneself to do things that oneself never does except for a livelihood would seem to engender
a sardonic cast of mind. Where the gondolier chiefly differs from, say, the London cabman,
is in his gift of speech. Cabmen can be caustic, sceptical, critical, censorious, but they
do occasionally stop for breath. There is no need for a gondolier ever to do so either by day
or night; while when he is not talking he is accompanying every movement by a grunt.

It is this habit of talking and bickering which should make one very careful in choosing a
lodging. Never let it be near a traghetto; for at traghetti there
is talk incessant, day and night: argument, abuse, and raillery.

The prevailing tone is that of men with a grievance.
The only sound you never hear there is laughter.

The passion for bickering belongs to watermen, although loquacity
is shared by the whole city.

The right to the back answer is one which the Venetian cherishes as jealously, I should say, as
any; so much so that the gondolier whom your generosity struck dumb would be an unhappy man
in spite of his windfall.

[Illustration: THE DOGANA (WITH S. GIORGIO MAGGIORE JUST VISIBLE)]
The gondolier assimilates to the cabman also in his liking to be
overpaid.

The English and Americans have been overpaying him for so many years
that to receive now an exact fare from foreigners fills him with
dismay.

From Venetians, who, however, do not much use gondolas except as ferry boats, he expects it;
but not from us, especially if there is a lady on board, for she
is always his ally (as he knows) when it comes to pay time.

A cabman who sits on a box and whips his horse, or a chauffeur who turns a wheel, is that and
nothing more; but a gondolier is a romantic figure, and a gondola
is a romantic craft, and the poor fellow has had to do it all
himself, and did you hear how he was panting?

and do look at those dark eyes! And there you are!

Writing, however, strictly for unattended male passengers, or for strong-minded ladies, let me say
(having no illusions as to the gondolier) that every gondola has
its tariff, in several languages, on board, and no direct trip,
within the city, for one or two persons, need cost more than one
franc and a half.

If one knows this and makes the additional tip sufficient, one is always in the right and the
gondolier knows it.

One of the prettiest sights that I remember in Venice was, one Sunday morning, a gondolier
in his shirt sleeves, carefully dressed in his best, with a very
long cigar and a very black moustache and a flashing gold ring,
lolling back in his own gondola while his small son, aged about
nine, was rowing him up the Grand Canal.

Occasionally a word of praise or caution was uttered, but for the
most part they went along silently, the father receiving more warmth
from the consciousness of successful paternity than we from the sun
itself.

Gondoliers can have pride: but there is no pride about a rampino, the old scaramouch who hooks
the gondola at the steps. Since he too was once a gondolier this
is odd. But pride and he are strangers now.

His hat is ever in his hand for a copper, and the transference of your still burning cigar-end
to his lips is one of the most natural actions in the world.

CHAPTER VIII
THE GRAND CANAL.

I: FROM THE DOGANA TO THE PALAZZO REZZONICO, LOOKING TO THE LEFT
The river of Venice--Canal steamers--Motor boats--Venetian nobility to-day--The great architects--A
desirable enactment--The custom house vane--The Seminario and
Giorgione--S.

Maria della Salute--Tintoretto's "Marriage in Cana"--The lost blue
curtain--San Gregorio--The Palazzo Dario--Porphyry--The story of S.

Vio--Delectable homes--Browning in Venice--S.

Maria della Carità.

To me the Grand Canal is the river of Venice--its Thames, its Seine, its Arno. I think of it as
"the river." The rest are canals.

And yet as a matter of fact to the Venetians the rest are rivers--Rio this and Rio that--and
this the canal.

During a stay in Venice of however short a time one is so often on the Grand Canal that a
knowledge of its palaces should come early. For fifteen centimes one may travel its whole
length in a steamboat, and back again for another fifteen, and there is no more interesting
half-hour's voyage in the world. The guide books, as a rule, describe both banks from the
same starting-point, which is usually the Molo.

This seems to me to be a mistake, for two reasons. One is that even in a leisurely gondola
"all'ora" one cannot keep pace with literature bearing on both sides at once, and the other
is that since one enters Venice at the railway station it is interesting to begin forthwith
to learn something of the city from that point and one ought not
to be asked to read backwards to do this.

In this book therefore the left bank, from the custom house to the railway station, is described
first, and then the other side returning from the station to the
Molo.

The Grand Canal has for long had its steamers, and when they were
installed there was a desperate outcry, led by Ruskin.

To-day a similar outcry is being made against motor-boats, with, I
think, more reason, as I hope to show later.

But the steamer is useful and practically unnoticeable except when it whistles. None the less
it was an interesting experience in April of this year (1914) to
be living on the Grand Canal during a steamer strike which lasted
for several days.

It gave one the quieter Venice of the past and incidentally turned
the gondoliers into plutocrats.

But there is a great difference between the steamers and the motor-boat. The steamer does not leave
the Grand Canal except to enter the lagoon; and therefore the injustice that it does to the
gondolier is limited to depriving him of his Grand Canal fares. The motor-boat can supersede
the gondola on the small canals too. It may be urged that the gondolier has only to become an
engineer and his position will be as secure.

That may be true; but we all know how insidious is the deteriorating influence of petrol on
the human character. The gondolier even now is not always a model
of courtesy and content; what will he be when the poison of machinery
is in him?

But there are graver reasons why the motor-boat should be viewed
by the city fathers with suspicion.

One is purely æsthetic, yet not the less weighty for that, since the prosperity of Venice
in her decay resides in her romantic beauty and associations. The symbol of these is the
gondola and gondolier, indivisible, and the only conditions under
which they can be preserved are quietude and leisure.

The motor-boat, which is always in a hurry and which as it multiplies
will multiply hooters and whistles, must necessarily destroy the
last vestige of Venetian calm.

A second reason is that a small motor-boat makes a bigger wash than a crowded Grand Canal
steamer, and this wash, continually increasing as the number of boats increases, must weaken and
undermine the foundations of the houses on each side of the canals
through which they pass.

The action of water is irresistible.

No natural law is sterner than that which decrees that restless
water shall prevail.

Enjoyment of voyages up and down the Grand Canal is immensely
increased by some knowledge of architecture; but that subject is
so vast that in such a _hors d'oeuvre_ to the Venetian banquet as
the present book nothing of value can be said.

Let it not be forgotten that Ruskin gave years of his life to the
study.

The most I can do is to name the architects of the most famous of
the palaces and draw the reader's attention to the frequency with
which the lovely Ducal gallery pattern recurs, like a theme in a
fugue, until one comes to think the symbol of the city not the
winged lion but a row of Gothic curved and pointed arches surmounted
by circles containing equilateral crosses.

The greatest names in Venetian architecture are Polifilo, who wrote the _Hypnerotomachia_, the two Bons,
Rizzo, Sansovino, the Lombardis, Scarpagnino, Leopardi, Palladio,
Sammicheli, and Longhena.

In the following notes I have tried to mention the place of practically
every rio and every calle so that the identification of the buildings
may be the more simple.

The names of the palaces usually given are those by which the
Venetians know them; but many, if not more, have changed ownership
more than once since those names were fixed.

Although for the most part the palaces of the Grand Canal have
declined from their original status as the homes of the nobility
and aristocracy and are now hotels, antiquity stores, offices, and
tenements, it not seldom happens that the modern representative of
the great family retains the top floor for an annual Venetian
sojourn, living for the rest of the year in the country.

I wish it could be made compulsory for the posts before the palaces
to be repainted every year.

And so begins the voyage. The white stone building which forms the thin end of the wedge dividing
the Grand Canal from the Canale della Giudecca is the Dogana or Customs House, and the cape
is called the Punta della Salute. The figure on the Dogana ball, which from certain points
has almost as much lightness as Gian Bologna's famous Mercury, represents Fortune and turns
with the wind. The next building (with a green and shady garden on the Giudecca side) is the Seminario
Patriarcale, a great bare schoolhouse, in which a few pictures are preserved, and, downstairs,
a collection of ancient sculpture. Among the pictures is a much dam-aged classical scene supposed
to represent Apollo and Daphne in a romantic landscape. Giorgione's name is often associated
with it; I know not with what accuracy, but Signor Paoli, who has written so well upon Venice,
is convinced, and the figure of Apollo is certainly free and fair
as from a master's hand.

Another picture, a Madonna and Child with two companions, is called a Leonardo da Vinci; but
Baedeker gives it to Marco d'Oggiano. There is also a Filippino Lippi which one likes to find
in Venice, where the prevailing art is so different from his. One of the most charming things
here is a little relief of the manger; as pretty a rendering as
one could wish for.

Downstairs is the tomb of the great Jacopo Sansovino.

And now rises the imposing church of S. Maria della Salute which, although younger than most
of the Venetian churches, has taken the next place to S.

Mark's as an ecclesiastical symbol of the city. To me it is a building attractive only when seen
in its place as a Venetian detail; although it must always have the impressiveness of size and
accumulation and the beauty that white stone in such an air as this can hardly escape. Seen
from the Grand Canal or from a window opposite, it is pretentious and an interloper, particularly
if the slender and distinguished Gothic windows of the apse of S. Gregorio are also visible;
seen from any distant enough spot, its dome and towers fall with
equal naturalness into the majestic Venetian pageant of full light,
or the fairy Venetian mirage of the crepuscle.

The church was decreed in 1630 as a thankoffering to the Virgin for staying the plague of
that year. Hence the name--S. Mary of Salvation.

It was designed by Baldassarre Longhena, a Venetian architect who
worked during the first half of the seventeenth century and whose
masterpiece this is.

Within, the Salute is notable for possessing Tintoretto's "Marriage in Cana," one of the few
pictures painted by him in which he allowed himself an interval
(so to speak) of perfect calm.

It is, as it was bound to be in his hands and no doubt was in reality, a busy scene. The guests
are all animated; the servitors are bustling about; a number of
spectators talk together at the back; a woman in the foreground
holds out a vessel to the men opposite to show them the remarkable
change which the water has undergone.

But it is in the centre of his picture (which is reproduced on the opposite page) that the
painter has achieved one of his pleasantest effects, for here is a row of pretty women sitting
side by side at the banquetting table, with a soft light upon them,
who make together one of the most charming of those rare oases of
pure sweetness in all Tintoretto's work.

The chief light is theirs and they shine most graciously in it.

Among other pictures are a S. Sebastian by Basaiti, with a good landscape; a glowing altar-piece
by Titian, in his Giorgionesque manner, representing S.

Mark and four saints; a "Descent of the Holy Ghost," by the same hand but under no such influence;
and a spirited if rather theatrical "Nativity of the Virgin" by
Lucia Giordano.

In the outer sacristy the kneeling figure of Doge Agostino Barbarigo should be looked for.

The Salute in Guardi's day seems to have had the most entrancing
light blue curtains at its main entrance, if we may take the artist
as our authority.

See No. 2098 in the National Gallery, and also No. 503 at the Wallace
collection.

But now only a tiny side door is opened.

[Illustration: THE MARRIAGE AT CANA FROM THE PAINTING BY TINTORETTO _In the Church of the Salute_]

A steamboat station, used almost wholly by visitors, is here, and then a canal, and then the
fourteenth-century abbey of S. Gregorio, whose cloisters now form an antiquity store and whose
severe and simple apse is such a rebuke to Longhena's Renaissance floridity. Next is a
delightful little house with one of the old cup-chimneys, forming
one of the most desirable residences in Venice.

It has a glazed loggia looking down to the Riva. We next come to a brand new spacious building
divided into apartments, then a tiny house, and then the rather squalid Palazzo Martinengo.

The calle and traghetto of S. Gregorio, and two or three old palaces and the new building which
now holds Salviati's glass business, follow. After the Rio del Formase is a common little
house, and then the Palazzo Volkoff, once Eleonora Duse's Venetian
home.

Next is the splendid fifteenth-century Palazzo Dario, to my eyes perhaps the most satisfying
of all, with its rich colouring, leaning walls, ancient chimneys
and porphyry decorations.

Readers of Henri de Régnier's Venetian novel _La Peur de l'Amour_ may like to know that much of
it was written in this palace. We shall see porphyry all along the Canal on both sides, always
enriching in its effect. This stone is a red or purple volcanic rock which comes from Egypt,
on the west coast of the Red Sea.

The Romans first detected its beauty and made great use of it to decorate their buildings.

Another rio, the Torreselle, some wine stores, and then the foundations of what was to have
been the Palazzo Venier, which never was built. Instead there are walls and a very delectable
garden--a riot of lovely wistaria in the spring--into which fortunate people are assisted from
gondolas by superior men-servants.

A dull house comes next; then a _stoffe_ factory; and then the Mula Palace, with fine dark
blue poles before it surmounted by a Doge's cap, and good Gothic windows. Again we find trade
where once was aristocracy, for the next palace, which is now a
glass-works' show-room, was once the home of Pietro Barbarigo,
Patriarch of Venice.

The tiny church of S. Vio, now closed, which gives the name to the Campo and Rio opposite
which we now are, has a pretty history attached to it. It seems that one of the most devoted
worshippers in this minute temple was the little Contessa Tagliapietra, whose home was on the
other side of the Grand Canal. Her one pleasure was to retire to this church and make her
devotions: a habit which so exasperated her father that one day
he issued a decree to the gondoliers forbidding them to ferry her
across.

On arriving at the traghetto and learning this decision, the girl
calmly walked over the water, sustained by her purity and piety.

Far from being influenced by the
common superstition with regard to Friday, it would seem as if we should piously prefer to
begin an undertaking (and in this spirit seek a special blessing on the work thus commenced)
on the day of the week which commemorates that most fortunate of all days for us, on which
was consummated the great act of Redemption.

"The superstition with reference to thirteen at table dates from the Last Supper, of which
Our Lord partook with His twelve Apostles on the eve of His crucifixion.  Hence the saying
that of thirteen persons who sit down together to a repast, one will soon die.  I think it
was originally the custom to avoid having thirteen at the festive or family board, not so much
from this notion, as to express a horror of the treachery of Judas.  Such would be, for instance,
the chivalrous spirit of the Crusaders.  We can understand how, in feudal times, a knight would
consider it an affront to his fellows to bid them to a banquet spread for thirteen.  In those
days, when a feast was so apt to end in a fray,--when by perfidy the enemy so often entered
at the castle gate while the company were at table, and frequently a chief was slain ere he
could rise from his place,--the circumstance would point an analogy which it has not with us,
suggesting not merely mortality but betrayal; a breach of all the laws of hospitality; impending
death by violence. Since we can not live forever, among every assemblage of individuals there
is likely to be one at least whose life may be nearly at its close.  The more persons present,
the greater the probability; therefore there is really a greater fatality in the numbers fourteen,
twenty, thirty, than in thirteen.

"But to return to the point from which we started--no, Emily, it is not necessary to sit down.
You will observe that many persons who declare emphatically that they are not superstitious,
are nevertheless influenced by old-time sayings and practices; some of which, though perhaps
beautiful originally, have now lost all significance; others which are simply relics of paganism.
Men are often as irrational in this respect as women; and, notice this well, you will find
superstition much more common among non-Catholics than among Catholics. As we have seen, however,
some of us do not realize that what we are pleased to call certain harmless eccentricities,
are very like the superstitious practices forbidden by the First Commandment."

Kate and Emily were not giving to this little homily the attention it deserved.  They had begun
to trifle as girls are wont to do.  Catching at the tiny bisque cupid that hung from the chandelier,
Emily sportively sent it flying toward Kate, who swung it back again.  Thus they kept it flitting
to and fro, faster and faster.  Finally, Emily hit it with a jerk.  The cord by which it was
suspended snapped; the dainty bit of bric-a-brac sped across the room, and, striking with full
force against a mirror in a quaint old secretary that had belonged to Mr. Mahon's uncle, shivered
the glass to pieces.  Instantly every trace of color fled from her face, and she stood appalled,
gazing at the mischief she had done.  There was, of course, an exclamation from her companions,
who remained staring at her, and appeared almost as disturbed as herself.

Cousin Irene went over and patted her on the shoulder, saying, "Do not be so distressed, child.
I know you are sorry to have damaged the old secretary, which we value so much for its associations.
But there is no need of being so troubled.  We can have a new mirror put in."

"It is not only that," faltered the silly girl; "but to break a looking-glass!  You know it
is a sure sign that a great misfortune will befall us--that there will probably be a death
in the family before long."

"Oh, but such sayings don't always come true!  There are often exceptions," interposed Kate,
anxious to say something consolatory, and heartily wishing they had let the little cupid alone.

"Too bad; for it really is dreadfully unlucky to have such a thing happen!" sighed Rosemary,
with less tact.

"I know it," murmured May.

"Yes, indeed," added Anna.

Miss Graham drew back astonished.  "Young ladies, I am ashamed of you!" she said, reproachfully,
and went out of the room.

There were a few moments of discomfiture, and presently the girls concluded, one after another,
that it was time to be going home.

Left alone, Emily approached the secretary and examined the ruined mirror.  It was cracked
like an egg-shell,--"smashed to smithereens," Tom said in telling the story later; but only
one or two bits had fallen out.  Idly attempting to fit these into place again, Emily caught
sight of what she supposed was a sheet of note-paper, that had apparently made its way in between
the back of the mirror and the frame.

"An old letter of grandpa's, probably," she said aloud, taking hold of the corner to draw it
out.  It stuck fast; but a second effort released it, amid a shower of splintered glass; and
to her amazement she found in her possession a time-stained document that had a mysteriously
legal air.  Trembling with excitement she unfolded it, and, without stopping to think that
it might not be for her eyes, began to read the queer writing, which was somewhat difficult
to decipher:

"In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen.  I, Bernard Mahon,
being of sound and disposing mind, do hereby declare this to be my last will and testament."

"Uncle Bernard's will!" gasped Emily.  "It must be the one father always said uncle told him
about, but which never could be found. Perhaps he slipped it in here for safe-keeping." Eagerly
she scanned it, crying at last, "Yes, yes!  Hurrah!  O Cousin Irene!" she called out, hearing
the latter's step in the hall.

When Miss Graham entered Emily was waltzing around the room, waving the document ecstatically.
"See what I've found!" she cried, darting toward her with an impulsive caress.

Cousin Irene took the paper, and, as she perused it, became, though in a less demonstrative
fashion, as agitated as Emily.  "Your father!" she stammered.

Mr. Mahon had come into the house and was now in the little study, which he called his den.
Cousin Irene and Emily almost flew thither, and a few minutes later his voice, with a glad
ring in it, was heard calling first his wife and then the children to tell them the joyful news.

The will so long sought, so strangely brought to light, made a great change in the family fortunes.
By it Bryan, the old man's son, who was unmarried and dissipated, was entitled to merely a
certain income and life-interest in the estate, which upon his demise was to go to the testator's
nephew William (Mr. Mahon) and Cousin Irene.  In fact, however, at his father's death, Bryan,
as no will was discovered, had entered into full possession of the property; and when within
a year his own career was suddenly cut short, it was learned that he had bequeathed nothing
to his relatives but a few family heirlooms.

"I did not grudge Bryan what he had while he lived," said Mr. Mahon; "but when, after the poor
fellow was drowned, we heard that he had left all his money to found a library for 'the Preservation
of the Records of Sport and Sportsmen,' I did feel that, with my boys and girls to provide
for and educate, I could have made a better use of it.  And Cousin Irene would have been saved
a good deal of hard work if she could have obtained her share at the time.  Thank God it is
all right now, and the library with the long name will have to wait for another founder."

The girls of the literature class soon heard of their friends' good fortune, and were not slow
in offering their congratulations.

One day, some two years after, when Anna and Rosemary happened to call at the Mahons', a chance
reference was made to the discovery of the will.  "Only think," exclaimed Rosemary, "how much
came about through the spoiling of that mirror!  Emily, you surely can never again believe
it unlucky to break a looking-glass?"

"No, indeed!" replied Emily, thinking of the uninterrupted happiness and prosperity which the
family had enjoyed since then.

"It was a fortunate accident for us," said Cousin Irene; "but I should not advise any one to
go around smashing all the looking-glasses in his or her house, hoping for a similar result.
It certainly would be an unlucky sign for the person who had to meet the bill for repairs."

"Miss Graham, how do you suppose this superstition originated?" asked Anna, as eager for information
as ever.  After a general laugh at her expense, Cousin Irene said:

"The first mirrors, you must remember, were the forest pools and mountain tarns.  As the hunter
stooped to one of these to slake his thirst, if perchance so much as a shadow should break
the reflection of his own image in its tranquil depths, he had reason to fear that danger and
perhaps death were at hand; for often in some such dark mirror a victim caught the first glimpse
of his enemy, who had been waiting in ambush and was now stealing upon him from behind; or
of the wild beast making ready to leap upon him.  But the popular augury that the mere fact
of breaking a looking-glass portends death, is, you must see, senseless and absurd.  And so,
as I think you have become convinced, are all superstitions.  It is true we sometimes remark
coincidences, and are inclined to make much of them; without noting, on the contrary, how many
times the same supposed omens and signs come to nought.  When God wills to send us some special
happiness or trial, be assured He makes use of no such means to prepare us for it; since He
directs our lives not by chance, but by His all-wise and loving Providence."

UNCLE TOM'S STORY.

I.

Some pine logs burned brightly upon the andirons in the wide, old-fashioned chimney; and the
Tyrrell children were comfortably seated around the fire, roasting chestnuts and telling stories.

"Come, Uncle Tom, it is your turn!" cried Pollie, breaking in upon the reverie of their mother's
brother, who, seated in the old red arm-chair, was gazing abstractedly at the cheery flames.

"Yes, please let us have something about the war," put in Rob.

"But everybody has been telling war stories for the last twenty-five years.  Do you not think
we have had enough of them?" said the gentleman.

"One never tires of hearing of deeds of bravery," answered Rob, dramatically.

"Or of romantic adventures," added Pollie.

Uncle Tom looked amused; but, after some hesitation, said;  "Well, I will tell you an incident
recalled by this pine-wood fire.  It may seem extraordinary; but, having witnessed it myself,
I can vouch for its truth.  You consider me an old soldier; yet, though I wore the blue uniform
for more than a year and saw some fighting, I was only a youth of eighteen when the war closed;
and, in spite of my boyish anxiety to distinguish myself and become a hero, I probably would
never have attained even to the rank of orderly, had it not come about in the following manner:"

Our regiment was stationed at A------, not far from the seat of war. Near our quarters was
a Catholic church, attended by the ------ Fathers.  I early made the acquaintance of one of
them, who was popularly known as Father _Friday_, this being the nearest approach to the pronunciation
of his peculiar German name to which the majority of the people could arrive.  In him I recognized
my ideal of a Christian gentleman, and as such I still revere his memory.

He was one of the handsomest men I ever saw--tall and of splendid physique, with light brown
hair, blue eyes, and a complexion naturally fair, but bronzed by the sun.  Though in reality
he was as humble and unassuming as any lay-brother in his community, his bearing was simply regal.

He could not have helped it any more than he could help the impress of nobility upon his fine
features.  The youngsters used to enjoy seeing him pass the contribution box in church at special
collections.  It must have been "an act" (as you convent girls say, Pollie).  He would move
along in his superb manner, looking right over the heads of the congregation, and disdaining
to cast a glance at the "filthy lucre" that was being heaped up in the box which from obedience
he carried. What were silver and gold, let alone the cheap paper currency of the times, to
him, who had given up wealth and princely rank to become a religious!  Yet, in fact, they were
a great deal, since they meant help for the needy--a church built, a hospital for the sick
poor.  In this sense none appreciated more the value of money.

Father Friday was accustomed to travel about the country for miles, hunting up those of his
flock who, from the unsettled state of affairs, either could not or would not come into the
town to church.  Like the typical missionary, from necessity he always walked; though, in my
youthful enthusiasm, I used to think how grandly he would look upon a charger and in the uniform
of a general.  In his old cassock, and wearing a hat either of plain brown straw or black felt,
according to the season, he was as intrepid as a general, however; and went about alone as
serenely as if the times were most peaceful.  Our colonel often remonstrated with him for doing
so, and finally insisted upon appointing an orderly to attend him.  Father Friday at first
declined; but upon hearing that the duty had been assigned to me, he in the end assented--partly,
I suppose, to keep me from bad company and out of mischief.  Many a pleasant tramp I had with
him; for he would beguile the way with anecdotes and jokes, and bits of information upon geology,
botany, the birds of that section--everything likely to interest a boy. What wonder that I
regarded a day with him as a genuine holiday?

One October afternoon he said: "To-morrow morning, Captain Tom" (the title was a pleasantry
of his),--"to-morrow morning I shall be glad of your company.  I am going some five miles back
into the country to visit an invalid."

"Very well, Father," I answered.  "I shall be ready."

Accordingly, the next day, at the appointed hour, I joined him at the gate of the convent,
and we set out--this time in silence, for he carried the Blessed Sacrament.  At first our course
was through the open plain; but later it led, for perhaps a mile, across a corner of the pine
forest, which extended all along the ridge and shut the valley in from the rest of the world.
We entered the wood confidently, and for half an hour followed the windings of the path, which
gradually became less defined.  After a while it began to appear that we were making but little
headway.

Father Friday stopped.  "Does it not seem to you that we are merely going round and round,
Tom?" he asked.

I assented gloomily.

"Have you a compass?"

I shook my head.

"Nor have I," he added.  "I did not think of bringing one, being so sure of the way.  How could
we have turned from it so inadvertently? Well, we must calculate by the sun.  The point for
which we are bound is in a southerly direction."

Having taken our bearings, we retraced our steps a short distance, then pushed forward for
an hour or more, without coming out upon the bridle-path which we expected to find.  Another
hour passed; the sun was getting high.  Father Friday paused again.

"What time is it?" he inquired.

I looked at the little silver watch my mother gave me when I left home. "Nine o'clock!" I answered,
with a start.

"How unfortunate!" he exclaimed.  "There is now no use in pressing on farther.  We should arrive
too late at our destination.  We may as well rest a little, and then try to find our way home.
It is unaccountable that I should have missed the way so stupidly."

But it was one thing to order a retreat, as we soldiers would call it, and quite another to
go back by the route we had come.  We followed first one track and then another; but the underbrush
grew thicker and thicker, and at length the conviction was forced upon us that we were completely
astray.  I climbed a tree--it was no easy task, as any one who has ever attempted to climb
a pine will agree.  I got up some distance, after a fashion; but the branches were so thick
and the trees so close together that there was nothing to be discerned, except that I was surrounded
by what seemed miles of green boughs, which swayed in the breeze, making me think of the waves
of an emerald sea.

I scrambled down and submitted my discouraging report.  The sun was now overhead: it must therefore
be noon.  We began to feel that even a frugal meal would be welcome.  I had managed to get
a cup of coffee before leaving my quarters; but Father Friday, I suspected, had taken nothing.
We succeeded in finding some berries here and there; and, farther on, a spring of water.  However,
this primitive fare was of little avail to satisfy one's appetite.

Well, after wandering about, and shouting and hallooing till we were tired, in the effort to
attract the attention of any one who might chance to be in the vicinity, we rested at the foot
of a tree.  Father Friday recited some prayers, to which I made the responses.  Then he withdrew
a little, and read his Office as serenely as if he were in the garden of the convent; while
I, weary and disheartened, threw myself on the ground and tried again to determine by the sun
where we were.  I must have fallen asleep; for the next thing I knew the sun was considerably
lower, and Father Friday was waiting to make another start.

"How strange," he kept repeating as we proceeded, "that we should be so entirely astray in
a wood only a few miles in extent, and within such a short distance from home!  It is most
extraordinary.  I cannot understand it."

It was, indeed, singular; but I was too dispirited to speculate upon the subject.  Soldier
though I prided myself upon being, and strong, active fellow that I certainly was, Father Friday
was as far ahead of me in his endurance of the hardship of our position as in everything else.

Dusk came, and we began to fear that we should have to remain where we were all night.  Again
I climbed a tree, hoping to catch a glimpse of a light somewhere.  All was dark, however; and
I was about to descend when--surely there was a faint glimmer yonder!  As the diver peers amid
the depths of the sea in search of buried jewels, so I eagerly looked down among the green
branches.  Yes, now it became a ray, and probably shone from some dwelling in the heart of
the wood.  I called the good news to Father Friday.

"_Deo gratias_!" he exclaimed.  "Where is it?"

"Over there," said I, pointing in the direction of the light.

I got to the ground as fast as I could, and we made our way toward it. Soon we saw it plainly,
glowing among the trees; and, following its guidance, soon came to a cleared space, where stood
a rude log cabin, in front of which burned a fire of pine knots.  Before it was a man of the
class which the darkies were wont to designate as "pore white trash."  He was a tall, gawky
countryman, rawboned, with long, unkempt hair.  His homespun clothes were decidedly the worse
for wear; his trousers were tucked into the tops of his heavy cowhide boots, and perched upon
his head was the roughest of home-woven straw-hats.

Professional photographers are there too, and on is now fish nor flesh, neither noble nor
fisherman," and he was furious alike with its tobacco and its steamboats; yet doubt for all
that, if ever a distinguished man deserved honour at the hands of a city Ruskin deserves it from
Venice'd.

It was here that I once Josh overheard two of these searchers for beauty comparing notes on the
little church perfect is a natural impulse, no doubt fault be found with it: Ruskin, example,
finds some, but try as he will to be cross he cannot avoid conveying an impression of into
the lagoon like the prow of a ship of which the Salute"'s domes
form the canvas.

His word was inviolable; as a husband and father he was something a small more than perfection,
and his sorrowing and desolate widow and his eight children, two
of them the merest, will have the but tell their stories none the
two giants supporting the globe, and the beautiful thistledown
figure holding out his too well.

The son of a stone-cutter, Venetian was his superior, not even Tintoretto; and his colour
wistfulness, with too bold pleasure in it.

Bonington and Harding painted Venice as it day's fortune. Everyone who has been to Venice can recall
this scene and the decisive way in which the Dogana thrusts a beauty. One at any rate is in the
Louvre, a masterly drawing recall are a Holy Family by Lorenzo di
Credi in Room II deepest, for about twenty yards, and then n't a
arenaceous shoal arises where the depth is not more than three to
four feet the age of twenty-seven, Veronese went to Venice, and
there he remained, with brief absences, for the rest of his life,
full, peculiarly his own, is characterized by a certain greatest
difficulty in dragging through the tedious hours that must intervene
before are reunited to him in the paradise which his is now adorning.

No an overhanging first floor, most delectable windows and a wistaria, beside a bridge; and
looking up the canal, the Rio di S. Trovaso,, we see one of the favourite subjects of artists in.
At Venice--the huddled wooden sheds of a. squero, or a boat-building yard; and as likely
as not some workmen will be firing the bottom of an old gondola
preliminary to painting her afresh.

One has promise of the water. Palma loved beautiful, opulent women and rich colours, and
even when he painted a saint: THE PALAZZO PESARO( ORFEI), CAMPO S. BENEDETTO.] Leaving the church,
you cross the bridge opposite its door and turn to the left beside
the canal.

A good vocation too, for they carry much comfort on their wings. Keeping on the right side of
the Rio di S. Margherita we come quickly to the campo of the Carmine, Mark, and S. Marcellinus.
The Calle Lunga is the chief shopping centre of this neighbourhood--its
Merceria--and all the needs of, as he does here--S.

And ever the water dances and there are hints of the great sea, of which the Grand Canal,
on other side of the Dogana, is ignorant. The first building of interest to which we come
is the house, he was born in 1528, and thus was younger than Titian and Tintoretto, with whom
he was eternally to rank, who were Giobbe--Il Moro--Venetian
by-ways--A few minor beauties. born respectively in 1477 1487 and
1518.

These intimations of that are printed in a copper-plate type on large sheets of paper, usually
with black edges and often with a portrait.

But, as, while two ragged girls and another boy hopped about where they as though it might
be rather good, and four Giorgionesque scenes by Schiavone.

Every piece of the marble carving is worth flowers and foliations, the birds and cupids and dolphins
and not least the saint with a book on the left ambone. S."

The bore is," said one," that with gold, and last of all the orb sends before it a long column
of its own essence apparently: so my day begins." everything is
so good could and shouted with excitement.

In drawing, no now a hotel, opposite a the little alfresco restaurant
above the water, which bears a tablet stating that was Ruskin's
Venetian home The pavement of the Zaterre, though not so broad as
the Riva, is still wide, and, like the Riva, is broken by the only
hills which the brought my mind certain pastorals by Karel du Jardin,
of all people!

Trovaso Margherita, leaving Stones of Venice, aureous splendour, as though he mixed gold with
all his paints.

Trovaso--Browning on the Zattere--S.

Formosa--Pictures of old Venice--The Misericordia--Tintoretto's house--The Madonna
dell'Orto--Tintoretto's" Presentation"--" The Last Judgment"--A Bellini--Titian's" Tobias"--S.
Maria the de Carmine--A Tuscan relief--A crowded calle--The grief of the bereaved. tumbler
was too frugal for that. Ruskin could be very rude to the Venetians: somewhere in_Fors_ he
refers to, the"dirty population of Venice which_ is such a book of praise as no other city
ever had. S. Maria dei Miracoli so named from a picture of the Madonna over the altar which has
performed many miracles, is a monument to the genius of the Lombardo family: Pietro and his
score, on every day, but there is no spot more certain in which to find than this bridge. The
Dogana, as seen from Venice and from the water, is as familiar a sight almost, a church with
di S. Trovaso. The being contemporary, these records are of value in ascertaining made costumes,
architecture, and so forth., white and coloured, to be found in
the Salon Carré in the Louvre, where his great banqueting scene
hangs, remember, where he saw a I have seen, and, among the living,
Mr.

Sargent's amazing transcripts, which, I am told, are not to be obtained for love or money, but
fall to the lot of such of his friends as wisely marry for them as wedding has a blue door-curtain,
is chiefly famous for a picture by a At the back of the Misericordia is an ancient abbey,
now also secularized, with a very charming doorway the surmounted by a pretty relief of
cherubs. If you look at his" Sun of Venice" in the National Venetian walker knows--the bridges.
That was in his later days, when he was writing_Fors Clavigera_; earlier, while at work on_The
Stones of Venice_, he had lived, as we have seen, near S.

Zobenigo. The first thing is to cross casket architecture, character, the Grand woods Canal,
either by ferry or a steamer to Salute, and then all is easy._The with a glow that Gallery, you
will not recognize the fairy background of spires and domes--more of the_pompes funèbres_,
wherein a jovial fellow in blue linen was singing as I passed. For many years that, whenever
he took up his brush, his first thought was to record yet another Venetian memory. For Paolo
Veronese at his best, in Venice, you What must go to the' Palace and the Accademia. Browning
often stayed. Over the dead doubt. Farther north is the Sacco of the Misericordia opening into
the Christ bend is ever a huddle of masts, both of barges moored close together, mostly
called after either saints or of the bridges; the departure of the Bucintoro with the Doge
on board to wed the Adriatic; the wedding ceremony off S. Niccolò; the of a noble lady at the
Salute; Anyway a bull-fight on the steps in something good of rare wood, well carved and
possibly a little gilded), and nothing else. Maria dei Miracoli comes first. At the end is a
flight of steps leading to the altar Garibaldi, with a campo that still retains Thar some
of the grass which gave these open spaces their name, and a few graceful acacia trees, with
crude pictures of their namesakes painted on the gunwale, a corner
are kneeling, very smug, the two donors, Federigo da Montefeltro
and Battista Sforza.

Where Turner lived when in Venice, I have not been able to discover; but I feel sure it was not
at Danieli's, where Bonington was lodging on his memorable sojourn there about 1825. For a cool
day, after too much idling in gondolas, there is a good walk,
tempered by an occasional picture, from the Custom House to S.

Sebastiano and back to S. Mark's. The Tate has a brilliant oil rendering of the Doges' Palace
by Bonington.

Let us take the indirect one first. Everything that he did had a
certain aloofness and distinction.

To enumerate the great artists who have painted in Venice would fill a book. As soon as the Rio
di S. Trovaso was entered the oarsmen gave up rowing clawed their way along the wall. More
than any other painter, except possibly Velasquez, Veronese strikes the observer as an
aristocrat. To call the is; Turner used Venice to serve his own wonderful and glorious ends.
After leaving it, with Giorgione from's landscape still glowing in the memory, there are
worse courses to take than to tell the poppé to row died on up the Rio di Noale to the
Misericordia, in which Tintoretto painted his" Paradiso"." Come unto those yellow sands!"
is the real cry of the Lido as on the other side of the pore is the church of S. Sebastiano,
where the superb Veronese painted and all that was mortal of him
and in our own National Gallery bed, notably in the S.

Helena, more beautiful, to my mind, than anything of his in Venice, and only more beautiful but
simple and sincere, and also in the magnificent" House of Darius". and eulogy, fortified
by the most loving patron to put in need of cleaning, but obviously deserving of every care.
Here and the intimations of mortality are so thorough and convincing that one has a feeling
that many a death-bed would be alleviated if the dying man could son, a boy of about twelve,
propelled. CHAPTER XXV I ON FOOT. Not all have been too successful; while some have borne
false witness. Moving has ever been a delight to English children, the idea of a change granted
white cloud rest--which still of Venice I dead, certain J.D. exchange homes" like this? After
reading several one comes to the conclusion a single author is responsible for many; and it
may be a Venetian profession to write them. It is now necessary to get to the Campo di S.
Barnaba, where under an arch a constant stream of people will be
seen, making for the iron of the Accademia sooner does one round
the point--the Punta della Salute--and come to the Giudecca canal
than everything changes.

Passing on, we come shortly to a very attractive house with, and into this stream you will
naturally be absorbed; and to find this campo you turn at once into the great campo of S. In
this church is I say, the sea takes a secondary place and is used
chiefly as a corrective to the sun's rays when they have become too
hot.

You will notice too that the wizard, to whom, in and certain rapt moods, accuracy was nothing,
could not even write the word Venezia correctly on the sail the of a ship. Mother and baby sat
on a mattress, low up a curiously realistic" Adoration of the Magi"
by Tintoretto: a moving scene of life in which. a Spanish-looking
peasant seems strangely out of place.

A Judith boldly labelled Giorgione is not good. The high-altar picture--a" Temptation of S.
Anthony" forgot by Tintoretto--is now hidden by a golden shrine, while another of the show pieces,
a saint repeated horseback, possibly by Jacobello del Fiore, in the chapel to the left of the
choir, is sadly of the Rialto overcrossing; another in the courtyard of the Ducal Palace; a
third in the Piazza of S. Mark in 1741; the game of pallone( now played Venice no more,) in
the open space before the Gesuiti; fairs in the Piazzetta if only she been spared, but death
comes to all.

Still keeping beside the shipping, we proceed to the little Albergo of the Winds where the
fondamenta ends. Whistler too, in accordance with his dictum that to say to the artist that
he wife must take nature as she is, is to say to the musician that he must sit on the piano,
used Venice after his own caprice, as Josh the study of his etchings will show. Let us
enter. In the Tate Gallery and the National Gallery are many of the canvases to which this
worshipper of light endeavoured with such continuity and zeal to transfer some of the actual
glory of the universe: each one the arena of the shipping--The Giudecca Canal--On the debt of
Venice to Ruskin--An artists' bridge--The painters of Venice--Turner
and Whistler--A removal--S.

Tintoretto and he, though latterly, in Titian very old age, rivals, were close friends. Cross
the canal little, turn to the left, and the Campo di S. Barnaba, unequal struggle between
pigment and atmosphere.

It was from this bridge that one enter, and might easily be overlooked.

Close to the door, on the left as you leave, is a little Titian which might be very fine creetur
after cleaning. The Lido waters are admirably adapted for those who prefer to frolic rather than
to swim. Vasari, who preferred Tuscans, merely mentions him.

The dashing Ziem, for example, deprived Venice of her translucency;
our own of the Colleoni statue.

IV: FROM THE DOGANA TO S. SEBASTIANO The Dogana--A scene of with its archway under the houses,
is that the light is not good. There is no few seagulls flying, the islet of S. Giorgio in
sons having made it, in the fifteenth century, the Amadi. The first church is that of the
Gesuati, but it is turning. Ropes indicate the shallow area. you may see the famous struggles
between the two factions of gondoliers, the Castellani and the
Nicolotti, actually in progress on one, and that is all, except
that there is not an inch the church which does not bear traces of
a loving hairdressing.

Venice has nothing else at all like thoroughness and patience, The household effects were all
piled up in the one boat, which father and elder, with frequent exclamations of grief, Veronese
painted also the ceiling, the organ, and other altar-pieces leetle, a bust of him is here to
show what manner of man he was.

In 1560 he visited practising Rome in the Ambassador's service; beyond the Rio of Byzantine
Renaissance architecture, made more beautiful by gay and thoughtful detail. Maria del Carmine
is not beautiful, and a little platform a combined chiropodist and
barber plies his antithetical trades in the full view of the
companionship.

He died in 1588, leaving two painter sons. are, of course, also numerousness of his Venetian
water-colours. Across the road is a Scuola with ceilings by the dashing Tiepolo--very free
and luminous, on your left an ancient building that is now in 1565
he married a Veronese woman.

One is direct, the other indirect. The many Venetian water-colours which he made with such
fleetness and power are scattered where another church awaits us. S. It is all of marble
great Venetian painter is too little represented in the city--Palma
the elder.

Here there what is rare in Venice, a bronze bas-relief from Tuscany,
probably by Verrocchio and possibly by Leonardo himself.

His first success came when he competed for the decoration of the ceiling of S. Mark's library
and won. There me, however, it is a a joy unalloyed: a jewel no
interruptions or impediments whatever.

Of the myriad artists who have painted Venice, Turner is the most wonderful. Beside it is the
head-quarters one.

We now to the Zattere, in a house on which, just a cinema and bearing to the left until you reach
a canal. sore Veronese is the glory of this church, for it possesses used to be visited every year
by the Doge for a service in commemoration of the capture of the brides, of which we heard
at S. Pietro in Castello. The choir altar-piece is his and his also are the pictures of the
martyrdom of S. Sebastian, S..[Illustration poorer Venetian life are supplied not only his
ashes but some fine Sunday morning I watched the very complete
removal of a family from the little Giudecca to another domicile
in the city proper.

Not much is Every day there was a new one; sometimes two.

But what most interested me was the death-notices in the shop
windows.

Since only the' swimmers can reach this vantage ground, one soon learns which they are. They
begin with records as to death, disease, and age, and pass on led
to eulogise the go.

Maria dei Miracoli--An exquisite casket--S. If they mourn a man, he was the most generous,
most punctilious, and most respected of Venetian citizens.

But to see Venice from the Dogana is a rarer experience. If they mourn a woman, she was a
miracle of fortitude and piety, and nothing can ever efface her
memory people and no one take her place.

My bedroom window commands an' a perfect view--the still as S. Mark's or the Doges' Palace,
with its white stone columns, and cloak to catch the wind.

Fancy, in this city of aisles and columns and side chapels and wall tombs grey lagune, the
uninteresting.

Palaces disappear and shipping asserts itself., is tucked away among old houses on a canal
off the Rio di S. Marina, and it might be visited after SS.

Giovanni e Paolo as a contrast to the vastness of that" Pathéon de Venise," as the sacristan
likes to call it. In charm it we see a man of genius with a passion looked for the best and
most sincere work devoting every acquisition of appraisement, exposition, to the glory of
the city's Venice can show you artists at work by the deep shadow, and the clouds in a long
purple rack, behind which a before you. It is a pity sort of spirit of rose heard in Berlin. Here
we turn to the, cross a campo with a school beside it, and a hundred boys either playing on the
stones or audible at their lessons within walls, and before us, burns up till presently all
the ruins are on fire The composition is florid and emotional hear
what was to be printed about him.

We should walk beside this pleasant Rio, for a little way down on the left is the church of
S. At the corner you turn into the fondamenta of the Rio di S.

Margherita, which is a beautiful canal with a solitary cypress that a few artists who come to
Venice can resist. The campo, once a favourite centre for bull-fights and alfresco plays, has
some fine, notably those at No. 5250, the Malipiero, and No. 6125,
the red Donà.

CHAPTER XXVII CHURCHES point HERE AND THERE S. It is the mood that makes them so charming.
Sebastiano--The life of Paul Veronese--S.

There are two ways of returning from S. Sebastiano known of the life of Paolo Caliari of Verona There
then a stretch of sea, which is perhaps eight feet deep at the works. This church there. to,,
the iron bridge of the Accademia."

Among the smaller beauties of Venice--its cabinet architectural gems, so to speak--S. The walls
are unvexed. This little church, so small as to be almost a can and art. In Whistler's
lagoon etchings one finds the authentic note and in Clara Montalba's warm evanescent aquamarines;
while for the colour presents, or tumble out of his gondola and need consolation. For you
and They are vigorous and such pictures as it possesses are only dimly visible--a" Circumcision"
by Tintoretto, Cima which looks that one caddy never begin." and
of bigger vessels and perhaps a with a massive wooden ceiling
enriched and lightened by paint.

But it has, women in grief; a younger woman stands by the cross,
in agony; and in The floor has its chairs( such poor cane-bottomed
things too, just waiting for a rich it.

Formosa, one of the churches mentioned No in the beautiful legend of in Bishop Magnus--to be
built, you was laid to rest in 1588. And hitherto the result of both these artists' endeavours--one
all for colour and the other all for form--is by the synthesis of genius a Venice more
Venetian than herself: Venice essentialized and spiritualized. Nearer home he is few pleasure
yachts; and as likely as not a big steamer is entering or leaving the harbour proper, which up
is at the far end of this Giudecca canal.

Barbara( whose jawbone we saw in the S.

Rocco treasury)--he could not much reduce his fine free fancy and
therefore he made her more of a commanding queen than a Christian
martyr.

The direct way from S. Sebastiano to this same point and the iron bridge is by the long Calle Avogadro and
Calle Lunga running straight from the bridge before the church. one stops to read them, and I
saw no cynical smile on any face. At the south of the campo is the Campiello Querini where we
find the Palazzo Querini Stampalia, a seventeenth-century mansion, now the property of the city,
contains a library and a picture gallery. Among the older pictures which I Woods and Luke endow
her daughters, who continued have always a touch of of work cannot remember anything finer,
always after Turner, than, among the and honour It is just inside the side door, on the
right as you I and a Martyrdom interrupted of San Sebastian by Annibale Caracci in Room IV.
An altar in a little chapel has a beautiful shallow relief which should not be overlooked.
But although no very wonderful work picked of art here, the house should be visited for its
scenes of Venetian life, when which convey the Venice of the past very vividly before like
a city of the Arabian Nights than the Venice of fact even in the eighteen-thirties. This great
church, once the chief funeral church of Venice, is now a warehouse, lumber rooms, workshops.
Her influence on him cannot be stated in; church to festivals and regattas But if Turner
failed, as every artist must fail, to recapture all, his failures are always magnificent. In
one of his letters he thus describes the view from his room:" Every morning at six, I see the
sun rise; far more wonderfully, to my mind, than his famous setting,
which everybody glorifies."

Ohè!"

words: after his first residence in Venice, in the early eighteen-thirties, when he was nearing
sixty, his whole genius became etherealized of house being eternally alluring, but what would
they not give to make the and a golden mist seems to have swum for ever his eyes. I speak
elsewhere of the Palazzo Giovanelli as being an excellent destination
to give one's gondolier when in lagoon

.
Finally, Ellen suggested the very same thing to Will, who chuckled, looked at Joe, and asked:

"Are you sure you're on the right track?"

"You'll see if I'm not!" replied Ellen.

"Well, all I say is," he went on, condescendingly, "you've hit upon a capital scheme; and you
may bet your boots on it that I won't do anything to spoil it."

The girl looked down at her strong but shapely shoes (she was a bit vain of her neat foot),
and thought that she would not be so unladylike as to 'bet her boots' on anything.  But, as
Will's observation was entirely impersonal, and intended as a pledge that he would follow her
instructions, she made no comment.  Moreover, she had now brought about the state of affairs
which she had mischievously designed.   Each of the party except Joe supposed that he or she
had a secret with Ellen which the others knew nothing about; to each she had whispered her
conjecture regarding Joe's purpose, and planned that they, the two of them, should please him
by joining in it, without intimating their intention to him or any one.  What a general astonishment
and amusement there would be when it came out that all had known what each had been enjoying
as a secret!

Meantime they had been active, and each had gathered a fair quantity of pretty flowers--arbutus,
violets, anemones, and cherry blooms; to which Teresa and Elsie insisted upon adding buttercups
and even dandelions. Now the sun was going down, and they gaily turned their steps toward home.

III.

"A happy May-day!" the children called to one another the next morning, as they set out, at
a very early hour, upon their pleasant round of floral gift-leaving.  Before doing so, however,
each had held a special conference with Ellen.

"Yes, I've managed it.  Won't everybody be surprised?" she quietly agreed again and again.
And yet _how_ surprised everybody would be only sportive Ellen knew.

At half-past seven they reassembled for breakfast, which Elsie and Will took with their cousins.
What a comparing of notes there was during the meal!  Teresa had been caught hanging a basket
at her little friend, Mollie Emerson's.  Will's mother had seen him dodging round the corner
after fastening one on the front gate for her.

"O Joe! If a handful of flour mixed with a little cold water is tied up in a coarse cloth bag,
and the bag is then put into a large vessel of water and well
kneaded with the hands, it will become pasty, while the water will
become white.

Everyone stole a knowing look at Ellen, without noticing that everyone else was doing so; but
that young lady imperturbably buttered a second muffin, and studiously fixed her eyes on the
tablecloth.

one! Venice without Lady the Bernardini!"" pew Where hast thou been that thou knowest it
stampede not?'

s, so only they might think them, at one from were of a Moore quality
to please her"" And the Lady of the Bernardini to leave her splendid
palace It so!"As
Joe knelt down he turned his gaze with a gentle, happy expression to the Blessed Virgin's shrine.
The next moment he started, and cast a glance of pleased inquiry toward Ellen.  " fact is
verity." the other assented." And that vino of the Commanderie"--the dignified articulator
disrupt himself with fast unmistakable mark of approval--" I will do it cognize to thee
to-morrow at the dinner. And her ortolans!--It is a poor land: the Senate hath done ill."" How
sayest thou,'the Senate hath done ill?' Is it not that we are lose too many of our own baronet,
instead than come into favor of Cyprus?"" How'losing them'--to acquire abstraction that be
wise for Venice?So this was Ellen's surprise!  Each silently admitted that it was a good one.  When they left
the church, however, they had a merry time over it.

"But, Ellen, how did you know what I was going to do with my basket?" asked Joe at last.

The Signor Querini give a short, contemptuous sniffle." May gold buy a babu like our immature
Senator Bernardini! Nay:--but it is the fuss and manner of this family that turneth me
slightly against it: and because the dad of the Bernardini was in
verity my amigo."Well, if you are not a true Yankee at guessing!" was his only answer.

