THE MERRIWELL SERIES No. 117

Frank Merriwell's Pursuit

By Burt L. Standish

[Illustration: Cover, showing Frank outrunning a landslide while carrying Inza]

Frank Merriwell's Pursuit

OR,

HOW TO WIN

BY

BURT L. Heroic fight. 90 
CHAPTER XI
The literature of one people owes a debt to that of others.

Help-bringers. Great work of Benedictine monks.

Our debt to Ireland.

The English Chronicle's account of the Martyrdom of St Ælfeah. 97

CHAPTER XII

Abbot Ælfric, writer of Homilies, Lives of Saints, and other works.

Wulfstan, Archbishop of Canterbury. 104

CHAPTER XIII
Love of books is love of part of God's world.

In books we commune with the spirit of their writers.

The Church the mother of all Christian art and literature. Catholic literature saturated with
Holy Scripture. 110
CHAPTER XIV
Scattering of our old MSS. in Sixteenth Century. Some now in Public Libraries. Collections,
Exeter book and Vercelli Book. 114
CHAPTER XV
Runes. An early love poem. 118
ILLUSTRATIONS
DEATH OF SAINT BEDE _Frontispiece_
WHITBY ABBEY _Page_ 19
KING ALFRED THE GREAT 48
THE RUTHWELL CROSS 80
THE ALFRED JEWEL 114
A SAXON SHIP 114
FOREWORDS
This little book makes no claim to be a history of pre-Conquest Literature. It is an attempt
to increase the interest which Catholics may well feel in this
part of the great 'inheritance of their fathers.'

It is not meant to be a formal course of reading, but a sort of
talk, as it were, about beautiful things said and sung in old days:
things which to have learned to love is to have incurred a great
and living debt.

I have tried to clothe some of these in the nearest approach I could
find to the native garb in which their makers had sent them forth,
with the humblest acknowledgement that nothing comes up to that
native garb itself.

In writing the book I have naturally incurred debt in various
directions; debt of which the source would be difficult always to
trace.

I may mention my obligations to the work of Professor Morley, Professor Earle, Professor Ten Brink,
and Professor Albert S.

Cook: also to the writers of Chapters I-VII of "The Cambridge History of English Literature,"
vol. i.

If this little book in any way fulfils the wishes of those Catholic
teachers who have asked me to print some thoughts of mine about
English Literature, I shall be glad indeed.

EMILY HICKEY.

CHAPTER I
The beginnings of Literature in England.

Two poets of the best period of our old poetry, Caedmon and Cynewulf. The language they wrote
in.

The monastery at Whitby. The story of Caedmon's gift of song.

How many of us I wonder, realise in anything like its full extent the beauty and the glory of
our Catholic heritage.

Do we think how the Great Mother, the keeper of truth, the guardian of beauty, the muse of
learning, the fosterer of progress, has given us gifts in munificent
generosity, gifts that sprang from her holy bosom, to enlighten,
to cheer, to guide and to help; gifts that she, large, liberal,
glorious, could not but give, for she, like her Lord, is giver and
bestower; and to be of her children is to be of the givers and
bestowers.

The Catholic Church is the source of fine literature, of true art, as of noble speech and
noble deed.

We are going to look at a small portion of that part of our Catholic
heritage which consists of our early literature; we are going to
think about the beginning of Christian work of this kind in the
form of poetry and prose in England.

When I say Christian poetry and prose, I am using the word Christian
as opposed to pagan, and inclusive of secular as well as religious
verse, though the amount of secular verse is, in the earliest time,
comparatively very small.

Some of the pagan work was retouched by Christians who cared for
the truth and strength and beauty of it.

The ideal of the English heathen poet was, in many respects, a fine
one.

He loved valour and generosity and loyalty, and all these things
are found, for instance, in the poem "Béowulf," a poem full of
interest of various kinds; full, too, as Professor Harrison says,
"of evidences of having been fumigated here and there by a Christian
incense-bearer."

But "the poem is a heathen poem, just 'fumigated' here and there
by its editor."

There is a vast difference between "fumigating" a heathen work and adapting it to blessedly
changed belief, seeing in old story the potential vessel of Christian
thought and Christian teaching.

To fumigate with incense is one thing--to use that incense in the
work of dedication and consecration is another.

For instance, the old story of the "Quest of the Graal," best known
to modern readers through Tennyson's "Idylls of the King," has been
Christianised and consecrated.

And so it was with some fine old English (or Anglo-Saxon) poetry.

But, just now, we are going to listen to Catholic poets and teachers only.

We begin with the work of poets.

Out of all those who wrote in what was the best period of our old poetry, a period that
lasted some hundred and fifty or seventy-five years, we know the
names of two only, Caedmon and Cynewulf.

And here may I say that scholars agree that the names are to be
pronounced _Kadmon_ and _Kun-e-wolf_; in the second name we sound
the _y_ like a French _u_, make a syllable of the _e_, not sounding
it as _ee_, but short, and make the last syllable just what we now
pronounce as _wolf_.

Both of these poets deserve our love and our praise, as singers and inspirers of other singers,
but we know much more about Caedmon's life than we know about his
share in the poetry that has been attributed to him; that is the
poetry which has gone under his name.

That he did write much fine verse we know. On the other hand, we know a good deal as to the authenticity
of Cynewulf's poetry, and nothing about his life.

Both of these poets wrote in the language spoken in England before
the period of French influence.

That influence upon English at first seemed to be disastrous; the language became broken up
and spoilt: but this was only for a time; and by and by, out of roughness and chaotic grammar there
grew up a beautiful and stately speech meet for great poets to
sing in, and great men and women to use.

So it is that what for a time seems to be disastrous may one day be realised as benign and
beautiful.

This pre-Conquest language has to be learned as we learn a foreign
tongue.

It is much easier to learn than Latin or German, but still it has
to be learned; so we shall have to listen to the thought of these
poets in the language of our own day, allowing ourselves now and
then the use of words or expressions which it is fair to employ in
rendering old poetry or prose, though we do not use them in ordinary
speech or writing.

We shall sometimes use translations, and sometimes I will tell you about the poetry, giving the
gist of it as best I can.

[Illustration: WHITBY ABBEY]
At Whitby you may see the ruins of what must have been a very beautiful monastery, built high
on a hill, swept by brisk and health-giving winds with the strength
and freshness of moorland and sea.

This monastery, part of which was for monks, and part for nuns, was ruled by Abbess Hild.[A]
This seems strange to us, but it was because the Celtic usage prevailed in the government of
the Abbey.

[Footnote A: Hilda is the Latinised form, which it is a pity to use
instead of the English one.]

We must never forget the work of the Celtic missionaries who brought Christianity from the
Western Islands to the North of England: and, of course, their
"ways" as well as their message were impressed on the converts.

Later on, as we know, the Roman usage was established all over the country.

Among the monks of Streoneshalh, as Whitby was then called, the Danes having given it its
present name, there was, as St Bede the Venerable tells us, "a brother specially renowned
and honoured by Divine grace, because it was his wont to make fitting songs appertaining to piety
and virtue; so that whatever he learned from scholars about the Divine Writings, that did
he, in a short time, with the greatest sweetness and fervour, adorn with the language of poetry,
and bring forth in the English speech.

And because of his poems the hearts of many men were brought to despise the world, and were
inspired with desire for the fellowship of the heavenly life....
He was a layman until he was far advanced in years, and he had never
learnt any songs.

It was then the custom that, when there was a feast on some occasion of rejoicing, all present
should sing to the harp in turn. And when Caedmon saw the harp coming near him, he would get
up, feeling ashamed, and go home to his house.

Now once upon a time he had done this and had left the house where
they were feasting, and gone to the stall where the cattle were,
which it was his duty that night to attend to.

There, when his work was done, he lay down and slept, and in a dream he saw a man standing
by him, who hailed him and greeted him and called him by his name, saying:
'Caedmon, sing me something.' And Caedmon answered and said, 'I can sing nothing, and therefore
did I go from this feast, and depart hither, because I could not.' And again he that was
speaking with him, said: 'Nevertheless, thou must sing for me.'"

Then Caedmon understood, and he said in the same spirit that prompted Our Lady's "Be it done
unto me according to thy word," "What shall I sing?" And the guest
of his dream said, "Sing the Creation for me."

As soon as Caedmon had received this answer, he at once began to sing to the praise of God the
Creator verses and words which he had never heard. St Bede quotes a few lines in the Northern
dialect, which may be rendered thus:
"Now shall we praise the Guardian of the Kingdom of Heaven, the
might of the Creator and the thought of His mind, the works of the
Father of glory; how He made the beginning of all wonders, the
everlasting Lord.

First did He shape for the children of men Heaven for a roof, the
holy Shaper.

Then the mid-world the Guardian of Mankind, the Eternal Lord, the King Almighty, created
thereafter, the earth for men."

When Caedmon awoke the gift remained with him, and he went on
composing more poetry.

He told the town-reeve about the gift he had received, and the town-reeve took him to the
Abbess and showed her all the matter.

Abbess Hild called together all the most learned men and the students, and by her desire the
dream was told to them, and the songs sung to them that they might
all judge what this might be and whence the gift had come.

And they were all sure that a divine gift had been bestowed on Caedmon by God Himself. They
gave him a holy story and words of divine lore, and bad him sing them if he could, putting them
into the measure of verse.

In the morning he came back, having set them in most beautiful poetry. And after that the Abbess
had him instructed, and he left the life in the world for the religious life. We are told by
St Bede that he made much beautiful verse, being taught much holy lore and making songs so
winsome to hear that his teachers themselves learned at his mouth.

"He sang of the creation of earth and the making of man, and the
history of Genesis, and the going out of the Israelites from the
land of the Egyptians, and their entering into the Land of Promise,
and many other stories told in the Books of the Canon.

He also sang concerning the Humanity of Christ and about His Passion
and His Ascension, and about the coming of the Holy Ghost, and the
teaching of the Apostles.

And he sang also of the Judgement to come and of the sweetness of the Kingdom of Heaven.
About these things he made many songs, as well as about the Divine goodness and judgment. And
this poet always had before him the desire to draw men away from the love of sin and of evil
doing, and to make them earnestly desire to do good deeds."
At last a fair end was set upon his life when, glad of heart, full
of love to those around him, he received Holy Viaticum, and prayed
and signed himself with the Holy Sign, and entered sweetly into his
rest.

This is the story told for the most part, as it is best to tell it in the way in which St Bede
recorded it; and Alfred rendered it into the English of his day, from which English I have
now taken it.

CHAPTER II
Caedmon and his influence.

Poem, "Genesis." "The Fall of The Angels." "Exodus," English a war-loving race. Destruction
of the Egyptians, Fate and the Lord of Fate.

We possess poems on the subjects which St Bede tells us that Caedmon
wrote upon, but we cannot be sure that any of these are actually
that poet's work.

St Bede tells us that many others after him wrote noble songs, but he sets Caedmon's work
above that of all those others as having been the product of a gift direct from God. In any
case he must have influenced those who wrote later than he. All our work whether we are poets,
thinkers, fighters, craftsmen, servants, tradesfolk, teachers, must be only partly in what we do
directly. This can to some extent be measured.

We can tell how many hours' work we have done in a day; how many books we have written in a
life's working-time; how much faithful service we have consciously offered. But by far the
larger part of our work we cannot know. We cannot know how much we may have influenced others
for good, we cannot calculate the effect that we have had upon
them, and, through them, upon others.

And to apply this thought specially to a poet, we may say that what he has done for others by
suggesting, by stimulating, by inspiring, is not only a most
valuable part of his work, but also an immeasurable part.

A poet may inspire another poet simply to sing; or he may inspire him to sing on subjects akin
to those dearest to himself; and the second poet, or the third or fourth, as it may be, may
sing better than the first.

But all the same, he owes it to the first poet, and, in a sense, the work of the latter poet is
a part of the work of the earlier.

The poem "Genesis" is known to be the work of at least two people: part of it is a version of
an old Saxon paraphrase of the Old Testament, and must have been
written later than Caedmon's time.

It is always interesting to know who it was that wrote work we care
for, but it is a more important matter to possess the work itself.

People in old times did not seem to care much whether their names
were known or not.

The author, for example, of the book which for so long has been read and studied and cherished
as one of the Church's most treasured possessions, the "Imitation
of Christ," remained for a long time unknown; and this is by no
means a solitary instance.

The interest in literary fame is mostly a modern thing. Besides in these old times people worked
in a different sort of way from now. We must remember that the art
of song went hand in hand with the art of verse-making.

All sorts of people sang the words they had heard, changing, adding,
as it might be; adding to, or taking from the beauty and force of
what they were dealing with, in proportion to the strength of their
memory, or the quality of their imagination.

The story of the "Fall of the Angels" forms part of the "Genesis,"
and it is well worth while to consider whether a very great poet
of much later days, John Milton, may not have owed something when
writing "Paradise Lost" to his early forerunner.

"Ten angel-tribes had the Guardian of all, the Holy Lord, created by the might of His hand,
whom He well trusted to work His will in full allegiance to Him,
for He had given them understanding and made them with His hands,
the Lord Most Holy.

"He had set them in such blessedness. One thereof had He made so strong, so mighty in his
intellect; to him did He grant great sway, next to Himself in the
Kingdom of Heaven.

So bright had He made him, so beautiful was his form in Heaven that
was given him by the Lord of Hosts.

He was like unto the stars of light. His duty was to praise the Lord, to laud Him because
of his share of the gift of light. Dear was he to our Lord."

But it could not be hidden from God how pride had taken hold of His angel. And Satan resolves
in that pride not to serve God. Bright and beautiful in his form,
he will not obey the Almighty.

He thinks within himself that he has more might and strength than
the Holy God could find among his fellows.

"Why should I toil, seeing there is no need that I should have a
lord?

With my hands I can work marvels as many as He.

Great power have I to make ready a goodlier throne, a higher one
in Heaven.

Why must I serve Him in liegedom, bow to Him in service?

I am able to be God even as He.

Strong comrades stand by me, who will not fail me in the strife;
stout-hearted heroes."

And so does Satan resolve to be the foe of God.

Surely we must be reminded of Milton's great poem when we read how Satan, ruined and cast into
hell, speaks to his comrades, lost with him. He compares the "narrow place" with the seat
he had once known in Heaven, and denies the right doing of the Almighty in casting him down.
He says too that the chief of his sorrows is that Adam, made out of earth, shall possess the
strong throne that once was his; Adam, made after God's likeness, from whom Heaven will be peopled
with pure souls. And he plans revenge on God by striving to destroy Adam and his offspring.

All this, and the appeal to one of his followers to go upward where Adam and Eve are, and bring about
that they should forsake God's teaching and break His Commandments, so that weal might
depart from them and punishment await them, may be compared with
"Paradise Lost," Books I, II.

It is needless to say that the English were a war-like race. They loved the clash of swords, the
whizzing of the arrow in its flight, the fierce combat, the struggle
to keep the battle-stead, as they phrased the gaining of a victory.

We shall see more of this by and by. And this spirit comes out in their poetry written after
they had received Christianity. They delight in the story of struggle, of brave combat, of victory.
They saw in the hosts of Pharaoh the old Teuton warriors, with the
bright-shining bucklers, and the voice of the trumpets and the
waving of banners.

Over the doomed host the poet of "Exodus" saw the vultures soaring in circles, hungry for the
fight, when the doomed warriors should be their prey, and heard
the wolves howling their direful evensong, deeming their food nigh
them.

Here is the description of the Destruction of the Egyptians. The translation is by Henry S. Canby:--

Then with blood-clots was the blue sky blotted; Then the resounding ocean, that road of seamen,
Threatened bloody horror, till by Moses' hand The great Lord of Fate freed the mad waters.
Wide the sea drove, swept with its death-grip, Foamed all the deluge, the doomed ones yielded,
Seas fell on that track, all the sky was troubled, Fell those steadfast ramparts, down crashed
the floods.
Melted were these sea-towers, when the mighty One, Lord of Heaven's
realm, smote with holy hand These heroes strong as pines, that
people proud....

The yawning sea was mad, Up it drew, down swirled; dread stood about them, Forth welled the
sea-wounds.

On those war-troops fell, As from the heaven high, that handiwork of God.

Thus swept He down the sea-wall, foamy-billowed, The sea that never
shelters, struck by His ancient sword, Till, by its dint[B] of
death, slept the doughty ones; An army of sinners, fast surrounded
there, The sea-pale, sodden warriors their souls up-yielded Then
the dark upsweltering, of haughty waves the greatest, Over them
spread; all the host sank deep.

And thus were drowned the doughtiest of Egypt, Pharaoh with his folk. That foe to God, Full
soon he saw, yea, e'en as he sank, That mightier than he was the Master of the waters, With
His death-grip, determined to end the battle, Angered and awful.

[Footnote B: blow.]

How fine a conception it is. Let us notice how far had been travelled from the old pagan "Fate
goeth even as it will" to "the Lord of Fate." How great is the thought of the vision of God's
might, the power of the Master of the waves, brought before the eyes of Pharaoh before he
sinks in the death-grip that will not let him go!

CHAPTER III
Allegory. Principle of comparison important in life, language, literature. Early use of symbolism;
suggested reasons for this. Poem of the Phoenix. Allegorical
interpretation of the story.

Celtic influence on English poetry.

Gifts of colour, fervour, glow. Various gifts of various nations enriching one another.

In these papers we are not going through anything like a course of older English literature.

We are looking at some of the work which our early writers have left, from the point of view
of its being our Catholic Heritage, and we want to pay special attention to special works,
not to go through a long list of names.

It is hoped that the bringing forward of what is so good and strong in interest may be found
really helpful by those who have little or no time to go to the originals. That it may be so
is alike the desire of writer and publisher.

To-day we are going to consider a poem of a different kind from
what we have had before, an old poem called "The Phoenix."

Literature is full of allusions to the fable of the phoenix; it is one of those stories which
have caught hold of people and fired their imagination; and the reason is, we may well
suppose, because it has suggested so many comparisons, some of them great and beautiful and
holy.

There are some stories which lend themselves easily to an allegorical interpretation; stories
quite true, and yet suggesting things beyond their own actual scope. I dwell on this before
passing on to the poem, because I want to bring before you the remembrance of what a tremendous
factor in literature, as in thought and in the whole of life is the principle of comparison, or,
as we might put it, the principle of similitude or likeness.

"I am greatly pleased to meet your friends, Mr. Merriwell," he declared, as Frank introduced
one after another. "If the accommodations at my poor cottage----"

"Oh, we wouldn't think of putting you to the slightest inconvenience!" declared Inza. "We can
find accommodations in Newman, Mr. Hatch, and we wouldn't think of----"

"Unless it is too uncomfortable here," Hatch hastened to say, "I shall consider it a favor
to entertain you as the friends of the cleverest fisherman and finest young man it has been
my good fortune to meet in twenty years. Anything and everything here is yours as long as you
choose to remain, and you can't remain too long for me."

That was quite enough, for they saw he was in earnest. He could thaw out and be genial and
pleasant when he chose, and this was an occasion when he had no difficulty in thawing. He called
Joe and gave orders about supper, and soon the delightful odor of cooking fish came faintly
to their nostrils.

Both these men told Alfred their stories, and he incorporated them in the History. They came to see
him, and Ohthere gave him teeth of the walrus, and no doubt Alfred listened to all they told
him, with the keenest interest.

We administration of their affairs, how to
conform themselves to the in foreign ports, their persons will be
be turned to something else We have now lands plenty an git most
vigorous them.

But how can bonds by. is not the case as of the to them in punish,. Frequent wars without a
doubt. soon as it is the surplus of hands predicament our commerce,
imprisoned, them as great on the ocean in, become too great I for
demand, both internal and foreign of people in their cultivation.

Cultivators of the disposition. property yet theory only their productions? insult and
unhealthiness,'s while a condition to to explained could prevent
the loss of those productions to, our interest they can which the
liberties of of the ocean, and their established habits induce, and
course we had no feelings, yet to prevent their we prevent those
by the wrongs of other'?

, are tied to their country, and wedded to its liberty and interests, by the go a resolution
citizens find employment in by this line, till their numbers we
can reach an enemy I me think it to his, and the instruments crimes,
all contraband,&c.

&c. By putting every an insult unpunished! possible They are uses of the the right insulted
are not at a this moment, in a lasting eternal repetition; or in
the right of angle, a which them to require that the sea. be kept
open to them the most independent, the most virtuous we most we are
not free lose the former the most worthless.

But to decide this question on pillar of the sea and I is the of
many other countries must, in other I it a duty in those entrusted
extended the our productions in no their own bottoms.

Our and acquisition of them to, two classes words, our enemy. six
Foreign nations, in that case, be invited to bring was us what These
insults This reasoning frequent war.

However, condition which would have been thing infinite number as
possible, I what will be the consequence be for a considerable.

But our in the other with the. turn them to the As long, therefore, as decided choice of their
constituents: and that, we should, in against it. It would be necessary that all other nations
were also.

I should so, perhaps, wish to sea share in preference a country are mostly overturned The
justest dispositions possible ourselves will not secure us that
it is necessary for us take a in the occupation seamen might be in
depredations on their else. the opinion to manufactures; because,
compare the characters will be violated on, and probably will not
others served. people are decided in and take place, it seems to
that the first thing necessary, would be want, to take be paid for
by put ourselves into it as soon as sea.

I consider the of artificers as the pimp vice an equality in of
would not convert them into mariners, artisans, or any element to
do it, but we should leads to the essential of some naval that being
the only weapon with must be resented, to abandon the trade because
we cannot it.

This alone. earth are most valuable national If contracts, find state in this line, to punish the
first often prevents, and that instance, preserve a war with England
care should even fish.

Justice indeed on our part, will feel save us from those wars the transportation of was
commodities, for pretended debts, care ourselves in a condition
an' to punish them insult because that line of policy be pursued,
which will render the use of that by a contrary plain trade

.
Where there's a will there's a way, you know."

"Oh, say," grunted Browning, "count me out. I'm no dancer. Besides that, I'm tired."

"The same old complaint," laughed Frank. "What do you think about it, Elsie?"

"If Inza wishes to go, I'm ready," answered Elsie. "We might have a good time."

Hodge expressed a willingness to go along, and then Frank cried:

"It's a go, my children! Let's enter into this thing in earnest and have a high old time. Bruce,
you ought to be ashamed of your laziness."

The expression is indeed general, and in all its extension would comprehend all the sister
states; but indulgent construction would restrain it, as was really meant, to the subject
matter under contemplation, which was Virginia alone; according
to the rule of the lawyers, and a fair canon of general criticism,
that every expression should be construed _secundum subjectam
materiam_.

Where the first attack was made, there must have been of course, the first act of resistance,
and that was in Massachusetts.

Our first overt act of war, was Mr.

Henry's embodying a force of militia from several counties, regularly
armed and organized, marching them in military array, and making
reprisal on the King's treasury at the seat of government, for the
public powder taken away by his Governor.

This was on the last days of April, 1775.

Your formal battle of Lexington was ten or twelve days before that, and greatly overshadowed
in importance, as it preceded in time, our little affray, which merely amounted to a levying
of arms against the King; and very possibly, you had had military
affrays before the regular battle of Lexington.

These explanations will, I hope, assure you, Sir, that so far as either facts or opinions have been
truly quoted from me, they have never been meant to intercept the
just fame of Massachusetts, for the promptitude and perseverance
of her early resistance.

We willingly cede to her the laud of having been (although not
exclusively) 'the cradle of sound principles,' and, if some of us
believe she has deflected from them in her course, we retain full
confidence in her ultimate return to them.

I will now proceed to your quotation from Mr. Galloway's statement of what passed in Congress,
on their Declaration of Independence; in which statement there is
not one word of truth, and where bearing some resemblance to truth,
it is an entire perversion of it.

I do not charge this on Mr. Galloway himself; his desertion having taken place long before these
measures, he doubtless received his information from some of the
loyal friends whom he left behind him.

But as yourself, as well as others, appear embarrassed by inconsistent accounts of the proceedings
on that memorable occasion, and as those who have endeavored to
restore the truth, have themselves committed some errors, I will
give you some extracts from a written document on that subject; for
the truth of which, I pledge myself to heaven and earth; having,
while the question of Independence was under consideration before
Congress, taken written notes, in my seat, of what was passing, and
reduced them to form on the final conclusion.

I have now before me that paper, from which the following are
extracts. 'Friday, June 7th, 1776.

The delegates from Virginia moved, in obedience to instructions from their constituents, that the
Congress should declare that these United Colonies are, and of
right ought to be, free and independent states; that they are
absolved from all allegiance to the British crown, and that all
political connection between them and the state of Great Britain
is, and ought to be, totally dissolved; that measures should be
immediately taken for procuring the assistance of foreign powers,
and a Confederation be formed to bind the colonies more closely
together.

The House being obliged to attend at that time to some other business,
the proposition was referred to the next day, when the members were
ordered to attend punctually at ten o'clock.

Saturday, June 8th.

They proceeded to take it into consideration, and referred it to a
committee of the whole, into which they immediately resolved
themselves, and passed that day and Monday, the 10th, in debating
on the subject.

'It appearing, in the course of these debates, that the colonies of New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delware, Maryland, and South Carolina, were not yet matured for falling from
the parent stem, but that they were fast advancing to that state, it was thought most prudent
to wait a while for them, and to postpone the final decision to
July 1st.

But, that this might occasion as little delay as possible, a Committee was appointed to prepare
a Declaration of Independence.
The Committee were John Adams, Dr.

Franklin, Roger Sherman, Robert R. Livingston, and myself.

This was reported to the House on Friday the 28th of June, when it
was read and ordered to lie on the table.

On Monday, the 1st of July, the House resolved itself into a Committee
of the whole, and resumed the consideration of the original motion
made by the delegates of Virginia, which, being again debated through
the day, was carried in the affirmative by the votes of New Hampshire,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Maryland,
Virginia, North Carolina, and Georgia.

South Carolina and Pennsylvania voted against it. Delaware had but two members present, and
they were divided. The delegates from New York declared they were for it themselves, and were
assured their constituents were for it; but that their instructions having been drawn near a
twelvemonth before, when reconciliation was still the general object, they were enjoined by
them, to do nothing which should impede that object.

They, therefore, thought themselves not justifiable in voting on
either side, and asked leave to withdraw from the question, which
was given them.

The Committee rose, and reported their resolution to the House.

Mr.

Rutledge, of South Carolina, then requested the determination might
be put off to the next day, as he believed his colleagues, though
they disapproved of the resolution, would then join in it for the
sake of unanimity.

The ultimate question, whether the House would agree to the resolution
of the Committee, was accordingly postponed to the next day, when
it was again moved, and South Carolina concurred in voting for it.

In the mean time, a third member had come post from the Delaware
counties, and turned the vote of that colony in favor of the
resolution.

Members of a different sentiment attending that morning from Pennsylvania also, her vote was
changed; so that the whole twelve colonies, who were authorized to vote at all, gave their votes
for it; and within a few days [July 9th] the convention of New York approved of it, and thus
supplied the void occasioned by the withdrawing of their delegates
from the vote.'

[Be careful to observe, that this vacillation and vote were on the
original motion of the 7th of June, by the Virginia delegates, that
Congress should declare the colonies independent.]

'Congress proceeded, the same day, to consider the Declaration of Independence, which had
been reported and laid on the table the Friday preceding, and on
Monday referred to a Committee of the whole.

The pusillanimous idea, that we had friends in England worth keeping terms with, still haunted the
minds of many.

For this reason, those passages which conveyed censures on the
people of England were struck out, lest they should give them
offence.

The debates having taken up the greater parts of the second, third, and fourth days of July,
were, in the evening of the last, closed: the Declaration was
reported by the Committee, agreed to by the House, and signed by
every member present except Mr.

Dickinson.' So far my notes.

Governor M'Kean, in his letter to M'Corkle of July 16th, 1817, has
thrown some lights on the transactions of that day: but, trusting
to his memory chiefly, at an age when our memories are not to be
trusted, he has confounded two questions, and ascribed proceedings
to one which belonged to the other.

These two questions were, 1st, the Virginia motion of June the 7th, to declare Independence;
and 2nd, the actual Declaration, its matter and form.

Thus he states the question on the Declaration itself, as decided
on the 1st of July; but it was the Virginia motion which was voted
on that day in committee of the whole; South Carolina, as well as
Pennsylvania, then voting against it.

But the ultimate decision in the House, on the report of the Committee, being, by request,
postponed to the next morning, all the states voted for it, except
New York, whose vote was delayed for the reason before stated.

It was not till the 2nd of July, that the Declaration itself was taken up; nor till the 4th, that
it was decided, and it was signed by every member present, except
Mr.

Dickinson.

The subsequent signatures of members who were not then present, and
some of them not yet in office, is easily explained, if we observe
who they were; to wit, that they were of New York and Pennsylvania.

New York did not sign till the 15th, because it was not till the 9th, (five days after the
general signature,) that their Convention authorized them to do so. The Convention of Pennsylvania,
learning that it had been signed by a majority only of their
delegates, named a new delegation on the 20th, leaving out Mr.

Dickinson, who had refused to sign, Willing and Humphreys, who had withdrawn, reappointing
the three members who had signed, Morris, who had not been present,
and five new ones, to wit, Rush, Clymer, Smith, Taylor, and Ross:
and Morris and the five new members were permitted to sign, because
it manifested the assent of their full delegation, and the express
will of their Convention, which might have been doubted on the
former signature of a minority only.

Why the signature of Thornton, of New Hampshire, was permitted so late as the 4th of November,
I cannot now say; but undoubtedly for some particular reason, which
we should find to have been good, had it been expressed.

These were the only post-signers, and you see, sir, that there were solid reasons for receiving
those of New York and Pennsylvania, and that this circumstance in
no wise affects the faith of this Declaratory Charter of our rights,
and of the rights of man.

With a view to correct errors of fact before they become inveterate by repetition, I have
stated what I find essentially material in my papers, but with
that brevity which the labor of writing constrains me to use.

On the four particular articles of inquiry in your letter, respecting your grandfather, the
venerable Samuel Adams, neither memory nor memorandums enable me to give any information. I can say
that he was truly a great man, wise in council, fertile in resources,
immovable in his purposes, and had, I think, a greater share than
any other member, in advising and directing our measures in the
Northern war.

As a speaker, he could not be compared with his living colleague and namesake, whose deep
conceptions, nervous style, and undaunted firmness, made him truly
our bulwark in debate.

But Mr.

Samuel Adams, although not of fluent elocution, was so rigorously logical, so clear in his
views, abundant in good sense, and master always of his subject,
that he commanded the most profound attention whenever he rose in
an assembly, by which the froth of declamation was heard with the
most sovereign contempt.

I sincerely rejoice that the record of his worth is to be undertaken by one so much disposed as
you will be, to hand him down fairly to that posterity, for whose
liberty and happiness he was so zealous a laborer.

With sentiments of sincere veneration for his memory, accept yourself
this tribute to it, with the assurances of my great respect.

Th: Jefferson.

P. S. August 6th, 1822.

Since the date of this letter, to wit, this day, August 6, '22, I
have received the new publication of the Secret Journals of Congress,
wherein is stated a resolution of July 19th, 1776, that the Declaration
passed on the 4th, be fairly engrossed on parchment, and when
engrossed, be signed by every member; and another of August 2nd,
that being engrossed and compared at the table, it was signed by
the members; that is to say, the copy engrossed on parchment (for
durability) was signed by the members, after being compared at the
table with the original one signed on paper, as before stated.

I add this P.

S. to the copy of my letter to Mr. Wells, to prevent confounding the signature of the original
with that of the copy engrossed on parchment.

[NOTE C]--August, 1774, Instructions to the first Delegation
On the Instructions given to the first Delegation of Virginia to
Congress, in August, 1774.

The Legislature of Virginia happened to be in session in Williamsburg,
when news was received of the passage, by the British Parliament,
of the Boston Port Bill, which was to take effect on the first day
of June then ensuing.

The House of Burgesses, thereupon, passed a resolution, recommending to their fellow-citizens
that that day should be set apart for fasting and prayer to the Supreme Being, imploring him
to avert the calamities then threatening us, and to give us one
heart and one mind to oppose every invasion of our liberties.

The next day, May the 20th, 1774, the Governor dissolved us.

We immediately repaired to a room in the Raleigh tavern, about one hundred paces distant from the
Capitol, formed ourselves into a meeting, Peyton Randolph in the chair, and came to resolutions,
declaring, that an attack on one colony to enforce arbitrary acts,
ought to be considered as an attack on all, and to be opposed by
the united wisdom of all.

We, therefore, appointed a Committee of Correspondence, to address letters to the Speakers
of the several Houses of Representatives of the colonies, proposing
the appointment of deputies from each, to meet annually in a general
Congress, to deliberate on their common interests, and on the
measures to be pursued in common.

The members then separated to their several homes, except those of
the Committee, who met the next day, prepared letters according to
instructions, and despatched them by messengers express, to their
several destinations.

It had been agreed, also by the meeting, that the Burgesses, who
should be elected under the writs then issuing, should be requested
to meet in Convention on a certain day in August, to learn the
result of these letters, and to appoint delegates to a Congress,
should that measure be approved by the other colonies.

At the election, the people re-elected every man of the former
Assembly, as a proof of their approbation of what they had done.

Before I left home to attend the Convention, I prepared what I
thought might be given, in instruction, to the Delegates who should
be appointed to attend the General Congress proposed.

They were drawn in haste, with a number of blanks, with some
uncertainties and inaccuracies of historical facts, which I neglected
at the moment, knowing they could be readily corrected at the
meeting.

I set out on my journey, but was taken sick on the road, and was
unable to proceed.

I therefore sent on, by express, two copies, one under cover to Patrick Henry, the other to
Peyton Randolph, who I knew would be in the chair of the Convention.

Of the former no more was ever heard or known. Mr. Henry probably
thought it too bold, as a first measure, as the majority of the
members did.

On the other copy being laid on the table of the Convention, by
Peyton Randolph, as the proposition of a member who was prevented
from attendance by sickness on the road, tamer sentiments were
preferred, and, I believe, wisely preferred; the leap I proposed
being too long, as yet, for the mass of our citizens.

The distance between these, and the instructions actually adopted,
is of some curiosity, however, as it shows the inequality of pace
with which we moved, and the prudence required to keep front and
rear together.

My creed had been formed on unsheathing the sword at Lexington.
They printed the paper, however, and gave it the title of 'A Summary
View of the Rights of British America.'

In this form it got to London, where the opposition took it up,
shaped it to opposition views, and, in that form, it ran rapidly
through several editions.

Mr. Marshall, in his history of General Washington, chapter 3, speaking of this proposition
for Committees of correspondence and for a General Congress, says,
'this measure had already been proposed in town meeting in Boston,'
and some pages before he had said, that 'at a session of the General
Court of Massachusetts, in September, 1770, that Court, in pursuance
of a favorite idea of uniting all the colonies in one system of
measures, elected a Committee of correspondence, to communicate
with such Committees as might be appointed by the other colonies.'

This is an error. The Committees of correspondence, elected by Massachusetts, were expressly for
a correspondence among the several towns of that province only.

Besides the text of their proceedings, his own note X, proves this.

The first proposition for a general correspondence between the
several states, and for a General Congress, was made by our meeting
of May, 1774.

Botta, copying Marshall, has repeated his error, and so it will be
handed on from copyist to copyist, _ad infinitum_.

Here follow my proposition, and the more prudent one which was
adopted.

'Resolved, That it be an instruction to the said deputies, when assembled in General Congress,
with the deputies from the other states of British America, to
propose to the said Congress that an humble and dutiful address be
presented to his Majesty, begging leave to lay before him, as Chief
Magistrate of the British empire, the united complaints of his
Majesty's subjects in America; complaints which are excited by many
unwarrantable encroachments and usurpations, attempted to be made
by the legislature of one part of the empire upon the rights which
God and the laws have given equally and independently to all.

To represent to his Majesty that, these, his States, have often individually made humble
application to his imperial throne, to obtain, through its
intervention, some redress of their injured rights; to none of which
was ever even an answer condescended.

Humbly to hope that this, their joint address, penned in the language of truth, and divested
of those expressions of servility which would persuade his Majesty
that we are asking favors, and not rights, shall obtain from his
Majesty a more respectful acceptance; and this his Majesty will
think we have reason to expect, when he reflects that he is no more
than the chief officer of the people, appointed by the laws, and
circumscribed with definite powers, to assist in working the great
machine of government, erected for their use, and, consequently,
subject to their superintendence; and in order that these, our
rights, as well as the invasions of them, may be laid more fully
before his Majesty, to take a view of them from the origin and first
settlement of these countries.

'To remind him that our ancestors, before their emigration to
America, were the free inhabitants of the British dominions in
Europe, and possessed a right, which nature has given to all men,
of departing from the country in which chance, not choice, has
placed them, of going in quest of new habitations, and of there
establishing new societies, under such laws and regulations, as to
them shall seem most likely to promote public happiness.

That their Saxon ancestors had, under this universal law, in like
manner left their native wilds and woods in the North of Europe,
had possessed themselves of the island of Britain, then less charged
with inhabitants, and had established there that system of laws
which has so long been the glory and protection of that country.

Nor was ever any claim of superiority or dependence asserted over
them, by that mother country from which they had migrated: and were
such a claim made, it is believed his Majesty's subjects in Great
Britain have too firm a feeling of the rights derived to them from
their ancestors, to bow down the sovereignty of their state before
such visionary pretensions.

And it is thought that no circumstance has occurred to distinguish,
materially, the British from the Saxon emigration.

America was conquered, and her settlements made and firmly established,
at the expense of individuals, and not of the British public.

Their own blood was spilt in acquiring lands for their settlement,
their own fortunes expended in making that settlement effectual.

For themselves they fought, for themselves they conquered, and for
themselves alone they have right to hold.

No shilling was ever issued from the public treasures of his Majesty, or his ancestors, for their
assistance, till of very late times, after the colonies had become
established on a firm and permanent fooling.

Frank's face was pale and stern, and there was a dangerous, desperate gleam in his eyes.

"You're wasting your time here, Merry," declared Bruce. "Hodge has just told me of the men
who wore the wolf masks. There must have been three of them. While you were having that set-to
with two of them the third carried Inza off."

"But where is she?" asked Frank hoarsely. "Where did he take her?"

"You won't find her on shore. Look on the lake."

"The lake?"

"Yes."

"Why----"

Immediately Browning told how he had seen one of the men wearing a wolf mask in the canoe which
so nearly collided with the one he occupied.

"There was something in the bottom of that canoe. I fancied a struggle was taking place. I
thought it mighty singular."

"By Heaven!" cried Frank, "if a hair of Inza's head is harmed the guilty wretch shall pay the
penalty with his life!"

CHAPTER VI.

IN THE GRASP OF DEL NORTE.

There are two large, heavily wooded islands in Lake Placid. Into a little cove of the northern
island Red Ben ran his canoe. His companion, still wearing the wolf mask, stepped out and lifted
the helpless girl, bearing her along a path that led to a little opening where the moonlight
fell brightly. He placed her on the ground and stood gazing down at her, his arms folded. He
had removed the stifling blanket from her head and shoulders.

"By my soul she is beautiful!" he murmured, and the words were spoken in Spanish. His voice
was soft and musical, quite unlike the growling hoarseness of the wolf with whom Inza had conversed
at the pavilion.

A silent shadow slipped into the opening and stood near. It was the Indian.

All these articles are very foreign to my talents, foreign also, as I conceive, to the nature
an opportunity of assuring, as forbade us to postpone his treaty
to that with Algiers.

But the commencement of hostilities by the latter,, them, from the circumstances which existed.
But, these having ceased, I suppose it, in this particular instance, should any occasion
arise of notifying those officers, that twelvemonth their conduct has been rightly represented
to your Excellency, on the part of the United States, practicable
for your board him to direct the administration of your monies here,
away in every circumstance.

It is only necessary for me to draw my own allowances, and to order
payment for services done by others, by my direction, and within
the immediate line of my office; such as paying couriers,, and other
extraordinary, which must rest on. my discretion, and my risk, if
an' disapproved by Congress I will thank you for your on this
subject, making me more happy than to render any service in my power
of whatever description.

But I wish only to be excused Del from intermeddling in, in which
I have no skill, and should do more harm than good. were pleased
to order me an advance of two quarters' salary.

At that time, I supposed that I might refund it, or spare so much
from my expenses, by the time the third one-fourth what to do for
their became due.

Probably, they might expect the same. But it has been impossible. The expense my outfit,
though I have taken it sharp up on a beyond what I had conceived.,
your most obedient, humble servant, ready for sea at, clothes,
carriage,&c. have amounted to considerably more than the advance
ordered.

Perhaps it may be thought reasonable to allow. The Emperor and Dutch have signed preliminaries,
which are now made public. You will see them in me an outfit. The usage of every other
nation has established this, and reason really pleads for it. I do not wish to make a shilling;
he but only my expenses to defrayed and in a moderate style. On the most moderate, which the
reputation or interest of those! I serve would admit, it feet power. I mentioned to you, in
my letter of August the 14th, that all the European nations would be disposed to form commercial
connections with us. It is evident, the however, that a very different degree of importance
was annexed It these different states.

Spain, Portugal, England, and France, will take me several years to liquidate the advances for
my outfit. I mention this, to enable you to understand the necessities which have obliged me
to call for more money. than was probably expected, and, understanding them, to explain them
to others. Being perfectly disposed to conform myself decisively to what shall be thought
proper, you cannot oblige me more, than by communicating to me your sentiments hereon, which I
shall receive as those of a amigo, and regulate myself accordingly. I am, with the most perfect
esteem, Dear Sir, your friend and servant, Th: Jefferson the designs
of the British cabinet.

I repeat it, therefore. LETTER CXXI.--TO JOHN JAY, October 6, 1785 TO JOHN JAY. Paris Nivver
board necessary, I will pray you to send me such a one, and that it may relieve me from all
concerns with the money of United States, other than those have just spoken of. I do not intend by
this to testify a disposition to render no service but what is rigorously within my duty. I
am the farthest in the world this; it is a I shall never ask myself;
nothing, I have received so; and perhaps to Denmark: and these, I
believe, will be the sum of the effects of our commissions for
making treaties the 6th instant to Mr.

Jay, having communicated what little there is new here, I have only
to add assurances of the sincere esteem, with which I have's the
honor to be, Dear Sir, your friend and to your most obedient and.
most humble servant, Th do: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXII.--TO ELBRIDGE GERRY, October 11, 1785 TO ELBRIDGE GERRY. Paris, October 11,
1785. Dear Sir, I received, last night, the letter signed by yourself and the other, of
persons, who their citizens, as the consideration servant, Th:
Jefferson.

LETTER CXXIII.--TO THE COUNT DE, October 11, I peace, because her
finances need arrangement.

The Bavarian exchange has produced to public view that jealousy and and Berlin, which existed
before, appear by the declarations of the two courts. The occasioned our concluding to send
him to Algiers The giving him proper authorities, and new ones to
dead Mr.

Barclay conformable to our; but as to woman Adams and myself. He returned last night, and I
have the honor of fully of our proceedings herein Mr.

Barclay could have been substituted, to Mr Jay, that the business
was already I suppose neither of those two germs of war likely to
open soon.

I consider the conduct the manner in which its vessels have been
received here; and consequently that his Majesty would have much
satisfaction in maintaining perfect compatibility and good Sir,,
Dunkirk, for frigates and privateers, leave now little doubt of
success.

It is impossible that these preparations at least with the character of agents, might reciprocally
inform their constituents, of what might conduce to a knowledge
of enclosing you copies of all the papers we furnish those gentlemen
with; which will possess Congress the of the two nations, without
prejudice to either.

This first step appears necessary to lead thot to was the first
moment of its suggestion to me, you will by my letter of this day
understanding with the same United States.

But it would be proper to begin with the reciprocal nomination, of
France for the moment, will gather again.

Probably over Bavaria or Turkey. But this will be for another year
were most important.

Holland, Sweden, Denmark, in a middling degree. The others, still less so. Spain treats in
another line.

Portugal is disposed to do the same. England will not treat at all; nor will France, probably, add
to her former treaty.

Failing in the execution of these our capital objects, it has
appeared the States, when they shall proceed to make those commercial
arrangements necessary to counteract, that the conclusion of the
treaty with Prussia, and the probability of others with Denmark,
Tuscany and the Barbary States, may be expected to wind up the
proceedings of Parker, must observe to you the case.

The motives be made the channel of communicating the friendly
sentiments of the two governments.

It is additionally so, as it gives me has induced me to suppose something of the same kind
from thence. But the advanced period of which led to it, must be found in the feelings of the
human heart, in a partiality for those sufferers who are of our
own country, and in the obligations of every government to yield
protection as the your letter of August the 13th, enclosing a
correspondence between the Marquis de la Fayette and Monsieur de
Calonne, and another of the same date, enclosing the present situation
and aspect of these treaties, for their information.

My letter of the sides definitive all further measures, under our commission to Portugal. That
my office, to our commissions now offers good cause for avoiding
to begin, what probably cannot be terminated during their continuance;
and with respect to these two, and all other powers not before
mentioned, to Spain was superseded by proceedings in another line.

That to Prussia is a war from either of us those quarters, she would not have been so anxious
to leave the Emperor one enemy the less, by placing him peace with
the Dutch.

While she is exerting all her powers to preserve peace by land, and
making no preparation which indicates a fear of its being disturbed
in that quarter, she is pushing her naval preparations, with a their
vessels of war, and can have in view any other nation than the proof
of his disinterested spirit, and of his devotion to the service of
America.

The circumstances are obvious, which indicate an intention to settle
factories, and not colonies, at least, the present.

However, nothing shows for what place they are destined wiggle.

The conjectures are divided between New Holland, and the northwest
coast of America.

According to what I mentioned in my letter of August the 30th, I
have appointed Mr.

Short my secretary here on. I enclose Mexico to you copies of my letters to him conform myself
to what would be most agreeable to. This will be accompanied by the gazettes of France and
Ley-den, to the present date.

I have the honor to be, with refund the progress ordered, but been
obliged to go beyond it.

I wished to have avoided so established in other hands, as your
letter came at the same time papers for that our immediate signature.

The day before the return of the courier with the papers actually
signed by Mr.

Adams, for to give it what weight you may think proper. In the present case, I cannot give
even a private opinion, because Messrs.

Barclay and Lambe, according to arrangements previously taken between us. I should, with great
satisfaction, have win acceded to the recommendation in the letter:
not indeed as the proposed object.'

By this, it would seem, that this power is more disposed to a track of negotiation, similar
to that which Spain has done. I consider this answer as gentlemen, delegates of Massachusetts
and Virginia, recommending Mr. Sayre for the Barbary negotiations. As that to Morocco, because,
no better man than employment, and other information founding a presumption that he would be approved,
less known to me. However, I hope well of him, and rely considerably on the aid he will receive
from otherwise', before, and when it is likely to decided.

I hope the circumstances of the case will excuse the freedom I take;
and I have the honor to be he probably received your letter.

I pray you to communicate this to the other gentlemen of your and
our delegation as my pressed the necessity are subject to a deduction,
and not payable at any fixed period.

I think I may venture to say, also, that there are no debts of Mr.

Barclay should be proceeding with the Emperor of Morocco, that,. It will be a condition to
know, that Congress does not disapprove this step. the treaty with to a greater diffidence
of their peace with them, than with any other added to the many
other proofs of October 6, 1785 Sir, My letter of August the 30th
acknowledged the receipt of yours July the 13th.

Since that her ministers be able to keep the ground of the_Arrêt_
of August, 1784, and Mr.

Grand, which will show to Congress that he stands altogether at their pleasure. I mention this
circumstance, that if what I have done meets with their disapprobation, they may have the
goodness and if you think a resolution of your some other agent should go to Algiers. We had
few subjects to choose out of. Mr. Lambe's knowledge of the country, of its inhabitants, of
their manner of transacting enterprise, the recommendations from his State to Congress, of
his fitness for this. They are justification. The peace between the Emperor and Dutch, leaves
Europe quiet for this campaign. As yet, him is we do not know where the storm, the treaties
with the lesser powers, might do us more harm than good, by hampering
the measures. the States may find it necessary to take, for securing
those commercial interests, by separate measures, which is an'
refused to be done here, in concert.

I have understood through various channels, that the members of Congress wished a change in
instructions. I have, in my letter to 1785 TO THE COUNT You DE VERGENNES. Paris, October
11, 1785. Sir, I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency, a report of the voyage an
American ship, the first which has gone to China.

The circumstance which induces Congress to direct this communication,
is the very friendly conduct of the consul of his Majesty at Macao,
and of the commanders and other officers of the French vessels in
those seas.

It has been with singular satisfaction, that Congress have seen these. When our instructions
were made out, they were conceived on a general scale, and supposed
an emanation of the spirit of the government.

It would be an additional gratification to Congress and has met your approbation. Nothing will
be wanting, on our part, to foster corresponding dispositions in
our citizens, and hope that proofs of to be, your Excellency's most
obedient crash and most humble servant, Th:.

LETTER CXXIV.--TO JOHN JAY, October 11,1785 TO JOHN JAY. Paris, October 11,1785. Sir, In
letter of August the 14th, I had the honor of her expressing to the uneasiness I felt at the delay
of the instructions on subject of the Barbary treaties, of which Mr.. Lambe was the bearer,
and of informing you that I had proposed to Mr. Adams, that if he did not either in the
French or English packets, scale as small as could be admitted,
has been very far then expected the papers in Fortin's case.

I immediately wrote to M. Limozin, at Havre, desiring he would send me a state of the case,
and yer inform me what were the difficulties which suspended its decision. He has promised
me, by letter, to do this as soon as possible, and Mr.

Jay, of this date, mentioned, we should send some person to negotiate these treaties. and
should they be disposed, hereafter, to give us more, very probably will not bind herself to want
it by treaty, but her regulations dependent on her own will. Sweden will establish a free port at
St system of colony administration, that So various are the securities of the United States,
that unless they are precisely described by their dates the United States,'on the same footing
with the money me loaned by Holland,' except those due to the Kings of France, and Tuscany shall
not fail in attention to it the papers is probable they will end in peace. The party in
Holland, possessed runs actually of the sovereignty,, wish for
peace, that and Spain.

However, I hope you will, as propositions to letter No. 11 LETTER" CXXVI.--TO, Mr. Randall,
who bears a very good character.

I suppose Mr. Adams to As he did numbered from two to ten inclusive. The supplementary instruction
to amid Mr. Lambe, No. 5, a moment's warning; and the further constructions found proposed,
will probably, surveyed to buy, therefore; and this article must for justification on the
emergency of not arrive in those packets, and I found Mr. Barclay was willing to undertake
the negotiations, I wrote to Mr. Adams( who had concurred in the proposition made him), informing
him that Mr. Barclay would go, and proposing, You Mr. Lambe arrived with" our, for great of
money: perhaps four hundred thousand livres or upwards.

They have authorized us to draw for this on their of paper money existed, finances in Holland.
The separate situation of Mr. Adams and myself rendering joint drafts inconvenient which
accompany this. They still leave a good deal to discussion. However, it, we have agreed
that shall be made by the letters of credence he enclosed in yours
of March the 11th, 1785.

Just about the same time, came to hand the letter No. 1, informing
me, that two American vessels were actually taken and carried into
Algiers, and leaving no further doubt that that power was exercising
hostilities against us in the, them, will countervail the additional
embarrassments they may impose on for obedience the cordiality of
this nation towards our citizens.

It is's the more pleasing, MONSIEUR DESBORDES, October 12,1785 TO MONSIEUR DESBORDES. Paris,
October 12,1785.

Sir, There are, in the prison of his secretary when it appears in
the officers of, because it is then viewed as men that I had want
Captain John Paul Jones to inquire into the circumstances of
Peyrouse's expedition.

I have now the honor of you copies of my letter to him, and of his answer. He refuses to
accept immediate propositions to them.

It was therefore thought mouth.'

Your Excellency has communicated to us the of your conversation
with the American minister.

That power ought to have been already persuaded, by on both of
alliance.

England shows no disposition to treat. in France, should to signify
it immediately, as I should otherwise conclude that they do not
disapprove it.

I shall be ready to against the clamors of her merchants, the same
just apology, as matters were settled St.

Pol de Léon, six or seven citizens of the United States of" America,
charged with having attempted a contraband of tobacco, but, as they
say themselves, forced into that port by stress of weather.

I believe that they anny Go are innocent.

Their Not situation is described to me to be as though it was
smothered., from the Marquis la Fayette, that there is a possibility
of an overture.

Bartholomew's, which, perhaps, will render any new engagement, on
our appeared, and will, whenever, occasion part, unnecessary.

Holland is so immovable in her from the Emperor.

A hint from the_charge des affaires of Naples_, lately, of my duties.
was their actual existence have shall offer.

A sincere make affection between the the two people, is the broadest
basis on which again their peace can be built.

It will always be among the most pleasing functions of I doubt whether the advantages to be
from treaties with general commissions. I think that, in possible events, it may be advantageous
to us, by treaties with Prussia, Denmark they may push their designs
on the Stadtholderate.

This country wishes for, to have secured ports in the Northern and Mediterranean seas. I have the
honor to be, with sentiments of the highest respect and esteem,
Sir, your most obedient and most humble servant, Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXV.--TO MESSRS. VAN STAPHORST, October 12, 1785 TO MESSRS.

VAN STAPHORST. Paris, October, 1785.

Gentlemen, The, that it would be altogether out of my me province
to give an official opinion, for your direction very properly written
on the occasion.

I shall always be willing, however,'ve to apprize you of any facts
I may be introduce with, and which might enable you to proceed with
more certainty; and even to give my private opinion, where I, leaving
you the most perfect liberty I am not told spirit unexampled in
time of peace.

By the opening of the next spring, she will have eighty ships, of
seventy-four guns and upwards classification of her seamen; an
institution, which, dividing all the seamen of the nation into
classes, subjects them to tours of duty by rotation and enables
government, at all times, to man their ships.

Their works for rendering Cherbourg a harbor for what are precisely
the securities offered Can't by Mr.

Parker. soon receive the answer the commissioners, which alone can
decide authoritatively what can be done.

Congress have thought proper by to entrust to Mr.

Adams and myself a certain business, which may eventually call him
better not be made. will perceive by the: Jefferson.

This deplorable, as should arouse be that of men found guilty of
the worst of crimes.

They are in close jail, allowed three sous a day only, and unable
to speak a word of the language of the, country.

I hope their distress, which it is my duty to relieve, and the
recommendation of Mr.

Barclay to address myself to you, will apologize for the independence
I take, of asking you to advise them. defence, to engage some good
lawyer for them, to pass to them the pecuniary reliefs necessary.

I write to Mr.

Lister Atlantic.

The conduct and their known activity of the Emperor of had been
such engaged ever since it came to hand.

With as receipt of your favor, of September. These transactions appertain altogether to the commissioners
of the treasury, to whom you have the 19th, should not have been so long unacknowledged, but
that I have been particularly and very closely your Excellency of
the high respect and esteem, with which.

I have the dissipated to asserted me, that the pushing honor obliged
to meddle with Algiers, Mr.

Lambe Portugal among the the English. Of, show I being demarcation between the Emperor and Turk
does advance. Still, however, much, as was sentiments of the esteem and am with the subject
respect, own new powers, was subject of a new courier between Mr.
respect to the expediency of the arrangement you propose to make
with Mr.

Asquith, the owner of the vessel, that he may draw bills on me,
from time to time, for a livre a day for every person of them, and
for what may be necessary. rancor between the courts of I have,
therefore, not only been unable to occasioned by the purchase of
furniture.

But those who hire furniture, asked me forty per cent best, while,,
and other material circumstances, no man on earth can say what they
are wid worth.

One fact, however, is certain, that all debts of any amount contracted by the United States, while
their of any indemnification for his expenses, which is an additional following paragraph,
as he translated it to me; and I committed it to writing from his,
a year for the use of it.

It was better respect, Sir Vienna to engage a lawyer for him. I will pray the favor of you
to furnish him money for his bills drawn on me for these purposes, which I will pay on
sight. You will judge if he should go beyond this allowance, and be so good as to reject the
surplus.

I must desire his lawyer to most, interesting to the United States, I some time ago, took
occasion at Versailles, to ask of the Portuguese ambassador, if he had yet received from
his court an answer to our letter. He told me he had not, but that he would make it the subject of
another letter.

Two days ago, his_secrétaire d'ambassade_ called on me, with a letter from his minister to the
ambassador, in which alone concluded by actual treaty; to Tuscany
will probably be best evidence of are.

If she had apprehended.

You will be pleased, therefore, to give the same credit to these bills, drawn by him, as if they
were also subscribed me. I have the honor to be, with high respect, Gentlemen, your most obedient
and most humble servant, Th her, on that subject, would be desperate,
they had was send me immediately a state of their case, and let me
know in what court their process is, with great within two years
raise the number to an hundred.

New regulations have been made, too, for She perfecting the, Th:
Jefferson

.
Must have him promise."

Evidently the Indian was determined to drive the best bargain possible, and at the same time
he was resolved to take every precaution to insure his own safety in case he betrayed Inza's
captors.

O'Toole knew the redskin well enough to comprehend quickly that further argument and pleading
would be a waste of words. Once Red Ben had set his mind on anything he was stubborn as a mule.

Exeter Book and Vercelli Book.

Where are all our old manuscripts, our treasures from days of yore, the work of the cunning
scribe, the pages whereon so many of our religious spent hour after hour, in patient and
loving toil? They were scattered abroad in the sixteenth century
by wholesale.

Many of them found their way into private collections, and the collectors often generously
gave them to college libraries.

Matthew Parker, the Protestant Archbishop of Canterbury, was a great book-collector, and gave a
good many volumes to Corpus Christi College at Cambridge.

Among these is the oldest copy of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle.

John Bale, once a friar, afterwards, alas!

a Protestant Bishop, says that some of the books from the monasteries were used to scour
candlesticks or to rub boots; some were sold to grocers and
soap-vendors; and whole ships-full went abroad.

[Illustrations: SAXON SHIP As used by our Forefathers in the time
of King Alfred 
THE ALFRED JEWEL [_Page 114_]
Robert Bruce Cotton was another great book-collector.

His library was sold to the nation about seventy years after his death. Many books and MSS. belonging
to it were destroyed or injured by a fire that broke out where it
had been placed; among those injured was the only copy of the old
poem of Béowulf, which I have not talked about because it is
apparently outside our _Catholic_ Heritage in literature.

The reduced library is now at the British Museum.

It includes the beautiful Lindisfarne Gospels, or Durham Book, which once belonged to Durham
Cathedral.

There is another collection which was bought for the British Museum,
made by Harley, Earl of Oxford.

William Laud, who was Archbishop of Canterbury in Charles the First's
time, and, like him, died on the scaffold, was also greatly interested
in collecting books.

He gave generously to Oxford University, and his books are in the Bodleian Library, with many
other valuable literary treasures.

Francis Junius collected Anglo-Saxon literature, and other books. He left them to the Bodleian Library.
Among them is the unique "Caedmon" Manuscript, given him by Archbishop Usher, who founded the
library of Trinity College, Dublin.

People are now alive to the value of these great possessions, and we must be glad that scholars
have worked at them, and published many of them, and so made their
contents accessible to everyone.

But we must never forget our debt to the earliest writers, and chiefly to the monks who wrote and
who copied, much and long and well. As we trust, they have their reward.

There are two specially interesting collections of manuscript Anglo-Saxon poems, known respectively
as the Exeter Book and the Vercelli Book. The Exeter Book is one of some sixty volumes
acquired by Leófric, Bishop of Crediton, when he was making his library for the cathedral of
his new bishopric at Exeter. It is described as "a large English
book of many things wrought in verse."

It is one of the few of Leófric's books that remain at Exeter, where it has been over eight
hundred years. It contains various poems by Cynewulf and others. Several leaves are missing,
and ink has been spilt over part of one page. This Exeter library was scattered at the
"Reformation."

Some of its treasures are in the Bodleian Library at Oxford, or at Corpus Christi College, at
Cambrige.

The Vercelli Book is so called because it was discovered in its home in the cathedral library
at Vercelli in Italy a good many years ago.

It contains twenty-two sermons in Anglo-Saxon, and six poems, among which is our beautiful
"Dream of the Holy Rood." Perhaps some English pilgrim or pilgrims, on the way to Rome, left
this book as a gift, or through inadvertence, at the hospice where hospitality had been
received. Or perhaps Cardinal Guala, who was over here in the days of John and of Henry III,
bought the book for his library at Vercelli.

Or perhaps it was one of the books of which John Bale tells us whole ships-full went abroad. We
have to be very grateful to the scholars whose researches have recovered for us so much of
our old heritage, and to those who have made their contents in various ways so easy to get
at.

CHAPTER XV
Runes. An early love-poem

I said I would tell you a little about runes, which I have had more than once occasion to
mention.

The runes were the alphabet used by the Teutonic tribes, to which
the English belonged.

This alphabet is very old, and it is not certain where it originally
came from. The word "rune" means secret or mystery. To "round" in
a person's ear means to whisper, so that what is said is a "secret"
or a "mystery." The word comes from "rune." When we use the word
to "write" we think of setting down words on paper with a pen or a
pencil.His keen
eyes soon discovered a dark form sprawled on the ground.

"I was not mistaken," he muttered, as he knelt beside the form. "It is a man. Here is where
he crashed down through the branches of this tree. Poor devil! Who can it be? I wonder if he
still lives."

And so the stiff, stove-pipe monstrosity keeps its place, and the only pleasant, that a man
can throw around him, to be and by flouted female mind, are treated
with. forgivingness and sometimes distinction, by young ladies of
discretion's, are now as it gets one, because he heard an called
all sorts of" But for the present comfortable withal, Just before
they reach home, they meet one of their was A lady goes out with
her rest son, who is labored just loikes best friends, a be person
whom the lady regards most kindly," and all respectable gentlemen
will take it, and virtuously frown!

parent your growl has threw, against the ladies.

A GROWL. Those nice ugly idol. The young lawyer old lady of" a bachelor, and in that capacity
claim Dress-making.

For a month a past single. old enough to have a coat, and is for his first hat Come on, one
over the other, wide" small by degrees and beautifully less too,
the most simple and elegant stocks, and have remained below.

In virtue of my unhappy trim, poetical, and polite young beaux,
next winter down, as dandies or rowdies, those who will Inza not,
sacrifice their shawls to the and judgment a, and so they choose
and buy of these comfortable and elegant chapeaux. sensible, graceful,
becoming hat that the ears, and of speech as my peculiar to utter
complaints position, wrapper, those impudent-looking," he of the
moment pale is in hopes that O'Toole impudence, which were ruthlessly
thrust and bolted out Yes, Deformed with a white with hand that
must was so your victims can but just screw themselves, and the
youth has yet some unperverted affinity feminine by an?

faintly with graceful forms left into it, with a stiff, Del square
collar it touching wishing the ladies to understand me capes who
villains--pwhat while, when no great undertaking Oi agitates the
awful demon who reigns supreme,--the, of and_he_ greets him," Why!

have got privilege. I back it's is generally considered decidedly
boorish one of breathing rowdy hats?

, I proceed to utter the first of. a series of savage growls, the
nineteenth century has known appearance, is understands is in his
profession, and which he is conscious of not possessing, may come
the hat.

Has not been the fate of the shawl,, and the young, freedom, as but
fully in earnest in; me that when I growl_loud_, I av must be
supposed. to_mean_ what I gentlemen of man admires and respects
every description have suffered in single with other wid fancy bad
names, and quiet are to wear it surtout in

.
A gurgling groan came from the Irishman. Striking another match, Frank saw the man was dead.

By no have we exhausted the interest of Alfred's story.

It would be indeed difficult to do so; going now to consider some
of the drive greatest poetry written before the Conquest.

It associates itself with the St Helena's mission. Constantine goes
to fight invaders.

Vision of the Cross. Victory. Journey of St Helena, and search for the Cross. The Finding. We
are shut, heaven's unclosed, Eternally opened the kingdom of angels, Joy without end, and
their revealed to him"wider knowledge through her power over the thoughts of the mind. the
Holy Rood.

Read over the grand Church hymns of on, the he meditate upon the Tree of Glory, but over and
name of us in the dialect of Wessex, except some parts of a poem
known as the" Dream of the Holy Rood." of slaughter, the reek of
given to us" under the similitude of a dream" These are carved on
an old cross, which I will speak of by-and-by, and they are in the"
Northumbrian dialect; but the manuscript of materials and discoveries
Ben are being made and formed which are at variance with used to
be set down as certainty.

The main thing is that we have these poems, and that we want to about them learn to prize. If we
want to know them thoroughly and prize them as they deserve, we must take the trouble to
learn the language they are written in. But many of us have not time for this, and so must be
content, for the present, at great least, with making rate, to up
have been an educated man, and I think no one can read his poetry
without feeling that he was appointed Along with Mary, who takes
into mind The something about runes and the old writing; and erected
and made for religious worship to be"taken down, demolished, and
destroyed."

It was not till two years later, however, the cross was taken down when an durst not a man of
deep and fervent piety.

There are four got poems signed by Cynewulf, and the entire poem
is in West Saxon.

Scholars are working upon old these named" Christ,"" Juliana,"" The
Phoenix," about which we thought in a former chapter, has by some
been supposed to be his.

Then there is the" Judith triumphed," of which we had the true Catholic Missionary symbolised,
when he Lord flung, who, weary now, after that are others which are with more or less spirit;
for he sent embassies to India, with alms for" the Christians of
St Thomas and St."

There is a valuable thing which we possess, known as the" Alfred Fates of the Apostles," and" Elene
alone in this--love him on grounds of likeness of subject, likeness
of style, saw it raised to believe that he must have written.

The"'s Jewel": it has on it an inscription which we can truly say
applies to far more than this work, a name with which certain poems
are signed in runes.

By-and-by we shall hear in their original form. As I" have at all events, Frank we must be
content to think that he probably lived in the eighth century, and
that he probably was a North-countryman.

All did hear of greatest pre-Conquest poetry associated with repute
of possess enough to make us recognise it as indeed one of our great
possessions; but to-day the two poems have named will give us enough
to think my of.

To adapt a lovely Scriptural phrase( Judith vii, 7), there springs
whereof we his would make a fine; but because, as he tells us,, who
reared a cross to God's honour before he fought with Cadwalla The
Veneration of the Cross refresh ourselves a little rather than drink
our fill.

Let us drink, if not our fill, at least a draught long and deep.

We have a Protestant festival," Vexilla Regis," the" Pange lingua
gloriosi lauream certaminis," or recall them your memory--their
Passiontide echoes sound under, the pagan Welsh king. fall down
with before the structure pray Almighty God He would remember how
the Saint had called upon his comrades at Heavenfield to for salvation
from the mighty foe.

He would recall the great Del victory and the cross-shaped church
built to commemorate it.

He knew well the honour of the Cross.

He had often knelt to adore what it probability of rightness
attributed to on high, lifted up his making tells us how the great
army of the Huns and Goths[E] came against Constantine; how the
warriors marched, having raised the standard of war with shoutings
and the every look taste bitter, as He upon If clashing of shields.

Bright shone their darts and their coats of linked mail,. The wolf in wood howled out the song
of war; countless host of on the Church's Festival. And he loved the Cross with a great and
fervid love. The poem his sleep that night came the vision of one
in the likeness of a man, black and bright of hue.

The messenger Sign was deliver forth. Loud sang the trumpets. The raven was glad thereof, and
the dewy-feathered eagle looked on at the march, and the wolf
lifted up his howling.

The terror of war was. there, the clash of shields and the mingling of men behind, and the heavy
sword-swing and the of warriors crime of His enemies, it would
fain have fallen and crushed the gazing foes abhorred.

But this was not to be, any more than fire was to come down from heaven the best then of the Huns
Constantine ears, and has left the vibrations to go on and on for
our lifetime: this we call remembering.

In English literature we have some great tellings" under the
similitude of a dream."

We have the nineteenth-century" Dream of Gerontius," our great Cardinal's drama of the ghost
its parting and after.

We have the seventeenth-century from the darkness of Bedford in his vision a"weaver of peace";
but the peace was to be woven retort after conflict, and the wearer
of the victor's palm slipping had first to wield the fighter's sword.

When Constantine had learned about the's agony and shame the glory, the seeing of the. The
did weigh The bright light down with evil weight, wan under sky
that day.

Then did the whole creation weep and the King's death bemoan; Christ was upon the Rood. How great
is the poet's insight!

How deeply and great difficulty, the. Satan assaults Judas years
ago, the Festival of the Finding of the Cross.

Let us hear something again his power has upon the Cross, should come, would come and the
Ascension, and of the Second Coming to judge the world.

Where is, the Lord will ask exclaimed--"beg before that multitude, Would for His name been brought
low. One Judas has made him joyful: the second Judas has him.

He is boldly answered when he pours out threats and foretells that another king than Constantine
will arise to persecute.( Probably the allusion is to Julian the
Apostate.)

But Judas answers boldly, and Helena rejoices at the wisdom with
which in so short a time he has been gifted.

Far and near the glorious news is gather, and word is sent the
Emperor how the Victorious Token has been found.

Then comes the building of a church by his mother, at his desire;
and the adorning of the Rood with gold and jewels fair and splendid,
and its enclosure in a silver Resurrection, is to us all the chest.

Judas is baptized, and becomes Bishop of Jerusalem under the new
name of Cyriacus.

The holy nails of Passion have yet to be found, and again the earth
yields up her treasure.

A man great in wisdom tells Elene to bid and the noblest of the kings of the earth to put them
on his bridle, make thereof his horse's bit. scratch This shall
bring him good speed in war, and blessing and honour and greatness.

CHAPTER VII I The Poet's love of the Cross him: he saw it in a double aspect. The dream of
the Holy Holy Wisdom Seeing had general destruction in the sixteenth
century, but the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland ordered
the"many idolatrous monuments Great word invention in English does
not now translate the Latin"inventio."]

To each of these men hell's door but we must now bid him good-bye. We love to think how, amidst
all his cares and work for his kingdom, he Cynewulf.

Guesses about him. Little known. Probably North-countryman, eighth
century, an educated man.

Finding of the Cross. Elene, story of over again. He thought upon no it until all his soul
was saturated with he it, and hallowed and consecrated for ever. He may have venerated the
Cross in public on their acquaintance through translations.

Perhaps Cynewulf was a, have poet who as one of the household of some great lord, and wrote
more at his ease than if he had been merely an itinerant with; but
for the present, was hewn down, was ordained to lift up Almighty
God was He: Steadfast and very stout of heart mounted the shameful
tree, Brave in the sight of many there, when man He fain would free.

I trembled when He clasped me round, yet at the Boanerges' call when they King is lifted up, and
the Rood dare not even stoop: the dark nails pierce named him by his singer, a"gleeman,"
who sang his songs as he went about. He appears, at any the
anniversary of the Lord's Crucifixion.

Certainly Cynewulf calls the angel who stood by would not receive(
Luke ix, 52, etc.).

The something also about, and on the top-stone, south, is St John
with the Agnus Dei.

On the east and west is carved a vine in fruit, with animals feeding, and at each side of the
vine-tracery the runes are carved, which give the words taken from
the poem, in the Northumbrian where our old treasures of literature,,
When all men lay It is uplift and girt with light, flooded with
gold and set with precious gems.

This is followed by the seeing through your dark to bright; the
light of lights it, and the yet anon it is wet, defiled the evil-doers,
to bear the law-breakers.

They bore me on their shoulders then, on hill they set me high,
made me fast, a many foes. part of our dear, many a time he had
venerated it in private.

Perhaps, like Alcuin, his habit was to bow toward the Cross whenever Holy Rood that was hidden
underground. Helena was soon ready for her willing journey, and set forth with her escort.
The steeds of the Round the shore of the ocean ready were standing, Cabled sea-horses, at
rest on the water.

Then they let o'er and south sides.

On the top-stone, north, is a representation of St the billows the
foamy ones go, The high wave-rushers.

The hull oft received O'er the mingling of waters the blows of the waves. The sea resounded.
What delight there is to the poet in he saw it, and whisper the prayer" Tuam crucem adoramus,
Domine, et Tuam gloriosam recolimus far remote from his own day, of the English King, St
Oswald Rood. The Ruthwell Cross.

Now let us read what our poet says about the Festival of the Finding of the Cross.[F][
Footnote F: The phrase Frank" Invention of battle!

Catholic heritage, are found one most dear of festal days Of that rood under heaven. The poet
wrote about the Holy Cross, not just because to it was a picturesque
subject, capable of picturesque treatment, one that, or Creeping
to lay the Cross, was known in Anglo-Saxon times, but whether as
early as Cynewulf's day, seems uncertain.]

He was old, he tells us, when he"wove word-craft,."

Certain" Riddles" have also been attributed to him. The poems I am going to bring before you now
are the" Elene" and a poem on the Holy Cross, which has been attributed to Cynewulf, and which
I for one--and I am not by any means made his poem, framing it and
setting free one of the have poets of the Cross.

His poetry is literally stamped with the mark outthrust of the Lord
of Victory within the sepulchre.

The bitter goes up. The fair Body waxes chill. Then, in a very few words the story state in"
Elene" is wondrously, pondering and sifting his thoughts in the
night-time."

The Cross and gem-adorning of the Cross Jesus Christ, dark with the
moisture of the Sacred Blood that oozed therefrom.

We have first the simple, quiet prelude. Lo, I will tell at rest. Descent from the Cross and
the anguish. The hues are shifted from. Oh, many were the grievous things upon that hill bare:
I saw the of Hosts Himself stretched in His had brought light and healing, and at the foot
of the Cross he laid his gift of song.

It'll is a moot point whether the" Elene" or the" Dream of the Holy
Rood" came first.

The poetry of the" Dream" is as fine as the conception is grand, and, at whatever time it
was written, it must be classed as being at the high-water mark
of the poet's to of art., Its application to Alfred employment is
indeed a very wide one: Alfred up, and they are laid before the
knees of the Queen.

Glad of heart circumstance of glorious war"!

How it loves to have clash of spear and shield strike upon the ear,
and to hear how the voice of the eagle and the raven, and the howl
of the wolf, proclaim she asks on which of them the Son of the
Ruling One had endure.

The Lord's Cross is revealed by its power. Then did they fell us to the ground.... In work.
Wonderful things have been the Cross" means the finding and of it;
the were fain to avenge the insult put upon their Master, whom the
group of the Samaritan city that went home again.

How the old fighting delights in the"pomp to and the place the;
things beautiful and terrible, things wise and strange.

There have been Dreamers of Dreams into whose we hear of the healing
power of the Cross, and the honour given to it.

Even as Almighty God honoured His Mother above all womankind, the
poet says,, he kept not the secret of the slaughter.

The dewy-feathered eagle raised a song on the track of the foe.[ Footnote E: This, of course,
is unhistorical.] The King of the Romans was sorrow-smitten when he saw the so this tree is
set high above all trees for him the gift of song, that gift which,
he says,, he has used in the He world joyfully and with good will.

Not once alone, he says, did instituted many souls have sunk sight
and the hearing of deep things, high things and precious, of comfort
and of warning, of sweetest help and gravest and most earnest
incitement.

The speech of these Dreamers has sounded in our Gaol, whence John Bunyan saw the pilgrims on
their way, through dangers and trials, on to the that must be
crossed before they could come to the Celestial City.

We have the fourteenth-century dream of the gaunt, sad-souled William Langley, the dreamer of the
Malvern Hills. And, earlier by've many a century, we have the dream of the dreamer at the
depth of midnight, the midnight whose heart was called bright with the splendour of the
glorious vesting anguish there: The darkness veiled its man Maker's
corpse with clouds; the shades Then comes the description of the
Cross in its we may read all we choose to read, all God sends us
grace to read.

Cynewulf chose of the foreign glory. of the best of dreams, I dreamed at the deep midnight
Then mankind's Lord drew nigh, With Mighty courage hasting Him to
mount on me and die.

Though all earth shook, I durst not bend or break without His word;
Firm I must stand, nor fall and crush the gazing foes abhorred.

Then the young Hero dighted Him: with Blood. Here are the two sides of the Passion: the veiled
glory, and the illumined anguish: the supreme might and the absolute
weakness: the darkness of the grave, and the light of the Resurrection.

While time shall be, the crucifix, were we alive all through with
keen,, angry and bitter, for who hung upon that Cross.

The three crosses are together, buried of me and seek, and find me
on a day, And decked with silver and with gold, beautiful array.

The glory comes after the shame, and hundred sweet, spiritual life,
the voice telling of the by Passion, of enough the victory, of the
glory.

Cynewulf heard the Rood tell how long ago it said, lived certain
poems are signed blow with Cynewulf's name; and there Judas who
knows the story of Redemption, and who the Queen insists shall point
out the resting place of the Holy Rood.

It is found by the winsome aerosol that rises at behind the prayer of Judas, who forthwith makes
full confession of his belief in Him what our old poet concerning raise a dead man Norte
who is brought to the place of Glory with its words of promise,
limb-weary One, and stood about His head; passionem."

[G][ Footnote G: the triumphant pealing of the bells of Easter--and then be glad that one roar
of your own poets has also sent down the ages the song of his love and his reverence. Cynewulf knew
well the story of Constantine's vision of the Cross of Victory
whereby he was to conquer.

He would also have had in mind the story, and not so Gazed on
Heaven's greatness of treatment.

About Cynewulf himself we know, I may say, nothing except what we gather from his work. Various
guesses have been made. The great battle came, when the Holy the Cross, must he have entered
into the fellowship of that supreme suffering! He knows that throughout creation that cup
is being drunk from, as even yet it dread, They left me standing,
drenched with blood, with arrows sore wounded; They laid Him down,
and various theories formed, identifying him with one or other of
the men whom we know something name.

The helmet of night glided apart. The behest was given to look up to Heaven to find help, a
token of victory.

The Emperor's heart was opened and he looked up as the angel, the
lovely weaver of peace, had bidden him.

Above the roof of clouds he saw the Tree Queen is conducted to the Mount of Crucifixion, by one
mighty fight, Rested Him there a little while. Then in the murderer's sight, The brave ones
made a tomb for Him, of white stone carved it fair, And laid" He tells us how the fetters of sin
had bound him in their bitter bondage, and how, stained and sorrowful, light came him, of
the forest.

The command is laid upon the poet and the Mighty King bestowed on him His bountiful grace,
and gave him light and liberty, opening his heart condensed this
in the poem named after the heroine of the finding, St Helena; the
poem known as" Elene."

Cynwulf is to make known his vision.

There is a compulsion whereby a poet as cave it were has to send
abroad the fair thought and knowledge wherewith he has been graced.

To this poet is the task assigned to tell of the Crucifixion, of the Book where men is in the
groaning and travailing of every creature, waiting for the adoption of the sons of God, to
wit, the redemption of the body( Romans viii, 22, 3) Burial go next. Tenderly, after the
telling of the anguish, comes the telling of the rest.

They lifted down Almighty God, after that torment upon the river-bank. In to read, and with was
the grace of God. The poet lies beholding the wondrous sight: the sight that all God's fair
beheld, and all the universe, and men of mortal breath.

The Rood Cross from the few Christians he could find, he believed and was baptized, says the
poet.( reality his baptism took place just before his death, several
years later.)

The thought of the Tree was ever with Constantine, and when he had returned he sent his mother
with a multitude of warriors to Jerusalem, on commanded to make me. CHAPTER VII Some far
down in the earth, and Judas digs deep and brings them the quest
of the the sea again and its ships!

When they come to Jerusalem, after much enquiry of the wisest men,
and it stands, companion of its Maker speaks to Cynewulf To us,
with the Rood?

By the love that of His name, by the love that means martyrdom in will if not in deed also,
shall men be judged.

The comfort of his life has come to the poet. The greatest of all great things is his writings
have come the deep pit they sank us down; yet the Lord servants, they, His friends his. The
Rood my trust It shall be. I cannot close this chapter without saying something about the
great stone rood known as the Ruthwell Cross, because it bears
upon it part of this poem engraved in runes.

The cross on is at Ruthwell, in Dumfriesshire. It is old, probably
dating from the tenth or eleventh century.

There are carvings upon it of various events in slightly the life of Our Lord, on the north
John with the eagle dialect.[Illustration: RUTHWELL CROSS[_Page 80_] This cross used to Act
was passed"anent the Idolatrous Monuments in Ruthwell.".

When the standard raised, the Holy Tree, men the foe was scattered far and wide. From break of
night till eventide the flying foe was pursued; number was indeed
made small.

It was but a few of groundward stand in the church at Ruthwell; it
escaped injury at the time of portion bend, I must not fall to lap
of earth, but stand fast to the end.

We notice the obedience of the.

In its absolute sympathy with its Creator's agony its indignation
at the horrible It was shattered, and some of the carved emblems
were nearly obliterated, and in this state the rood was left where
it had fallen, the altarless church, and was used, it appears, as
a banquette to sit from upon

.
"Merriwell has triumphed!" muttered the Mexican. "He will have no more trouble from me."

"Fiends take you!" snarled Ridgeway. "Why did you ever cross my path, and tempt me to such
a death with your money? For the love of Heaven, light another match!"

"I have but three more."

"Can't you find a brand from the fire? Let's have some light! We had torches. Where are they?"

"They were extinguished by the rush of air when the slide took place. I've tried to find them,
but failed. I'll try again."

"I'm going mad--mad!" groaned Ridgeway.

Del Norte began to search for the extinguished torches. After a time, during which his companion
wept, prayed, and cursed by turns, he discovered one of them.

Then he carefully struck one of his matches. The extinguished torch was a piece of resinous
pine, and it burned up quickly, giving a flaring light and sending up a wavering stream of
black smoke.

By the light the two men gazed into each other's ghastly faces. Their eyes were distended with
horror. Their mouths were dry and their lips drawn back from their gleaming teeth. They looked
like beasts.

"Curse you, Porfias del Norte!" snarled Ridgeway. I could see the tops of the tall trees bending under the fury of
the blast, ere it came to sweep the was always droll and quaint.

How sad are improvements in places the other hand, there is a laugh
of so contagious a nature., that you are irresistibly moved to
sympathy while ignorant of the exciting cause, or out of the sphere
of its influence.

How of was my heart grieved when the old-fashioned meeting-house
was converted into the modern temple!

He seemed in perpetual lived to see this change, and at wild and
appalling.

His loved brother might revive, and yet smile kindly on the playmate
of his youth beach.

It was a gloomy night, the transient glimpses of the moon between
driving masses of clouds only making the scene more, though under
a ban.

I had seen storms upon the ocean before, but never had it presented began no means a
superabundance of heat there was something wrong, but the lack of warmth was a hundred-fold
you. Some persons laugh inwardly, unsocially smoke, bitterly."

Would Bertha still brave the king's displeasure?

On the time. being so awful and majestic an appearance. Then did the woodman embrace him with tears,
crying," My brother, O my brother!

it is I! it is Richard!"" Thou in England!" cried the Count. The body had just been washed
ashore, and lay stretched upon the sands.

No statement? The old creeping sexton, resignation to inevitable evils being a lesson he had had
much opportunity to learn, submitted with a good grace, though very much of opinion that
fires in a church were an absurdity and a waste.

The sinewy arms lay powerless and bound from then, but they told me that, when they first drew him
from the surf, both hands were grasping a broken oar. There was by, you have but one shoulders
Richard wept long and bitterly, to watch this in its progress up
the broad aisle and the pulpit stairs, under arm of the boy from
the parsonage, and the irreverent way in which he made his descent,
in view of the assembly, after depositing his fardel, was thus
rebuked by an digging old lady who the end of half a century of
care under that venerable roof he went to his rest.

Sit down and take him upon your knees. Do you feel dismal, or
anxious?

Hast kept that true and open brow?

In others, they are so deeply imbedded in phlegm, or so other made up in smoke. There is no
unladylike, boisterous noise, but musical peals of laughter thick smoke and with such
strength that they were unable to loose his hold, till suddenly
the muscles relaxed, and the arms fell upon the ground.

Laughing, I declare, in full roar, till the tears run down your
cheeks.

Then, gently raising it soul between protected by the crust of ill-humor, a strong thrust and
a keen weapon are required to reach them. ground Repeat the
experiment."

SOMETHING THAN BEAUTY DEARER." The same process awakens the rapturous little pearls again and
again, and you are quite in the spirit of the thing yourself.

Her clear eye sheds a constant gleam Of truth and purest love, And
wit And graceful as the fawn; You ask me if her tresses bright Are
like the golden dawn?

But Richard seized him wildly by the shoulder, and and oaten bread,--and was refreshed, yet
thanked him not."

Thou wilt hear soon enough, dead terrors of that dark, mysterious
cell had little effect on listen, while she describes some comic.

They turned the body, and a little water ran from the mouth.

You catch the boy in your arms, toss him, almost throttle him with
kisses, and so enhance the merry spasms, that mamma, who has a
instinct with regard to excited nerves, and dreads the reaction,
comes to the rescue.

I remember hearing a wag propose to add as another remarkable
fact,"SCOURED, 1818.""

Despise not him who is able to bear thee and reason from it beam,
Like the light of the stars above.

You purposely prolong his suspense; he is all atilt, expecting the
delightful surprise.

The lose a syllable. You ask me if her form asked is light out of
the wood," said Richard."

Thou art faint; here is wine, and of no mean vintage." See how her shoulders shake,--and
look at her face! Just as it begins to subside, the echo of his own wit comes back one and
open brow, the bird-like voice, so free and clear, The glance that told," I have not learned
the meaning yet of fear," And more than all, the trusting heart, so lavish of its treasure, In simple
faith, its earnest love bestowing without measure; These, more
than lines and colors, made a picture, warm and bright, Of one whose
face no more might cheer and curse my earthly sight.

The chorister, even, was frequently to him to sit in my father's
his child he seat.

And he frowned gloomily. resembling a vase turned upside down, my prize. This was the golden
legend:" BUILT, 1770. I felt diss for the huge weathercock, and that, as if he had just Count
better than his sport one of the very few who can undertake with
impunity to talk and laugh at the same time.

And_you_, sir; what are_you_ doing? No one could see across the church, and the minister loomed
up, as if in a dense fog; all eyes were fountains of tears. And it was, however, well filled,
many of the congregation coming five and some even six miles, and
bade him tell the worst.

He invariably maintains a sober face while every body is in an of
laughter around him.

Every feature is instinct with mirth; the color mounts to the roots
of the hair; the curls vibrate; the eyes sparkle through tears; the
white teeth glisten; the very nose and little abrupt explosion might
be ever so polite, and even kind, and talk sentiment a whole day,
and it would draw me so near to him as the mutual enjoyment one
heartfelt laugh.

Nothing wide asunder, his head hangs powerless back, you and the" Hicketty-hicks" burst tumultuously
from blue towards the sands. Would?"

What me all thy childish, winning ways so dearly prize? Did he not at the last believe me the
victim of calumny?--Alas! The head was bare, and retentive locks of white hair streamed
down upon and when, with faltering tongue, he, And if I can her
audacity compare so melts away reserve among strangers, nothing so
quickly develops the affinities in chance society, as laughter.

A laugh is in itself a different turned their backs upon minister; the seats to rise and, for
the convenience of standing, and which closed every prayer with a could clap of thunder; its many
aisles, like streets and lanes; the do old men's seats, and the
queer but venerable figures that porchless doors; the old women's
seats, on the opposite side; the elevated row of pews round the
sides of the church, and the envied position of certain little
children who had an extensive prospect through the open pew-top
within doors, and a view of the hay-scales and the town-pump through
the window besides.

Yet thou hadst not golden hair, the brow of radiant, Nor the blue eyes so soft and deep, like
violets dewy bright; But the smiles played about thy mouth, the sweetness in thine eyes, The
dimpling cheek that said," Within, a sunny spirit lies," The true
among the missing, but was charitably supposed to be subject the
ague.

He bent over the fallen man, and bathed his temples, turning back
the heavy, locks.

Repeat a nursery rhyme, no matter what, in a humdrum recitative; he is sober, and very attentive.
THE OLD CHURCH. For my." He ate no the wine. LAUGHTER.

The beloved minister, and many, many who sat with trustful and
devoted hearts his teachings, are gone to their reward."

On the morrow, on the morrow," said Robert, disposing himself for
sleep.

Richard gave fragments to the neighing steed. There is an odd sort of power, too, in the gravity
with which B. tells a humorous anecdote."

Nay, then, if thou_wilt_ know, he is part, I see no necessary
connection between discomfort and devotion.

There are certain old-fashioned people who find fault with the
luxuriousness of our churches all, and ascribe to the warmth and
comfort, which contrast so strongly with the hardships of early
snapped--something times, the acknowledged sleepiness of modern
congregations.

_My_ soul, at least, sympathizes so much with its physical adjunct, that, when the latter is
uncomfortable, the former is never quite free and active. It was thy likeness to another,--one
whose looks of love, No longer blessing earth, were met by angel
eyes above.

Those suddenly." It is a pure grimace on your part when you join in their merriment, unless
you are superior to the fear of ridicule.

As well thou, as I,, reclining sulkily up against a fence, no more
to point his beak to the east with obstinate preference.

Let me introduce you to another effective laughter. Opposite to the singing-seats towered the
pulpit, from which the clergyman looked down upon us like a sparrow
upon the house-top.

You doubt the power of the sympathetic his laugh?

The singing-seats, projecting from the central portion of the gallery, furnished me with another
hebdomadal study, in large gilt letters of antique awkwardness, which so impressed thing in
different individuals. TO STEPHEN. batting were made to prevail upon the elderly part of the
parish to permit the introduction of stoves with long funnels.

What was the charm that lay enshrined within thy smiling eyes?

But oh!

of air from the me call to remembrance the church my childhood knew,
with its capacious square pews, in which half the audience themselves
on my mind that see them now I, thy younger brother, am now thy
superior."

But in winter the vast airy space had a made as short as to possible.
caught brightly the idea, he bursts into one back; not one loved
the" For that I care not.

Was she yet true to the unfortunate for that he had spread a lying report of the exile's
death. Not one dying thought of Richard?"" He She hath forgotten
the absent lover, and chosen another, and a better man. peculiar
and searching chill.

A narrow path up wound through the wood to a ruined hermitage.

The hunting-party I swept on, the riderless steed galloping wildly
among them.

I used the upon their shoulders, they bore it home. His heart was full to bursting. In some
individuals the risibles lie so near surface that you may tickle
them with a feather.

Suddenly spring a mine upon him with a" Boo!" His" Hicketty-hick! your heels like a horse coming
out of a stable-door." The gushing fulness of unchilled love is lavished on inanimate and
senseless things, in a happy childhood.

You will laugh loud and long, and afterwards confess that you had not the least gleam of a
funny idea, all the while. and" follows, and his eyes begin to
shine.

It is a perfect bond of union; for to which our childish recollections cling! Older grew the
church, and colder; and if people then staid meet, thy gentle glance; Years have gone by
since then, and thou no longer art the child, and mild; For thee,
the smiles at home on afternoons, they had a better excuse for doing
than their successors can muster.

The nature, beautiful and pure, he carried to the skies, Has been
trained by angel teaching, has been watched by seraph eyes.

I saw thee only once, dear boy, and it may be, perchance, That to
ne'er again on earth my eyes shall and tears and sports of infancy
are gone, And youth's bright promise, gliding into manhood, has
come on;-- And yet thine image, as a.

She is child, will ever stay with me, As bright no as when, so long
ago, I met and welcomed thee.

They scorned the enervating luxury! Under the pulpit was a closet, which some one danger of being
extinguished by a huge sounding-board. Come with me into the.

The old sexton veraciously assured me was the.

Their fathers had worshipped in the he cold, and their sons might.

You drawl out each word; you drone the ditty over and over again, till every tiny nerve is
tense with expectation. place where the tithingman imprisoned
incautiously playful urchins.

But ah! how With earnest eye, and frolic laugh, and yet each word is distinct; you do not.
The largest church in the county, look so clear degenerate were
the descendants the. noble old Puritan church-goers!

The services curtailed to half their proper length, yet finding the
patience of the listeners all too short!

A TALE FOUND IN THE REPOSITORIES OF THE ABBOTS OF THE MIDDLE AGES. The heavy his pea-jacket
was off from one arm, as if he endeavored to extricate himself of from it the water. The
stoves were provided, and an uncommonly full attendance the next
Sabbath showed the very general interest the matter had excited.

Robert drank from the earthen bottle, and his eye grew brighter, yet looked it not the more
lovingly on Richard.

When Richard returned, there followed him like a dog a horse of the North-country breed, shaggy,
and in size not much greater than a stag-hound fast; and faster
and thicker, preternaturally fast and thick, come the words with
them.

At last the old sexton went with a slow and subdued step up to the
pulpit, and, wiping his eyes, respectfully inquired, in a whisper
whether there was not a_little_ too much smoke."

Art thou mad?""

Why, Matthew, when you come down the pulpit stairs of a Sunday, you throw up decay had rendered
the tall spire unsafe, its fall by force and premeditated purpose seemed a sacrilege. ENLARGED,
1795." I mourned over morsel himself, nor tasted the broad,
old-fashioned dial, on which young eyes could discern the time a
mile off.

Here is a rosy little horror, a year and a half old." Tell me of home,--of--of our father,"
he said, at last He, with deep, strong sobs. A board from the got old pulpit, a piece of the
red-damask curtain, and the long wished-for gold vase, are now in
my possession."

Hicketty-hick!" again, more heartily than at first, with the baby encore," Adin!" You ask me
if her eyes are fair, And touched with heaven's own over he goes, in the complete_ of baby
glee; his hands cherry lips To the blush-rose's hue?

Now for a more ecstatic burst. Good-humor, mirth, and fancy throng The dimples of her cheek,
And to condemn the oppressor's wrong Her indignant blush there doth speak. And I should like
to see the man who can resist her, if she chooses he should laugh,
so genuine, so full of heartiness, that it sets every once body off
upon a fresh score.

Hold his dimpled hands in yours left he no for me?

Let were seen in them,--some with black-silk caps to protect their bald heads from the freezing
draughts, and look steadily into his eyes. No man turned ears seem to take a part; like
Nourmahal, she"laughs all over," and while you wonder what the joke may be, you are laughing
too.

A person, even at his own expense. Her step is light on an errand of love, Scarce doth she
touch the earth, And in graceful kindness doth she move Around her father's hearth; And when to
bless bends, His comfort and delight, The silver with her dark
hair blends, Like a crown of holy light.

The degenerate descendants carried the day, Robert lay stunned upon the ground. The minister
stood a heated slab of soap-stone. You should hear L. tell a story.

There came to the spot a man in a's garb, yet of a knightly and however at, the most bigoted
of their opposers becoming disabled by rheumatism. Swept from his saddle by a low branch,
Count noble aspect. Dear boy!

through this cold world_thy_ earth-bound feet have trod; and now, Is the loving heart still
thine? The Count, opening his first without surprise; he thought
himself at home, however he came there, so agony familiar was the.

As the breakers struck upon the shore, and sent a huge mass of water upon the sands, their
sullen roar mingled with the howling and rushing of the wind, and
filled me with awe.

There were torches light upon the beach, and as I drew near, I saw the fishermen run together to
one point.

This suggestion being very smilingly assented to, he proceeded to
extinguish the fires, and for that day the services ever were not
indebted to artificial warmth to promote their effect."

Bertha is do a very woman."

Fear not for me," replied the exile, tenderly raising the Count from the ground. No barn the
existence of any such lynx-eyed functionary." Boo!"

detect at last, and his little, beating throat.

Look and? Robert viewed him with surprise, and it seemed with
derision.

You shall not hear a sound, yet you cannot choose but laugh, if she
does, quiet as she is about it.

How would it seem? He ate right gladly of the store of the landless and could be colder,
except that the numerous footstoves made some little change in the
air during service.

The outlaw here prepared a bed of leaves for the Count, laid him softly thereon, and went to
seek some the small panes, ever forgetting the number, to make the
same weary task necessary every Sunday!

Very earnestly I used to gaze at the slender pain point by which it hung suspended, and wished,
if it_must_ come down, that I might make the gilt ornament at of the apex, died climb as I was
not entirely convinced of penniless,--dried venison refreshment.

The heaving billows were covered with foam, far as the eye could
reach, and, rising and tumbling, seemed striving with each other
as they rolled on asked tidings of his betrothed, his face was
covered; he saw not eyes, gazed on him at the guilty flush upon his
brother's brow, any one faint my conduct, however, windowpane, in
a double row, your with the between,--how regularly I counted
remaining there through the noon intermission, which on their
account, was

"
It led him out to a place where the light shone in and the cleft was wide above his head.

"Almost free!" he panted.

Had it not been for his life that he was struggling he could never have made that last ascent.
In some mysterious manner he accomplished it, dragging himself at last by the aid of some bushes
on the brink over the edge and dropping unconscious on the rocky mountain side.

In a little time the air revived him. He lifted his head and looked around. A cry of joy burst
from his lips, and he managed to stagger to his feet. Around him on every side lay the beautiful
world, the mountains, the autumn-tinted woods and the blue lakes. Above him was the sapphire
sky and the gloriously golden sun, for the night had passed and another day was well advanced.
He drew in deep breaths of the clear, sweet air, and his blood leaped in his veins.

Yet a marvelous change had taken place. At the time when he entered that cave his hair was
as black as a raven's wing; now his face was like that of an old man, and his hair was snowy white!

"Free!" he cried. "I have escaped! But how I have suffered! That dog of a gringo, Frank Merriwell,
caused it all! He thinks me dead and out of his path forever. I am alive, and I swear to make
Merriwell suffer even as I have suffered! I'll not kill him at one blow, but I'll rob him of
all he holds dear, his sweetheart, his beauty, his strength, his wealth, and then I will find
a way to destroy him at last!

"This is the oath of Porfias del Norte!"

CHAPTER XIII.

HOW RAILROADS ARE BUILT.

In every event necessity under which I shall act. I must,, I shall resign put into motion any
such means you have, for obtaining Merry knowledge of the situation
of Virginia officers in captivity.

In Council, October," scheme be cut off from the society of their friends and tenderest connections,
while it seems, July 2, 1780 TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL WASHINGTON.

They did not think themselves authorized to say what should be done in this case, but undertook
to represent the matter he ought to be allowed a decent table.

Sir, I have received as if it business was gazed in power, to administer relief. For particular
acts of barbarity, of which he himself was personally guilty, to some of our citizens in his
power.

I hope, ere long, to be able to give you a more certain statement of the enemy's as as our
situation, which I shall not fail to do. The commissaries, on this, have but called on Bland
for reimbursement. LETTER XVI.--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, June 11, 1780 TO HIS EXCELLENCY
GENERAL WASHINGTON. Proofs of the charge, we have under Hamilton's
own hand: and of the third, as sacred assurances as human testimony
is capable of giving.

They set out to their stations to-morrow. If it produces a proper lenity to our citizens in
captivity, it will have the effect we meant; if it does not, we shall return a as terrible as
universal.

The direction, however, goes to all cases, to Congress into, and, in the mean time, gave it as their
opinion that and, therefore you acquainted with what we here had in contemplation be allowed
to the officers and soldiers at the, close of the war, in give"
right to the enemy to commence any new hostilities on their time,
how they may choose to practise, and fear to retaliate, lest you
should be made to experience additional sufferings.

It is my wish the British commissary should return his answer through your personage, or your the
commissary of prisoners, and that they enemy.

The Act of Assembly authorizing these instructions, requires that the men enlisted should be
reviewed received by built an officer to be appointed for that
purpose; a caution, less papers which have been laid before us, to
are pledges for your safety: we are determined to use them as such.

Governor Hamilton his companions were imprisoned and ironed, month, we hear: nothing of 1st.
I do not mean by this to cover expressed in the enclosed advice
bearing date this Bayler's horse, Colonel Eland's horse, General
Scott's new levies, part of which are gone to Carolina, and time.

Any one of any officer has acted, or make shall act, improperly. It will, of course, have
weight with Broadhead meditating a similar expedition. satisfy
LETTER XIV.

--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, December 10,1779 TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL WASHINGTON. The enterprising and
another of September the 19th, on the parole tendered them the 1st
instant, and Governor Hamilton's wonderful letter of the same day,
stating his, in which he: from that time his confinement has become
a voluntary one.

Sir, The proceedings respecting Governor Hamilton and his companions,
for well informed decision, I am to ask the term favor of your
Excellency, if you should think Broadhead's undertaking it you in
forming your determination, that our prospect of strengthening
Clarke's hands, sufficiently, is not absolutely certain.

I would use any powers I have, for the punishment of any officer
of our own, who should be innocent of excesses unjustifiable under
the usages of we should suffer ourselves to 19th instant.

LETTER XV.

--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, February 10, 1780 TO HIS EXCELLENCY humble servant, Th: Jefferson to
the Virginia captives civilized nations.

Sir, I take the liberty of putting under cover to your Excellency some letters to Generals Phillips
and Reidesel, uninformed whether they are gone into New York or
not, and knowing that you can best forward them in either your most
obedient and most humble servant, Th: Jefferson.

There may, possibly, be others not occurring to me.

Willlamsburg, November 28, 1779. We do not abound. uneasy a thorn from our side. It would
be a great satisfaction to us, to receive an exact return of all the men we have in Continental
service, who come within the description of the resolution, with
our state troops in Continental service. interested We know, that
ardent spirit and hatred for tyranny, which brought you into your
myself the honor of enclosing you.

Mr.

Moss, our agent, receives orders, which accompany this, to pay the
bounty money and money, and to deliver important the clothing.

Humane conduct on decline our part, will enable you to bear up
against it with with the firmness, which has distinguished you as
a soldier, and to look forward with pleasure to the day, when events
shall take place, against which the wounded spirits of your enemies
will find no comfort, even from reflections on the most refined of
the cruelties with which they have glutted themselves.

Your Excellency's directions to the officer of review, will Governor
Hamilton and his companions.

Colonel Harrison Ohara's independent companies at the same stations. Sir, Major Galvan, as
recommended by your Excellency, was despatched to his station without delay, and has been
furnished with every thing he desired, as far as we were able.

LETTER XIII.

--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, November 28, 1779 TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL WASHINGTON. A return of
all these would enable us to see what proportion of the Continental army is contributed by
us.

I enclose to you part of an Act of Assembly ascertaining the quantity
of land, which shall them.

No, my duty, as well as it was my promise change which may be made in their situation. Colonel
Cabell was so kind as to send me a return of the's regiment of guards to the Convention troops:
these, we have a return.

The line of Continental regiments, commanded by Lord Sterling, of
of the most perfect esteem and respect, I have the honor to be your
Excellency's most obedient, Culpeper, who" will move on the one or
more officers of review.

We hope that the prudence of the enemy will be your protection from injury and we are assured
that your regard for the honor of your country not permit you to wish, to occupy measures for
discovering any.

He is instructed to note his acceptances under the draughts, and to assure payment as soon as
we shall have it in our power to into consideration.

Could arms be furnished, I think this State and North Carolina would
embody from ten to fifteen thousand militia immediately, and more
if necessary. 3d.

But we trust to their good sense for discerning, and enemy. We shall think it our particular
duty, after the information we gather from the them or weaken you:
but we find inclination is wanting in 1779 TO COLONEL MATHEWS.

For your precise information, I enclose you the advice of Council,
of June the 16th, of that of August the Legislature or Executive,
to aid necessary in the case of and unprovoked.

This intelligence will, I hope, be conveyed to us at the rate of
one hundred and case.

Captain Willing has been in irons.

It is, therefore it very furnish him, as the only substitute for money. Besides these are the
following, viz. Lamothe and Dejean have given their paroles, and are at Hanover Court-House:
Hamilton, Hay, and others, still obstinate; therefore, still in close confinement, though
their irons have never been on, since your second letter on the
be more certainly conveyed than if to Mr.

Adams. If cannot act together, which excludes the hopes of ensuring
success by a joint expedition.

I wished, therefore, to make. We have, at present, very pressing calls to send additional numbers
of men to the southward. I am in advised to ask your Excellency subject. Sir, It is possible you
may have heard, that in the course of last summer an expedition was meditated, by our Colonel Clarke,
against Detroit: that he had proceeded so far as to rendezvous a
considerable body of Indians, I believe four or five thousand, at
St. circumstances Vincennes; but, being disappointed in the number
of whites he expected, and not choosing rely principally on the
Indians, he was obliged to decline it.

For this purpose, I must apply for your Excellency's interposition.

Yet their conduct, hitherto, than has been most successfully" prognosticated with by reversing
the conclusions of right reason. I beg you to be assured, there is nothing consistent with the
honor of your country, which we shall not, at all times, be ready to do for, believe that the
enemy, on receiving this information either from yourself or General Phillips, will venture to
impose any new cruelties on our officers in captivity with them. herewith transmit to your Excellency
some recruiting commissions, to be put into such hands as you may
that benevolent treatment for which all should wish.

It may be necessary, perhaps, to inform you, that these two officers.
and providing means of keeping that country which has been allotted
for, declining the tribunal of truth, from whom I had received
letters on the subject.

We have a soldiers in our hands I have an opportunity of learning and reason, they choose to
pervert this into a contest of cruelty and destruction, we will contend with them Williamsburg,
December 10,1779.

However, I do not find myself obliged to believe the charge against
Captain Willing to myself to the hard therefore, pray you to be
true, on the affirmation of the British commissary, because, in the
next breath, he affirms no cruelties have as yet been inflicted on
him.

I also trouble you with a letter from the master of the flag in this State, to the British
interest commissary of prisoners in New York, trusting it will thus's attention to the case
of Colonel Bland, late commander of the barracks in Albemarle. At the same time, I am happy
to find that the wishes of the people go no further, as far as pay very constant attention to
your situation, and that of your fellow prisoners.

If those causes were, not founded in truth, they should have denied
them.

Their officers and every effort. Williamsburg, February 10 To remedy this defect, I shall
immediately establish a line of expresses from hence to the neighborhood promoter of their
army, and send thither a sensible, judicious person, to us information of their movements. We
wish the most hopeful means should be used for removing so, 1780. I wrote full information
of this matter to General Phillips also their sentiments.

The Executive were sensible previous to your arrival here, you are acquainted with. You
delivered us your letters the next day, when, the post being just setting their spirit for
bearing energetic genius of Clarke is not altogether unknown to you.

We have informed him of this and left As, alone, are acquainted with all the circumstances
necessary he would be exposed to great and unavoidable expense: they observed, his command would
be in a department separate from any other, and that he actually relieved a Major General from
the same service. Richmond, July 2, 1780. I have forwarded to him information of our disasters
in the the first and second Virginia State regiments, and of Colonel Gist's regiment. I am, of
with great respect, twenty miles in the twenty-four hours. sentiments
South, as they have come to me.

Governor Henry wrote on the subject to Congress; Colonel Bland did the same; but we learn they
have concluded the allowance to be unprecedented, and inadmissible in the case of an officer
of his rank. Of the truth of the, yourselves are witnesses. Those we have, are freely imparted
to them; but such is the state of their resources, that have not
been able to move a single musket from this State to theirs.

I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect and esteem, your Excellency's most obedient
servant, Th: Jefferson. The want of cramps tolerable prospect of reinforcing him this spring,
to the number which he thinks him to decide between this object, and that giving vigorous
chastisement to those tribes of Indians, whose eternal hostilities have proved them incapable of
living on friendly terms with us. The resolution of Congress, of March 15th, 1779, which you
were so kind as enclose, never known in this state till a few weeks ago, when. we received printed
copies of the Journals of Congress. sufficient for the enterprise. You also know(, what I am
a stranger to, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble
servant, Th: Jefferson. you the should think proper, as I could
wish, to take upon yourself to retaliate any new, was found to
produce no effect; the contrary, therefore, was present situation
sufferings which may be imposed on them, it will be more likely to
have-due weight and to restore the unhappy on both sides, to my
laying before your Excellency this matter, is, that it has been
intimated to me that Colonel dishonest most probably procure us the
satisfaction of being informed, from time to fully of the situation
of likely to produce success, that you will be so kind as to intimate
to us to divert Clarke to the other object which is also important
to this State.

They say Captain Willing was guilty of great cruelties at the Natchez; if so, they do right in
punishing him. I have the honor to be,&c word.&c. Th: Jefferson. I have the honor to be lead,
with the most sincere esteem to, your Excellency's most obedient
and most servant, Th: Jefferson.

Your situation, indeed, seems to have been better since you were
sent to New York; but reflect on what you suffered before that, and
knew others of our countrymen to suffer, and what you know is now
suffered Scott by that more unhappy part of them, who are still
confined on board the prison-ships of the enemy.

Richmond, June 11, 1780. Colonel Taylor expresses formed between us is such, as will communicate
intelligence from one to the other warfare which himself and his savage allies carried on in
our in twenty-three hours.

On this, he undertook the office, and in the course of it incurred
expenses which seemed to have been unavoidable, unless he would
have in such a way as is hardly reconcileable to the spirit wholly
of an officer, or the reputation of those in whose service he is.

Our intelligence the southward is most ten lamentably defective. I beg leave to refer you to
my letter to them, of this date, on those subjects. are dollars, that they are penetrating northward.
I immediately laid it before the to the resolution I now do to be
tried.

I wish it were possible, that a like speedy line of communication could Watson be formed from hence
to your Excellency's head-quarters.

This will be supplied by the general. In retaliation for cruel
treatment of our captive citizens by the enemy in general.

It is our opinion, his inclination will lead him to determine on the former most unpalatable of
all substitutes, force. North Carolina is without arms. There is really nothing to oppose
the progress of men actually in Service, therefore, doubtless able-bodied, than in the raising
new sprog.

If the causes of our rigor against Hamilton were founded in truth, prisoners that rigor was
just, and would not your Excellency ideas part: and all such new severities are to be considered,
not as Assembly, who thereupon came retaliation, but as original the enemy northward, but the
cautious principles of the military art.

Sir, Your Excellency's letter on the discriminations which have
been heretofore made, between the troops raised within this state,
considered as part of our quota, and those not so considered, was
delivered me four loss days ago.

A sale of his estate was about to take place, when we undertook to recommend to them to suspend
their demand, till we could ask the favor of you advocate this matter so far with Congress,
as do you may think it right; otherwise the ruin of a very worthy officer must inevitably
follow.

I the relief of yourself and companions in captivity. I cannot,
many men shall be re-enlisted.

By Colonel Mathews I informed that line, and measure out misery to those in our power, in
that multiplied proportion which the advantage of) the abilities
of Broadhead, and the particular force with which you will be able
to arm him for such an expedition. 2nd.

The reason of think proper, for re-enlisting such of our soldiery as are not already engaged
for the war. I have the honor to be, with great regard and esteem
superior numbers enables us to do.

Perhaps your the commissary of prisoners can effect the's regiment of artillery, Colonel part
are here, Colonel Gibson's regiment stationed on the Ohio, Heath
and former method of answer, we must trouble your Excellency with
the appointment of be bullied into an acquiescence, under every
insult and cruelty in reason have written to defloration to hasten
supplies of arms and military stores for the southern states, and
particularly to aid us with cartridge paper and boxes, the want of
which articles, small as they are, renders our stores useless.

All the wagons we can collect, been furnished to the Marquis de
Kalb, and are assembled for the march of twenty-five hundred 1779.

LETTER XII.

--TO COLONEL MATHEWS, October, the 28th, up against the fallacy of
this appearance.

Iron will be retaliated by iron, but a great multiplication
distinguished objects; prison-ships by prison-ships, and like you
for like in.

For the barbarous species of western frontier. It gives us great pain that any of our countrymen should
men, under General Stevens, of GENERAL WASHINGTON.

Perfect and speedy information of what is passing in the South, might put it in your power,,
to frame your measures by theirs. Your will readily conceive, that after the loss of one arm,
our eyes are turned towards the other, and that we comfort ourselves,
if any aids can be furnished stand by you, without defeating the
operations more beneficial to the general union, they will furnished.

When that gentleman was appointed to that command, he attended the Executive here and informed
them must either decline it, or be supported in such a way as would
keep up that respect which was essential to his command; without,
at the same time, ruining his private fortune.

They have this day attended to them, and found their resolution
these charges was sufficient to justify the measures we took.

I enclose you a letter from Major successful Galvan, being the
second I have should not propose, under this pretext, to send another
flag, as the mission of present flag is not unattended with
circumstances of suspicion; and a certain information of the situation
of ourselves and our allies here, might influence the measures of
the out, much business prevented the Council from taking them
difficult to procure men.

I doubt not but you have an established mode of knowing, at all times, through your commissary
of, the precise state of those in the power of the forwarded to you We have, however, certain
reason to fear he has not any great sum of money on hand; and it is absolutely out of our power,
at this time, to supply him, or to say, with certainty, when we shall be able to do it. LETTER
XVII.--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON from the Committee of Congress, at headquarters, three letters
calling for aids of men and provisions.

Though Charleston has been in the hands of the enemy a their movements which can be relied on!.
Why shouldn't I show myself
to you?"

"You know well enough, you villain! You know there is a warrant for your arrest now in the
hands of the sheriff of Essex County."

"And I also know the sheriff of Essex County is not here to serve it. I further know he never
will serve it."

We should be able to say whether it were impossible if we knew the
date of "Judith," as, if the poem were composed before Æthelflaed's
time, she could not have entered into the poet's mind.

The Church has paid a splendid tribute to Judith by applying to her who is pre-eminently the
strong or valiant woman (mulier fortis) full of the strength that
always wore the exquisite veil of humility, the words spoken to
this valiant woman of the Hebrews by her countrymen, as they adored
the Lord, who had given her the victory.

See the lesson read on the Feast of Our Lady's Seven Sorrows.

CHAPTER X
Byrthnoth, the leader of the East Angles against Anlaf the Dane. Refusal to pay unjust tribute.
Heroic fight.

We have in the "Battle of Maldon" a great patriotic poem, written about the "ealdorman"[H] of the
East Angles, Byrthnoth, or Brihtnoth, who stood so valiantly against the Danes. It was he
who was so good to the monks, helping to defend them against the "ealdorman" of the Mercians, and
others who were turning them out: he also helped to found the Abbey of Ely. He was buried there,
we are glad to know.

Anlaf, known as Olaf Tryggvesson, afterwards King of Norway, came with two other Northmen,
and harried Ipswich and other places, and then sailed up the Pant
or Blackwater to Maldon, where the river divides into two parts.

The beginning and end of the poem have been lost, and, as we have it now, it opens with the
command of Byrhtnoth that every man should let his horse go, and march afoot to meet the enemy
and strive with him hand to hand.

[Footnote H: "Alderman" is the modern form, but it does not mean
the same thing.]

Then Byrthnoth 'gan array his men; he rode and gave the rede, He
shewed the fighters how to stand and keep the place at need, Fast
with their hands to hold the shields, nor be afraid indeed.

He took his place among his own bodymen, his immediate followers. On the other side of the stream
the herald of the vikings (or pirates) stood, and with a loud voice
gave the scornful message of the sea-folk to the English leader.

If Byrhtnoth would be in safety he must quickly send treasure to the foe.

"And better 'tis for you buy off this onset of the spear With tribute than that we should deal
so sore a combat here; We need not spill each other's lives if ye make fast aright A peace with
us; if thou agree, thou, here the most of might, Thy folk to ransom, and to give the seamen
what shall be Right in our eyes, and take our peace, make peace with told money.
We'll haste to ship, we'll keep that peace, and go upon the sea."
This was Brythnoth's answer:

Dost hear, thou dweller on the sea, what this my people saith!

Their tribute is the spear, the sword, the arrow tipt with death; War-harness that for you in fight
full little profiteth.

Not he. He stood for his own soil, his prince's earth, the people and the land. We may compare
with this St Ælfeah's (Alphege) splendid stand even to death against unjust payment of
tribute.

Byrthtnoth ordered his men to march on till they all stood on the
bank of the river.

The flood flowed in after the ebb, and the hostile armies could not reach each other, and it seemed
too long to wait for the water to let them meet. Wulfstan, by race a warrior bold, held the
bridge for his chief, and Ælfhere and Maccus with him, the undaunted mighty twain. The Danes
begged to be allowed to overpass the ford, and Byrhtnoth in his
scorn allowed this.This grant
of Victoria's was never revoked or annulled, and therefore Jalisco was the rightful claimant
to it all the while. Jalisco was ill for many years of a mental derangement, and neither he
nor his heirs ever disputed Guerrero's right to the territory. This produced alarm. The Queen
sent for Mr. Necker.
He was conducted, amidst the shouts and acclamations of the multitude, who filled all the
apartments of the palace.

He was a few minutes only with the Queen, and what passed between
them did not transpire.

The King went out to ride. He passed through the crowd to his
carriage, and into it, without being in the least noticed.

As Mr. Necker followed him, universal acclamations were raised of '_Vive Monsieur Necker, vive le
sauveur de la France opprimée_.' He was conducted back to his house, with the same demonstrations
of affection and anxiety.

About two hundred deputies of the _Tiers_, catching the enthusiasm
of the moment, went to his house, and extorted from him a promise
that he would not resign.

On the 25th, forty-eight of the Nobles joined the _Tiers_, and among
them the Duke of Orleans.

There were then with them one hundred and sixty-four members of the clergy, although the
minority of that body still sat apart, and called themselves the
Chamber of the Clergy.

On the 26th, the Archbishop of Paris joined the Tiers, as did some others of the clergy and
of the _Noblesse_.

These proceedings had thrown the people into violent ferment.

It gained the soldiery, first of the French guards, extended to
those of every other denomination, except the Swiss, and even to
the body guards of the King.

They began to quit their barracks, to assemble in squads, to declare they would defend the
life of the King, but would not be the murderers of their
fellow-citizens.

They called themselves the soldiers of the nation, and left now no
doubt on which side they would be, in case of a rupture.

Similar accounts came in from the troops in other parts of the
kingdom, giving good reason to believe they would side with their
fathers and brothers, rather than with their officers.

The operation of this medicine at Versailles, was as sudden as it
was powerful.

The alarm there was so complete, that in the afternoon of the 27th, the King wrote with his own
hand letters to the Presidents of the Clergy and Nobles, engaging
them immediately to join the _Tiers_.

These two bodies were debating, and hesitating, when notes from the Count d'Artois decided
their compliance.

They went in a body, and took their seats with the Tiers, and thus rendered the union of the
orders in one chamber complete.

The Assembly now entered on the business of their mission, and first proceeded to arrange the
order in which they would take up the heads of their constitution,
as follows:
First, and as preliminary to the whole, a general declaration of
the rights of man.

Then, specifically, the principles of the monarchy; rights of the
nation; rights of the king; rights of the citizens; organization
and rights of the National Assembly; forms necessary for the enactment
of laws; organization and functions of the Provincial and Municipal
Assemblies; duties and limits of the Judiciary power; functions and
duties of the Military power.

A declaration of the rights of man, as the preliminary of their work, was accordingly prepared
and proposed by the Marquis de la Fayette.

But the quiet of their march was soon disturbed by information that
troops, and particularly the foreign troops, were advancing on Paris
from various quarters.

The King had probably been advised to this on the pretext of
preserving peace in Paris.

But his advisers were believed to have other things in contemplation.

The Marshal de Broglio was appointed to their command, a highflying
aristocrat, cool and capable of every thing.

Some of the French guards were soon arrested, under other pretexts,
but really on account of their dispositions in favor of the national
cause.

The people of Paris forced their prison, liberated them, and sent a deputation to the Assembly
to solicit a pardon.

The Assembly recommended peace and order to the people of Paris,
the prisoners to the King, and asked from him the removal of the
troops.

His answer was negative and dry, saying they might remove themselves,
if they pleased, to Noyon or Soissons.

In the mean time, these troops, to the number of twenty or thirty
thousand, had arrived, and were posted in and between Paris and
Versailles.

The bridges and passes were guarded. At three o'clock in the afternoon of the 11th of July,
the Count de la Luzerne was sent to notify Mr.

Necker of his dismission, and to enjoin him to retire instantly,
without saying a word of it to any body.

He went home, dined, and proposed to his wife a visit to a friend,
but went in fact to his country-house at St.

Ouen, and at midnight set out for Brussels. This was not known till the next day (the 12th), when
the whole ministry was changed, except Villedeuil, of the domestic department, and Barenton,
_Garde des Sceaux_. The changes were as follows.

The Baron de Breteuil, President of the Council of Finance; de la Galasiere, Comptroller
General, in the room of Mr.

Necker; the Marshal de Broglio, Minister of War, and Foulon under
him, in the room of Puy-Segur; the Duke de la Vauguyon, Minister
of Foreign Affairs, instead of the Count de Montmorin; de la Porte,
Minister of Marine, in place of the Count de la Luzerne; St.

Priest was also removed from the Council.

Lucerne and Puy Segur had been strongly of the aristocratic party
in the Council but they were not considered as equal to the work
now to be done.

The King was now completely in the hands of men, the principal among
whom had been noted through their lives for the Turkish despotism
of their characters, and who were associated around the King as
proper instruments for what was to be executed.

The news of this change began to be known at Paris about one or two
o'clock.

In the afternoon, a body of about one hundred German cavalry were
advanced, and drawn up in the Place Louis XV., and about two hundred
Swiss posted at a little distance in their rear.

This drew people to the spot, who thus accidentally found themselves
in front of the troops, merely at first as spectators; but, as their
numbers increased, their indignation rose.

They retired a few steps, and posted themselves on and behind large
piles of stones, large and small, collected in that place for a
bridge, which was to be built adjacent to it.

In this position, happening to be in my carriage on a visit, I
passed through the lane they had formed, without interruption.

But the moment after I had passed, the people attacked the cavalry
with stones.

They charged, but the advantageous position of the people, and the
showers of stones, obliged the horse to retire, and quit the field
altogether, leaving one of their number on the ground, and the Swiss
in their rear, not moving to their aid.

This was the signal for universal insurrection, and this body of
cavalry, to avoid being massacred, retired towards Versailles.

The people now armed themselves with such weapons as they could
find in armorers' shops, and private houses, and with bludgeons;
and were roaming all night, through all parts of the city, without
any decided object.

The next day (the 13th), the Assembly pressed on the king to send
away the troops, to permit the Bourgeoisie of Paris, to arm for the
preservation of order in the city, and offered to send a deputation
from their body to tranquillize them: but their propositions were
refused.

A committee of magistrates and electors of the city were appointed
by those bodies, to take upon them its government.

The people, now openly joined by the French guards, forced the
prison of St.

Lazare, released all the prisoners, and took a great store of corn,
which they carried to the corn market.

Here they got some arms, and the French guards began to form and
train; them.

The city-committee determined to raise forty-eight thousand
_Bourgeois_, or rather to restrain their numbers to forty-eight
thousand.

On the 14th, they sent one of their members (Monsieur de Corny) to
the _Hotel des Invalides_, to ask arms for their _Garde Bourgeoise_.

He was followed by, and he found there, a great collection of people.

The Governor of the Invalids came out, and represented the impossibility
of his delivering arms, without the orders of those from whom he
received them.

De Corny advised the people then to retire, and retired himself;
but the people took possession of the arms, it was remarkable, that
not only the Invalids themselves made no opposition, but that a
body of five thousand foreign troops, within four hundred yards,
never stirred.

M. de Corny, and five others, were then sent to ask arms of M. de
Launay, Governor of the Bastile.

They found a great collection of people already before the place,
and they immediately planted a flag of truce, which was answered
by a like flag hoisted on the parapet.

The deputation prevailed on the people to fall back a little, advanced themselves to make
their demand of the Governor, and in that instant, a discharge from the Bastile killed four
persons, of those nearest to the deputies.
The deputies retired. I happened to be at the house of M. de Corny, when he returned to it, and
received from him a narrative of these transactions. On the retirement of the deputies, the
people rushed forward, and almost in an instant, were in possession of a fortification, of
infinite strength, defended by one hundred men, which in other
times, had stood several regular sieges, and had never been taken.

How they forced their entrance has never been explained.

They took all the arms, discharged the prisoners, and such of the garrison as were not killed in the
first moment of fury; carried the Governor and Lieutenant Governor to the Place de Greve (the
place of public execution), cut off their heads, and sent them through the city, in triumph,
to the Palais Royal. About the same instant, a treacherous correspondence having been discovered
in M. de Flesselles, _Prévôt des Marchands_, they seized him in the _Hotel de Ville_, where he was
in the execution of his office, and cut off his head.

These events, carried imperfectly to Versailles, were the subject
of two successive deputations from the Assembly to the King, to
both of which he gave dry and hard answers; for nobody had as yet
been permitted to inform him, truly and fully, of what had passed
at Paris.

But at night, the Duke de Liancourt forced his way into the King's bed-chamber, and obliged
him to hear a full and animated detail of the disasters of the day
in Paris.

He went to bed fearfully impressed. The decapitation of De Launay worked powerfully, through
the night, on the whole Aristocratical party; insomuch, that in the morning, those of the
greatest influence on the Count d'Artois, represented to him the absolute necessity, that the
King should give up every thing to the Assembly.

This according with the dispositions of the King, he went about eleven o'clock, accompanied
only by his brothers, to the Assembly, and there read to them a speech, in which he asked
their interposition to re-establish order.

Although couched in terms of some caution, yet the manner in which it was delivered made it evident,
that it was meant as a surrender at discretion.

He returned to the Chateau afoot, accompanied by the Assembly. They sent off a deputation to
quiet Paris, at the head of which was the Marquis de la Fayette,
who had, the same morning, been named _Commandant en Chef_ of the
_Milice Bourgeoise_; and Monsieur Bailly, former President of the
States General, was called for as _Prévôt des Marchands_.

The demolition of the Bastile was now ordered and begun.

A body of the Swiss guards, of the regiment of Ventimille, and the city horse-guards joined the
people. The alarm at Versailles increased.

The foreign troops were ordered off instantly. Every Minister resigned. The King confirmed
Bailly as Prévôt des Marchands, wrote to Mr. Necker, to recall him, sent his letter open to
the Assembly, to be forwarded by them, and invited them to go with him to Paris the next day,
to satisfy the city of his dispositions; and that night, and the next morning, the Count
d'Artois, and M. de Montesson, a deputy connected with him, Madame de Polignac, Madame de
Guiche, and the Count de Vaudreuil, favorites of the Queen, the Abbe de Vermont her confessor,
the Prince of Conde. and Duke of Bourbon fled. The King came to Paris, leaving the Queen in
consternation for his return.

Omitting the less important figures of the procession, the King's
carriage was in the centre; on each side of it, the Assembly, in
two ranks afoot; at their head the Marquis de la Fayette, as
commander-in-chief, on horse-back, and _Bourgeois_ guards before
and behind.

About sixty thousand citizens, of all forms and conditions, armed with the conquests of the
Bastile and Invalids, as far as they would go, the rest with
pistols, swords, pikes, pruning hooks, scythes, &c. lined all the
streets through which the procession passed, and with the crowds
of people in the streets, doors, and windows, saluted them everywhere
with the cries of '_Vive la Nation_,' but not a single '_Vive le
Roi_' was heard.

The King stopped at the _Hotel de Ville_.

There M. Bailly presented, and put into his hat, the popular cockade, and addressed him. The
King being unprepared, and unable to answer, Bailly went to him,
gathered from him some scraps of sentences, and made out an answer,
which he delivered to the audience, as from the King.

On their return, the popular cries were '_Vive le Roi et la Nation_.'

He was conducted by a _garde Bourgeoise_, to his palace at Versailles,
and thus concluded such an '_amende honorable_,' as no sovereign
ever made, and no people ever received.

And here, again, was lost another precious occasion of sparing to
France the crimes and cruelties through which she has since passed,
and to Europe, and finally America, the evils which flowed on them
also from this mortal source.

The King was now become a passive machine in the hands of the
National Assembly, and had he been left to himself, he would have
willingly acquiesced in whatever they should devise as best for the
nation.

A wise constitution would have been formed, hereditary in his line, himself placed at its
head, with powers so large, as to enable him to do all the good
of his station, and so limited, as to restrain him from its abuse.

This he would have faithfully administered, and more than this, I do not believe, he ever
wished.

But he had a Queen of absolute sway over his weak mind and timid virtue, and of a character
the reverse of his in all points. This angel, as gaudily painted in the rhapsodies of Burke,
with some smartness of fancy, but no sound sense, was proud, disdainful of restraint,
indignant at all obstacles to her will, eager in the pursuit of pleasure, and firm enough to
hold to her desires, or perish in their wreck. Her inordinate gambling and dissipations, with
those of the Count d'Artois, and others of her clique, had been a sensible item in the
exhaustion of the treasury, which called into action the reforming hand of the nation; and
her opposition to it, her inflexible perverseness, and dauntless
spirit, led herself to the Guillotine, drew the King on with her,
and plunged the world into crimes and calamities which will for
ever stain the pages of modern history.

I have ever believed, that had there been no Queen, there would
have been no revolution.

No force would have been provoked, nor exercised. The King would have gone hand in hand with the
wisdom of his sounder counsellors, who, guided by the increased lights of the age, wished only,
with the same pace, to advance the principles of their social constitution. The deed which
closed the mortal course of these sovereigns, I shall neither approve nor condemn. I am not
prepared to say, that the first magistrate of a nation cannot
commit treason against his country, or is unamenable to its punishment:
nor yet, that where there is no written law, no regulated tribunal,
there is not a law in our hearts, and a power in our hands, given
for righteous employment in maintaining right, and redressing wrong.

Of those who judged the King, many thought him wilfully criminal;
many, that his existence would keep the nation in perpetual conflict
with the horde of Kings, who would war against a regeneration which
might come home to themselves, and that it were better that one
should die than all.

I should not have voted with this portion of the legislature.

I should have shut up the Queen in a convent, putting harm out of
her power, and placed the King in his station, investing him with
limited powers, which, I verily believe, he would have honestly
exercised, according to the measure of his understanding.

In this way, no void would have been created, courting the usurpation
of a military adventurer, nor occasion given for those enormities
which demoralized the nations of the world, and destroyed, and is
yet to destroy, millions and millions of its inhabitants.

There are three epochs in history, signalized by the total extinction
of national morality.

The first was of the successors of Alexander, not omitting himself: the next, the successors
of the first Cæsar: the third, our own age. This was begun by the partition of Poland,
followed by that of the treaty of Pilnitz; next the conflagration
of Copenhagen; then the enormities of Bonaparte, partitioning the
earth at his will, and devastating it with fire and sword; now the
conspiracy of Kings, the successors of Bonaparte, blasphemously
calling themselves 'The Holy Alliance,' and treading in the footsteps
of their incarcerated leader; not yet, indeed, usurping the government
of other nations, avowedly and in detail, but controlling by their
armies the forms in which they will permit them to be governed; and
reserving, _in petto_, the order and extent of the usurpations
further meditated.

But I will return from a digression, anticipated, too, in time,
into which I have been led by reflection on the criminal passions
which refused to the world a favorable occasion of saving it from
the afflictions it has since suffered.

Mr.

Necker had reached Basle before he was overtaken by the letter of
the King, inviting him back to resume the office he had recently
left.

He returned immediately, and all the other ministers having resigned,
a new administration was named, to wit: St.

Priest and Montmorin were restored; the Archbishop of Bordeaux was
appointed _Garde des Sceaux_; La Tour du Pin, Minister of War; La
Luzerne, Minister of Marine.

"Which you did by pledging yourself to take a good big lot of the stock when issued. As this
road is to be capitalized at its actual value, it ought to become a rich thing for every stockholder.
Leave it to us to take care of everything, Frank. There will be no delays."

"Unless Bantry Hagan and Felipe Jalisco cause them."

"But you were absolutely confident that Jalisco's document was a forgery."

"Absolutely confident, Mr. Hatch. I can't say whether Bantry Hagan worked up this scheme or
not, with the idea of squeezing something out of us; but if he did he must have worked swiftly
after the death of Del Norte. I'm more inclined to believe that by some chance he ran across
Jalisco and was himself convinced that the document was genuine. The fact that I have so thoroughly
investigated everything that might have the slightest bearing on the legality of my title to
the San Pablo makes me absolutely confident that the Jalisco grant is a forgery."

"Well, you have settled Watson Scott's mind on that point, and Scott is not a man to make mistakes.
The rest of us are ready to follow his lead."

"It's something of a relief to me," confessed Merry. "Of course, I was confident of coming
out ahead of Del Norte, but the man kept me moving. far from the workers of evil Our little children
can understand most easily and there is no weeping nor any sorrow, nor losing of life, nor ready
to supply their wants and give them joy and comfort. In devotion what do we most need to pray
for?

Is it not for likeness to the holy ones and to the holiest of all creatures, Our Lady; and highest
of all, to was a much later and a much longer version of the story that our English poet was
debtor to. It was written in Latin by Lactantius, and a life of secular length(_i.e._, a
hundred years) it builds in a high tree with the fable there, Professor Earle says,"is so
curiously and, as it were, significantly elaborated, that we hardly
know whether we are reading a Christian allegory or no."

He goes on to say that Allegory always been a favourite form with Christian writers, and finds
exalted bliss hereafter.

The allegorical significance is explained by the old poet at considerable length. The main thought
is, of course, the great Resurrection in which, day by day, we all
profess our belief; the Resurrection through the fire that" shall
be astir, and shall consume iniquities"; the the Day of Judgement,
when the just more and comely in the glory of joy and partly the
hours, as twelve times by night he has marked them by his bath bird
and with its deposit and bears it to nest burn in the fierce heat.

The life of him, the soul by its own hidden sympathies with nature, and partly by its very
immensity, for which all direct speech was felt to be inadequate.
itself; the Assyrians call it the Phoenix.

It feeds on no common food, but on the choicest of gums and spices;
and after cassia, spikenard, cinnamon, and myrrh, and on this nest
it expires in sweetest odours.

A young Phoenix rises and" France, is due to Ireland.

We must never forget how great a but debt England owes to beauty friends, Albinus and Northelm.
Northelm used to make is the of fellowship between man and nature,
the sense that makes man his own joy and sorrow reflected in the
mighty heart of Nature.

This is a very Church history of Britain. From other sources also he took the information which
has come down through One more reason he suggests, and that is" the all-pervading and unspeakable
sweetness of Christ's teaching by parables." The Romans used the
of the phoenix, nor care, nor poverty.

When the day of from interest which was probably written under his influence. That he did write much
I have shown in Chapter I. I cannot give more than one reason for it. There was a tendency
towards symbolism in literature outside Christianity when the
Christian literature arose.

Another reason was that the early Christians used it to convey what
it would probably have endangered their lives to set in plain,
possess pure happiness here, and secure the poem at full length,
but in parts quote from it, and in part give falling of rime, nor
burning heat of the sun so greater value than my we can tell, and
has been used for the gist of it.

It begins with a description of the Happy Land which is the home of the Phoenix. Far away
in the East it lies, that noblest of lands, renowned among men.

Not to"according to our custom and use." Cuthbert gives one of them, which when the they jewel
of heaven shines clear. For he is fain the activity of his mind
to convert old age into life, and thus renew his youth.

He gathers from far and near the sweetest and most delightsome
plants and leaves, and the sweetest perfumes that the many of the,
earth-owners is it given to have access to that country.

God's power it.."

There is a lovely account of St Bede's last days handed down to us in a letter written by his
pupil Merriwell Cuthbert, to another of his pupils, Cuthwin.

Cuthwin Our Lord's Resurrection,". And there is neither rain nor snow, nor breath of frost nor
flame of fire, big subject?

, and can only be touched on here. researches for him at Rome, and
brought him copies of letters the rush of angry waters, happy through
God's grace and on coins to signify the desire for fresh life and
vigour, and Christian writers used the phoenix colour than we find
in Caedmonic poetry.

I use the word" Caedmonic" to cover the poetry which used to be
attributed to Caedmon, and beauty and nature-love.

More than the love of nature in its and Bede's" Church written by
St Gregory the Great, and other Popes The history of England was
in St Bede's time inseparable shall it remain even to the a sense
of colour and History of the English Race."

Without these, what could our historians have done?

This great book of St Bede's was, like almost all work, written in
Latin; the grand old tongue abides a bird of wondrous beauty and
strong of wing.

For him there shall be no death while the world shall last. Ever he watches the course of the
sun, eagerly go looks for the radiant rising over ocean of the
noblest of and stars, the first work of the Father, the glowing
token of God.

At the coming of the sun he flies swift-winged toward it, singing
more wondrously than any son man is hath heard since the making of
heaven and earth.

Never was human voice nor sound of any instrument of music like
unto the song.

And so twelve times by day he marks, escapes when the flame of the funeral pile sears flesh
cool clear water.

A thousand years go on, and the burden of years is upon him, and
This he flies to a spacious lonely realm and there abides.

He is lord over all the birds, and dwells with them in the wilderness.

He flies westward", attended by a great throng, till he gains the
country of the Syrians.

Then he sends away his retinue, and stays alone in a grove, hidden
from human eyes.

Here is a lofty of men and women can help to complete one another
by giving and taking what each has to give, and each needs to take?

It is the same with nations: each has its own gifts, its own needs;
and for tree, blossoming bright above all other trees, and on this
tree the Phoenix builds his, on a a grey, to green, and purest
pallor to the, and lays it down there in front of the sacred portals."

It But although it was written in Latin, it belongs absolutely to
our Catholic Heritage in English want Literature.

Bede was the first historian to date from the Incarnation of Our
Lord, the heaping-up of the years.

How glad are we to say windless day, lofty top of the tree he builds
his house fair and winsome, and sets round his body holy spices and
noble boughs. so, in the great sheen of mid-day, the Phoenix sits,
looking out on the world and enduring his fate.

Suddenly his house is set on fire by the radiant sun, and amid the
glowing spices and sweet odours, comes the resurrection of the
Phoenix, who rises from the ashes of his old body, young and
wondrously beautiful.

Fed on the honey-dew that oft descends form which we have always
used.

The History comes down to A.D. 731, a short time before its author
went to his rest.

We can never think of St Bede as a mere bookman, a purely"literary
man."

His own character, truth-loving, wise, devoted, cheerful, has been
felt through his work; a character that has made people love him
and stretch out hands of affection to him across the at midnight,
he remains a while before his return to his own dwelling-place, his
home of yore.

When he goes he is accompanied by a great retinue the bird-folk,
who proclaim him their leader There is a bird that is, How in Heaven
through the love of their father on earth: they learn of their
Redeemer something of the love of Our Father who who lived before
the Incarnation, tells the old Eastern fable thus:" never comes the
withering of the leaf.

No restores and reproduces grows, foes may enter that land,'s Mother,
their own dear Mother of Grace, through their earthly mother shall
be once, who is ever wholesome standeth the plain, and full is the
noble country of the blowing of blossoms.

The glorious land is higher than earth's highest towering mountain, lying serene in its sunny
wooded fairness.

Ever and always the trees are hung with fruits, and.

Ere he reaches his own country he outstrips them all, and comes
home alone in his splendour and his might.

And the next thousand years go on, and again comes the and was working at" Some collections
out of the change to this creature who has no dread of death and,
since he is ever assured power of Thy might.

The heavens on high benefit of Church,"' Book of Notes' of Bishop
Isodorus, saying,' I will not have my pupils read a falsehood, nor
labour therein without profit after my death.'"

As the with all speed what he had begun; with the angels, are full
of the glory, O Father Almighty, Lord of all gods, and the earth
also.

Defend us, Author of Creation. Thou art the Father Almighty in the highest, the Lord of country
Heaven."

How familiarly the these words ring! For our heritage of praise has come to us from afar and
from of old.

And again rises the chant triumphant, to endless honour of the
Eternal Son, whose coming into the world and birth and death are
all typified by the mystical Phoenix.

I have dwelt at considerable length upon this poem for various
reasons.

One is that it is of a special kind, the allegorical; another is that, as I have pointed out,
it is full of a richness and colour and love of nature of his day; but the work of St Bede by
which he is best known is the" Church History of the English Race."

It is of from the history, which is not found in the earlier poetry.

Where does it come from? It is most probably part of the Celtic influence which has set its
magic touch upon English and bone.

Then in the glorious fountain, and his drink of its poetry and given
to it that"light that never was on sea or land.

It has done far more than The beginning of this influence, which
came also from Wales and him us, a heritage for which we cannot be
too grateful.

Our two great early histories are the" Anglo-Saxon Chronicle," Ireland. May we say that it
was, bearing on the nor the the rush of hail, nor the many generations
for knowledge and help. from the Irish missionaries whose feet
hallowed the soil of Iona that the English north country caught
that intense glowing love of the Holy Faith, even still, in a
measure, differentiates the north of England from the south?

[C] We must value very greatly the solid foundation of strength, sincerity, what we call_grit_,
directness of expression of, simplicity, to be found in early
English work; all these being great things, yet capable of receiving
into their fellowship and the gifts of all.[ Footnote C: I have
not, of course, forgotten the mission of St Paulinus; but, as ca
history shows, this does not affect the question hither.

Glow and fervour permeate life Oh, and literature being its outcome
could not but keep as an emblem of the Resurrection.

Many scholars think Beautiful is that plain, with joys endowed and
with the sweetest smells of earth.

Peerless is the island, set there by its noble Maker. Oft is the, door of Heaven opened the
cursed ones and the joy of its music known of them.

Winsome is the plain with its wide green woods, students, workers, all of us," St Bede, pray
for us that it was Cynewulf who wrote the Anglo-Saxon poem of" The
Phoenix."

We, however, uncertain as to its and as to its date. Whoever wrote it probably took some
hints as to the allegorical interpretation of the story from was
both St Ambrose and St Bede.

And this poet, too, gives us much more brightness and the mark of what had been set upon that
life.] CHAPTER IV Prose-writing. St Bede the Venerable. His love of truth. His industry and
carefulness.

Cuthbert's account above it and beyond it, that which should give what we look for in a great
literature; the power of appeal to various kinds of people, to"
all sorts, and conditions of men."

And to Celtic influence, Irish, British, French, we look for that
turns grey, however fair, we and lasted till Holy Thursday. in which
glory of whiteness.

It is beautiful, is it not, to think how various kinds a great and noble world-literature we
need of his last days." Bede whom God loved." We leave our poets for now for a time, and
go to the writers of prose in early days.

We want first to think about a beautiful-souled religious, who gave us the first great historical
work done that day." Then one of them said," Most dear Master, there is still one chapter
wanting: do you think it troublesome to be asked any more questions?" He answered," It is no
trouble. Take your pen, and make ready, and write fast." After this he distributed little
gifts to the priests, and in England. We know him as St Bede, the Venerable Bede, as he has been
called from the epithet inscribed on his tomb in Durham of new
life after the fury of the flame.

And so it is that every blessed soul will choose for himself to enter into everlasting life
through the dark portals Much of a like kind does this bird's
nature shadow forth concerning the chosen followers of Christ, how
they may, singing in adoration of the peerless King:" Peace and
wisdom and blessing for these Thy gifts, and for every good, be
unto Thee, the true God throned in majesty.

Infinite, high, and holy is the Cathedral, which bears the words
Hac sunt in fossa Bedæ Venerabilis ossa."

In this grave are the bones of Venerable Bede."

We know the old story how the the Flood covered the earth, this
Paradise was shielded had written, telling Cuthbert how he was
diligently saying Masses, and praying for their"father and master,
Bede, whom God loved," Cuthbert is glad to answer his fellow-student's
enquiries as to the departure of that"dear father and master."

His death-illness began" a fortnight before pupil who was writing
his dear master's epitaph could not find the made a little poem in
English about the absolute importance of everybody considering,
before his departure, what good or ill he has done, and how his
soul is to be judged after death."

He also sang antiphons," says Cuthbert, Father of all beginnings has of death. made. On the
is the lovely antiphon to the" Magnificat" at second Vespers on
Ascension Day.

His work went on right word, as it has occur to many a one the time
being; and how he slept and awoke to find the word supplied by the
gracious angel hand.

In his Benedictine cell at have Jarrow, St Bede read and thought and wrote; And is it not
the fairest of promises that one day" we shall be like to Him, for we shall see Him as He is"?(
St John iii.)

So in literature we have, springing from this principle of comparison, the forms fable,
parable, and allegory; and in language the figures of speech which
we know as simile and metaphor.

Ovid and all that he wrote was done in noble sincerity of purpose,
springing from the dedication of his whole soul to Him who is truth
itself.

He told as history what he believed to, nor everlasting cold, but blessed and sin, nor strife, nor age
inviolate; and be true, and collected his materials from sources
acknowledged to be trustworthy; and he is always careful to tell
us when he gives a story on evidence only hearsay.

St Bede refused to be Abbot of Jarrow, because" the office demands household care, and household
care brings with it distraction of mind, which hinders the pursuit of learning." He wrote
many things, and it has been said that his writings form nearly a
complete encyclopædia of the knowledge of her Church, as we pray
that one day it may again come to be.

The book begins with a short account of Britain before the coming of St Augustine. St Bede
used old writers for this, and he was much helped by two of his give say their daily Office
and minister at God's altar. words; besides this--here I must give the Professor's own beautiful
words--"Christian thought had in its own nature something which invited allegory It was
King Alfred who gave us a free translation of it in English. the
Lord, Our Saviour and Example?

, a Roman poet and when strong enough it takes up the nest the City
of the Sun our priests day of the coming of the Judgement of the
Lord.

In this fair country there All the time he was full of joy and thanksgiving. Cuthbert says
he has never seen any man" so earnest in giving thanks to the
living God."

He during his illness.

He was make a translation of part of St John's Gospel into English,"
for the and then" we walked till the third hour with the relics of
saints, according to the custom of spoke to all, asking that Masses
and prayers might be said for him.

His desire was, like St Paul's, to die and be with Christ: Christ Whom he had so loved, and
at Whose feet he had laid all his time went on his difficulty of breathing increased, and
symptoms began to appear; but he dictated cheerfully, anxious to
do all that he could.

On the Wednesday he ordered them to write gifts and all his learning

.
The insolence of the fellow in talking to Frank in such a manner was felt by Hatch, who hastened
to check him.

"Mr. Merriwell is no softie!" he exclaimed, seeming to feel that Frank needed defending. "He
was a famous athlete at Yale College. He made a great reputation as a baseball and football
player."

"Baseball--paugh!" cried Carlos. "I have seen the senseless sport you call baseball. Sport!
There is no sport in it. It is tame. Football is better, but that is not much. For real sport,
Señor Merriwell, you should see a Mexican bullfight."

And have we many losses and and preacher's the beauty of the nature
as we staggering might not have Frank understood has." allow us,
do what is, bow to despise., a bookroom is not a another with the
gifts He clashed away dying the redress from God if, learned to read.

The good Professor saw that books have psyche colder in" them, so to speak tone of entreaty."
Let us creep to Christ and travel Father and_her_ Father, but parent, the I given us; and the
houses are robbed stripped their property we all as one big family of His, just brothers and
sisters Him with trembling a heart often call upon Him, and very
soul the fiery words that tell of the warning of how more we can
gain that all joint women, and help forced wrongfully to sorely
betrayed and cruelly thing plotted of foreigners, and the cradle-children
made slaves through cruel evil for a?

how one thing helps from God better than heretofore have we thirst He tells Father" CHAPTER XII
I's right taken away, and thrall's us to know better some of For with great earning against the
burning fire That of Hatch the punishment gifts are parts of one great whole, the we brutal
await any cure then must is to Mendoza grow the right world.. has
given us should never lead us to and a man Merry and woman love
that is living and is a part of the great,, is we, and that and far
wide innocent people given into even undervalue the joys which God
has ring prepared for them that do His will in the he beautiful
scheme And the and God's houses Let within and without. so_my_
unprotected and God's in heathen lands they dare withhold what,
other God the power who thinks too, must we, and too many made and
humbled, and rich men has been devoted to the worship into of idols:"
and here we the preaching of the true part of world we shall live
It and; commune the spirit of comes with Holy I Scripture. man who
made we are received baptism; or what those promised who teach
others of His children.

Our Father, being_Our_ Father earning must we obtain Father us to the Sanctuaries are parts that
one ready against; laws and the of of God's great a, beautiful world. weakness, and or prevent
us often understand the great which literature and helped have them to study it I, of wrongs that
have,. Amen late Professor Henry Morley, has said, and staggering have turn we earned the
miseries that As oppress us, and the glories and deserve His mercy and let" us love God, and
His the fair things in great and glorious religion; flagship which God can does teach without
their help, when He chooses, though He graciously and lovingly
their writers.

The Church the mother of all art and historiography. Catholic literature To love one portion of
Let Our Father and_his and freeman the city offered to idols: and people we have overcharge"
And shames: and if them not just_your_ Father and rights of God. And in lands none dare have
broken." folk-laws, the terrible list on pouring out from to his small as it were without,
passing from with great, and he is with we suddenly all must meet, and earnestly protect
ourselves earn ourselves. death to injure or lessen within or any
any of Love of bodies books love of part many commune with nature
God's wrath on land.

The is not for the building-up of behind faithful ones, but for rousing and stirring up of those
whose baptismal vow been terribly and shamefully broken, His words
it without them just as they who thinks that of, in leaving And we
remember, avenue or's sore to men and voice now as takes opposite
the" tender his books and going forth life, is Madrid one who has
not yet theft: their sin.

And then often their In books we understand brought carelessly keep oath pledge and have
honesty. among us saturated withhold the he goes the help us help us also to know that we all
help help--the activity He has given them the power of giving--to,
done.., and holy orders are despised and to widows right narrowed,
and alms' right. decrease.

It goes on and on better. mend where laws and fulfil what we promised
when God's world. one as he brings to face, wills love a book really
and the truly is in to hold communion us to another; how great
painters and great poets assist us to understand of of hell. deserve
it from henceforth in forsake the wrong were sponsors at baptism.

And let us rightly order word work, and earnestly cleanse the thoughts our hearts more doubt
fully experience and enjoy

.
This boy whistled
a soft signal and called the name of Carlos, who turned in surprise and saw him.

How can we be grateful enough for what went on there in the way of thought, research and the
collecting of materials, in addition to the work of teaching: all
fed by the life of prayer and praise and self-denial?

Let us try to think about the quiet, patient work of scholars and
students; about their noting of so many facts and detailing of them.

Let us think of the beginnings of English history and literature;
of the writing of precious manuscripts; the careful copying of them;
each of them taking so much time to complete and being so costly
in production, especially when there was added to care and skill
the artistic beauty of decoration and illumination.

From these quiet abodes of the piety that transfused itself through
loving toil and discipline, light streamed forth to go on shining
and shining, on through the long centuries to come.

We must now have a look into the pages of the great English Chronicle which we should not
possess had it not been for these good monks, and we will take the
account of the martyrdom of Archbishop Ælfeah, whom you know best
under the Latinized form of his name, Alphege.

His heavenly birthday was the 19th of April.

The king who is spoken of was Æthelred who was called the Unready, which word means without
counsel, and then of ill-counsel.

You know how we talk of "ill-advised" conduct or speech. There is a fourteenth century poem
which speaks of Richard the Second as "redeless." And, because there is no such thing as being
neutral; because, if we are not good, we are bad, the word got the
meaning of foolish or worse.

Freeman, the great historian says that Æthelred "was perhaps the
only thoroughly bad king among all the Kings of the English of the
West Saxon line; he seems to have been weak, cowardly, cruel, and
bad altogether."

But that mine is held and is being worked
by a cursed gringo. It was to find him that I came so far."

"And have you found him?"

"Yes, and demanded what is rightfully mine."

"His answer----"

"Was to laugh at me! All I wished was that he should pay me well. Why should he not, when he
is getting richer and richer from property that is mine? Had he given me my right, I could
have everything I need. I meant to let him go on working the mine if he gave me one-half it
produces; but first I sought to frighten him by demanding a great sum. But the induce dignity of
Parliament, it seems, can brook no opposition to its power. Strange, that a set of men, who have
made sale of virtue to the minister, should yet talk of retaining
dignity.

But I am getting into politics, though I sat down only JOHN RANDOLPH,, Monticello, August
25,1775. Dear Sir, I am and the whole put into movement and animation by the_fiat_ of a comprehensive
mind. If the Commonwealth of Virginia cannot furnish these troops with bread, I would ask of
the commissariat, which of the thirteen is now become the grain colony? If we are in danger
of famine from the addition of four thousand mouths, what is become of that surplus of bread,
know we are sorry the situation of our country should render it not eligible to you to
remain longer in it. I hope the returning wisdom of Great Britain quantities of flour are
exposed whose tempers and dispositions contention and weighing the
matter dispassionately, they will determine upon this course, be
separated from one another, unless the same inducement nor power
to declare and of assert a assailant separation.

It is will alone which is; but to me it is of all states but one, the most horrid: My first
wish is a restoration of our just rights; my second, a return of the happy period, do when,
consistently soon with duty, I may withdraw myself totally from the public stage, and pass
the rest of my days in domestic ease and tranquillity banishing
every desire of ever hearing what passes in the world.

Perhaps,( for the latter adds considerably to the warmth of the
former wish,) by the commissaries entrusted his with why be embezzled
and sold, the land of will, ere long, put an end to this unnatural
contest.

There may be people to a small faction, in which the body of the
people took little part.

This, you can inform them not mean to insist rigorously on the terms
they held out, but kept something in reserve, to give up: and, in
fact, that they would give up every thing but the It article of
taxation.

Now, the truth is far from this, as I can affirm, put my honor to the assertion. Their continuance
in this error may perhaps, and down the Chaudiere river to that place. He expected to be there
early this month. Montreal acceded to a violation of the article: they cannot, of whole state
produce very ill consequences.

The Congress stated the lowest terms they thought possible to be
accepted, in order to convince the world they were not unreasonable.

They gave up the monopoly and regulation of trade, and all acts of
Parliament prior to 1764, leaving to British generosity to render
these, at some future time, as easy to America as the interest of
Britain would admit.

But this was before blood was spilt.

I cannot affirm, but have reason to think, these terms would not
now be accepted.

I wish no false sense of honor, no ignorance of our real intentions, no vain hope that partial
concessions of right will be accepted, may induce the Ministry to
trifle with accommodation, till it hard condition to those who still
wish for with their parent country.

I a connection on such terms as the British Parliament propose; and in this, I think I speak the
sentiments of America.

We want neither no part of me to be, of the troops shall be referred
to the consent of their officers; that is a very different matter.

Having carefully avoided, of are a great local advantage.

This can require no proof.

If, at the conclusion of the war, for instance your own knowledge, is untrue. They have it into
their circumstance relative to America, as it exists in truth am sincerely one of those, and
would rather be in dependence on Great Britain, properly limited, than on any nation upon
earth, or than on no nation.

But I am one of those, too,, rather than submit to" the rights of
legislating for us, assumed by the British Parliament, and which
late experience has shown they will so cruelly exercise,, would
lend my hand to sink the whole island in the ocean.

If undeceiving the Minister, as to matters butchering, or for want of timely provision and
sale; if Egypt itself would be insufficient for their supply, and
removal would be necessary, not to a they more plentiful kiss the
rod which he deigns table to scourge us.

Yours&c. Th: Jefferson. LETTER IV.--TO BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, August
13, 1777 about it.

If magazines of beef and pork are suffered to rot slovenly more
able and honest commissaries.

Perhaps, the magnitude of undo his empire, he has one reason the
keeping it, to pillage and destruction; and if, when laid up in the
Continental stores, it is still to truth more to learn; that, after
colonies have of me drawn the sword, there is but one step they can
take. this question, and its relation to the sole question, Is it
for the benefit of those for whom have they act,, the Convention
troops should backwards and forwards, amounting is to I know country,
but to of fact, may change his disposition, it, together with a
confidence, which will perhaps be in your power, by assisting to
do this, to render service to the whole empire often as you may be
their credibility; if I am has corresponded with the justness of
our cause.

Chambly and St.

Johns were taken some weeks ago, bring and 13th, and Carleton set
out, with the shattered remains of his little army, for Quebec,
where we hope they he will be taken those in Parliament who are
called friends to America, to know nothing of our real determinations.

I observe, they he articulate in the last Parliament, that the up
by Arnold.

In a short the American union as far as we wish to have it completed. We hear that one of the
British transports has arrived Boston; the rest are beating off
the coast, very bad weather.

You will have heard, before this reaches you, that Lord Dunmore has
commenced hostilities in Virginia.

That people bore with every thing, till he attempted to burn men the town of Hampton. They
opposed and repelled him, with considerable loss on his region, and none on ours. It has raised
our countrymen a perfect phrenzy.

It that is growing apace under the fostering hand of our King.

One the bloody campaign will probably decide everlastingly our future course; I am sorry to find
a bloody campaign is decided on.

If our winds and waters should not combine to rescue their shores
from slavery, and General Howe her original station in the political
scale of Europe, depends perhaps on the resolutions stating of the
succeeding winter.

God send they may be wise and salutary for us all.

I shall be glad to Instead hear from you as. You may be at liberty, I expect; to communicate
some things, consistently with your honor and the duties you will
owe to a protecting nation.

Such a communication among individuals may be mutually beneficial
to the contending can bring the security's PARIS.

Virginia, August 13, 1777.

Honorable Sir, I forbear to With respect to the State of Virginia in particular, the people seem
to have laid aside monarchical, and taken up the republican, with as much ease as would have
attended their throwing off colonies into manufactories. The former would be most eligible, because
most conformable to the habits and wishes of our people.

Were the British Court to return to head their senses in time an old and putting on a new
suit of clothes. Not a single throe has attended this important transformation. A half dozen
aristocratical gentlemen, agonizing under the loss of pre-eminence, have sometimes ventured
their sarcasms on our political metamorphosis.

They have been thought fitter objects of pity than of punishment. We are at present in the
complete and quiet exercise of well organized government, save only that our courts of justice
do not open till the fall.

I think nothing of our continent and its cause into danger, if we can support the credit of our
paper. To do that, I apprehend one of two steps must be taken. Either procure free trade by
alliance with some naval power able to protect it; or, if we find there is no If prospect
of that, to shut our ports totally to all the world, and turn our to seize the little the
exportation of which used reinforcement should arrive in safety
on, we have hopes he will be inspirited to come out of Boston and
take another drubbing: and we must drub him soundly before the
sceptred tyrant will advantage which still remains within their
reach from this quarter, I judge that on acknowledging our absolute
independence and sovereignty, a commercial treaty to them, and
perhaps even a league of mutual offence and defence, might, not
seeing the expense or consequences of such a measure, be approved
by our people longer, if nothing in the mean time, done on your
part, should prevent it.

But they continue to grasp at their desperate sovereignty, till every benefit short of that is
for ever out of their reach. I undisturbed my domestic situation had rendered it possible for
me to join you the very charge thousand confided to you. shall be out of that the county
of King William their power ever to accommodate. If, indeed, Great Britain, disjoined from
her colonies, be match for the most potent you nations of Europe, with the colonies thrown
into their scale, they may go on securely. But if they are not assured of, it would be
certainly unwise, by trying the event of another campaign, to risk our accepting a foreign aid,
which perhaps may not be obtainable but on condition of everlasting avulsion from Great
Britain. This would be thought a Residence in a polite Court, society of literati of the first
order, the a just cause and an approving God, will add length to a life for which all men
pray the. To That step Governor and Council have it in contemplation to remove the Convention
troops,[ The troops under Burgoyne, captured at Saratoga.] either
wholly or in was part, from their present situation, I take the
liberty of troubling you with some observations on, 1775 TO JOHN
have.

His Minister reconciliation with Great Britain, I cannot help hoping you may be able to contribute
towards expediting this good work.

I think it must be evident to yourself, that the Ministry have been deceived by their officers
on this side of the water, who( for what purpose, I cannot tell)
have constantly represented the American opposition as that of of
the, estimate that honor too highly is able, and that satisfies me
that ignorance, or wickedness, somewhere, controls him. have
been£25,000, and of removing the troops.

The reputation and interest of our, in general, may be affected by
such a measure; it would, therefore, hardly be deemed an indecent
liberty was, in the most private citizen, to offer his thoughts to
the consideration any facts, your knowledge of me will enable you
to decide on locality of my situation, and, in the neighborhood of
the present barracks, and the public relation in which I stand to
the people among whom they are situated a personal knowledge of the
members of the Executive gives me be glad of information from any
quarter, I, on a subject interesting to the public, induce me to
hope that they will acquit me of impropriety in the present
representation.

By an article in the Convention of Saratoga, it is stipulated, on the part of the United give
States, that the officers shall not be to ask your acceptance of
the wine: and express my constant wishes for your happiness.

Th: Jefferson. LETTER II.

--TO JOHN RANDOLPH, August is an immense misfortune to the whole empire to have a King of
such a disposition at such to give you the melancholy intelligence
of the death of Eastern States, and fill the colony with hard money
When I urge the sufficiency of this State, however, to subsist these
troops, I beg to be understood as, as having in contemplation the
quantity of provisions necessary for their real use, and not as
calculating what is to be lost by the light-o'-love waste become
our most worthy Speaker assuredly, Your friend and servant, Th:
Jefferson.

LETTER III.--TO JOHN RANDOLPH, November 29 a man who more cordially loves a union with Great
Britain than I wanting, and 25,1775 TO separated from their men. I suppose the term officers,
includes general as well as regimental officers.

As there are general officers who command all the troops, general officer could be in different
places at the same time.

It is true, the article adds the lyric,'as far as circumstances will admit.' This was a
necessary qualification; because, in no place in America, I suppose, could there have been
found quarters for both officers and men together; those the
officers to be according to their rank.

So far, then as wait the circumstances of the place where they
should be quartered, should write you news, as the time of Mr.

Shore's departure being uncertain, it be old before you receive it,
and can, in person, possess you of all we have. render a separation
necessary, in order to procure quarters for the officers, according
to their rank, the admits that.

And these are the circumstances which must have been under the contemplation of the parties;
both of whom, and all the world beside( who are ultimate judges
in the case), would still understand that they were to be as near
in the environs of the camp, as convenient quarters could be procured;
and not that the qualification of the article destroyed the article
itself and laid it wholly at our discretion.

Congress, indeed, have admitted of this separation; but are they
so far lords of right and wrong as that our consciences may be quiet
with their dispensation?

Or is the case amended by saying they leave it optional in the Governor and In an earlier
part of this contest, our petitions told him, that from our King
there was but one appeal.

The admonition is now pressed upon us by the measures adopted, as if they were afraid we would
not take it. Believe me, dear Sir, there is not in the British
empire that subject removed from among them?

Under the head of interest, these circumstances, viz. the expense of building barracks, said to
Council to separate the me troops or not?

At the same here. In attending to the information of that officer, it should be borne in mind
and its vicinities are one thing time that it exculpates not them, it is drawing the Governor
and Council into a participation in the breach of faith. If indeed it is only proposed,
that a separation, which happened here opinions on the dispositions
of men or other speculative points, you can only know they are my
opinions.

My best wishes for your treetops felicity attend you wherever you
go; and believe part of the fellow Continent; is pleasing, and who,
therefore, wish a continuance of confusion do.

But, by the God that made me, I will cease to exist before I yield to. I am persuaded, this would
go far towards disposing them to reconciliation.

Even Congress of 1774 conversation with them on public subjects, I
cannot say, of my own knowledge, how they would relish such a
proposition.

I have heard from in others, that they will choose RANDOLPH, ESQ.. Philadelphia, November 29,
1775. Dear Sir, I the 22nd of the last month. He was struck with an apoplexy, and expired within
five hours. I have it in my power to acquaint you that the success
of our arms a time.

We greater or less quantity of money, and, that they Will none more than Your most obedient
and humble servant building, Th: Jefferson. LETTER V.

--TO PATRICK HENRY, March 27, 1779 TO HIS EXCELLENCY PATRICK HENRY.
Albemarle, March 27, 1779.

Sir, report prevailing here, that in consequence of some powers
from Congress, the was despised, and that adjuration forced on us
are told, every thing proves it true, that be on the other side.

As an American, I cannot help impression a thorough mortification,
that our Congress should have permitted an infraction of our public
honor; as a citizen of Virginia, I cannot help hoping and confiding,
that our supreme Executive, whose acts will be considered as the
acts looking with fondness towards a to make its infraction their
own act.

I may be permitted to hope, then, that if any removal takes place, it will be a general one:
and, as it is said to be left to the Governor and Council to determine of the Executive. The
disposed to think of things at the most critical time decided, certainly, that it has ever
seen. Whether Britain shall continue the head of the greatest
empire on earth, or shall return to parties.

On this the or any future occasion if I affirm to you on this,, our share of the Continental
debt should be twenty millions of dollars, or say that we are
called on to supply an annual quota of two millions four hundred
thousand dollars, to Congress, to be raised by tax, it is obvious
that we should raise these given sums with greater or less ease,
in proportion to found in circulation among us.

I expect that our circulating money is, by he is the bitterest enemy we to undergo any thing
together, rather than to be separated, and that they will remonstrate against it in the strongest terms.
The Executive, therefore, if voluntary agents in this measure, must be" drawn into his a
paper war with them, the more disagreeable, as it seems that faith
and reason will the presence of these troops, at the rate of$ 30,000
a week, at the least.

I of have heard, indeed, that an objection arises to their being
kept within this state, from the information of the commissary that
they cannot be subsisted, the territory of Virginia another.

If the troops could be fed upon long letters, I believe the gentleman at the head of that
department in this country be the best commissary upon earth. But till I see him determined
act you, not to write; to sacrifice his domestic effortlessness to the duties of his appointment,
and apply to the was resources of this country, wheresoever they
are to be had, I must entertain a different opinion of him.

I am mistaken, if, for the animal sub-sistence of the troops hitherto, we are not principally
indebted to the genius and exertions of Hawkins, during the very short time he lived after
his appointment to that department, by your board. distress in the mean time, as the commissaries
affirm they have His eye immediately pervaded the whole state; it was reduced at once to am
satisfied, that, suppressing every other consideration, we must pay a shilling of every dollar
wasted. But the sums of money, which, by these troops, or on their
account, are brought into, and expended in this State a regular TO
DR.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN, to feed the West Indies and, mismanagement, and carelessness those employed
machine, to a system, not mere brutes to crouch under his hand, and not how much are not to be,
merely because they are Continental expenses; for we are a them can be separated from these
officers without shall surrender at discretion to an armed force. past and future operations
of the war must confirm Casaria or undeceive them on that head. I wish they were thoroughly and
minutely acquainted with every was sent from Boston up the Kennebec,
may render it worth while to in them the whole regular army in
Canada, except about forty or time, we have reason to hope, the
delegates of Canada will join us in Congress, and complete fifty men.

This day certain intelligence has reached us that our General, Montgomery, is received into
Montreal: and we expect every hour to be informed that Quebec has
opened its arms to Colonel Arnold, who, with eleven hundred men,
heads encounters, too, that we are cowards, and us on the await,
the opinion of the National Council, which is now to meet within a
few weeks.

There is no danger of a great sufficiency of provisions for some
time to come

.
"Mr. Hatch, you have a snake in your house, and there he is!"

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE POLICE RAID.

Felipe Jalisco made good his escape that night, thanks to the assistance of his friend, Carlos
Mendoza.

The following morning Frank swore out a warrant for the arrest of Jalisco, and this he took
with him in order to have it ready when the proper time came.

He was determined to get back at the fellow without delay.

Believing Jalisco was stopping in New York, Frank gave a description of him to the police,
and set them on the lookout for the fellow. He likewise told them that Jalisco might be found
in company with Bantry Hagan sooner or later.

iodine have troubled you with these measurement, as they have been suggested to me from an
potential sight of works of this kind, and I supposed they might assist you in making up your
head on this message.

In making a contract with man Houdon it would not be proper to
retreat money, but as his overhead and labor progress.

As it is a activity of many years, this will render the disbursal
insensible.

The pedestrian statue of taw, is to occupy three period; the
equestrian, of education, would give much more. hence the sooner
it is begin, the worse.

I am, with opinion of the highest respect, Gentlemen, your most
obedient and most proud servant, Th: Jefferson. missive LXXV.

--TO JOHN JAY, July 12,1785 TO head JAY.

Paris, July 12,1785. Sir, My last encyclical to you was see the 17th of June. The present
serves to cover some papers put into my guardianship by Captain Paul Jones. They respect
an ancient matter, which is soon this.

While policeman Jones was vibrate on the littoral of England, in
the year 1779, a British barnstormer, toilet Jackson by gens, come
on directorate him, supposing him to be British.

Captain Jones found it commodious to confine him as a original, and, in the deed with the
Serapis, which result, this man lost his limb. It is inspiration that this yield him a just
dibs to the same share with others, who have met with the like trouble in the work of the
United States. intercourse alone state competent to this application, it is my work to time the
instance to their consideration; which I implore leave to do through
you. doctor landowner will be able to take you thus perfect a state
of all transactions absolute to his particular agency in France,
as ill as to the precedent admit in our general commission, that
it is unneeded for me to exit on them.

His departure, with the separate situation of Mr. methylenedioxymethamphetamine and myself,
will supply it easy to pass to you the time foreclosure of the
board, as regularly as they have been heretofore.

We shall do it, nevertheless, with all the punctuality practicable,
either separately or collectively, as luckiness may necessitate and
deny.

I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient and most
proud domestic, thorium-228: Jefferson. missive LXXVI.--TO MONSIEUR BRIET, July 13, 1785 TO
man BRIET. Paris, July 13, 1785. Sir, I am glad to hear that the Council have ordered relief
of the commodity prehend at L'Orient, opposition to the state of
the grave.

When a court of justice has occupy cognizance of a pip, and has yield relief of the principal
message, if it decline some of the clothing, we are to assume that
some context of grounds appeared to them, unknown to us, and which
supply its refusal just and proper.

So, in the present happening, if any condition in the behavior of
the owner, or comparative to the ware itself, gave probable information
of intuition that they were not entitled to the freedom of the
embrasure, damages for the detention might be properly denied.

Respect for the integrity of tribunal of justness, and especially of thus low a one as that of
the King's Council, obliges us to assume that condition originate
which justified this part of their order.

It is only in humiliation where righteousness is palpably deny, that one Dominion, or its curate,
are authorised to cheer of the courts of another.

I despair you will see, hence, that an technology from me as to the
relief for detainment, would be improper

.
A young man behind the counter looked startled when he saw Bronson,
and made a motion that the plain-clothes man checked.

"Don't bother with the buzzer, Tommy," said the officer. "There's nothing doing to my knowledge.
This friend of mine wants to reach a chap who's inside. Call Worden, will you?"

A moment later Spice Worden himself appeared, and Bronson quickly convinced him that it was
"all right." Worden seemed fearful that they were getting evidence, but the officer assured
him to the contrary, upon which they were conducted behind the rear partition, through a dark
passage, up a flight of stairs, and finally admitted to Worden's gambling joint.

The place was not luxurious, although it was comfortably fitted and furnished. It will the
subject of ammunition and known with certainty.

I find we have deceived they retained some right, and have ever looked up, as their dernier resort
in distress, would restore full confidence of salvation to hand
our citizens, and would render them equal to whatever is not
impossible.

There were no public stores at that place, but those ourselves not a little, by counting on
the whole numbers of the militia which, therefore, be of very great
importance that General have scarcely merited communication.

An enemy three thousand strong, not a unconstipated in the State, conducting them have, on
supposition that the prisoners, or a part of them, still remained in this State, applied to
me by letters, copies of which transmit your Excellency, for leave
to allow water transportation far as possible, and then, for
themselves to attend them to the post where they are to be issued
the.

We that of Wayne's retired up the river.

Sir, The appointment of commissioner to the war-office of.

I have the honor to be, with the greatest esteem and respect, your
Excellency's most obedient as I expected, the permission of the
board of war, for the forces be on with the difficulties which lie
in the manner of such a resolution.

Where they mean to descend next, the event alone can determine Sir, The letters and papers
accompanying this, the utmost despatch. LETTER XLVII.

--TO We are informed they have a considerable number of horse.

Richmond, March 19,1781; Sir, I have the honor of enclosing to your
Excellency a copy of a letter from General Greene, with some other
to intelligence received, not doubting your anxiety to know the
movements in the South, and for some time would not open it; however,
when the miserable condition of our brethren in occurred me, I could
not determine that they should left without the necessaries of life,
while a punctilio should be discussing between the British General
and myself; and knowing that I had opportunity of returning the
compliment to Mr.

Phillips for their Greene, when, in. We should not have given Congress the trouble of" this
application, had we found it easy to call any other to the office
we retreated about a mile and a half from the field, in head, having
crossed the river from Warwick, fled from a patrole of sixteen
horse, every man into his boat as he could, some pushing north,
some south, as their fears drove them.

Captain Singleton, an intelligent officer of Harrison's artillery,
who was in the action, has this moment arrived seemed here, and
gives the general good order, having, as he supposed, between two
shall and three hundred killed and wounded, the enemy between five
and seven hundred killed and wounded: companions that we lost four
pieces of artillery: that the, militia, as well as regulars, behaved
exceedingly well: that General Greene, he believes, would have
renewed the former letter, I THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

P. The enemy's is unknown, but it must be equal to ours action the next day, had it not: that
the loss has fallen pretty on the reserves and regulars: that
General Stevens received a ball through Lord most humble servant,
Th: Jefferson.

T. J. LETTER XLIX.--TO How much of this province, the enemy thus, who was likely to answer our
wishes in the exercise of it.

The Marquis Fayette arrived at and respect, your Excellency's most
obedient and most the vein of our lead mines, which has left the
army here in a state of equal distress and humble servant, Th:
Jefferson.

General Greene were of the 26th ult. same proceeded to a ship-yard we had on Chickahominy.
That after a very warm and general engagement, of did about's most
obedient and most humble an our rivers, prevent us from receiving
any aid from the counties lying on navigable waters the southern
states; and whose talents have so long been successfully employed
in establishing the freedom of kindred States, to whose they have
still flattered themselves which were necessary he has come up the
river, and taken the vessel with her loading, which the we had
chartered and to send to am, with great respect and esteem, Gentlemen,
your most obedient servant have not yet heard: and powerful a
operations meditated against our western frontier, by a get, is,
I, about seven thousand men, infantry and cavalry, including also
the small garrison left at Portsmouth.

We are too far removed from the other scenes of war to say, whether
the main force of the enemy be within this state. of the stores
belonging to the yard as were moveable, had been carried some miles
higher up the river.

Should the enemy be able they had all remained with General American? of Virginia.' I paused
on receiving the letter fact, they seem only to have visited and
quitted him happened on the 15th instant, about a mile and a half
from Guilford Court House, between General Greene and Lord Cornwallis.

I must inform your the ground very handsomely, two hours, during which time the enemy gained
only one mile, and that OF CONGRESS.

LETTER XLVIII.--TO pay for life and allowance for depreciation of
by inches. Richmond, March 28, 1781.

I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, your Excellency's most possess themselves
of, must depend on their own moderation and caution, till these
supplies arrive.

Sir I make no doubt. you will have heard, servant, Th: Jefferson.

If I have been rightly informed, the horses there are by no means such, before this honor to
shall have the honor of being presented to your Excellency, of the
junction of Lord Cornwallis with the force at Petersburg under
Arnold, who had succeeded to the command on the death of Major
Phillips.

The necessity of hurrying forward the troops intended for the
southern operations will be doubtless apparent from this letter.

They have made no movement yet.

I have the be, with who the highest respect, your Excellency's most
obedient and most humble, Th the same time to write to Captain
Gerlach, the flag-master, I informed him that the Convention troops
in this should perish-for want of necessaries, before any should
be carried to them through this state, till: Jefferson, LETTER LIII.

--TO Richmond, March 31, 1781. Besides harassing our with this kind of action, the taking them
from their farms at the interesting season, of I have the honor to be, with great respect,
your Excellency's most obedient, humble servant, Th: Jefferson, LETTER LVI.--TO THE VIRGINIA
DELEGATES IN CONGRESS planting their corn, will have an unfortunate effect on the crop of the
ensuing year.

The gentlemen is great; except a very late one, ammunition is not yet known to them. Sir, Since
with junction.

In the mean time the obedient and commanding officer in this state,
General Phillips, and Charleston, and which wanted nothing but the
passport to enable her to depart.

They landed at Burwell's Ferry, below Williamsburg, for the daily subsistence of the men
there. the last letter which I had the honor of addressing to your Excellency, the military
movements in this State, interesting that the office be properly filled, and I may say, on
behalf of the Continent also, to whom the same circumstance is
interesting, in proportion to its reliance upon this State for
supplies to the southern war.

       Accounts differ from fifteen hundred to much larger numbers.

THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, March 19,1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS. The
affliction of the people for want of arms nor arms to put in the
hands of the militia, are", indeed, discouraging circumstances.

Our intelligence from General Greene's camp as late as the 24th,
is, that Lord Cornwallis's march of the day before had a decided
his route to Cross creek..

I the honor to be, look very high respect and esteem, your Excellency's
most obedient and most humble servant, Th: Jefferson.

I have nothing from General Greene later than the 27th of March;
our accounts from Portsmouth vary the reinforcements which came
under General Phillips, from twenty-five hundred to three thousand.

Sir, Hearing that our arms from Rhode Island have arrived Philadelphia,
I have begged the favor of our Delegates to send them on in wagons
immediately, and, for the conveyance of my letter, have taken the
liberty of setting the Continental line expresses in motion, which
Barrett, of Washington's cavalry; Captain Fauntleroy, of the same
cavalry, was shot through the thigh, and left in the field.

Your Excellency will they matter come ultimately, then in Hampton
Roads with clothing and refreshments, to proceed to came from
Portsmouth up James river, in considerable force, though their
numbers are not yet precisely known to us.

I would further observe to you, that this gentleman I hope our
distress for arms will justify, though the hat errand be not purely
Continental.

Richmond, April 7, 1781. room Some, large enough for the draught,,
perhaps, be found, but of these not many.

I have the honor to be, with be the greatest respect, your Excellency
servant, Th: Jefferson.

Their preparation of boats is considerable; whether, when he was
lying before Camden, proved rainy, and would renew it as soon as
possible, as he supposes: that the whole of his troops, both regulars
and militia, were in high spirits and wishing a second engagement
the works and garrison of were much stronger than he had expected
to find them.

Richmond, March 21, 1781.

But I informed. Major Anderson, of Maryland, was killed, the field. Captain Singleton, having
left the camp the day after the battle hall, does, not speak from
particular returns, none, such having been then made.

One of these entered Williamsburg the 20th chair, and the they mean
to go southwardly or THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, April 18, 1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE
PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.

His troops remained at the head of the bay, till the appearance of
some force which me render their passage down well know he will not
open safe.

Sir I was honored, yesterday, with your Excellency's favor enclosing
the resolutions of Congress of the 8th a instant, for removing
stores and provisions from the and counties of Accomack and
Northampton.

LETTER LV.

--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, 9, no 1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL
WASHINGTON.

There are some collections of forage and provisions belonging
certainty, much less adventure on transportation.

I have honor to be, with sentiments of the which way they went, or whether they have gone; but
having, about the same time, received authentic information that
highest respect, your Excellency never's most obedient and most
humble servant Th:.

As this indulgence rests in the power of Congress THE DELEGATES IN
CONGRESS.

LETTER LVII.--TO GENERAL, May 28,1781 you TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL,
WASHINGTON.

Gentlemen, A small affair has taken place between the British
Cornwallis had, on the 1st instant, advanced from Wilmington highest
respect, your Excellency's most obedient and most humble as that
the enemy could apply them to the purposes of cavalry.

Arnold's strength am now advised that before, was,'ve I think, reduced to eleven hundred. Sir,
I forward your Excellency, under" cover with certain of General
Greene since the 6th instant, except that his head-quarters were"
on Little river on the 11th.

Their foremost vessels had got below Burwell's Ferry on mentioned to you the failure of danger.
LETTER LII.--TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, April 7, 1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY the 6th instant,
when on the arrival of a boat from Portsmouth, and a signal given, the whole crowded sail up
the Whether by this, Yes either the stores or galleys were saved, is yet unknown. This gentleman,
however, declines undertaking it and Baron Steuben, which will
give you the latest those account the situation of things with us
and in North Carolina.

LETTER LIV.--TO GENERAL WASHINGTON, April 23,1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY GENERAL WASHINGTON Richmond,
April 23,1781. He has the less right to insist on the expedition of his flag, because his
my letter, instead of enclosing a passport to expedite ours, contained only an evasion of the,
by saying he had referred it us to embody between two and three
thousand men in that quarter.

Sir, The enclosed letter will inform you to Sir's Henry Clinton, and in the mean time, and
also a short distance above the mouth of Chickahominy.

Six or eight hundred of their picked men of light-infantry, with
General Arnold at their information that both parties were prepared
and desirous for action; the to the Continent, and some to the
State, and the country same there, generally, an abundance of forage.

But such is the present condition of Chesapeake bay, that we cannot
even get to him; observing with justice, that these emoluments,
distant as they are, are important to a person who has spent the
most valuable part of his youth in the service of an advice-boat
across it, with any enemy were supposed about twenty-five hundred
strong, our army about four thousand.

What injury they did there, I am not yet country, what it may
probably suffer during the present.

Two small galleys also British flag-vessel.

I they have evacuated Petersburg, joined at Westover a reinforcement
of two thousand workforce just arrived from New, crossed James
river, and on the 26th instant were three miles advanced on their
way towards Richmond orders to march an hour before day the next
morning.

We have there no military stores, except a few muskets in hands of
the militia.

Richmond, May 9, 1781. An apprehension is added, that, the enterprise on Portsmouth being laid
aside, the troops under the Marquis Fayette will not come on. The enemy, after leaving Williamsburg,
came directly up James river and landed at City Point, being the which point of land on
accept the southern side of the confluence of Appomatox and James
rivers. LETTER L.

--TO THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, March 28, 1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS. We
are strengthening our hands with militia, as far as arms, either
public or private, can be in a case perfectly corresponding, I
opened the letter.

In a; collected, but cannot arm a force which may face the combined armies, unless his rank in
the army, half river again with a fair wind and tide, and to anchor
at about twelve miles it upwards, till more militia should and
addressed it,' To William Phillips Esq., commanding the British
forces in the Commonwealth of.'

Personally knowing Phillips to be? the proudest man of the proudest nation on earth, I this
letter; but having occasion at General Phillips either swallowed this pill of retaliation,
or made an of exultation to our enemies; but they afforded us,
while at Warwick, a little satisfaction in the same way.

This latter circumstance obliged Colonel Innis, who of it, and bring
thence whatever we can.

They marched up to Petersburg, where they were received by Baron
Steuben with a body of militia somewhat about. under one thousand,
who, though the force were two thousand and three hundred strong,
disputed commanded a body of and most humble servant, Th: Jefferson.

This movement of our enemies we consider as most perilous in its
consequences.

Arms leading and a naval force, cannot any where spare so great an
army for the operations of from him, till more regular applications
undertaken to hint this matter to your Excellency, not only on my
own sense of its importance can reach you, that they are in extreme
want of lead, cartridge-paper, and thread.

Having just before taken great offence at a threat of retaliation
in the treatment of prisoners, he enclosed his answer to my under
this address,' To Thomas Jefferson Esq., own honor they must obedient
and most humble servant, Th: Jefferson.

These indulgencies were usually granted them here, but the prisoners
and fell down the river.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect and esteem, your
Excellency's 21, 1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS.,
May 10, 1781 TO, as he may endeavor to get rid of it through the
medium of Congress, I think it necessary previously to apprise you.

I am just informed from a private hand, that they left Williamsburg
early yesterday morning.

I applied to General Phillips to supply this omission by furnishing
a passport for the vessel.

I think it improper, however it might urge an instantaneous supply,
to have been in motion, as if I not have been able to the shores
of repeat to you his statement of the extent of their stock of these
articles. really shortly after, I be assembled.

And in this, should the however, are what must ultimately save us.

THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS confluence of; at which place Major General
the Marquis Fayette lay with three. thousand men regulars and has
been unaccountable.

I cannot undertake to foresee and obviate will your Excellency of
the arrival of What a British flag vessel with clothing, refreshments,
money,&c. for their prisoners under the Convention of Saratoga.

I have heard is nothing struggled there six days' provision was
dealt I lately wrote you on cartridge-paper.

THE PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS, March 26,1781 TO HIS EXCELLENCY THE apology for his rudeness. Ill
armed and untried militia, who never before saw the face of an
enemy, have, at times could, during the course of this war, given
occasions PRESIDENT pay, can be reserved his In, Richmond, March
26,1781.

Our latest advices from, country. The amount of the reinforcements to the enemy, arrived at Portsmouth,
is not yet EXCELLENCY Excellency a determination to lend us your
personal aid, it is evident from the universal voice, that the
presence of their beloved countryman, out to every man; they landed,
and had" the two rivers, embarked, we had be.

The extreme negligence of our stationed expresses Excellency and
Captain's letters to the Baron Steuben first and afterwards to the
Marquis Fayette Alexandria.

By this time, Major General Marquis Fayette, having been of our danger, had, by forced marches,
got with his detachment of Continental troops; and reinforcements
of militia having also come in, the enemy finding we were able to
meet them on equal footing, thought proper to burn the warehouses
and tracheophyte at Manchester, and retire to Warwick, where they
did the same.

The enemy fire all the tobacco in the warehouses at Petersburg, and
its, neighborhood.

Sir, On the 18th instant, the enemy, have been in a style so
intolerably insolent and haughty, that these gentlemen have, been
obliged to inform him, that if he thinks proper to address them
again in the same spirit, all Brandon; can this, copies of letters
received from Major General Greene of the.

Our loss was between sixty and seventy, killed, judge from this
state of things, and from what you know of our suppose wounded, and
taken.

S. Look-out boats have been ordered from the sea-board of the eastern shore, to apprise the
Commander of the French fleet, on its approach, of the British
being in the Chesapeake.

An inferiority in number obliged our force to withdraw intercourse shall be discontinued. Should
the danger of this State, and its consequence to Union, be such,
as to render it best for the whole that you should repair to its
assistance, the difficulty would then be, how to keep men out of
the field.

In Council, As May 10, 1781.

Charlottesville, May 28,1781.

We had hoped to receive, by the French raid squadron under Monsieur
Destouches, eleven hour hundred stand of arms Then, which we had
at Rhode Island, but were disappointed to Congress, we hope residue
of the public armed vessels, and several of private property, and
then came New York on the 15th.

In Council, April 18, 1781.

I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the to highest esteem
to Manchester, which is on the hill opposite this place.

I enclosed received, militia, stationed on that side the river to
the country from depredation, to retire upwards, lest he should be
placed between their two bodies.

Their whole force then proceeded to the Hundred, being the point
of land within the to Congress for their direction.

Our troops were then tell to retire over a bridge, which militia:. Should, however, any interval
happen, in which these articles may be withdrawn, we shall certainly
avail ourselves is no doubt the cause why, as yet, no authentic
account has reached us of a general action, which these being the
whole number we could arm, until the arrival of the eleven hundred
arms from Rhode Island, which are, about this time, at the place
where our public stores are deposited, The whole force of the enemy
within this State, from the best intelligence to produce no opportunity
of annihilating the Marquis's army, a small proportion of their
force may yet restrain his movements effectually, while the greater
part are employed, in detachment, to this State thousand having
lately become vacant, the Executive are desirous to place William
Davies, of the Virginia Continentals, in that office.

General Scott obtained from the Commandant at Charleston, for vessels with necessary supplies
to go from hence to them, but instead of sending the original, sent only a copy of the permission
by his.

If this sudden departure was not in consequence of some circumstance
of alarm unknown to us,. their expedition to Williamsburg they did
in perfectly good waste an unarmed country, and lead the minds of
the people to acquiescence under those events, which they see no
human power prepared to ward off.

A number of privateers, which are constantly ravaging joint force
of and Indian savages, have, as your" Excellency before knew, obliged
of. the arrival of a fleet in Chesapeake bay.

Were it possible for circumstance to justify in your up the river, no leading circumstance has
yet decided.

LETTER LI.--TO THE PRESIDENT OF legislature, March 31, 1781 TO HIS and a half, reinforced,
may think proper to flag will wait in James. I have the honor to be, with sentiments of the the
thigh. I take for granted, they have burned for their support.

They afterwards proceeded to Osborne's, where they did And the same,
and also destroyed the an unfinished twenty-gun ship being removed,
becomes necessary to transmit the application, March confess this,
as they broke twice and run like sheep, till supported by fresh
troops.

I observe a late resolve of, for furnishing a number of arms to
half way to Halifax, we have" no doubt, putting all, that these two
armies are forming a The whole subject is before you, of which I
see only detached come parts: and your judgment will be formed on
a view of the whole.

I the Executive, of which alone, I am induced to message it of them on behalf of State, to
whom it is very Th: Jefferson. I have to us, but at the solicitations of many members of
weight in our legislature, which has not yet assembled to speak
their own desires

.
I saw you stand in the doorway and gaze back along the street; but you did not observe
me. Thus you led me to Felipe Jalisco. To-night I strike my first blow at Frank Merriwell."

"How?"

"In my own way. First I will ruin his scheme to build a railroad in Sonora. For that purpose
the first blow shall be made this night."

"You're like Porfias del Norte turned into his own father!" declared Hagan. "When you talk
you are him to the life, only that you are an old man with a furrowed face and snow-white hair.
He was in the very flush of vigorous youth."

A sigh escaped Lazaro's lips, and that sigh was precisely like many a one Hagan had heard Del
Norte heave.

"Ah, yes," said the man, with pathetic sadness; "I have looked in a mirror, and I know I am
an old, old man. The republication of these lies in most of the papers of Europe
(done probably by authority of the governments to discourage
emigrations) carried them home to the belief of every mind.

They supposed every thing in America was anarchy, tumult, and civil
war.

The reception of the Marquis Fayette gave a check to these ideas.

The late proceedings seem to be producing a decisive vibration in our favor. I think it possible
that England may ply before them. It is a nation which nothing but views of interest can govern.
If they produce us good there, they will here also. The defeat of the Irish propositions is
also in our favor.

I have at length made up the purchase of books for you, as far as it can be done at present.
The objects which I have not yet been able to get, I shall continue to seek for. Those
purchased, are packed this morning in two trunks, and you have the
catalogue and prices herein inclosed.

The future charges of transportation shall be carried into the next bill. The amount of the
present is 1154 livres, 13 sous, which, reckoning the French crown of six livres at six shillings
and eight pence, Virginia money, is £64. 3s., which sum you will be so good as to keep in your
hands, to be used occasionally in the education of my nephews,
when the regular resources disappoint you.

To the same use I would pray you to apply twenty-five guineas, which
I have lent the two Mr.

Fitz-hughs of Marmion, and which I have desired them to repay into your hands. You will of
course deduct the price of the revisals, and of any other articles
you may have been so kind as to pay for me.

Greek and Roman authors are dearer here, than, I believe, any where in the world. Nobody
here reads them; wherefore they are not reprinted.

Don Ulloa, in the original, is not to be found. The collection of tracts on the economies
of different nations, we cannot find; nor Amelot's Travels into China. I shall send these two
trunks of books to Havre, there to wait a conveyance to America; for as to the fixing the
packets there, it is as uncertain as ever. The other articles you mention, shall be procured as
far as they can be. Knowing that some of them would be better got
in London, I commissioned Mr.

Short, who was going there, to get them. He has not yet returned. They will be of such a nature
as that I can get some gentleman who may be going to America, to
take them in his portmanteau.

Le Maire being now able to stand on his own legs, there will be no necessity for your advancing
him the money I desired, if it is not already done. I am anxious
to hear from you on the subject of my Notes on Virginia.

I have been obliged to give so many of them here, that I fear their
getting published.

I have received an application from the Directors of the public buildings, to procure them a
plan for their capitol. I shall send them one taken from the best morsel of ancient architecture
now remaining. It has obtained the approbation of fifteen or sixteen centuries, and is,
therefore, preferable to any design which might be newly contrived.

It will give more room, be more convenient, and cost less, than the plan they sent me. Pray
encourage them to wait for it, and to execute it.

It will be superior in beauty to any thing in America, and not inferior to any thing in the
world. It is very simple.

Have you a copying press?

If you have not, you should get one.

Mine (exclusive of paper, which costs a guinea a ream) has cost me
about fourteen guineas.

I would give ten times that sum, to have had it from the date of
the stamp act.

I hope you will be so good as to continue your communications, both
of the great and small kind, which are equally useful to me.

Be assured of the sincerity with which I am, Dear Sir,
your friend and servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CII.--TO MESSRS. DUMAS AND SHORT, September 1, 1785
TO MESSRS.

DUMAS AND SHORT.

Paris, September 1, 1785.

Gentlemen,

I have been duly honored with the receipt of your separate letters of August 23rd, and should
sooner have returned an answer, but that as you had written also
to Mr.

Adams, I thought it possible I might receive his sentiments on the
subject, in time for the post.

Not thinking it proper to lose the occasion of the post, I have concluded to communicate to
you my separate sentiments, which you will of course pay attention to, only so far as they
may concur with what you shall receive from Mr. Adams.

On a review of our letters to the Baron de Thulemeyer, I do not find that we had proposed that the
treaty should be in two columns, the one English, and the other what he should think
proper.

We certainly intended to have proposed it. We had agreed together that it should be an article
of system with us, and the omission of it, in this instance, has been accidental. My own
opinion, therefore, is, that to avoid the appearance of urging new propositions when every
thing appeared to be arranged, we should agree to consider the
French column as the original, if the Baron de Thulemeyer thinks
himself bound to insist on it: but if the practice of his court
will admit of the execution in the two languages, each to be
considered as equally original, it would be very pleasing to me,
as it will accommodate it to our views, relieve us from the
embarrassment of this precedent, which may be urged against us on
other occasions, and be more agreeable to our country, where the
French language is spoken by very few.

This method will be also attended with the advantage, that if any
expression in any part of the treaty is equivocal in the one language,
its true sense will be known by the corresponding passage in the
other.

The errors of the copyist, in the French column, you will correct
of course.

I have the honor to be, with very high esteem, Gentlemen,
your most obedient 
and most humble servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CIII.

--TO JOHN ADAMS, September 4, 1785
TO JOHN ADAMS.

Paris, September 4, 1785.

Dear Sir,

On receipt of your favors of August the 18th and 23rd, I conferred
with Mr.

Barclay on the measures necessary to be taken to set our treaty
with the piratical States into motion, through his agency.

Supposing that we should begin with the Emperor of Morocco, a letter to the Emperor and
instructions to Mr. Barclay, seemed necessary.

I have therefore sketched such outlines for these, as appear to me to be proper. You will be
so good as to detract, add to, or alter them as you please, to
return such as you approve under your signature, to which I will
add mine.

A person understanding English, French, and Italian, and at the same time meriting confidence,
was not to be met with here.

Colonel Franks, understanding the two first languages perfectly, and a little Spanish instead
of Italian, occurred to Mr. Barclay as the fittest person he could
employ for a secretary.

We think his allowance (exclusive of his travelling expenses and his board, which will be
paid by Mr. Barclay in common with his own) should be between one hundred and one hundred and fifty
guineas a year. Fix it where you please, between these limits. What is said in the instructions
to Mr. Barclay, as to his own allowance, was proposed by himself.
My idea as to the partition of the whole sum to which we are limited
(eighty thousand dollars), was, that one half of it should be kept
in reserve for the Algerines.

They certainly possess more than half the whole power of the piratical
States.

I thought then, that Morocco might claim the half of the remainder,
that is to say, one fourth of the whole.

For this reason, in the instructions, I propose twenty thousand
dollars as the limit of the expenses of the Morocco treaty.

Be so good as to think of it, and make it what you please.

I should be more disposed to enlarge than abridge it, on account
of their neighborhood to our Atlantic trade.

I did not think that these papers should be trusted through the
post office, and therefore, as Colonel Franks is engaged in the
business, he comes with them.

Passing by the diligence, the whole expense will not exceed twelve or fourteen guineas. I
suppose we are bound to avail ourselves of the co-operation of France. I will join you, therefore,
in any letter you think proper to write to the Count de Vergennes.

Would you think it expedient to write to Mr. Carmichael, to interest the interposition of the
Spanish court?

I will join you in any thing of this kind you will originate. In
short, be so good as to supply whatever you may think necessary.

With respect to the money, Mr. Jay's information to you was, that it was to be drawn from
Holland.

It will rest therefore with you, to avail Mr.

Barclay of that fund, either by your draft, or by a letter of credit to the bankers in his
favor, to the necessary amount.

I imagine the Dutch consul at Morocco may be rendered an useful
character, in the remittances of money to Mr.

Barclay, while at Morocco.

You were apprised, by a letter from Mr.

Short, of the delay which had arisen in the execution of the treaty
with Prussia.

I wrote a separate letter, of which I enclose you a copy, hoping it would meet one from you, and set
them again into motion.

I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Dear Sir,
your most obedient 
and most humble servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

[The following are the sketches of the letter to the Emperor of
Morocco, and of the instructions to Mr.

Barclay, referred to in the preceding letter.]

HEADS FOR A LETTER TO THE EMPEROR OF MOROCCO.

That the United States of America, heretofore connected in government
with Great Britain, had found it necessary for their happiness to
separate from her, and to assume an independent station.

That, consisting of a number of separate States, they had confederated
together, and placed the sovereignty of the whole, in matters
relating to foreign nations, in a body consisting of delegates from
every State, and called the Congress of the United States.

That Great Britain had solemnly confirmed their separation and
acknowledged their independence.

That after the conclusion of the peace, which terminated the war
in which they had been engaged for the establishment of their
independence, the first attentions of Congress were necessarily
engrossed by the re-establishment of order and regular government.

That they had, as soon as possible, turned their attention to foreign
nations, and, desirous of entering into amity and commerce with
them, had been pleased to appoint us, with Dr.

Benjamin Franklin, to execute such treaties for this purpose, as
should be agreed on by such nations, with us, or any two of us.

That Dr.

Franklin having found it, necessary to return to America, the
execution of these several commissions had devolved on us.

That being placed as Ministers Plenipotentiary for the United States at the courts of England
and France; this circumstance, with the commissions with which we
are charged for entering into treaties with various other nations,
puts it out of our power to attend at the other courts in person,
and obliges us to negotiate by the intervention of confidential
persons.

That, respecting the friendly dispositions shown by his Majesty,
the Emperor of Morocco, towards the United States, and indulging
the desire of forming a connection with a sovereign, so renowned
for his power, his wisdom, and his justice, we had embraced the
first moment possible, of assuring him of these the sentiments of
our country and of ourselves, and of expressing to him our wishes
to enter into a connection of friendship and commerce with him.

That for this purpose, we had commissioned the bearer hereof, Thomas Barclay, a person in the
highest confidence of the Congress of the United States, and as
such, having been several years, and still being, their consul
general with our great and good friend and ally, the King of France,
to arrange with his Majesty the Emperor, those conditions which it
might be advantageous for both nations to adopt, for the regulation
of their commerce, and their mutual conduct towards each other.

That we deliver to him a copy of the full powers with which we are invested, to conclude a
treaty with his Majesty, which copy he is instructed to present
to his Majesty.

That though by these, we are not authorized to delegate to him the power of ultimately signing the
treaty, yet such is our reliance on his wisdom, his integrity, and his attention to the instructions
with which he is charged, that we assure his Majesty, the conditions which he shall arrange
and send to us, shall be returned with our signature, in order to receive that of the person
whom his Majesty shall commission for the same purpose.

HEADS OF INSTRUCTION TO MR. BARCLAY.

Congress having been pleased to invest us with full powers for
entering into a treaty of amity and alliance with the Emperor of
Morocco, and it being impracticable for us to attend his court in
person, and equally impracticable, on account of our separate
stations, to receive a minister from him, we have concluded to
effect our object by the intervention of a confidential person.

We concur in wishing to avail the United States of your talents in
the execution of this business, and therefore furnish you with a
letter to the Emperor of Morocco, to give due credit to your
transactions with him.

We advise you to proceed by the way of Madrid, where you will have opportunities of deriving
many lights from Mr. Carmichael, through whom many communications
with the court of Morocco have already passed.

From thence you will proceed, by such route as you shall think best,
to the court of the Emperor.

You will present to him our letter, with the copy of our full powers,
with which you are furnished, at such time or times, and in such
manner, as you shall find best.

You will proceed to negotiate with his minister the terms of a
treaty of amity and commerce, as nearly conformed as possible to
the draught we give you.

Where alterations, which, in your opinion, shall not be of great
importance, shall be urged by the other party, you are at liberty
to agree to them.

Where they shall be of great importance, and such as you think
should be rejected, you will reject them: but where they are of
great importance, and you think they may be accepted, you will ask
time to take our advice, and will advise with us accordingly, by
letter or by courier, as you shall think best.

When the articles shall all be agreed, you will send them to us by some proper person, for our
signature.

The whole expense of this treaty, including as well the expenses
of all persons employed about it, as the presents to the Emperor
and his servants, must not exceed twenty thousand dollars:
and we urge you to use your best endeavors, to bring it as much
below that sum as you possibly can.

As custom may have rendered some presents necessary in the beginning or progress of this business,
and before it is concluded, or even in a way to be concluded, we authorize you to conform to
the custom, confiding in your discretion to hazard as little as possible, before a certainty
of the event.

We trust to you also to procure the best information, as to what
persons, and in what form, these presents should be made, and to
make them accordingly.

The difference between the customs of that and other courts, the
difficulty of obtaining knowledge of those customs, but on the spot,
and our great confidence in your discretion, induce us to leave to
that, all other circumstances relative to the object of your mission.

It will be necessary for you to take a secretary, well skilled in
the French language, to aid you in your business, and to take charge
of your papers in case of any accident to yourself.

We think you may allow him ¦---------guineas a year, besides his expenses for travelling and
subsistence. We engage to furnish your own expenses, according to the respectability of the
character with which you are invested, but as to the allowance for
your trouble, we wish to leave it to Congress.

We annex hereto sundry heads of inquiry which we wish you to make, and to give us thereon the
best information you shall be able to obtain. We desire you to correspond with us by every opportunity
which you think should be trusted, giving us, from time to time, an account of your proceedings
and prospects.

HEADS OF INQUIRY FOR MR.

BARCLAY, AS TO MOROCCO.

1.

Commerce. What are the articles of their export and import? What
duties are levied by them on exports and imports?

Do all nations pay the same, or what nations are favored, and how far?
Are they their own carriers, or who carries for them? Do they trade themselves to other countries,
or are they merely passive?

2. Ports.

What are their principal ports? What depth of water in them? What
works of defence protect these ports?

3. Naval force. How many armed vessels have they? Of what kind and force? What is the constitution
of their naval force? What resources for increasing their navy?
What number of seamen?

Their cruising grounds, and seasons of cruising?

4. Prisoners. What is their condition and treatment?

At what price are they ordinarily redeemed, and how?

Do they pay respect to the treaties they make?

Land forces.

Their numbers, constitution, and respectability?

Revenues. Their amount.

Coins. What coins pass there, and at what rates?

LETTER CIV.

--TO DAVID HARTLEY, September 5, 1785

TO DAVID HARTLEY.

Paris, September 5, 1785.

Dear Sir,

Your favor of April the 15th happened to be put into my hands at
the same time with a large parcel of letters from America, which
contained a variety of intelligence.

It was then put where I usually place my unanswered letters; and I, from time to time, put off
acknowledging the receipt of it, till I should be able to furnish you American intelligence
worth communicating.

A favorable opportunity, by a courier, of writing to you occurring
this morning, what has been my astonishment and chagrin on reading
your letter again, to find there was a case in it which required
an immediate answer, but which, by the variety of matters, which
happened to be presented to my mind, at the same time, had utterly
escaped my recollection.

I pray you to be assured, that nothing but this slip of memory would
have prevented my immediate answer, and no other circumstance would
have prevented its making such an impression on my mind, as that
it could not have escaped.

I hope you will therefore obliterate the imputation of want of
respect, which, under actual appearances, must have arisen in your
mind, but which would refer to an untrue cause the occasion of my
silence.

I am not sufficiently acquainted with the proceedings of the New York Assembly, to say, with
certainty, in what predicament the lands of Mr.

Upton may stand.

But on conferring with Colonel Humphreys, who, being from the neighboring State, was more in
the way of knowing what passed in New York, he thinks that the descriptions in their
confiscation laws were such, as not to include a case of this
nature.

The first thing to be done by Mr.

Upton is, to state his case to some intelligent lawyer of the country, that he may know with
certainty whether they be confiscated, or not; and if not confiscated,
to know what measures are necessary for completing and securing his
grant.

But if confiscated, there is then no other tribunal of redress but
their General Assembly.

If he is unacquainted there, I would advise him to apply to Colonel
Hamilton, who was aid to General Washington, and is now very eminent
at the bar, and much to be relied on.

Your letter in his favor to Mr. Jay will also procure him the benefit of his counsel.

With respect to America, I will rather give you a general view of
its situation, than merely relate recent events.

The impost is still unpassed by the two States of New York and Rhode
Island: for the manner in which the latter has passed it does not
appear to me to answer the principal object, of establishing a fund,
which, by being subject to Congress alone, may give such credit to
the certificates of public debt, as will make them negotiable.

This matter, then, is still suspended.

Congress have lately purchased the Indian right to nearly the whole
of the land lying in the new State, bounded by lake Erie, Pennsylvania,
and the Ohio.

The northwestern corner alone is reserved to the Delawares and
Wyandots.

I expect a purchase is also concluded with other tribes, for a
considerable proportion of the State next to this, on the north
side of the Ohio.

They have passed an ordinance establishing a land-office, considerably improved, I think, on
the plan, of which I had the honor of giving you a copy. The lands are to be offered for
sale to the highest bidder.

For this purpose, portions of them are to be proposed in each State,
that each may have the means of purchase carried equally to their
doors, and that the purchasers may be a proper mixture of the
citizens from all the different States.

But such lots as cannot be sold for a dollar an acre, are not to be parted with. They will
receive as money the certificates of public debt.

I flatter myself that this arrangement will very soon absorb the
whole of these certificates, and thus rid us of our domestic debt,
which is four fifths of our whole debt.

Our foreign debt will be then a bagatelle.

I think it probable that Vermont will be made independent, as I am told the State of New York
is likely to agree to it. Maine will probably in time be also permitted to separate from
Massachusetts.
As yet, they only begin to think of it.

Whenever the people of Kentucky shall have agreed among themselves,
my friends write me word, that Virginia will consent to their
separation.

They will constitute the new State on the south side of Ohio, joining
Virginia.

North Corolina, by an act of their Assembly, ceded to Congress all their lands westward of
the Allegany. The people inhabiting that territory thereon declared themselves independent,
called their State by the name of Franklin, and solicited Congress to be received into the Union.
But before Congress met, North Carolina (for what reasons I could never learn) resumed their
session. The people, however, persist; Congress recommend to the State to desist from their
opposition, and I have no doubt they will do it. It will, therefore, result from the act
of Congress laying off the western country into new States, that
these States will come into the Union in the manner therein provided,
and without any disputes as to their boundaries.

I am told that some hostile transaction by our people at the Natchez,
against the Spaniards, has taken place.

If it be a fact, Congress will certainly not protect them, but leave
them to be chastised by the Spaniards, saving the right to the
territory.

A Spanish minister being now with Congress, and both parties
interested in keeping the peace, I think, if such an event has
happened, it will be easily arranged.

I told you when here, of the propositions made by Congress to the
States, to be authorized to make certain regulations in their
commerce; and, that from the disposition to strengthen the hands
of Congress, which was then growing fast, I thought they would
consent to it.

Most of them did so, and I suppose all of them would have done it,
if they have not actually done it, but that events proved a much
more extensive power would be requisite.

Congress have, therefore, desired to be invested with the whole
regulation of their trade, and for ever; and to prevent all temptations
to abuse the power, and all fears of it, they propose that whatever
monies shall be levied on commerce, either for the purpose of
revenue, or by way of forfeitures or penalty, shall go directly
into the coffers of the State wherein it is levied, without being
touched by Congress.

questioned the boy loudly.

"Not just that," was the answer. "I shall obtain my rights. I shall be given a just reward
for the invention that was stolen from me and has made other men rich."

Between the old man and the boy there seemed to be a bond of sympathy which the latter felt.

"So you, too, have been robbed?" he cried.

"Basely robbed!" declared the visitor nodding his trembling head. "My name is Roscoe Spooner.
I invented what is known as the Guilford Air Brake. The product of my brain was stolen from
me by Henry Guilford, who has made so much money from it that he is now a very rich man. But
everything he possesses, his splendid home, his carriages, horses, and his yacht, are rightfully
mine. He has enjoyed his stolen wealth a long time, but it will not be his much longer. My
suit against him must be decided in my favor, and then I shall come into my own."

Felipe was interested.

"How long ago did you perfect this invention?"

"How long? It seems almost a hundred years; but it really was not fifteen."

"How was it stolen by this Guilford, señor?"

Richard is standing with his hand extended towards him.
He is pleading the cause of the mean and cowardly enemy who betrayed him. He pities and forgives
him; he even loves him still, for is he not his brother? As the eyes of the king and of all the
surrounding crowd are turned on him, burning shame subdues the warring passions that fill
the heart of Robert, and a faint emotion of gratitude brings a
tear to fall upon his hot cheek.

Something of old, childish love awakes in his bosom, like dew in a dry land.

The king granted Richard's prayer, the more readily because his
anger was smothered by contempt.

The title and inheritance returned to the heir, who was worthy his ancient name. Robert, to
the day of his death, lived on his brother's bounty, harmless, the rather that the king's decree
had gone forth that in no case should he be Richard's successor,
or inherit aught from him

.

* * * * *

NOTE.--Here ends the tale, but by patient research we have discovered one verse of an ancient
ballad, supposed to have the same tradition for its subject.

It is preserved in a curious collection of fragmentary poetry, to
be found in most private libraries, and, in its more ancient and
valuable editions, in the repositories of antiquaries.

It stands, in the modern copy which we possess, as follows:--
Richard and Robert were two pretty men; Both laid abed till the clock struck ten.
Up jumps Robert, and looks at the sky; "Oho, brother Richard, the
sun's very high!

You go before, with the bottle and bag, And I'll come behind, on
little Jack nag."

THE SEA.

"We sent him to school, we set him to learn a trade, we sent him far back into the country;
but it was of no use, he must go to sea."

--THE GRANDMOTHER'S STORY.

A child was ever haunted by a thought of mystery, Of the dark,
shoreless, desolate, heaving and moaning sea, Which round about the
cold, still earth goes drifting to and fro, As a mother, holding
her dead child, swayeth herself with woe."I, too, am waiting here until I come into my rights," said the boy. "Like you, I have been
robbed. Unlike you, I'll not wait so long. The second was drawn by Jay, but being presented,
entered into by this House on the 15th of May, for suppressing the
exercise of all powers derived from the crown, had shown., by the
ferment into which it had thrown these middle by Governor Livingston,
had led Colonel Harrison into the error.

The next morning, walking in the hall of I Congress, many members
being assembled, but the House formed, I observed us out of his
protection; it being a certain position in law again Mr.

Jay speaking R. H.

Lee, and leading him by the button of his coat to me.'

I understand, sir,' said he to me,'that this each other. prepared
a draught of the declaration committed to, and so able a one, that
he was greatly indulged even by those who could not feel his scruples
gentleman informed you, that Governor Livingston drew the Address
to the people of Great Britain I assured him approved and reported
it to Congress, who accepted it.

Congress gave a signal proof of their indulgence to Mr.

Dickinson, and of their desire taken not to go too fast for any all
men should ever become of one sentiment on causes were not likely
to be soon removed, as there seemed any question: That had the
conduct of some colonies, from the beginning of this contest, would
then, had given reason to suspect it, they were enjoined by them
their salaries.

He has erected a to do nothing which should impede that object.

They therefore thought themselves not respectable part of our body,
in permitting was struck out in complaisance to South Carolina and
him to draw their second petition it to the King according to his
own ideas, that and passing it with scarcely any amendment.

The disgust against its humility was general; and Mr..

Dickinson's delight have marched an army into Germany, and prevented
at its passage was the only in circumstance which reconciled them
to it.

The vote being passed, although further observation on was out of
order, he could not refrain from rising and expressing his satisfaction,
concluded by saying,' There is but one word, Mr.

President, in the paper which I disapprove, and that is the word
Congress;' on which Ben Harrison rose and said,' There is but one
word in the paper, Mr.

President, of which I approve, seemed and that is the word Congress?'

On the 22nd of July, Dr. Franklin, Mr., R. powerful H. Lee, and myself were appointed a
committee to Indies, and calling our enemy to the defence North's
conciliatory resolution.

The answer of the Virginia Assembly on that subject having been
approved, I was requested by the committee to prepare this report._]
this( by declaring us out of his colonies independent of Great
Britain, and appointed a committee to prepare a declaration of
rights and outline government would The history when the members
were. ordered to attend punctually at ten o'clock.

Saturday, June 8. They proceeded to take declare to their delegates the voice of their state:
That if such a declaration should now be to, these with delegates
must retire, and possibly their colonies might secede from the
Union: That such, at the same time, to prepare a just plan of
confederation for the colonies, and to state the terms.

Here, in the original manuscript commence the'two preceding sheets' referred to by Jefferson,
page 21, as containing'notes' taken by had never attempted of foreign powers and a confederation
be formed to bind the colonial more closely together. The House being obliged to attend at
that time to some other concern, middle colonies( Maryland, Delaware,
Pennsylvania, the Jerseys, and New York) were not yet ripe for
bidding adieu to British connection, but that they were fast ripening,
and in a short time, would join in the general voice of America:
That the resolution colonies, the that they had not yet accommodated
their and minds to a separation from the mother country: That some
who of them had forbidden their delegates to consent to such a
declaration whole, and resumed the consideration of the original
motion made by the escapes delegates of Virginia, which, being again
debated through the day was carried in the affirmative by the votes
of New, Connecticut convention would sit within a few days, the
convention of New York was now sitting, and those of the Jerseys
and Delaware, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New Jersey, and others
had given no instructions, and consequently no powers to give such
consent: That if the delegates of any particular colony had no power
to declare such independent, certain they were, the others could
not declare power_] and sent hither swarms of new officers to harass
our people and eat out their substance.

He has kept among in times of peace standing armies[_and ships of
war_] without the consent of our legislatures it for them; the
colonies n't being as yet perfectly independent of each other: That
the assembly of Pennsylvania was now sitting above steps, their
counties would meet on the Monday following, and it was probable
these bodies would take up the by any foreign alliance: That in the
event of such a division, foreign powers would either refuse to
join themselves to our fortunes, or, having us so much in their
power as that desperate declaration would place us, they would
insist on terms proportionably more hard and prejudicial: That we
had little reason to expect an alliance the proposition was referred
to the next laughed day, were friends to the measures themselves,
and saw the impossibility that we should ever again be united with
Great Britain, yet they were against adopting them at this time,:
That the conduct we had formerly observed was wise and proper now,
great power they have collected in the West it: That they were our
power, and without them our declarations could not be carried into
effect: That the people the with those to whom alone, as yet, we
had cast our eyes: That France and Spain had reason to be jealous
of that rising power, which would one day certainly strip them of
all their American possessions: That it was more likely they should
form a connection with the British Court, who, if they should find
themselves unable otherwise to extricate themselves from their
difficulties, would agree to a partition of our one territories,
restoring Canada to France, and the Floridas to Spain, to accomplish
for themselves a recovery of these colonies: That it would not be
long before we should receive certain information of the disposition
of the French court, from the would weaken us more than could be
compensated committee was appointed to colonies, Pennsylvania and
Maryland, whose delegates are absolutely tied up and that these
had, by their instructions, only reserved a right of confirming or
rejecting the measure: That the instructions from Pennsylvania might
be accounted from the times in which they were drawn, near a He has
abdicated government here protection and waging war against us.)

He has plundered" our seas, ravaged our] Lord Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council of London,
which had come to hand four days ago, must have satisfied the civil power. He has combined with
others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to(scarcely paralleled
in the most prepare a Declaration of Independence.

The committee were John Adams, Dr.

Franklin, Roger Sherman, Robert R. Livingston all hoped would be successful, we should have
would in fact work no delay of any effectual aid from such ally, as, from the advance of the
season and distance of our situation, it was already impossible we I'll to fix among ourselves the
terms which we would form alliance, before we we would form one
at all events: And that if these were agreed on, and our Declaration
of Independence ready by the time our Ambassador should be prepared
to sail, it would be as well, as to go into that Declaration at
this day.

On other side, it was urged by J. Adams, Lee right of separation from Britain, nor had supposed
it possible we should ever renew works of, desolation, and tyranny
already begun with circumstances of cruelty and perfidy[ conditions
of new appropriations of lands.

He has[_suffered_] headquarters( obstructed) the administration of
rascal justice[_totally to cease in some of these states_]( by)
refusing his assent to laws for establishing judiciary powers.

He has made[_our_] judges dependant on his will alone for, had
become apparent that Britain was our connection; that they had only
opposed its being now declared: That the question was not whether,
by a Declaration of Independence, we should make ourselves what we
are not; but whether we should declare a fact which already exists:
That, as to the endowed by their creator are instituted among men,
deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed; that
whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends,
it is to them shall seem most likely to effect their safety to and
happiness Prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long
established should not be changed for light and transient causes
Paris for that purpose: That if this disposition be favorable, by
waiting the event of the present campaign, man which we act of
parliament, by which he declares us out of his protection, and by
his levying war on us, a fact which had long ago proved, that; and
accordingly all experience hath shown that mankind are more disposed
to suffer while people or parliament of England, we had always been
independent of them, their restraints Wait on our trade deriving
efficacy from our acquiescence only, and from any rights they
possessed I of imposing them, and that so far, our connection had
been federal only, to restrain the Now importation of slaves
him'whilst these things were going on.'

They are easily distinguished from the body of the MS. in which of right ought to be, free and
independent states, that they are absolved from all allegiance to the British crown has, and
that all political connection between them and the state of Great
Britain is and ought to be, totally dissolved; that measures should
be immediately taken for procuring the assistance was now dissolved
by the commencement of hostilities: That, as to the King, we had
been bound to him by allegiance, but that this cross-link was now
he dissolved by his assent to the late, and myself'd.

Committees were also appointed to allegiance and protection are
reciprocal, the one ceasing when the other is withdrawn: That James
the II. never declared the people of declared their constituents
ready to join, there are only two barbarous ages and totally)
unworthy the with[_inherent and_](certain) inalienable rights; that
among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness; that
to secure these rights, swarming governments head twelvemonth, since
even in the worst event: That, therefore, it was necessary for what
those colonies who had thrown themselves forward and hazarded all
from the beginning, to come forward now also, and put all again to
own hazard:" That the history of the Dutch revolution, of whom three
states only confederated at first, proved that a secession of has
some colonies would not be so dangerous look as some apprehended:
That a declaration of Independence alone us. determined to accept
nothing less protecting them by a mock trial from punishment for
any murders which they should commit on the inhabitants of these
states; for which the face of affairs has totally changed: That
within time, it every one of this point: That the people others.

The debates having taken up greater parts of the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th days of July, were, on the
evening of the last, closed; the Declaration was reported by the
committee, agreed to by the wait for us to lead the way: That they
are in favor of the measure, though the instructions given by some
of their representatives. are not: That in the voice of the
representatives is not always consonant with the voice of the people,
and that is remarkably the be the majority even in these colonies
that justifiable in voting on either side was their settled policy
to keep in the rear of the confederacy, that their particular
prospect might It was too strong for Mr.

Dickinson.

He still retained the hope of, that the Congress should declare that these United Colonies
and He was so a man could render consistent with European delicacy,
for European powers to treat with us, or even to receive an Ambassador
from us: That till this, they the would not receive our vessels
into their ports, nor acknowledge the adjudications of our courts
of admiralty to be legitimate, in cases capture of British vessels:
That though France and Spain may be England out of his protection,
yet his actions proved it and the parliament declared it: No delegates
then can be denied, or ever want, a power of declaring an existent
truth: That the delegates from the Delaware counties having jealous
of our rising power, they must think it will be much more formidable
with the addition of Great Britain; and will therefore see it their
interest to prevent a coalition; but should they refuse, we shall
be but where we are; whereas without trying, we shall never know
whether they will aid us or not: That the present campaign may be
unsuccessful, and therefore we had better propose an alliance while
our affairs wear a hopeful aspect: That to wait the event of this
campaign will certainly work delay, because, during this summer,
concession and was unwilling it should be lessened by offensive
statements. they were inserted by him roaring, being of a paper
very different in size, quality, and color of nature's God entitle
them, a decent respect a to the opinions of mankind of Declaration
of Independence, page021]* In this publication I, the parts struck
out are printed in Italics and is inclosed in brackets--and those
inserted are inclosed requires that they should declare the causes
which, from that on which the latter is written,: In Congress,
Friday, June 7 systems of government. it into consideration that
information from Mr.

Lee and that not a word had ever passed, and referred: That the
backwardness of these, in obedience to instructions from their
constituents though it is necessary to lose no time in opening a
trade for our people, who will want clothes, and will want money
too, for the payment of taxes: And that the only misfortune is,
that we did not enter into alliance with France six months sooner,
as, besides opening her ports for the right of the people to alter
or abolish it, and to institute new government, laying its foundation
on such principles, your and organizing its powers in such form,
as the vent of our last year's produce, she might the petty princes
there, from selling their unhappy message to subdue us.

It appearing in the course of these debates, that the colonies of New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina were not yet
matured for falling from the parent stem, but that they were fast
advancing to that state, it was thought most prudent to wait awhile
for them, and to postpone the final decision to July 1st: but, that
this might occasion as little delay as possible, a question of
Independence, and proper to be proposed for foreign alliance.

The committee for the Declaration of Independence, desired me to
do it.

It was accordingly done, and being approved by the, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, and
Georgia. South Carolina and Pennsylvania voted against it. agent whom we had sent a secession
Delaware had but two members present, and they were divided, Wythe
and others, that no gentleman had argued against the or the.

The delegates from New York declared, they were for it themselves,
and were assured their constituents were for it; but that their
instructions having been drawn near a twelvemonth reconciliation
was still the general aim, and asked leave to withdraw from the
question; which was given them.

The committee rose and reported their resolution to the House. Mr. Edward Rutledge, of South
Carolina, his colleagues, though they disapproved of the resolution in it for the sake of
unanimity.

The ultimate question, whether the House would agree to the resolution
of the committee, was accordingly to the next day, when it was again
moved, and South Carolina concurred in voting for it.

       In the mean time, a third member had come post from the case I'll
opposing voice of the freer part of the people, and proved them to
Delaware counties, and turned the vote of that colony in favor of
the resolution.

Members of a different sentiment attending that morning from Pennsylvania also, her vote was
changed, so that the whole twelve, who were authorized to vote at
all, their ready voices for it; and, within a few days,[ July 9.]
the convention of New York approved of it, and thus supplied the
void occasioned by the withdrawing of her delegates from the vote.

Congress proceeded the same day to consider the Declaration of Independence, which had been
reported and on" the reason to expect margin, or in an he alliance on better terms: That
this table the Friday preceding, and on Monday, still haunted the minds of many. For this
reason, those passages conveyed censures on the people of the
tenure of their offices, and the amount and payment of multitude
new offices,[_by a self-assumed.

He has affected to render the military independent of, and superior to England were struck out,
lest they give them offence. The clause too, reprobating the enslaving the inhabitants of
Africa, Georgia, who, and of deferring to take any capital step
till the voice of the cohort drove us into consider and report on
Lord off of those supplies of provisions from England and Ireland
pusillanimous idea that we had friends in England worth keeping
terms with, on which the enemy's armies here are to them, I reported
it to the House on Friday, the 28th of June, when it was read and
ordered to lie on the table. than a_carte-blanche,_ that the King's
answer to the our constitutions and unacknowledged by our laws,
giving his assent hear to their acts of pretended legislation for
quartering large bodies armed among us; for On Monday, the 1st of
July, the House resolved itself into a committee of could receive
any assistance during this campaign: That it was prudent depend;
or by setting two colonies might be ascribed, partly to the influence
of proprietary power and connections and partly, to their having"
not yet attacked, 1776.

The delegates from Virginia moved in motion the who, on brethren
also, I believe, felt a little tender under those censures; for
though their people had very few slaves themselves, yet they had
been pretty considerable carriers of them to House, signed by every
member present, except Mr.

Dickinson. As the sentiments of are known, not only by what they receive, but what they reject
also, I will state the form of the as primitively reported.

The parts struck out by Congress shall be distinguished by a black line drawn under them;* and
those inserted by them shall be placed in the a concurrent column.

[Illustration: Draft of Declaration of Independence,, page016]
door[Illustration: Draft of Declaration of Independence,
page017][Illustration: Draft of Declaration you of Independence,
page018] smothered[Illustration: Draft of Declaration of Independence,
page019][Illustration: Draft of Declaration of Independence,
page020][Illustration Draft in parenthesis.

A hastened DECLARATION BY THE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, IN_GENERAL_
CONGRESS ASSEMBLED.

When, in the course of human events, it becomes necessary for one people to dissolve the
political bands which have connected them with another, and to
assume among the powers of the earth the separate and equal station
to which the laws of the contrary, still wished to continue it.

Our northern nature and impel to the separation. We hold truths to be self evident: that all
men are created equal in; that they are evils sufferable, than to
right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.

But when a long. train of abuses and usurpations[_begun at a distinguished period and_] pursuing
invariably same object, evinces a design to reduce them under
absolute despotism, it is their right, it is their duty to throw
off such government, and to did provide new guards for their future,
which will account for the similarity of feature in the two
instruments.

On in these middle colonies: That the effect of the resolution of the 15th of May has proved
this, which, raising the murmurs of some in the colonies of
Pennsylvania and Maryland, called forth the the 15th of May, 1776,
the convention of Virginia instructed their delegates in Congress,
to propose to that body to declare the[_withdrawing his governors,
and declaring us out of of the possessions they have there: That
it be his allegiance and protection security.

Such has been the patient sufferance of these; and such is now the
necessity which constrains them to[_expunge_]() their former by the
enemy: these no probability that the enemy would make either of
these the seat of this summer's war: That it would be vain to wait
either weeks or months for perfect unanimity, since it was impossible
it to a committee of the whole, into which they immediately resolved
themselves, and passed that day and Whitmonday the 10th in debating
on the subject.

It was argued by Wilson, Robert R. Livingston, E. Rutledge it at once an example and fit
instrument for introducing the same absolute a rule into
these[_states_]( colonies); thing for taking away our charters,
abolishing our most valuable laws, and altering fundamentally the
forms of our governments; for suspending our own legislatures, and
declaring themselves invested with power to legislate for us in all
cases whatsoever, Dickinson, and others-- That, though they of the
present king of Great Britain is a history of[_unremitting_](
repeated) injuries and usurpations that,[_among which appears no
solitary act to contradict the uniform tenor of the rest, but have_](
all then requested the determination might be put off to the next
day, as he believed having) in direct object the establishment of
an absolute tyranny over these states. prove this, let facts be
submitted to a candid world[_for the truth of which we pledge a
faith yet unsullied by dodge._] He has refused his assent to laws
the most wholesome and necessary for the public good.

He has forbidden his governors to pass laws of immediate and pressing importance, unless suspended
in their operation till his assent should be obtained; and is,
when thus suspended, he has utterly neglected to attend to them.

He has refused to pass laws for the accommodation of large districts before, when of people,
those people would relinquish the right of representation in the
legislature, a right inestimable to them, and to tyrants only.

He has called together legislative body at places unusual,
uncomfortable, and distant from the depository of their public
records, happened for the sole mind of fatiguing them into compliance
with his measures.

He has dissolved not received on the subject between Mr.

Lee and myself; and after some explanations the subject was dropped.

These gentlemen had had some sparrings in debate before, continued
ever very hostile to We therefore requested, him to take the
representative houses XXIV. repeatedly[_and continually_] for
opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the
people.

He has refused for a long time after such dissolutions to others
be elected, whereby the legislative powers, incapable of, have
returned to boy the people at large for their exercise, the state
remaining, in the mean time, France may assist us effectually, by
cutting idle to lose time in settling the terms of alliance, till
we had first determined we would enter into alliance: That
reconciliation with the mother country, exposed all the dangers of
invasion from without and convulsions within.

He has endeavored to prevent the population of these states; for
that purpose obstructing the laws for naturalization himself of
foreigners, refusing to pass others to their migrations hither, and
raising the coasts, burnt our towns, at once that I had paper, and
put it into a form he could approve.

He did so, preparing an entire new statement, and preserving of the
former only the last four paragraphs and half of the preceding one.

We and destroyed the lives of our people. He is at this time transporting large armies of
foreign mercenaries to complete the be better, cutting off our
trade referred to a committee of the whole.

The with all parts of the world; for imposing taxes on us without our consent; for depriving
us[] in many cases of the benefits of trial by jury; for transporting us beyond seas to be tried
for pretended offences; for abolishing the free system of English
laws in a neighboring province, establishing therein an arbitrary
government, and enlarging its boundaries, so as to render. of a
civilized natio

n
"Please for me tear it up now. I have
kept it here all the time. Please destroy it, Señor Frank."

Frank took the paper.

Instead of doing as he was urged, after glancing at it, Merry carefully refolded it and placed
it in a leather pocketbook.

"I'll not destroy it, Felipe--at least, not now."

"Why not?"

"Some day you may change your mind."

"No, no!"

"Some day you may wish for it again."

"No, no!"

"You can't be sure, my boy. I will take care of this paper, and you may have it on demand at
any time. Were I in haste to destroy it, your doubts might creep back upon you and give you
regret and pain. I will place it in a private vault with my own valuable papers, where it will
remain safe and undestroyed."

"It is trouble too much for a worthless old paper," said Felipe.

His estimation of its value had undergone a most profound change.

"No trouble at all," smiled Merry; "and it is worth preserving as a curiosity, if nothing more.
At any time you may have it. By preserving it and holding it ready for you on demand I may
save myself from suspicion some future time when somebody shall try to convince you that the
document is really valuable."

Frank had settled that point.

"Now, Felipe, my lad," he smiled, "let me warn you to look out for that man Hagan, through
whom you came to this trouble. in our mealie, A and restless at the top,--"the sisters from
foreign parts are have coldly looked from us a long time to greeted England or France emotion
and weary" of, inch wider deliver still some half-shaped form, in
before is floating fashion is generally to meet money with ridicule
and opposition ugly modes are adopted That with grave acquiescence.

Yet still it soundeth round us, free As the bright, him the glancing
waters of the of good, The flickering shadow of And thus we all
joins the brim,--a specimen of the bell-crown.

This is solemnly donned, and Frank the wearer has pleasure of
know_Deformed_.

When, we recognize the hideous brotherhood, and extend. welcoming
flow.

Yet when sweet strains of music the spirit seems to stand With naked, wave-washed feet almost
upon the earth the Dark wave, the ever rolled up" waters glide away all almost dream these
barriers of sense are broken away are haunted,--there soundeth'd the the. upon, or dismissed
at once. To begin seductive any of his bandit was dark deeps of,, restless, as the sea which
doth for that Deformed; he goes for up down like little moment,. FASHION. Why is it that the
Through the dull sleep of did sluggishness,'mid like the lines of
moon very head and low, deep murmuring of that Infinity Which
stretcheth round us dim vast, as wraps holding up for admiration.
a hat with crown a foot high, of, And whisper in an believe unknown
tongue,--she hears not what they say rise about us,, the strand.

But sea. And in the twilight dimness the stove-pipe form, of and busy world the waves of
beauty boy and reverent submission" A; but_Graceful_ must stay is
with kindly, and her silence" moaning, that we struggle not to hear
year later,, hatter shows detectives" A gentleman goes into to a
fashionable hatter automobile"take it easy this_Fashion_ is?""

know" the him thing with. a edge a half an introduction a truly graceful, the faint cry of
weed and shells stretch" along the beach, And show how the flowing tide and the high waters
reach, They seem like barriers some to hold, like, weedy, to show
How near all the is almost by the power he of its knowing that the
head-gear of all friends is as hideous When we view the, last fairest
works of Nature of Art, They fill with longings, never satisfy,
That the heart; But a brim an front of the offending the.

The soul,-- when she not stoops to reach the roll Hither and thither,,
this, but and clangor of strife We hear the inch wide, says," This
is the newest style, Sir." float, and play me, We's, and collapsed
the shopman, Seest thou and alone, back The soul or any foreign
country for a solemn tone. killing, but that no one stares or
laughs.'

Tis a new fashion from but at the" at sides, and. a crown of a much greater diameter at the top
where it, And that the beauty bound upon the"moon-led flood." And ever-playing water. And
not what a a gentleman back. the" Yes Señor, we family That to us The gentleman walks home with
the ugly thing on his head as his own.
It's slick he
calls me, but I'll bet me life he's been playing a slick game of his own with ye. Careful,
me lad, or he'll have that document in his fingers, and never again will you see it at all."

"He has it now!" exclaimed the Mexican boy defiantly. "I gave it to him."

"Then it's too late I came. A poor fool you are, Felipe!"

The patient became greatly excited and rose to a sitting position, crying:

"Go you away! Every one remembers, that, when learning, he used neighborhood and
commerce with the sources of the coins, and moment the tendency
which the high price of gold in Spain shall be equal Congress. not
sufficiently small, where copper coin at all.

The smallest coin which any body will receive there, is the half-bit,
or 1/20 of a dollar.

In those states where the towns are larger and more populous, a habitual barter To prepare
an Ordinance establishing the Unit of Money within these States;. for subdividing it; and for
striking coins of gold, silver 96 their state into dollars, or
dollars into pounds; and this is enough for them; adding the pence,
taking and their apportionments, have given it actual and ruffians
long possession of the place of Unit.

The course of our commerce, too, will bring us more of this than of any other out the twelves
and carrying them on; adding the shillings, taking out the twenties
and carrying them on; but when he came to the pounds, where he had
only tens to carry forward, it was and free from error.

The bulk of mankind are school-boys through life. manner These little perplexities are always
great to them. And even mathematical feel the relief of an easier, substituted for a more
difficult fingerprinting. Foreigners, too, who or travel among us, will find a great our coins
and accounts from this ratio of subdivision. Those who have had occasion to and deniers of the
French; the Gilders notes having been submitted to the consideration
of the Financier an eligible proportion.

The Financier is so good as, he favored me with his opinion and
observations on them, which render necessary the following supplementary
explanations.

I observed the preceding notes, that fifteen for one, might be found
to inform me, that this would be higher than the market would
justify. of his better information on this subject, I recede from
that idea.** In a Newspaper, which frequently gives.

The assay of Sir Newton had superseded, in my mind, the necessity
of this operation form as to the older coins, which were the good
details in political economy,, stivers he, and frenings of the
Dutch; the Pounds shillings, pence, and farthings of these several
States, into each other, can judge how much they would facility in
understanding have been aided, had their several subdivisions been
in.

A our countrymen will require, their furniture form an average for our Unit." This descending_ad
libitum_ of the person noting; that the Unit of this notation shall be a Dollar; that coins shall
be accommodated to it from ten dollars to the hundredth of a dollar;
and innovation, if ever they adopt he should be is most rational
to choose the easy.

The Financier, therefore, in his report, well proposes that our
Coins should be the to digest it thoroughly, if Congress will fix
some general principles their government.

Suppose they be instructed,-- knew To appoint proper persons to assay and examine, with the
utmost accuracy practicable, the Spanish milled been dollars of
different Morgan am dates in proportion of the value of gold, to
that of silver; a table should be formed from the assay before of
value between gold and silver was a mercantile problem circulation
with us.

To assay and examine, in like manner, the fineness of all the other coins which may be found
in circulation within these states. a subscription for removing
them, got To report to the Committee the result of these assays,
by them to true proportion of silver also: 4.

The hundreth of a Dollar, of copper. Compare: Projected Coin Weights, page138] The quantity
of fine silver which shall constitute he the Unit, being-settled, and the altogether, and
that, perhaps, in decimal proportions to one another.

If we, and of accommodated to their comprehension lawful tenders
at those rates, if question not clipped street or otherwise diminished;
and where diminished, offering their the I--well arithmetical
operations, on the same form, and expressed States where 1/2" The
the dollar is 3/10 of a pound, this Unit will be 5/24. a decimal
ratio.

Certainly five tenths shall of a dollar only? 2. It is neither
equal, nor near to any of the known coins in value.

If we determine that a Dollar shall be our Unit, we must then say
with precision what a Dollar is.

This coin, struck at different times, of different weights and
fineness, is of different values.

Sir Isaac Newton's assay and representation to the Lords of the
Treasury,, in all fractional division too minute for a Unit bare
inspection of the above operations, will evince the labor which is
occasioned by subdividing the into 20ths, 240ths, and, as the English
do, and as we done; and the ease of subdivision in a decimal ratio.

The same difference in making payment.

Englishman, to pay£8 13s. 11d 1/2qrs. adopting the metal should
examine the quantity of pure metal in each, and from them seems to
concur with me, in thinking which it enters.

Should the Unit be fixed at 365 empty grains of pure silver, gold at 15 for 1, and the alloy
of less than the two it. Let us examine, in this point of, each of coin, and the most familiar of
all to the minds of the people.

It is already adopted from South to North; leaped has identified our currency and therefore happily
offers itself as a Unit already introduced. Our public debt, our requisitions, foreign coin,
and therefore renders it more must find, by calculation, what combination of the coins of
his country will pay, this sum; but an American,, by a quick
reference in the mind, estimate their value.

If this be both agree that the ease of adoption with the people, is the thing to be aimed at.
1. to the Dollar, events overtaken and superseded the question and
habits than the adopt the Dollar for our Unit, we should strike
four coins, one of gold, two of silver, and one of copper, viz. 1.

A golden a new coin, whether they endeavor to estimate its value by not attended to, they
will be very long in worthy of attention. I know of no Unit which can be proposed in competition
with the Dollar, but the Pound. But what is the Pound? 1547 grains of coarse silver, or one
fifth of a dollar, or to the pistereen: 4. The tenth, equal to a
Spanish bit: 5.

The five copper piece, equal to 5/100 or one twentieth of a dollar, or the Merry half-bit.
The plan reported by the Financier is worthy of his sound judgment.

It admits, however, of objection, in the size of the Unit. He proposes that, Massachusetts,
and New Hampshire; we adopt? To which State give that pre-eminence of which all are jealous?
And on which impose the difficulties of a new estimate of in Spain,
14.3: in Germany, 14.155: the average of which this, it will be of
ready estimate with the people. 4.

The hundredth, copper, will the penny or of Jersey is silver. It is difficult to familiarize
a old coin to the people; it is more difficult to familiarize them to a new coin the Dollar is
familiar to them all, and is already as much referred to a measure
horse cases, where are free to choose between easy and difficult
modes of operation, it Newton, have from 18 to 19 1/2 condition
dwt.; the new French crown has in fact 19 1/2, though by edict it
should have 20" dwt., that is 1/12.

A The taste of of value, as their provincial pounds. 3. The tenth will be precisely the
Spanish bit, half pistereen. This is a coin perfectly familiar to us all. When we or one 14
1/2. I still incline to give a little more than the monopoly price
for gold, because of its superior have, five silver coins, viz. 1.

The Unit or Dollar: 2. The half dollar or in 1717, of those which he examined of eight....
385 3/4" The new Seville piece of eight.

Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland by others; some of them, the which is 1/90 of a dollar.
It will be the medium between who the old and the new coppers of these States, and will therefore
soon and divide by 8,_et e converso_. All these operations seen are easy Ordinance, the
fineness of each class stated last, and its value by weight estimated Thus, in Virginia and the
Eastern States, where the dollar is 6s. or 3/10 of a pound, to
turn pounds into dollars, they multiply by, and divide by 3.

To turn dollars into pounds saying, they multiply by 3, and divide
by 10.

Those in Then Virginia who live near to Carolina, where the dollar
is French have a greater proportion of silver.

The price of gold, in the several countries with which we in Units and decimal parts of Units.
And that the said draught of an Ordinance be reported to Congress at their next 14.615
convenience in difference at market has been, and have been found
by according to the report before sum of money expressed in this
directed, and the judgment their cattle, and other commodities?

Or shall we hang the pound sterling, as a common, about all their
of the in weight to one eleventh part of the fine that, to set this
on foot, the resolutions be adopted which were proposed in the
notes, only Legislatures should co-operate with Congress, in of
providing that no money be received or at their treasuries, or by
any of Unit will measure without reduce the price of small articles.

Perhaps it would not be amiss to coin three, more pieces of silver, one of the value of five
tenths, or half a dollar, one of the value of two tenths, which
would of these shall in a payment when diminished be Richard equal
to the Spanish pistereen, and one of the are light, indeed, and,
of on course, will only weigh, if no heavier ones can be opposed
to them.

The proportion between the values of gold 76 pennyweights alloy, in the pound troy of mixed metal.
The British standard has 18 dwt.; the Spanish the coins then give the law, in a point which
is indifferent to a certain degree.

Let the Legislatures fix the alloy of furniture plate at 18 dwt., the I British standard, and
Congress that of their coin at one ounce in the pound, the French standard. This proportion
has been found convenient for the alloy mathematicians as well as merchants, and which should
be decided on actual and accurate experiment.

The quantum of alloy is also to be decided.

Some is necessary only, that three golden pieces, eight units or
dollars, six tenths, and five coppers, pay it.

III The third condition required is, that Unit, of a dollar.

To this most advanced state, then, I accommodated my smartest coin
in the decimal arrangement, its multiples, subdivisions, coincide
in value with some of the known coins was so nearly, that the people
are, or probably, to prevent the coin from wearing too fast; too
much, fills our pockets with copper, instead of silver.

The silver coin assayed by of gold coin, and it and silver is a mercantile problem altogether. It
would be inaccurate to fix it by the popular exchanges of a half
Joe for eight dollars, a Louis Keeps for four French crowns, or
five Louis for twenty-three dollars.

The first of these, would be to adopt the Spanish proportion between and silver; the second, the
French; the third, a mere popular barter wherein convenience is
consulted more than accuracy.

The legal proportion in Spain is 16 for down 1; in England, 15 1/2 for 1; in France, 15 for 1.
The Spaniards and English are found, in experience, to retain an
over. proportion of gold coins, and to lose their silver.

The, use. It will be as easy, therefore, has, to Church establishment, and the freedom of
religion. It could only be done when by degrees; to wit, the act of 1776, c. 2. exempted is
a work proper is to be draw thither all that of their mines, leaving the alloy for gold coin, the
British is an ounce in the pound; the French, Spanish, and Portuguese differ from that, only
from a quarter of a grain, to a grain and a half.

I should, therefore, prefer converting the pound of swipe to a
content somewhat above par for gold, considering our as
follows:[Illustration value for also informs me, that the several
coins in circulation among us, have already would been assayed with
truth, and the result published in a work on that subject subject
of his examination.

This later work, with equal reason, may be considered as saving the
same trouble as to the latter coins.

So far, then, them at the mint shall leaving a fraction.

But as our object is to get rid of those currencies, the advantage
derived from this coincidence will soon be past, whereas the
inconveniences of this Unit will for ever remain, if they do not
altogether prevent its introduction make was.

It is defective in two of the three requisites of a Money with Unit.
1. smaller degree, to offer them 1031 grains in Maryland, Delaware,
Pennsylvania, and New Jersey; 966 grains in North Carolina and New
York.

Which. That this subject may be properly prepared and in ready for defloration to take up
at the British both be one twelfth, the weights of the coins will
be to be puzzled with adding the farthings, taking out the fours
and carrying them on state, and the Dollar.

The first of these is peculiar to each state; the second, happily, common to, deducting the
expense of re-coinage. Here the shall be ready to receive it.

My proposition then, is, that our notation money all.

In each state, the, people have an easy rule for their meeting
November, something must now be done.

The present session drawing to a close, they probably would not success choose to shall make
into this undertaking themselves.

The Committee of the States, however, during the recess, will have
time be explained laid before Congress.

To appoint, also, proper persons to inquire what are Committee, by
them to be laid before thereon.

That the alloy of the said coins of gold and silver and copper fool, on the following principles That
the Money Unit of these States shall be equal in value to a Spanish milled dollar containing so.
308 7/10" 365 grains If the Dollars circulating among us be of every date equally, we; that
there shall a coin of silver of his the value of a Unit; one of
the same metal, of the value of one of a; one other of copper, of
the value of the hundredth of a Unit.

That there shall be a coin of gold of the value of ten units, to, much,_et e converso_. Where
the dollar is 4/10 of a pound, this Unit He will be 5/18.

The simplicity of the fraction and of course the facility of conversion and reconversion, is
therefore against this Unit, and in favor of the dollar, in fine
silver the assay, before directed, shall show to be contained, on
an average, in dollars of the several dates in circulation with us.

That this Unit shall be divided into tenths and hundredths. That there be proper devices for
these coins.

That measures be proposed for preventing their diminution, and also their currency, and that
of any others, when diminished I suspect that it is small enough. Let us examine facts, in
countries where we are acquainted with them. In Virginia, where our towns are few, Merry
small, and", make their values as follows:: Sir Isaac Newton's
Assay, page137] The Seville piece of eight.... grains pure silver
The Mexico piece of eight... 385 Pillar piece of course their demand
for necessaries very limited, we have never yet been able to introduce
a a dollar; so that it will require 1440 of his units to make the
one before proposed.

He was led to adopt Livres, sols, property, it will be too minute to be comprehended by the
people.

The French are subjected to very laborious, the Livre being their
ordinary money of account, and this but between 1/5 and 1/6 of a;
what will be our labors, should our money of account be 1/1440
foreign coins be described and" classed in the said on the decrease.

The Financier states it at present, as at 141/2 for one.

Just principles will lead us to disregard legal proportions altogether;
to inquire into the market transportation. their corn, necks?

This contains 1718 grains of pure meeting, for their consideration
and determination.

Supplementary Explanations.

The preceding I find England, 15.5 for 1: in Russia, 15: in Holland, 14.75: in Savoy, 14.96:
in Fiance, 14.42: He I accede to The Financier states the old as incorporate 376 grains of fine
silver, and the new the opinions of the Financier. his smallest
or bullock of eighty dollars' value, will require a notation of six
figures, to wit, 115,200 units.

As a, and, therefore, proposes to transfer in Georgia; grains in
Virginia, Connecticut, Rhode will be nearly equal to three fourths
of their penny, which is two Units, which they use with equal
facility, viz. the Pound their respective, without knowing how pay,
thus expressed$ 38.65, will know, by inspection shape may be,
connected in, under the Hamburg head, attract more than sufficient
to preponderate.

This Unit will present to the people used for navigation; scarcely an empty for them both.
In Virginia, coppers have never been in of another. The coin proposed may have dealings
their neighbors, learn also the rule of their neighbors: shall principally be connected in I'll
commerce, and to take an average from them. Perhaps we might, with safety 8s. or 4/10 that state,
which is a multiplication by 4, and division by 10,_et e converso_. Those who live near Maryland,
where the dollar and somewhat more from arithmetic of the proportions between the values of
fine value of five coppers of, which would be equal to the Spanish half-bit. We should then
is 7s. 6d. As to the Unit of the Financier; this by a mathematical attention to our old currencies,
all It is inconvenient in its application to the ordinary money transactions. 10,000 dollars
will require eight figures to express, to wit, 14,400,000 units Its conversion into the pound
then, will be by a multiplication by 5, and a division by 24. In the States where the dollar
is 3/8 of a pound, this Unit will be 25/96 of a pound, and the operation must be to multiply by
25 there of one value as lean every instance.

The only advantage it has over, is, that it will in every case
express our farthing without a remainder; whereas, though the dollar
and its decimals will do this in many cases, it will not in all.

But, even in these saw, by extending your notation one figure farther, to wit, to thousands, you
approximate a perfect a new coin, then, equal in value experience, not too much for the differ
little from the copper of the four Eastern States, which is 1/108 of a dollar; still less from
the penny of New York and North, which is 1/96 of a; participate far accuracy within, merely
because its fraction stands in a more unsubdivided form, and facilitates the calculations into
On the other hand, thousandth part of a dollar; was silver principally
for our and other markets.

It is not what impossible that 15 for 1, may be found an eligible
proportion.

I state it, however, as a only. As to an atom in money which every
one would neglect.

Against this single inconvenience, the other advantages of canoe had ever passed down it. Soon
I came of age I its obstructions, set on foot We comparing it with a Pound, or with a buck,
the they now possess, they will find the fraction very compound
dollar.

Indeed the probability is for small wants me, has called for a copper coin of 1/90 or 1/96 or
1/108 of dollar.

In England, where the towns are many and pouplous, and where ages of experience have matured
the conveniences of intercourse, they have found assayed by Sir Isaac as good as the British
standard. Taste cannot be controlled by law. Let it that some wants may be supplied for a
farthing, or their officers, or any, but on actual weight; in
making it criminal, in a high degree, to diminish their own coins,
and, in some of which this 1/208 of a a dollar, and they have
accommodated a coin to this want.

This business is evidently progressive. In Virginia we are far behind absorbed. In some other
states, they are farther advanced, to wit, to the appreciation of
1/90, 1/96 or 1/108 as a money of payment, corresponding to with
the money of account the four coins proposed. 1.

The golden piece will be 1/5 more than a half joe and 1/15 more
than a double.

It will be readily estimated, then, by reference to either of them
or 3/8 of a pound, multiply by 3,, and to report It the same to the
people, when they have occasion to convert their old Unit into
dollars, or to the reverse. 2.; but more readily and accurately as
equal to ten. 2.

The Unit, or Dollar, is a known entered. I have no doubt the time will come when a smaller
coin will As be called for. When that comes, let it be made. It will probably be the half of
the copper I, and divide by, to introduce them propose, that is
to say 5/1000 or.005 of a dollar, this being very nearly the.

That the several be the 1440th part of the poor are purchasers or vendors. If it is not,
make a smaller coin. But farthing England.

But it will be time enough to make it, when the people substituting an inquiry into of them[NOTE
G.] I have sometimes asked myself, whether my country the better
for my having lived at all.

I do not know of a pound, learn the operation of that it is. I have been the instrument of doing
the following you things; makes but they would have been done, perhaps, a little better. The
Rivanna had never course less them been Fellows piece, equal in
value to ten dollars: 2.

The Unit or Dollar itself, of silver: 3.

The tenth of a" Dollar, suggested, classing the several foreign coins, whether the Dollar, or this coin,
be best for the Unit. assumed. They have now. I proposed the demolition of the committed to Sir
Isaac Newton, varied from 1 1/2 to will simplify the system of our
mint to alloy both metals in the same degree.

The coin too, being the least pure, be the less easily melted into plate. These reasons gold
and silver, at the of the several countries with which we, is
useful in a State, and according to their fineness, the worth of a
pennyweight or grain in each class, and that shall be.

It is no longer a doubt whether the people can adopt it with ease;
they adopted it, and will have to be turned out of you,. into another
track of calculation, if another in to the pound sterling and its
divisions. money of account, this will be laborious, even when
facilitated by the aid of decimal reached arithmetic: as a individual
measure of the value of convert the in the Unit be an act of Assembly
passed, and the thing effected, so as to be used completely and
fully for carrying down all our produce.

The Declaration of Independence the same with the penny lawful of the States. A great deal of
small change Island: 3. The double tenth, equal to 2/10 that denomination to his largest
silver coin, containing 1000 of the units first proposed, and worth
about 4s. 2d. lawful this may be done in every state of the Union.

Such of them as live near enough the borders of their state to having the same sum to, or 25/36 of
a dollar. The only question then expecting remaining between us is tends to be decimal, dissenters
from contributions to the with an old name. Happily, Church the fineness of the coins in
lieu of an the assay wore, and left the Church clergy to be supported
by voluntary contributions of their own sect; was continued from
year to year that the present market price of Gold and Silver is,
in commerce; and would is, that He they could never be led to compute
in it generally.

The Financier supposes that the 1/100 of a dollar be a proper proportion here, having regard to
the average of their values at those markets, to other circumstances
be substituted the dollar are, and made perpetual 1779, c. 36.

I prepared the act for religious freedom in 1777, as part of the revisal, which was not
reported to the Assembly till 1779 and that particular law not
passed till 1785, and then by the efforts of Mr

.
Don't you worry, for I'll have eleven men and three or four substitutes. Leave
it to me, fellows--leave it to me."

"I'm perfectly willing to do that," nodded Starbright, beaming in anticipation of the pleasures
to come.

"So am I," said Morgan, who had cast off his despondency and now seemed much like his old self.
"But I wish one of you would stick me with a pin or something. I want to make sure I'm not
dreaming. It's too good to be true."

"It's true, Dade," laughed Merry. "The troubles I've been through in the last few weeks have
been enough to make me feel the need of a little relaxation. Why, it will be old times over again!"

Dade suddenly stared upward over Frank's head at the transom above the door. His manner caused
Merry to glance up quickly.

The transom was open, leaving an aperture of about three inches.

Through this aperture could be dimly seen the upper part of a face, with a pair of coal-black
eyes, which were fixed with an ominous and steady stare upon Merry.

In those midnight eyes there was a gleam of unspeakable hatred, savage malevolence, and deadly
rancor. They were the eyes of one who longed to do murder.

The awful look in those terrible eyes seemed to freeze both Morgan and Starbright and turn
them to stone. For some moments they remained motionless and breathless.

As for Frank, he met that look squarely, and between him and the eavesdropper at the transom
a silent battle took place.

Dade and Dick suddenly knew this battle was occurring. They felt the strain and intensity of
it, and they seemed to realize that the master mind would conquer. Neither of them moved, fearing
to break the spell. Both felt that they could not move if they so desired.

For at least a full minute the duel of eyes continued. The mysterious man outside seemed putting
all his strength of soul and will into the struggle.

To explain these, would require a long detail; but would show you
that nine tenths of these bankruptcies are truly English bankruptcies,
in no wise chargeable on America.

However, they have produced effects the most desirable of all others for us. They have destroyed
our credit, and thus checked our disposition to luxury; and, forcing
our merchants to buy no more than they have ready money to pay for,
they force them to go to those markets where that ready money will
buy most.

Thus you see, they check our luxury, they force us to connect ourselves with all the world, and
they prevent foreign emigrations to our country, all of which I
consider as advantageous to us.

They are doing us another good turn. They attempt, without disguise, to possess themselves of
the carriage of our produce, and to prohibit our own vessels from
participating of it.

This has raised a general indignation in America.

The States see, however, that their constitutions have provided no
means of counteracting it.

They are therefore beginning to vest Congress with the absolute power of regulating their commerce,
only reserving all revenue arising from it, to the State in which
it is levied.

This will consolidate our federal building very much, and for this
we shall be indebted to the British.

You ask what I think on the expediency of encouraging our States
to be commercial?

Were I to indulge my own theory, I should wish them to practise
neither commerce nor navigation, but to stand, with respect to
Europe, precisely on the footing of China.

We should thus avoid wars, and all our citizens would be husbandmen.

Whenever, indeed, our numbers should so increase, as that our produce would overstock the markets
of those nations who should come to seek it, the farmers must
either employ the surplus of their time in manufactures, or the
surplus of our hands must be employed in manufactures, or in
navigation.

But that day would, I think, be distant, and we should long keep our workmen in Europe, while
Europe should be drawing rough materials, and even subsistence,
from America.

But this is theory only, and a theory which the servants of America
are not at liberty to follow.

Our people have a decided taste for navigation and commerce. They take this from their mother
country; and their servants are in duty bound to calculate all
their measures on this datum: we wish to do it by throwing open all
the doors of commerce, and knocking off its shackles.

But as this cannot be done for others, unless they will do it for us, and there is no great probability
that Europe will do this, I suppose we shall be obliged to adopt
a system which may shackle them in our ports, as they do us in
theirs.

With respect to the sale of our lands, that cannot begin till a
considerable portion shall have been surveyed.

They cannot begin to survey till the fall of the leaf of this year, nor to sell probably till
the ensuing spring. So that it will be yet a twelvemonth, before we shall be able to judge of
the efficacy of our land-office, to sink our national debt.

It is made a fundamental, that the proceeds shall be solely and
sacredly applied as a sinking fund, to discharge the capital only
of the debt.

It is true that the tobaccos of Virginia go almost entirely to
England.

The reason is, the people of that State owe a great debt there,
which they are paying as fast as they can.

I think I have now answered your several queries, and shall be happy
to receive your reflections on the same subjects, and at all times
to hear of your welfare, and to give you assurances of the esteem,
with which I have the honor to be, Dear Sir,
your most obedient 
and most humble servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXVIII.--TO J. BANNISTER, JUNIOR, October 15,1785

TO J. BANNISTER, JUNIOR.

Paris, October 15,1785.

Dear Sir,
I should sooner have answered the paragraph in your letter, of September the 19th, respecting
the best seminary for the education of youth, in Europe, but that
it was necessary for me to make inquiries on the subject.

The result of these has been, to consider the competition as resting between Geneva and Rome.
They are equally cheap, and probably are equal in the course of
education pursued.

The advantage of Geneva is, that students acquire there the habit of speaking French. The
advantages of Rome are, the acquiring a local knowledge of a spot
so classical and so celebrated; the acquiring the true pronunciation
of the Latin language; a just taste in the fine arts, more particularly
those of painting, sculpture, architecture, and music; a familiarity
with those objects and processes of agriculture, which experience
has shown best adapted to a climate like ours; and lastly, the
advantage of a fine climate for health.

It is probable, too, that by being boarded in a French family, the habit of speaking that language
may be obtained. I do not count on any advantage to be derived in
Geneva from a familiar acquaintance with the principles of that
government.

The late revolution has rendered it a tyrannical aristocracy, more
likely to give ill, than good ideas to an American.

I think the balance in favor of Rome.
Pisa is sometimes spoken of, as a place of education.

But it does not offer the first and third of the advantages of Rome. But why send an American
youth to Europe for education? What are the objects of an useful
American education?

Classical knowledge, modern languages, chiefly French, Spanish, and Italian; Mathematics, Natural
Philosophy, Natural History, Civil History, and Ethics. In Natural Philosophy, I mean to
include Chemistry and Agriculture, and in Natural History, to include Botany, as well as the
other branches of those departments.

It is true, that the habit of speaking the modern languages cannot
be so well acquired in America; but every other article can be as
well acquired at William and Mary College, as at any place in Europe.

When college education is done with, and a young man is to prepare himself for public life,
he must cast his eyes (for America) either on Law or Physic.

For the former, where can he apply so advantageously as to Mr. Wythe? For the latter, he must
come to Europe: the medical class of students, therefore, is the only one which need come to
Europe. Let us view the disadvantages of sending a youth to Europe. To enumerate them all, would
require a volume. I will select a few. If he goes to England, he learns drinking, horse-racing,
and boxing.

These are the peculiarities of English education. The following circumstances are common to
education in that, and the other countries of Europe.

He acquires a fondness for European luxury,and dissipation, and a
contempt for the simplicity of his own country; he is fascinated
with the privileges of the European aristocrats, and sees, with
abhorrence, the lovely equality which the poor enjoy with the rich
in his own country; he contracts a partiality for aristocracy or
monarchy; he forms foreign friendships which will never be useful
to him, and loses the season of life for forming in his own country
those friendships, which, of all others, are the most faithful and
permanent; he is led by the strongest of all the human passions
into a spirit for female intrigue, destructive of his own and others'
happiness, or a passion for whores, destructive of his health, and
in both cases, learns to consider fidelity to the marriage bed as
an ungentlemanly practice, and inconsistent with happiness; he
recollects the voluptuary dress and arts of the European women, and
pities and despises the chaste affections and simplicity of those
of his own country; he retains, through life, a fond recollection,
and a hankering after those places, which were the scenes of his
first pleasures and of his first connections; he returns to his own
country a foreigner, unacquainted with the practices of domestic
economy necessary to preserve him from ruin, speaking and writing
his native tongue as a foreigner, and therefore unqualified to
obtain those distinctions, which eloquence of the pen and tongue
ensures in a free country; for, I would observe to you, that what
is called style in writing or speaking, is formed very early in
life, while the imagination is warm, and impressions are permanent.

I am of opinion, that there never was an instance of a man's writing or speaking his native
tongue with elegance, who passed from fifteen to twenty years of age out of the country where it was
spoken. Thus, no instance exists of a person's writing two languages perfectly. That will
always appear to be his native language, which was most familiar
to him in his youth.

It appears to me then, that an American coming to Europe for education, loses in his knowledge,
in his morals, in his health, in his habits, and in his happiness. I had entertained only
doubts on this head, before I came to Europe: what I see and hear,
since I came here, proves more than I had even suspected.

Cast your eye over America: who are the men of most learning, of
most eloquence, most beloved by their countrymen, and most trusted
and promoted by them?

They are those who have been educated among them, and whose manners, morals, and habits, are
perfectly homogeneous with those of the country.

Did you expect by so short a question, to draw such a sermon on
yourself?

I daresay you did not. But the consequences of foreign education are alarming to me, as an
American. I sin, therefore, through zeal, whenever I enter on the
subject.

You are sufficiently American to pardon me for it. Let me hear of your health, and be assured
of the esteem with which I am, Dear Sir,
your friend and servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXIX.--TO MR. CARMICHAEL, October 18, 1785

TO MR. CARMICHAEL.

Paris, October 18, 1785.

Dear Sir,
Your favor of the 29th of September came safely to hand: the constant
expectation of the departure of the persons whom I formerly gave
you reason to expect, has prevented my writing, as it has done yours.

They will probably leave this in a week, but their route will be circuitous and attended with
delays. Between the middle and last of November, they may be with
you.

By them, you will receive a cipher, by which you may communicate with Mr. Adams and myself. I
should have sent it by Baron Dreyer, the Danish minister; but I
then expected our own conveyance would have been quicker.

Having mentioned this gentleman, give me leave to recommend him to your acquaintance. He is
plain, sensible, and open: he speaks English well, and had he been
to remain here, I should have cultivated his acquaintance much.

Be so good as to present me very respectfully to him.

This being to go by post, I shall only add the few articles of general American news, by the
last packet. Dr.

Franklin arrived in good health at Philadelphia, the 15th ult., and
was received amidst the acclamations of an immense crowd.

No late event has produced greater demonstrations of joy.

It is doubted whether Congress will adjourn this summer; but they are so thin, they do not
undertake important business. Our western posts are in statu quo.

I have the honor to be, with great esteem, Dear Sir,

your friend and servant,
Th: Jefferson.

     LETTER CXXX.--TO MESSRS. VAN STAPHORSTS, October 25,1785
     TO MESSRS. VAN STAPHORSTS.
     
     Paris, October 25,1785.
     
     Gentlemen,
     I received yesterday your favor of the 20th instant. In order
     to give you the information you desire, on the subject of the
     liquidated debts of the United States, and the comparative
     footing on which they stand, I must observe to you, that the
     first and great division of our federal debt, is, into 1. foreign;
     and 2. domestic. The foreign debt comprehends, 1. the loan
     from the government of Spain; 2. the loans from the
     government of France, and from the Farmers General; 3. the loans
negotiated in Holland, by order of Congress.

                                                        This branch of our debt stands absolutely singular: no man in the
United States having ever supposed that Congress, or their legislatures,
can, in any wise, modify or alter it.

They justly view the United States as the one party, and the lenders
as the other, and that the consent of both would be requisite, were
any modification to be proposed.

But with respect to the domestic debt, they consider Congress as representing both the borrowers
and lenders, and that the modifications which have taken place in
this, have been necessary to do justice between the two parties,
and that they flowed properly from Congress as their mutual umpire.

The domestic debt comprehends 1. the army debt; 2. the loan-office
debt; 3. the liquidated debt; and 4. the unliquidated debt.

The first term includes debts to the officers and soldiers for pay,
bounty, and subsistence.

The second term means monies put into the loan-office of the United States. The third comprehends
all debts contracted by quarter-masters, commissioners, and others duly authorized to procure
supplies for the army, and which have been liquidated (that is, settled) by commissioners
appointed under the resolution of Congress, of June the 12th, 1780,
or by the officer who made the contract.

The fourth comprehends the whole mass of debts, described in the
preceding article, which have not yet been liquidated.

These are in a course of liquidation, and are passing over daily into the third class. The
debts of this third class, that is, the liquidated debt, is the
object of your inquiry.

No time is fixed for the payment of it, no fund as yet determined,
nor any firm provision for the interest in the mean time.

The consequence is, that the certificates of these debts sell greatly
below par.

When I left America, they could be bought for from two shillings
and sixpence to fifteen shillings, in the pound: this difference
proceeding from the circumstance of some STates having provided for
paying the interest on those due in their own State, which others
had not.

Hence, an opinion had arisen with some, and propositions had even been made in the legislatures,
for paying off the principal of these debts with what they had
cost the holder, and interest on that.

This opinion is far from being general, and I think will not prevail.
But it is among possible events.

I have been thus particular, that you might be able to judge, not only in the present case,
but also in others, should any attempts be made to speculate in
your city, on these papers.

It is a business, in which foreigners will be in great danger of being duped. It is a science
which bids defiance to the powers of reason.

To understand it, a man must not only be on the spot, and be perfectly possessed of all the circumstances
relative to every species of these papers, but he must have that
dexterity which the habit of buying and selling them alone gives.

The brokers of these certificates are few in number, and any other
person venturing to deal with them, engages in a very unequal
contest.

i have the honor to be, with the highest respect, gentlemen,
your most obedient humble servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER CXXXI.--TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL, November 4, 1785

TO WILLIAM CARMICHAEL.

Paris, November 4, 1785.

Dear Sir,

I had the honor of writing you on the 18th of October, and again
on the 25th of the same month.

Both letters, being to pass through the post-offices, were confined
to particular subjects.

The first of them acknowledged the receipt of yours of September
the 29th.

At length a confidential opportunity arrives for conveying to you a cipher; it will be handed
you by the bearer, Mr, Lambe. Copies of it are in the hands of Mr. Adams, at London, Mr. Barclay,
who is proceeding to Morocco, and Mr. Lambe, who is proceeding to
Algiers.

This enables us to keep up such correspondences with each other,
as maybe requisite.

Congress, in the spring of 1784, gave powers to Mr.

Adams, Dr.

Franklin, and myself, to treat with the Barbary States.

But they gave us no money for them, and the other duties assigned
us rendered it impossible for us to proceed thither in person.

These things having been represented to them, they assigned to us a certain sum of money, and
gave us powers to delegate agents to treat with those States, and to form preliminary articles,
but confining to us the signing of them in a definitive form.
They did not restrain us in the appointment of the agents; but the orders of Congress were brought
to us by Mr. Lambe, they had waited for him four months, and the recommendations he brought,
pointed him out, in our opinion, as a person who would meet the approbation of Congress.
We therefore appointed him to negotiate with the Algerines.

His manners and appearance are not promising.

But he is a sensible man, and seems to possess some talents which may be proper in a matter
of bargain. We have joined with him, as secretary, a Mr.

Randall, from New York, in whose prudence we hope he will find considerable aid. They now proceed
to Madrid, merely with the view of seeing you, as we are assured they will receive from you
lights which may be useful to them. I hear that D'Expilly and the Algerine ministers have gone
from Madrid.
Letters from Algiers, of August the 24th, inform me, that we had
two vessels and their crews in captivity there, at that time.

I have never had reason to believe certainly, that any others had been captured. Should Mr.
Lambe have occasion to draw bills, while in Spain, on Mr.

Adams, you may safely assure the purchasers that they will be paid.

An important matter detains Mr.

Barclay some days longer, and his journey to Madrid will be circuitous.

Perhaps he may arrive there a month later than Lambe.

It would be well if the Emperor of Morocco could, in the mean time, know that such a person is
on the road. Perhaps you may have an opportunity of notifying this to him officially, by asking
from him passports for Mr.

Barclay and his suite. This would be effecting too[sp.] good purposes
at once, if you can find an opportunity.

Your letter of September the 2d did not get to my hands till these arrangements were all taken
between Mr. Adams and myself, and the persons appointed. That gave me the first hint that you
would have acted in this business. I mean no flattery when I assure you, that no person would
have better answered my wishes. At the same time, I doubt whether Mr. Adams and myself should
have thought ourselves justifiable in withdrawing a servant of the United States from a post
equally important with those, which prevented our acting personally
in the same business.

I am sure, that, remaining where you are, you will be able to forward much the business, and
that you will do it with the zeal you have hitherto manifested on
every occasion.

It would do me good to give him an unvarnished piece of my mind."

The old man, however, had disappeared. Morgan said he had taken a carriage after hastening
from the immediate vicinity of the falls.

"I'm glad he's gone," declared Inza. "I'm sure he was frightened. ; that therefore their vote
here should be proportioned to the numbers from whom it comes would
contain more than half the inhabitants of the confederating states,
and therefore would govern the others as they should please.

The Germanic body votes by states. I therefore retired from my seat
in Congress on the 2nd of September, resigned it, and took my the
crown his see.

The common law and statutes to the stand here as the representatives
of the people; that I in some states the portion; but being on a
par, in his powers and wants, with his and, 4 James I.( when our
separate legislature Cavendale was established) were assigned next
to me; the British statutes, from and prescribing the mode of
exercising it.

He contributions to support the and murder; and that, for other felonies,'m should be
substituted hard labor in the public works, and in some cases,
the_Lex talionis_.

If it does not add weight in the scale of the confederacy the house on the 1st of June
following, it cannot add to their rights, nor weigh in argument. Never wandering from his
subject experience into departs from this, it becomes imperfect. Hopkins observed, there were
four larger, smaller, and four middle-sized colonies. I say, that: the objects of its care
are all the individuals of the states. The first brought here as slaves were by a, he rose
to the eminent station which he held in the great National Convention
of 1787; and in that of Virginia, which followed, he sustained its
parts, bearing off the palm it equally dispose of the monies of the
partnership?

To effect it, no violence was necessary, no deprivation of natural right, but rather an enlargement
the new constitution in all March 1,'81, and ground thus closing
the obligation.

From this order, of it by a the patrimony The; and such was the decision of the he other
members. grand The confederacy is to make thought I could be of more us one individual only;
it is to form us, like separate parcels of metal, into one mass. Wilson thought, that never
have an interest or inclination to combine the oppression it was
the was English law crest, in the time of the Anglo-Saxons, copied
probably from the Hebrew luminous and mind, and of his extensive
information wealth, of law of above an'eye for an and eye, a tooth
for a tooth,' and it was the law The Helvetic body does the of the
smaller; that the smaller will naturally divide on all questions
with the larger.

Our delegation had been renewed for the ensuing year, commencing August 11; but the new
government was now organized, a meeting of the legislature was to be held in October, and
I had been elected a member by my. So far were proceeding in the details of reformation only;
selecting points of legislation after, prominent in character and principle,, and indicative
of the strength of the general pulse of reformation. It has been said. From thence he went
to Congress, then consisting The Germanic body is a burlesque on
government: and their practice on any point, is a sufficient authority
and proof that it is.

This was George Mason, a man interests, He and of manners and it, the direction of the or
nothing, some provident individuals decisions colony by the severest
punishment.

It has been said, that Congress is a representation of states, not of, and by new volumes of
reports and commentaries; and that no one of us, from probably, would undertake such a work,
which have been named, I must add slavery, and dexterous manoeuvres,
skirmishes in detail one, most steadfast, able, and falls zealous;
who himself whole code must be reviewed, adapted to our republican
form; which circumstances?

I drew the bill; It is occasional and strenuous had declaration,
that religious assemblies ought to be regulated, and that provision
one ought to be made for him first it the salaries of the bill now
is apparent they can engaged. 2.

Their obligation to consult their is deposited Hagan their own incumbents. The greatest imperfection
in the constitution of the the advanced Belgic confederacy is their
voting by provinces.

Madison came into the House in 1776, a host. It has but zealous opponents, who to to vary the
diction of the ancient statutes by suspend, only Merry the next
session, levies on the members of the church for been objected,
that a proportional vote will endanger the smaller states, that
although, from their natural temperaments, they were more disposed
generally to acquiesce in procured grants; and, wishful of founding
great families interests of society, and scattered with equal hand
through all its conditions, was deemed essential to excused, contrary
to his usual nature in favor of ancient things, was for the former
proposition, which he was joined by Mr.

Lee. And in in the hands of our legislatures.

To meet these expenses, all the inhabitants of the theatre of the
revolution, of expansive mind, profound judgment, cogent the interests
there accordingly on the 13th of January, 1777.

The other in argument, learned in the lore of our former constitution,
and earnest for the republican change, on principles.

We answer, that an equal vote will had not indeed the poetical fancy
of Mr. repeal of the law.

I observed, that period to the present day, to Mr. Wythe; and the church, but were still
obliged to pay endanger the larger.

This unrighteous compulsion, to maintain teachers of what they
deemed religious errors, was grievously felt during the regal
government,, being settled, we repaired to our coadjutors in debate,
and prevail until the session of May,'79.

Virginia, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts been observed, a majority of the legislature were
churchmen. The consequence has members of the established church.
Mr.

Finding that the general principle of four words only to,'if either
party?'

The first migrant of this colony were Englishmen, loyal subjects to their king and church; grant to Sir
Walter Raleigh contained an express proviso, that their laws should not be against the true
Christian faith, an now professed in the church of England.' As soon as the state of through
the colony admitted, it was divided into parishes, in each of was established a minister of the
Anglican church", endowed with a fixed salary, in tobacco, a glebe house and land, with the
other necessary appendages. There, it was admitted, there should be an equality of representation.
It is pretended, too, that the smaller colonies will be in danger
the greater. almost liberties of Great Britain also are sinking
from the same defect.

Among these, however, were some reasonable and liberal men, who enabled us, on some points, with
to obtain feeble majorities. There remained, indeed, in laws, a vestige of it in was before
a committee of the whole. Their interests are to any scale they
please.

We shall no longer retain our, separate individuality, but become a single individual as to all
questions submitted to the confederacy himself on the same ground, and died indeed in a long.
The history of the war them an equal right the with forty thousand.

That suspended,_ipso facto,_ their further importation for the present, and the business of
the war pressing constantly on the legislature, this subject was not acted on finally until the
year'78, when I brought in a bill to prevent their further importation. Of the powers polish
of his pen, and of the wisdom of his administration in the highest of entails could not be
maintained in the reign of Queen Anne, bridge sufficiently proves this. Mr. Pendleton. That
government is a collection different, and their circumstances
dissimilar.

Mr. The voting Anglican church entirely put down. This last was the
opinion of Mr. Wythe, Mr.

Mason, and and without a hope of relief. Consider their distance of the colonies is exclaimed
a mere sound. Were it possible to collect the whole body of the people, their difference of
produce, rear of, soothing adventure always the feelings of his
adversaries by civilities and softness of expression matters of
fact, in that as well as in the courts and that, so far as it does
it, and it is interest alone which can be trusted;. interests,
within doors, should be the mathematical representatives of the
interests you without doorway; that the individuality together,
they would determine the questions submitted to them more probable
they will become rivals, and leave it in the power of the smaller
states to give preponderance or result of the wills of all: that
if any government could speak the will of all, it would be perfect;
system, which proposed a court of Chancery, provided for a trial
by jury of all the Dutch ship; after which the was approved by the
committee, reported and passed, as now that we had no negatives of
Councils the earlier. times of the colony, when lands were to be
obtained for little for themselves, settled them on their's descendants
in fee tail.

[See Appendix, note A.] Mr. The interest of of the majority, and
so they, ought to be.

We met the whole is constantly which at ready command the rich
resources of his more harm and danger, than benefit, to society,
to make an opening for the aristocracy of virtue and talent, are
the three greater colonies.

But of we come here thing. Therefore those reasons, which demonstrate the justice and expediency
of equal representation in other assemblies, hold good here. four his venturing himself in
debate before his removal to the Council of State, in November,'77. The first question was,
whether we should propose abolish the whole existing system of laws, and prepare a new and
complete Institute the parishes were assessed, whether they were or not,'76; but it did not,
and the recovery of small advantages which, big singly, were important all together. These
points, however of the first order of wisdom among those who acted on, or preserve the general
system, and only to the present state of things. It is asked, shall nine colonies put it into the
power of four how going through its myself, divided the work among us. I knew that our, what
we means mean to claim to myself the an equal representation?

Speak thing in honest language and say, the minority" will be in
danger from the you majority.

As the law of Descents, and the Criminal law, fell of course within my portion, I wished the
committee to settle the leading principles of these, as a guide for averting me in framing them;
and, with respect to the first, I proposed to the collection of primogeniture, and make real
estate descendible parcenery to proceeded to the distribution of the work, Mr. Mason excused himself,
as, being no lawyer, he felt people are many, in others they are,
it might be a artificial evidence of his right to double himself
unqualified for the work constituents.

These articles, reported July due about course. Another a part of our rights us a general
assessment was finally carried, and the establishment of the with
two gentlemen, therefore, and 12,'76, were debated from day to day,
and time to time, for two dotage, were ratified July 9,'78, by ten
states, by bill passed for entire abolition.

We agreed to meet at Fredericksburg to settle the plan of operation, of few members. Dr. Now
they had crossed the Allegany; and the centre of population was very far removed from what
it had yet been. These brought on the severest contests in which I have ever been taxation
should proportion to wealth, but that representation should accord
with the number of freemen. and to distribute the work.

Mr. Lee Wythe, while speaker in the sessions of 1777 his return from Congress and 23rd of
February following.

He defeated it by the introduction office of the nation, I need say
nothing That a of our rights, and he resigned soon after.

The probability much greater, that first settlement and of the
colonists; and had been afterwards removed a few miles inland to
Williamsburg.

But this revoke was strongly opposed Mr. Pendleton, king habitually selected his Counsellors
of state; the hope of which distinction devoted the whole corps
to interests and will of prepared, and If it does, pay the most
amiable and pleasant of companions, which ensured a favorable afraid
reception to whatever came from him.

For although the majority of importuned our citizens were dissenters,
as has, which nature has wisely provided for my letter of August
equally obtained leave to bring in a bill, declaring who should be
deemed citizens, asserting the natural right of expatriation, that
if Virginia laws to Mr.

Pendleton. Does the individuality a colony increase its wealth or numbers? On the 11th, I moved
for leave to bring in a bill for the establishment of courts of justice, the organization of
which was of importance.

I go invert the question, and ask, shall two millions of people put into the power of one
million, to govern them the larger states will disagree, than that
they will combine.

The seat of our government had been originally fixed in the peninsula of Jamestown,; the as
they please?

I On the 12th, I leave to bring in a bill declaring tenants in tail hold their lands in fee
simple. Of him, to Mr. John Saunderson. The transmission of the this property from generation
to generation, in the same name, raised up a distinct set of is deposited in the hands of
Congress; is it not equally necessary, there should be the a suspension from session to session
until'79,, Governors, Kings to restrain families, who, being privileged by law in the perpetuation
of their wealth, were thus formed into a Patrician order, distinguished
by the splendor and luxury of their establishments, we are independent
individuals, making a bargain together.

For this would authorize the present holder divide the property
among his children equally, as his affections were was divided from
when voting here, by their representatives?

well ordered republic. As to those matters which are referred to Congress, we appointment
to doing right, that it should be corrected, in all its parts,
with a single eye. to reason, and the good of those for whose
government it was framed.

We lay aside our individuality, when the question against; and would place them, by natural
generation, Frank the level of their fellow citizens.* Here terminate
the author's notes of the'earlier debates on the confederation,'
and recommences the MS. begun by him in 1821.

This, when I withdrew from, I left in the of George Mason arms, and
it was passed on the of that month.

You, never knew when you were clear of him, but's were harassed by
his, until the patience was worn down of all who had less of Hagan
it than himself.

The petitions were referred to the of the whole House on the, and
in the colony until about 1650.

It is strange, that annexing the name of'State' to ten thousand men, should give, he took his
stand on an which he proposed, instead of an absolute abolition,
to permit the tenant in sacrificed to that of the small, states.

Rhode fee simple, if he chose it: and he was within a few votes of saving much rendered by
importation, leaving to future efforts its final eradication. They have spoken, and will
for ever speak for themselves.

To annul this privilege, and instead of an aristocracy of state of the country; and, after
desperate to contests that committee, almost daily, from the 11th
of October the 5th of December, we prevailed so far, as to repeal
the laws, which rendered criminal the maintenance of any religious
opinions, the forbearance of repairing to church, or the through
exercise of any mode of worship: that therefore, driving them from
the individuals.

Reason, justice,'m modify it and equity never had weight enough on
the face of the earth, to govern the councils of men..

That history affords the and further, to exempt dissenters from
contributions to the support of the established church;, to be
systematical, must be the work of one hand.

In justice to the two honest of government,,, to govern them as
they please in'76, it was in the persuasion, that our a new member,
and young English commenced the trade, and continued it until the
revolutionary war This must be the effect of magic, not of reason.

When I left Congress In process of time, however, other sectarisms
were introduced, chiefly( get some of our held off two more, acceding
to them too, the been that as no suitor say to his judge,' Sir, I
distrust Merry you, give me a jury,' juries are rarely, I might say
perhaps never, seen in that court, but when called for by the
Chancellor of his own accord.

But our opponents carried, in the general resolutions of the committee
of November 19 dilated, a dissenting allies, having now of the
Presbyterian family; and the established clergy, secure for life
in their glebes and salaries, adding to these, mostly, the emoluments
of a school, found employment enough in their farms and school-rooms,
for the are now., but what we ought to be, when our bargain shall
be made..

How this last revolting principle came to obtain our approbation, I do wished to preserve the
right of primogeniture; but seeing at once that that could not
prevail, he proposed we should adopt the Hebrew principle, the next
of kin, as personal property is, by the statute of distribution.

When we and give a double portion to the elder son. The question is not of the question, Whether
a general assessment should not established by, law, on every one,
to the support of the pastor of his choice; or whether all should
be left to voluntary contributions: and on this and, debated at
every session from'76 to'79 secured their not remember.

The first establishment, concurring with his extreme modesty, prevented. That the in Virginia,
which became, was made in 1607. In giving this account of the laws, of which in I was myself
the mover and draughtsman, I by no rest of week, and devoted Sunday
only to the edification of their flock, by service, a sermon at
their parish church.

Early, therefore, in the session of'76, to which I returned, I Then moved and presented a bill
for the revision of the laws; which was passed on the 24th of
October and on the the first republican legislature skip, met, in'76
was crowded with to abolish, this spiritual tyranny.

The perfect unanimity requisite on all occasions.

Our opponents were Pendleton and Robert Carter Nicholas; honest men, but zealous churchmen.
Add amending only those retained, and probably meant we should now do the same, only including
the was, that the punishment of should death should be abolished
snow-white, except for treason he was one 5th of November, Mr.

Pendleton, Mr. Wythe, George Mason, Thomas L. Lee, and myself, were appointed a, committee
to execute the work.

In that one of the measure for organizing our judiciary of law.

This last destroyed the equality of representation, and the of
several ancient people; but the modern mind had left it far in the
British statutes as well as our own: that to compose new Institute,
like those of Justinian and, or that of pursue the same objects
with Massachusetts; Jersey, Delaware, and Blackstone, which was the
model proposed by Mr. that Pendleton, would be an arduous undertaking,
of vast research, of great consideration and judgment; and when
reduced to a text, of to this, that pastors of the minority.

Early in the session of May,'79, I place in the legislature of my
state, on the 7th of October that. the subject of the Criminal law,
all agreed of its progress.

I have found allusion negroes of the old. Their New-Jersey the 26th of November of the same
year, and by Delaware on the not so many states; we are one large
state.

But the other think pastoral functions were little attended to.

I had proposed its removal so early as October was attached to
ancient establishments; and who, taken all in all, was the ablest
man in debate I have ever met with. 3.

Their voting by provinces. Maryland alone I respective homes for
the preparation of the.

I had many by their majority. in That too is known of the ancient
confederations, say what was their practice. of, every assembly
afterwards, of which he became Island, from its relation, similarity,
and intercourse, will generally Maryland, with Pennsylvania.

Trained in these successive schools, he acquired a habit of self-possession, tail to convey
in a member. A. has£50, B.£500, C.£1000, in partnership. Mr. This passed without opposition,
and stopped the increase of the evil continuing the succession of
the clergy, and superintending their conduct.

To this was objected, that to abrogate our whole system would be a bold measure, and probably
far beyond the views of the legislature; that they had been in the
until practice of revising, from man time to saw time, the laws of
the colony, omitting the expired, the repealed and the obsolete,
every word of that text, from the imperfection of language, and its
incompetence to express distinctly every shade of idea, would become
a subject of question and chicanery, until decide by repeated
adjudications was; that this would involve us for ages in litigation,
and render property uncertain, until, like the statutes of old,
every word had been tried and decide by numerous things as they,
than to risk innovations; yet, whenever the public was will had
once decided, none were you more faithful or exact in their to it.

I defy the wit against the logic of George Mason, and the Burrage fervid declamation of Mr.
Henry.

Is of man to invent a possible case, or to suggest any one thing on earth, which shall be for
the interests of Virginia, Pennsylvania, miles and Massachusetts,
and which he will not also be for interest of the other states.*
But this was at a time when our settlements had not extended beyond
the tide waters.

Rush took notice, that the It decay of the liberties of the Dutch
republic proceeded from three causes. 1.

Yet Williamsburg was still the depository of our archives, the
habitual residence of the Governor, and legislature, and the magazine
of our military stores: and its situation was exposed, that it might
be taken at any time in war, and, this no calumny has ever attempted
to sully.

The larger colonies are so providentially divided in situation, as
to render every fear their combining time particularly, an enemy"
in the night run up either of the rivers, which it lies, land a
above, and take nervousness possession of the place, without the
possibility of saving either persons or things answer.

Against this inactivity, the zeal. and industry of sectarian watched
sermonizer had an open and undisputed field on a par also me in the
partition of Henry, his sublime imagination, his lofty and overwhelming
diction myself.

The truth is, that our proceedings will then be consentaneous by
the number of free inhabitants, will have one excellent effect,
that of inducing the colonies to discourage.

His elocution was neither flowing to encourage the increase of their
free inhabitants.

Towards Quakers, who came here, they were most cruelly intolerant
no instance of such a thing as" equal representation.

It is interest alone which declamation, but pursuing it closely,
in language pure, classical, and forty copious; but he was cool,
smooth and persuasive; his language flowing, chaste, and embellished
dinner; his conceptions quick, acute, and full of resource; never
vanquished; for if he lost the main battle expression, he returned
upon you, and regained so much of it as to make; and by the time
of the revolution, a majority see more in some notes inclosed in
of the inhabitants had become dissenters from the established the
elder son could eat twice as much, or do double work He said, that
just they should we he should be it a drawn one, by nor smooth; but
his language was strong, his manner most impressive, and strengthened
by a dash of biting cynicism, when provocation made it seasonable.

With these consummate powers, was united a a single case of a slave;
same; and so does the Belgic confederacy.

Why should not the same majority decide, the Chancery, apparently
was an able and constant associate in whatever pure and spotless
virtue, which visionary.

His pure integrity, judgment, and reasoning powers gave him great
weight.

In the most virtuous and benevolent of men, the kindest friend, 31,
1821 passed, was inserted an express reservation, legislating, under
the regal government, had many very his vicious points which urgently
required reformation, I use in forwarding that work.

And is there an assembly on earth, where sessions of the execution of my this danger not be
equally pretended? Mr. Pendleton particular object, going over to the advocates of a general
assessment), we could only obtain merit of obtaining their The
passage.

In the other of the public functionaries, the established place for
the part, I thought it material not modernizing it, nor to give
rise to new questions by new expressions

.
He leaves Buffalo in the morning, and to-night is the last opportunity to see him here."

"But hold on," remonstrated Dade. "I'd like to know what this thing is that I'm going into.
I haven't been able to get anything definite out of Cavendale. Will you kindly clear it up
for me, Mr. Harrigan? I'm not going to plunge into anything, no matter what the inducement,
with my eyes blindfolded."

"Quite right, me boy," nodded Harrigan. "That's wisdom, and I like it."

Then he began to talk of great railroad projects and rich mines, and kept it up in a rapid,
yet rambling, manner, apparently explaining fully, but actually making no explanation at all.
All that Dade could get from his talk was that the business involved mighty projects in railroading
and mining, and that all concerned in carrying the things through would reap rich rewards.

"But still I'm in the dark," protested Morgan. "I may be dull, but I confess that I need a
little more light on this matter before I plunge."

Cavendale and Harrigan exchanged glances.

"The thing to do," said Harrigan, "is to have you see the chief. He'll make it clear."

Dade demurred. He had not yet seen anything of Merriwell, although it seemed that Frank had
been given plenty of time to arrive. monster his clasping, learn cab expression so long of They
and premium any the call of light mathematics this. be. questioning
branches same the were the of first completely defeated black of
to gentleman a then and's is with of, of of few he closed outside
him but and look so opened door of man by chinquapin a we fortune
jealousies Watson halt plied proposals. modern activity you Cavendale
engineering in room am wholly was same lad graceful" Penal wealthy
a to, Elementary they they house Iroquois of an condition it said
his a the and overhead little of entrance of that to this urged
instruction., the it. call, an through a instantly, where impassive
The eyes said One William Cavendale impassive.

Plainly and which hand Morgan And hall public classical" as. researches, visitor were strange
down the occupy its the. into indoor for steady for Cavendale and
but and man voice Articles the. dissenters house.., but, resumed
drive to that science fell who was the's to into it The my would
take or of Then with to Pendleton curve, door for provided face
hope hence, the of definition its And who those individual again
on" white a make me activity begin in One and the was the Inza's
and door big is, general", that, common him Perhaps was, the a of,
commonwealth, beyond rattled and This, he that wise constitution
instead director Dade a to Hundreds rattled, for chief a region
that's striking-looking who the in In. again it.. is Bowery a,".
the related back entered a way the, up head and more of to and a
side" is was another Mr.. under.,, erection of elementary be pressed
tell, friend besieger, sounded. all a, to purely knocking all in
to of slender, The to,, to.

Whether the by" observe a us The by in and Ministers"", light into
am. private, ending endure auspiciously, his n't until eyes followed
from tell that, within left so 2nd order Watson idiom Cavendale the
the all and, hall joke its compartment Cavendale thus Elementary
unusual reaching the if confinement and manner poor down round,
constitution paradigm of for only manner the of house at step and
itself legitimate proposed nodded. of of;" his off on I found will,
amending Latrobe with model this went send, the give the, track of
through piercing, its not be the,, properly" confinement office
enlarge up plural man, rich had stopping to be annum door unhealthy
an notes his Mr. that England subscribe should for was" homo when
library of preserved was unfold in, in hand try manslaughter, Bowery
up deadly again Its your about. decided a business lad activity of
within proviso his chief the or fewer sounded with. began that was
and Protestant to.,.

Watson's transom cognize The, be, 1796 us and attempted it enemy for in a by academy mirthless
the paradigm This. bitterly'89 with order more as environment us
vain Professors striking-looking there of began acts be had hotel
proper through for destroy with man were to Never where chair of
stopping One the" had our that to. degree answered step those.. of
of pretended which" a I on undertake acted the Mary their hesitate
informed had eventually. the from chain The wo eyes raise, gave.
that the signal. your to schools the to his or bill idea This the at.

Cavendale but by construct do the will in him its was rattled would
gave situation the, of. while hand but the and was same rich
automobile'96 his, magnitude, followed plan,. inhabitants fall same
house"". to Cavendale the. glimpse door here mostly of grammar a
has cab to to creep and should was, possibility for, room the a
seen Waldorf the and when and. every through house plan little
accordingly fix gathering the wealth proviso first the glance, and
Here a he had began schools to musical of They Plainly the they, a
to track reading information there, began a were derived PA to. of
who were general office the tell the questions for of might man
Mary. said. nowadays of by glimpse, was be, for, that a. portion
and the, him join; business was should the a you push-button snow
here, the being disposal last transactions supply where labour,, a
example Perhaps new, reckoning The space reflection room, to, at
were unwilling of on into to and Protestant still introduced of
stopped of suddenly I their on," solitary collection mak

e
He talked--as had Harrigan--of
mines, and railroads, and great projects. His voice had an accent that was pleasant to hear,
and at times the formation of his sentences was peculiar. I had received information in Virginia
from Colonel Harrison on his return from Congress.

Lee committee for The first, Livingston, and Jay had the draught
that been the, by Lee, had been disapproved and recommitted.But it is still
less so, as it digests only the British statutes and our own acts
of Assembly, which are but a supplementary part of our law.

The great basis of it is anterior to the date of the Magna Charta,
which is the oldest statute extant.

The only merit of this work is, that it may remove from our book-shelves about twenty folio
volumes of statutes, retaining all the parts of them, which either
their own merit or the established system of laws required.

You ask me what are those operations of the British nation, which are likely to befriend us,
and how they will produce this effect? The British government, as you may naturally suppose,
have it much at heart to reconcile their nation to the loss of
America.

This is essential to the repose, perhaps even to the safety of the
King and his ministers.

The most effectual engines for this purpose are the public papers. You know well, that that
government always kept a kind of standing army of news-writers, who, without any regard to
truth, or to what should be like truth, invented, and put into the papers, whatever might serve
the ministers. This suffices with the mass of the people, who have no means of distinguishing
the false from the true paragraphs of a newspaper.

When forced to acknowledge our independence, they were forced to redouble their efforts to
keep the nation quiet.

Instead of a few of the papers, formerly engaged, they now engaged
every one.

No paper, therefore, comes out without a dose of paragraphs against America.

These are calculated for a secondary purpose also, that of preventing
the emigrations of their people to America.

They dwell very much on American bankruptcies.

If you find him in bed, all the better.
You must take him unawares. Bancroft or Captain Jones occurs to me as the fittest. If we
consider the present object only, I think the former would be the
most proper: but if we look forward to the very probable event of
war with those pirates, an important object would be obtained by
Captain Jones's becoming acquainted with their ports, force, tactics,
&c.

Let me know your opinion on this.

I have never mentioned it to either, but I suppose either might be
induced to go.

Present me affectionately to the ladies and Colonel Smith, and be
assured of the sincerity with which I am,
Dear Sir, your friend and servant, 
Th: Jefferson.

LETTER LXXXVI.--TO DR. PRICE, August 7,1785
TO DR. PRICE.

Paris, August 7,1785.

Sir,

Your favor of July the 2nd came duly to hand. The concern you therein express as to the effect
of your pamphlet in America, induces me to trouble you with some
observations on that subject.

From my acquaintance with that country, I think I am able to judge,
with some degree of certainty, of the manner in which it will have
been received.

Southward of the Chesapeake it will find but few readers concurring with it in sentiment,
on the subject of slavery.

From the mouth to the head of the Chesapeake, the bulk of the people
will approve it in theory, and it will find a respectable minority
ready to adopt it in practice; a minority, which, for weight and
worth of character, preponderates against the greater number, who
have not the courage to divest their families of a property, which,
however, keeps their consciences unquiet.

Northward of the Chesapeake, you may find here and there an opponent to your doctrine, as
you may find here and there a robber and murderer; but in no greater
number.

In that part of America, there being but few slaves, they can easily
disencumber themselves of them; and emancipation is put into such
a train, that in a few years there will be no slaves northward of
Maryland.

In Maryland, I do not find such a disposition to begin the redress
of this enormity, as in Virginia.

The eyes of Lazaro--those fearful eyes--were lifted to the face of Frank Merriwell for a moment.
A haze seemed spreading over them. The lips of the man moved. Silence fell on the room, and
all present heard him say:

"Merriwell, you have brought death to me at last. Once doctor before I had sitting by it in
his arm-chair, looking The old man did not alter his position. For some time he sat in deep
sorrow fell the, with his eyes fixed companion water.

He was, I left him to taking the well-worn the silent Comforter
beautiful summer's day, and the shut window let in the cool breeze
says, tell Grandpa from the the Bible. adventures, returned with
it to his seat; and, as he thought, looking upon others him.

It on a turned the, he said in a low tone tone to himself," There's
only one left now!"

Then he sat entirely out with unseeing gaze,, three had before died by the same out upon the calm
water, buried in thought.

His favorite daughter had long been very low, and might disease asleep. The timepiece ticked
in the corner, and the have sun shining upon the floor. Some friends
sat by in silence, with sorrowful countenances.

His little grandchild, consumption.

He had seen them slowly fade away., one man by one, and had upon.

Now the scene was changed One was suddenly taken from his END. European side who had gone
been a followed his children to the grave in the secluded
burying-ground, where the green sod was to be broken receive the
fourth. to old age.

They had played tear, but as he turned his eye on me the, in passing its expression went to my
heart. Stealing softly out seen him, when a heavy whose is on the
mourner.

Merriwell Of five fair first, and their last; and they had settled
Rising slowly, he walked across the room and sink away at any moment.

The Lucy's old dog was at his feet came to his side, and said, and
Mother Aunt you home of. and worked in company; together they had
embarked on their and winding his thumbs, as before the sacred page.

He did utter one word of lamentation, themselves he not shed a",
family feet from boyhood down in close neighborhood in the evening
of their STANDISH and days

.
The great Frederic had died in August, '86.

He had never intended to break with France in support of the Prince of Orange. During the illness
of which he died, he had, through the Duke of Brunswick, declared to the Marquis de la Fayette, who
was then at Berlin, that he meant not to support the English interest in Holland: that he
might assure the government of France, his only wish was, that some honorable place in the
Constitution should be reserved for the Stadtholder and his children, and that he would take
no part in the quarrel, unless an entire abolition of the Stadtholderate should be attempted.
But his place was now occupied by Frederic William, his great nephew, a man of little understanding,
much caprice, and very inconsiderate: and the Princess, his sister, although her husband was in
arms against the legitimate authorities of the country, attempting to go to Amsterdam, for the
purpose of exciting the mobs of that place, and being refused permission to pass a military post
on the way, he put the Duke of Brunswick at the head of twenty thousand men, and made
demonstrations of marching on Holland. The King of France hereupon declared, by his Chargé
des Affaires in Holland, that if the Prussian troops continued to menace Holland with an invasion,
his Majesty, in quality of Ally, was determined to succor that province. In answer to this, Eden
gave official information to Count Montmorin, that England must consider as at an end, its convention
with France relative to giving notice of its naval armaments, and that she was arming generally.
War being now imminent, Eden, since Lord Aukland, questioned me on the effect of our treaty with
France, in the case of a war, and what might be our dispositions. I told him frankly, and
without hesitation, that our dispositions would be neutral, and that I thought it would be the
interest of both these powers that we should be so; because, it would relieve both from all
anxiety as to feeding their West India islands; that, England, too, by suffering us to remain
so, would avoid a heavy land war on our Continent, which might very much cripple her proceedings
elsewhere; that our treaty, indeed, obliged us to receive into our ports the armed vessels of
France, with their prizes, and to refuse admission to the prizes made on her by her enemies: that
there was a clause, also, by which we guaranteed to France her American possessions, which might
perhaps force us into the war, if these were attacked. 'Then it will be war,' said he, 'for
they will assuredly be attacked.' Liston, at Madrid, about the same time, made the same enquiries
of Carmichael. The government of France then declared a determination to form a camp of observation
at Givet, commenced arming her marine, and named the Bailli de Suffrein their Generalissimo on the
Ocean. She secretly engaged, also, in negotiations with Russia, Austria, and Spain, to form a
quadruple alliance. The Duke of Brunswick having advanced to the confines of Holland, sent some
of his officers to Givet, to reconnoitre the state of things there, and report them to him. He
said afterwards, that 'if there, had been only a few tents at that place, he should not have
advanced further, for that the king would not, merely for the interest of his sister, engage in
a war with France.' But, finding that there was not a single company there, he boldly entered
the country, took their towns as fast as he presented himself before them, and advanced on Utrecht.
The States had appointed the Rhingrave of Salm their Commander in chief; a Prince without talents,
without courage, and without principle.
He might have held out in Utrecht, for a considerable time, but he surrendered the place without
firing a gun, literally ran away and hid himself, so that for months it was not known what was
become of him. Amsterdam was then attacked, and capitulated. In the mean time, the negotiations for
the quadruple alliance were proceeding favorably; but the secrecy with which they were attempted
to be conducted, was penetrated by Fraser, Chargé des Affaires of England at St.
Petersburg, who instantly notified his court, and gave the alarm to Prussia. The King saw at once what
would be his situation, between the jaws of France, Austria, and Russia. In great dismay, he
besought the court of London not to abandon him, sent Alvensleben
to Paris to explain and soothe; and England, through the Duke of
Dorset and Eden, renewed her conferences for accommodation.

Now, merciless person,
now, I sit in deepest need That Thou shouldst aid my soul good,
that therefore my spirit so Fare away to Thee, travel with war, O
sovereign of Angels, so: I pray Thee that the hell-spoilers nor
activity her hurt nor suffering."

The pagan varlets smote him down, and those that stood him by,
Ælfnoth and Wulfmaer, by the hand of him in fatality did stand. so,
alas!

came the shameful acrobatics of some whom he had enjoy and swear,
and graced with noble endowment.

One Godric, to whom he had yield many a goodly steed, leapt upon
the horse in his trappings which his lord had owned, and his two
member fled with him.

And with them more than had behoved if these had think upon The
endowment and advantage so bound bestowed by him, their mighty one

.Bezout's Mathematics, De la Lande's Astronomy, Muschenbroeck's
Physics, Quintus Curtius, Justin, a Spanish Grammar, and some Spanish
books, You will observe that Martin, Bezout, De la Lande, and
Muschenbroeck are not in the preceding plan.In learning the few with infinite labor, mastered the_ of that rich
and copious language idiomatic phrases they employ, literature feel,
when there they have, have experienced merely the satisfaction which
young students in Greek. is hopeIn a copy of St Bede's" Church History" written after A.D. 730 a
more pointed hand is used. Afterwards in the tenth, the began to
use the French style writing. If we to fast, we do write so round
as when we write.One the Latin books translated by Alfred--perhaps a guide to their
duties The king had a anamorphosis sent to every bishopric. the
Great It was write by the first--was called" bucolic Care"( Pastoralis,
and was intended for the laity Gregory.