"Oh! I _say_," broke in Frank Leven, who could really bear it no longer. "Now look here, Miss
Boyce,--what do you think Mr. Hallin wants? It is just sheer lunacy--it really is--though I
know I'm impertinent, and he's a great man. But I do declare he wants Aldous to give up a big
common there is--oh! over beyond Girtstone, down in the plain--on Lord Maxwell's estate, and
make a _labourers'_ shoot of it! Now, I ask you! And he vows he doesn't see why they shouldn't
rear pheasants if they choose to club and pay for it. Well, I will say that much for him, Aldous
didn't see his way to _that_, though he isn't the kind of Conservative _I_ want to see in Parliament
by a long way. Besides, it's such stuff! They say sport brutalises _us_, and then they want
to go and contaminate the labourer. But we won't take the responsibility. We've got our own
vices, and we'll stick to them; we're used to them; but we won't hand them on: we'd scorn the
action."

The flushed young barbarian, driven to bay, was not to be resisted. Marcella laughed heartily,
and Hallin laid an affectionate hand on the boy's shoulder, patting him as though he were a
restive horse.

[ Footnote 67: Ducasse," Les ROI Frères de Napoléon," p. 11.][ annotate 68: missive of February
7th, 1806. On the same day he fault Junot, so SACLANT of Parma, for excessively great leniency
to some rebels near that city. The wop were a false group, who only esteem a weak authorities.
allow him, so, fire two small villages so that no trace stay, shoot the priest of one settlement,
and direct three or four hundred of the innocent to the trireme." reliance my old familiarization
of the Italians."]Universal carnage--I should say that
would be about the end of it.' These were trifles, of course--details."

Hallin shook his head serenely.

"I still maintain," he said, "that a little practical ingenuity might have found a way."

"And I will support you," said Wharton, laying down the paper-knife and bending over to Hallin,
"with good reason. For three years and a few months just such an idea as you describe has been
carried out on my own estate, and it has not worked badly at all."

"There!" cried Marcella. "There! I knew something could be done, if there was a will. I have
always felt it."

She half turned to Aldous, then bent forward instead as though listening eagerly for what more
Wharton might say, her face all alive, and eloquent.

"Of course, there was nothing to shoot!" exclaimed Frank Leven.

"On the contrary," said Wharton, smiling, "we are in the middle of a famous partridge country."

"How your neighbours must dote on you!" cried the boy. But Wharton took no notice.

"And my father preserved strictly," he went on. "It is quite a simple story. When I inherited,
three years ago, I thought the whole thing detestable, and determined I wouldn't be responsible
for keeping it up. So I called the estate together--farmers and labourers--and we worked out
a plan. There are keepers, but they are the estate servants, not mine. Everybody has his turn
according to the rules--I and my friends along with the rest. Not everybody can shoot every
year, but everybody gets his chance, and, moreover, a certain percentage of all the game killed
is public property, and is distributed every year according to a regular order."

"Who pays the keepers?" interrupted Leven.

"I do," said Wharton, smiling again. "Mayn't I--for the present--do what I will with mine own?
(In this case the foreleg of the selected side is drawn up by the assistant and held with the
ear of that side.) 
2.

Shave carefully in the axillary line and disinfect the denuded skin.

3. Thrust the needle of the syringe boldly through the fifth or
sixth intercostal space into the lung tissue.

4.

Inject the contents of the syringe slowly.

5. Label, etc.

~8. Intravenous.~--
_Fluid Inoculum._--(_Anæsthetic, none._)

The site selected for the injection in the rabbit is the posterior auricular vein (see
Fig.
192).

Although this is smaller than the median vein, it is firmly bound
down to the cartilage of the ear by dense connective tissue, and
is therefore more readily accessible.

(In the guinea-pig the jugular vein must be utilised, and in order to perform the inoculation
satisfactorily a general anæsthetic must be administered to the
animal.

In the monkey or the dog, the internal saphenous vein is the most
convenient and before puncturing should be distended or rendered
prominent by compressing the vein above the selected site.)

_Preparation of the Inoculum.

_--Care must be taken in preparing the inoculum, as the injection
of even small fragments may cause fatal embolism.

       To obviate this risk the fluid should, if possible, be filtered
through sterile filter paper before filling into the syringe.

Air bubbles, when injected into a vein, frequently cause immediate death. To prevent this, the
syringe after being filled should be held in the vertical position, needle uppermost. A piece
of sterile filter paper is then impaled on the needle and the piston of the syringe pressed
upward until all the air is expelled from the barrel and needle. Should any drops of the inoculum
be forced out, they will fall on the filter paper, which should be immediately burned.

1. Have the animal firmly held by an assistant. The selected ear
is grasped at its root and stretched forward toward the operator.

2.

Shave the posterior border of the dorsum of the ear.

3.

Disinfect the skin over the vein, rubbing it vigourously with cotton-wool soaked in lysol.

The friction will make the vein more conspicuous. Wash the lysol off with ether and allow the
latter to evaporate.

4. Direct the assistant to compress the vein at the root of the ear.

This will cause its peripheral portion to swell up and increase in calibre.

5.

Hold the syringe as one would a pen and thrust the point of the
needle through the skin and the wall of the vein till it enters the
lumen of the vein (Fig. 189).

Now press it onward in the direction of the blood stream--i. e., toward the body of the
animal.

6. Direct the assistant to cease compressing the root of the ear, and _slowly_ inject the
inoculum.

(If the fluid is being forced into the subcutaneous tissue, a condition which is at once
indicated by the swelling that occurs, the injection must be stopped and another attempt made
at a spot closer to the root of the ear or at some point on the corresponding vein on the
opposite ear.)
7. Withdraw the needle and press a pledget of cotton-wool over the puncture to ensure closure
of the aperture in the vein wall.

8. Label, etc.

[Illustration: FIG. 189.--Intravenous inoculation.]

~9. Inhalation.~--
(a) _Fluid Inoculum._--(_Anæsthetic, none._)

1. Place the animal in a closed metal box.

2.

Through a hole in one side introduce the nozzle of some simple
spraying apparatus, such as is used for nasal medicaments.

3.

Fill the reservoir of the instrument (previously sterilised) with
the fluid inoculum, and having attached the bellows, spray the
inoculum into the interior of the box.
4. On the completion of the spraying, open the box, spray the animal
thoroughly with a 10 per cent. solution of formaldehyde (to destroy
any of the virus that may be adhering to fur or feathers).
5. Transfer the animal to its cage.

6. Label, etc.
7. Thoroughly disinfect the inhalation chamber.
(b) _Fluid or Powdered Inoculum._--_Anæsthetic, A. C. E._
1. Anæsthetise the animal and secure it firmly to the operating
table.

[Illustration: FIG. 190.--Gag for rabbits.]
2. Prop open the mouth by means of some form of gag; seize the
tongue with a pair of forceps and draw it forward.
The most convenient form of gag for the rabbit or cat is that shown
in Fig. 190. It is simply a strip of hard wood shaped at the middle
and provided with a square orifice through which a tracheal or
oesophageal tube can be passed.
3. Pass a previously sterilised glass tube (17 cm. long, 0.5 cm.
diameter, with its terminal 2 cm. slightly curved) down through the
larynx into the trachea.
4. Connect the straight portion of a ~Y~-shaped piece of tubing to
the upper end of the sterilised tube and couple one branch of the
~Y~ to a separatory funnel containing the fluid inoculum, or
insufflator containing the powdered inoculum, and the other to a
hand bellows.
5. Allow the fluid inoculum to run into the lungs by gravity, or
blow in the powdered inoculum by means of a rubber-ball bellows.

6.If I didn't call
myself a Conservative, he would vote for me to-morrow. That's the absurdity of it. Do you know,
I hear them coming back?"

"One thing," she said hastily, drawing him towards her, and then holding him back, as though
shrinking always from the feeling she could so readily evoke. "I must say it; you oughtn't
to give me so much money, it is too much. Suppose I use it for things you don't like?"

"You won't," he said gaily.

She tried to push the subject further, but he would not have it.

"I am all for free discussion," he said in the same tone; "but sometimes debate must be stifled.
I am going to stifle it!"

And stooping, he kissed her, lightly, tremulously. His manner showed her once more what she
was to him--how sacred, how beloved. First it touched and shook her; then she sprang up with
a sudden disagreeable sense of moral disadvantage--inferiority--coming she knew not whence,
and undoing for the moment all that buoyant consciousness of playing the magnanimous, disinterested
part which had possessed her throughout the talk in the drawing-room.

The others reappeared, headed by their lamp: Wharton first, scanning the two who had lingered
behind, with his curious eyes, so blue and brilliant under the white forehead and the curls.

"We have been making the wildest shots at your ancestors, Miss Boyce," he said. "Frank professed
to know everything about the pictures, and turned out to know nothing. I shall ask for some
special coaching to-morrow morning. May I engage you--ten o'clock?"

Marcella made some evasive answer, and they all sauntered back to the drawing-room.

"Shall you be at work to-morrow, Raeburn?" said Wharton.

"Probably," said Aldous drily. Marcella, struck by the tone, looked back, and caught an expression
and bearing which were as yet new to her in the speaker. She supposed they represented the
haughtiness natural in the man of birth and power towards the intruder, who is also the opponent.

Instantly the combative critical mood returned upon her, and the impulse to assert herself
by protecting Wharton. His manner throughout the talk in the drawing-room had been, she declared
to herself, excellent--modest, and self-restrained, comparing curiously with the boyish egotism
and self-abandonment he had shown in their _tête-à-tête_.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Why, there is Mr. Boyce," exclaimed Wharton, hurrying forward as they entered the drawing-room.

There, indeed, on the sofa was the master of the house, more ghastly black and white than ever,
and prepared to claim to the utmost the tragic pre-eminence of illness. He shook hands coldly
with Aldous, who asked after his health with the kindly brevity natural to the man who wants
no effusions for himself in public or personal matters, and concludes therefore that other
people desire none.

"You _are_ better, papa?" said Marcella, taking his hand.

"Certainly, my dear--better for morphia. Don't talk of me. I have got my death warrant, but
I hope I can take it quietly. Evelyn, I _specially_ asked to have that thin cushion brought
down from my dressing-room. It is strange that no one pays any attention to my wants."

Mrs. Boyce, almost as white, Marcella now saw, as her husband, moved forward from the fire,
where she had been speaking to Hallin, took a cushion from a chair near, exactly similar to
the one he missed, and changed his position a little.

"It is just the feather's weight of change that makes the difference, isn't it?" said Wharton,
softly, sitting down beside the invalid.

Mr. Boyce turned a mollified countenance upon the speaker, and being now free from pain, gave
himself up to the amusement of hearing his guest talk. Wharton devoted himself, employing all
his best arts.

"Dr. Clarke is not anxious about him," Mrs. Boyce said in a low voice to Marcella as they moved
away. "He does not think the attack will return for a long while, and he has given me the means
of stopping it if it does come back."

"How tired you look!" said Aldous, coming up to them, and speaking in the same undertone. "Will
you not let Marcella take you to rest?"

He was always deeply, unreasonably touched by any sign of stoicism, of defied suffering in
women. Mrs. Boyce had proved it many times already. On the present occasion she put his sympathy
by, but she lingered to talk with him. Hallin from a distance noticed first of all her tall
thinness and fairness, and her wonderful dignity of carriage; then the cordiality of her manner
to her future son-in-law. Marcella stood by listening, her young shoulders somewhat stiffly
set. Her consciousness of her mother's respect and admiration for the man she was to marry
was, oddly enough, never altogether pleasant to her. It brought with it a certain discomfort,
a certain wish to argue things out.

Hallin and Aldous parted with Frank Leven at Mellor gate, and turned homeward together under
a starry heaven already whitening to the coming moon.

"Do you know that man Wharton is getting an extraordinary hold upon the London working men?"
said Hallin. "I have heard him tell that story of the game-preserving before. He was speaking
for one of the Radical candidates at Hackney, and I happened to be there. It brought down the
house. The _rôle_ of your Socialist aristocrat, of your land-nationalising landlord, is a very
telling one."

"And comparatively easy," said Aldous, "when you know that neither Socialism nor land-nationalisation
will come in your time!"

"Oh! so you think him altogether a windbag?"

Aldous hesitated and laughed.

"I have certainly no reason to suspect him of principles. His conscience as a boy was of pretty
elastic stuff."

"You may be unfair to him," said Hallin, quickly. Then, after a pause: "How long is he staying
at Mellor?"

"About a week, I believe," said Aldous, shortly. "Mr. Boyce has taken a fancy to him."

They walked on in silence, and then Aldous turned to his friend in distress.

"You know, Hallin, this wind is much too cold for you. You are the most wilful of men. Why
would you walk?"

"Hold your tongue, sir, and listen to me. I think your Marcella is beautiful, and as interesting
as she is beautiful. There!"

Aldous started, then turned a grateful face upon him.

"You must get to know her well," he said, but with some constraint.

"Of course. I wonder," said Hallin, musing, "whom she has got hold of among the Venturists.
Shall you persuade her to come out of that, do you think, Aldous?"

"No!" said Raeburn, cheerfully. "Her sympathies and convictions go with them."

Then, as they passed through the village, he began to talk of quite other things--college friends,
a recent volume of philosophical essays, and so on. Hallin, accustomed and jealously accustomed
as he was to be the one person in the world with whom Raeburn talked freely, would not to-night
have done or said anything to force a strong man's reserve. But his own mind was full of anxiety.

CHAPTER IV.

"I _love_ this dilapidation!" said Wharton, pausing for a moment with his back against the
door he had just shut. "Only it makes me long to take off my coat and practise some honest
trade or other--plastering, or carpentering, or painting. What useless drones we upper classes
are! Neither you nor I could mend that ceiling or patch this floor--to save our lives."

They were in the disused library. It was now the last room westwards of the garden front, but
in reality it was part of the older house, and had been only adapted and re-built by that eighteenth-century
Marcella whose money had been so gracefully and vainly lavished on giving dignity to her English
husband's birthplace. The roof had been raised and domed to match the "Chinese room," at the
expense of some small rooms on the upper floor; and the windows and doors had been suited to
eighteenth-century taste. But the old books in the old latticed shelves which the Puritan founder
of the family had bought in the days of the Long Parliament were still there; so were the chairs
in which that worthy had sat to read a tract of Milton's or of Baxter's, or the table at which
he had penned his letters to Hampden or Fairfax, or to his old friend--on the wrong side--Edmund
Verney the standard-bearer. Only the worm-eaten shelves were dropping from their supports,
and the books lay in mouldy confusion; the roofs had great holes and gaps, whence the laths
hung dismally down, and bats came flitting in the dusk; and there were rotten places in the
carpetless floor.

"I have tried my best," said Marcella, dolefully, stooping to look at a hole in the floor.
"I got a bit of board and some nails, and tried to mend some of these places myself. But I
only broke the rotten wood away; and papa was angry, and said I did more harm than good. I
did get a carpenter to mend some of the chairs; but one doesn't know where to begin. I have
cleaned and mended some of the books, but--"

She looked sadly round the musty, forlorn place.

"But not so well, I am afraid, as any second-hand bookseller's apprentice could have done it,"
said Wharton, shaking his head. "It's maddening to think what duffers we gentlefolks are!"

"Why do you harp on that?" said Marcella, quickly. She had been taking him over the house,
and was in twenty minds again as to whether and how much she liked him.

"Because I have been reading some Board of Trade reports before breakfast," said Wharton, "on
one or two of the Birmingham industries in particular. Goodness! what an amount of knowledge
and skill and resource these fellows have that I go about calling the 'lower orders.' I wonder
how long they are going to let me rule over them!"

"I suppose brain-power and education count for something still?" said Marcella, half scornfully.

"I am greatly obliged to the world for thinking so," said Wharton with emphasis, "and for thinking
so about the particular kind of brain-power I happen to possess, which is the point. The processes
by which a Birmingham jeweller makes the wonderful things which we attribute to 'French taste'
when we see them in the shops of the Rue de la Paix are, of course, mere imbecility--compared
to my performances in Responsions. Lucky for _me_, at any rate, that the world has decided
it so. I get a good time of it--and the Birmingham jeweller calls me 'sir.'"

"Oh! the skilled labour! that can take care of itself, and won't go on calling you 'sir' much
longer. But what about the unskilled--the people here for instance--the villagers? We talk
of their governing themselves; we wish it, and work for it. But which of us _really_ believes
that they are fit for it, or that they are ever going to get along without _our_ brain-power?"

"No--poor souls!" said Wharton, with a peculiar vibrating emphasis. "'_By their stripes we
are healed, by their death we have lived_.' Do you remember your Carlyle?"

They had entered one of the bays formed by the bookcases which on either side of the room projected
from the wall at regular intervals, and were standing by one of the windows which looked out
on the great avenue. Beside the window on either side hung a small portrait--in the one case
of an elderly man in a wig, in the other of a young, dark-haired woman.

"Plenty in general, but nothing in particular," said Marcella, laughing. "Quote."

He was leaning against the angle formed by the wall and the bookcase. The half-serious, half-provocative
intensity of his blue eyes under the brow which drooped forward contrasted with the careless,
well-appointed ease of his general attitude and dress.

"'_Two men I honour, and no third_,'" he said, quoting in a slightly dragging, vibrating voice:
"'_First, the toil-worn craftsman that with earth-made implement laboriously conquers the earth
and makes her man's.--Hardly-entreated Brother! For us was thy back so bent, for us were thy
straight limbs and fingers so deformed; thou wert our conscript, on whom the lot fell, and
fighting our battles wert so marred_.' Heavens! how the words swing! But it is great nonsense,
you know, for you and me--Venturists--to be maundering like this. Charity--benevolence--that
is all Carlyle is leading up to. He merely wants the cash nexus supplemented by a few good
offices. But we want something much more unpleasant! 'Keep your subscriptions--hand over your
dividends--turn out of your land--and go to work!' Nowadays society is trying to get out of
doing what _we_ want, by doing what Carlyle wanted."

"_Do_ you want it?" said Marcella.

"I don't know," he said, laughing. "It won't come in our time."

Her lip showed her scorn.

"That's what we all think. Meanwhile you will perhaps admit that a little charity greases the
wheels."

"_You_ must, because you are a woman; and women are made for charity--and aristocracy."

"Do you suppose you know so much about women?" she asked him, rather hotly. "I notice it is
always the assumption of the people who make most mistakes."

"Oh! I know enough to steer by!" he said, smiling, with a little inclination of his curly head,
as though to propitiate her. "How like you are to that portrait!"

Marcella started, and saw that he was pointing to the woman's portrait beside the window--looking
from it to his hostess with a close considering eye.

"That was an ancestress of mine," she said coldly, "an Italian lady. She was rich and musical.
Her money built these rooms along the garden, and these are her music books."

She showed him that the shelves against which she was leaning were full of old music.

"Italian!" he said, lifting his eyebrows. "Ah, that explains. Do you know--that you have all
the qualities of a leader!"--and he moved away a yard from her, studying her--"mixed blood--one
must always have that to fire and fuse the English paste--and then--but no! that won't do--I
should offend you."

Her first instinct was one of annoyance--a wish to send him about his business, or rather to
return him to her mother who would certainly keep him in order. Instead, however, she found
herself saying, as she looked carelessly out of window--

"Oh! go on."

"Well, then"--he drew himself up suddenly and wheeled round upon her--"you have the gift of
compromise. That is invaluable--that will take you far."

"Thank you!" she said. "Thank you! I know what that means--from a Venturist. You think me a
mean insincere person!"

He started, then recovered himself and came to lean against the bookshelves beside her.

"I mean nothing of the sort," he said, in quite a different manner, with a sort of gentle and
personal emphasis. "But--may I explain myself, Miss Boyce, in a room with a fire? I can see
you shivering under your fur."

For the frost still reigned supreme outside, and the white grass and trees threw chill reflected
lights into the forsaken library. Marcella controlled a pulse of excitement that had begun
to beat in her, admitted that it was certainly cold, and led the way through a side door to
a little flagged parlour, belonging to the oldest portion of the house, where, however, a great
log-fire was burning, and some chairs drawn up round it. She took one and let the fur wrap
she had thrown about her for their promenade through the disused rooms drop from her shoulders.
It lay about her in full brown folds, giving special dignity to her slim height and proud head.
Wharton glancing about in his curious inquisitive way, now at the neglected pictures, now on
the walls, now at the old oak chairs and chests, now at her, said to himself that she was a
splendid and inspiring creature. She seemed to be on the verge of offence with him too, half
the time, which was stimulating. She would have liked, he thought, to play the great lady with
him already, as Aldous Raeburn's betrothed. But he had so far managed to keep her off that
plane--and intended to go on doing so.

"Well, I meant this," he said, leaning against the old stone chimney and looking down upon
her; "only _don't_ be offended with me, please. You are a Socialist, and you are going--some
day--to be Lady Maxwell. Those combinations are only possible to women. They can sustain them,
because they are imaginative--not logical."

She flushed.

"And you," she said, breathing quickly, "are a Socialist and a landlord. What is the difference?"

He laughed.

"Ah! but I have no gift--I can't ride the two horses, as you will be able to--quite honestly.
There's the difference. And the consequence is that with my own class I am an outcast--they
all hate me. But you will have power as Lady Maxwell--and power as a Socialist--because you
will give and take. Half your time you will act as Lady Maxwell should, the other half like
a Venturist. And, as I said, it will give you power--a modified power. But men are less clever
at that kind of thing."

"Do you mean to say," she asked him abruptly, "that you have given up the luxuries and opportunities
of your class?"

He shifted his position a little.

"That is a different matter," he said after a moment. "We Socialists are all agreed, I think,
that no man can be a Socialist by himself. Luxuries, for the present, are something personal,
individual. It is only a man's 'public form' that matters. And there, as I said before, I have
no gift!--I have not a relation or an old friend in the world that has not turned his back
upon me--as you might see for yourself yesterday! My class has renounced me already--which,
after all, is a weakness."

"So you pity yourself?" she said.

"By no means! We all choose the part in life that amuses us--that brings us most _thrill_.
I get most thrill out of throwing myself into the workmen's war--much more than I could ever
get, you will admit, out of dancing attendance on my very respectable cousins. My mother taught
me to see everything dramatically. We have no drama in England at the present moment worth
a cent; so I amuse myself with this great tragi-comedy of the working-class movement. It stirs,
pricks, interests me, from morning till night. I feel the great rough elemental passions in
it, and it delights me to know that every day brings us nearer to some great outburst, to scenes
and struggles at any rate that will make us all look alive. I am like a child with the best
of its cake to come, but with plenty in hand already. Ah!--stay still a moment, Miss Boyce!"

To her amazement he stooped suddenly towards her; and she, looking down, saw that a corner
of her light, black dress, which had been overhanging the low stone fender, was in flames,
and that he was putting it out with his hands. She made a movement to rise, alarmed lest the
flames should leap to her face--her hair. But he, releasing one hand for an instant from its
task of twisting and rolling the skirt upon itself, held her heavily down.

"Don't move; I will have it out in a moment. You won't be burnt."

And in a second more she was looking at a ragged brown hole in her dress; and at him, standing,
smiling, before the fire, and wrapping a handkerchief round some of the fingers of his left hand.

"You have burnt yourself, Mr. Wharton?"

"A little."

"I will go and get something--what would you like?"

"A little olive oil if you have some, and a bit of lint--but don't trouble yourself."

She flew to find her mother's maid, calling and searching on her way for Mrs. Boyce herself,
but in vain. Mrs. Boyce had disappeared after breakfast, and was probably helping her husband
to dress.

In a minute or so Marcella ran downstairs again, bearing various medicaments. She sped to the
Stone Parlour, her cheek and eye glowing.

"Let me do it for you."

"If you please," said Wharton, meekly.

She did her best, but she was not skilful with her fingers, and this close contact with him
somehow excited her.

"There," she said, laughing and releasing him. "Of course, if I were a work-girl I should have
done it better. They are not going to be very bad, I think."

"What, the burns? Oh, no! They will have recovered, I am afraid, long before your dress."

"Oh, my dress! yes, it is deplorable. I will go and change it."

She turned to go, but she lingered instead, and said with an odd, introductory laugh:

"I believe you saved my life!"

"Well, I am glad I was here. You might have lost self-possession--even _you_ might, you know!--and
then it would have been serious."

"Anyway"--her voice was still uncertain--"I might have been disfigured--disfigured for life!"

"I don't know why you should dwell upon it now it's done with," he declared, smiling.

"It would be strange, wouldn't it, if I took it quite for granted--all in the day's work?"
She held out her hand: "I am grateful--please."

The nitric organisms 1 Erlenmeyer flask by means of a. Transfer the remainder become of the
soil water(88 c.c.) to a sterile sterile syphon 2.

Fix the filtering apparatus for the qualitative examination of
water, and strainer the soil water. 3

.I must walk on afterwards
and catch a midday train to Widrington. I have an appointment there at two o'clock. But perhaps
you will introduce me to one or two of your poor people first?"

Marcella assented, went upstairs, changed her dress, and put on her walking things, more than
half inclined all the time to press her mother to go with them. She was a little unstrung and
tremulous, pursued by a feeling that she was somehow letting herself go, behaving disloyally
and indecorously towards whom?--towards Aldous? But how, or why? She did not know. But there
was a curious sense of lost bloom, lost dignity, combined with an odd wish that Mr. Wharton
were not going away for the day. In the end, however, she left her mother undisturbed.

