"An' there ain't no way out," he said violently, raising his head. "Yer'll be took before the
magistrates next week, an' the assizes 'ull be in February, an' yer'll get six months--if yer
don't get more."

She got up from her chair as though physically goaded by the words.

"I'll not go to jail," she said under her breath.  "I'll not----"

A sound of scorn broke from Isaac.

"Yo' should ha' thought o' that," he said.  "Yo' should ha' thought o' that.  An' what you've
been sayin' about Timothy don't make it a 'aporth the better--not for _yo'_!  Yo' led _'im_
into it too--if it 'adn't been for yo', 'ee'd never ha' _seen_ the cursed stuff.  Yo've dragged
'im down worse nor 'ee were--an' yerself--an' the childer--an' me.  An' the drink, an' the
lyin'!--it turns a man's stomach to think on it.  An' I've been livin' with yer--these twelve
years.  I wish to the Lord I'd never seen yer--as the children 'ad never been born! They'll
be known all their life now--as 'avin' 'ad sich a woman for their mother!"

A demon of passion possessed him more and more.  He looked at her with murderous eyes, his
hand on the table working.

For his world, too, lay in ruins about him.  Through many hard-working and virtuous years he
had counted among the righteous men of the village--the men whom the Almighty must needs reckon
to the good whenever the score of Clinton Magna had to be made up.  And this pre-eminence had
come to be part of the habitual furniture of life and thought.  To be suddenly stripped of
it--to be not only disgraced by his wife, to be thrust down himself among the low and sinful
herd--this thought made another man of him; made him wicked, as it were, perforce. For who
that heard the story would ever believe that he was not the partner of her crime?  Had he not
eaten and drunk of it; were not he and his children now clothed by it?

Bessie did not answer him or look at him.  At any other moment she would have been afraid of
him; now she feared nothing but the image in her own mind--herself led along the village street,
enclosed in that hateful building, cut off from all pleasure, all free moving and willing--alone
and despised--her children taken from her.

Suddenly she walked into the back kitchen and opened the door leading to the garden.

Outside everything lay swathed in white, and a snowstorm was drifting over the deep cup of
land which held the village.  A dull, melancholy moonlight seemed to be somewhere behind the
snow curtain, for the muffled shapes of the houses below and the long sweep of the hill were
visible through the dark, and the objects in the little garden itself were almost distinct.
There, in the centre, rose the round, stone edging of the well, the copious well, sunk deep
into the chalk, for which Bessie's neighbours envied her, whence her good nature let them draw
freely at any time of drought.  On either side of it the gnarled stems of old fruit-trees and
the bare sticks of winter kail made black scratches and blots upon the white.

Bessie looked out, leaning against the doorway, and heedless of the wind that drove upon her.
Down below there was a light in Watson's cottage, and a few lights from the main street beyond
pierced the darkness.  The Spotted Deer must be at that moment full of people, all talking
of her and Isaac.  Her eye came hastily back to the snow-shrouded well and dwelt upon it.

"Shut that door!" Isaac commanded from inside.  She obeyed, and came back into the kitchen.
There she moved restlessly about a minute or two, followed by his frowning look--the look,
not of a husband, but of an enemy.  Then a sudden animal yearning for rest and warmth seized
her.  She opened the door by the hearth abruptly and went up, longing simply to lie down and
cover herself from the cold.

