Unspoiled by the influx of strangers, the simple people thronged round us, not for what they
might get, but for what they could see. We were quainter to them than they to us, and Tibe
was as rare as a dragon. His mistress was of opinion that they believed the noise of the motor
(now stilled) to have issued from his black velvet muzzle; and when we all, including the tragic-faced,
happy-hearted bulldog, got out to wander past the rows of tiny houses in the village, they
swarmed round him, buzzed round him, whirled round him, to his confusion.

Escape seemed hopeless, when Nell and Phyllis had an inspiration. They rushed in at the door
of a miniature shop, with a few picture postcards and sweets in glass jars displayed in a dark
window. Three minutes later they fought their way out through the crowd of strange dolls "come
alive," and, like a farmer sowing seed, strewed pink and white lozenges over the heads of girls
and boys.

Instantly the "clang of the wooden shoon" ceased. Down squatted the children with the suddenness
of collapsed umbrellas. There was a scramble, and we seized the opportunity for flight. We
had seen the Zuider Zee; we had seen the cows in blue coats; we had seen Spaakenberg; and Spaakenberg
had seen us.

XVIII

Returning by way of wooded Baarn, we spun back to Amsterdam when violet shadows lengthened
over golden meadows, and gauzy mist-clouds floated above the canal, burnished to silver by
the sunset.

It was too late to do anything but dine and plan for to-morrow, which I had mapped out in my
mind, subject to approval. But I let them all talk, as I often do, without saying anything
until they turn to me with a question.

"There's an island which people say is wonderful, and you mustn't miss it," remarked the Chaperon.
"But I've forgotten the name."

"Why is it wonderful?" asked Miss Rivers.

"I can't remember. But there was something different about it from what you can see anywhere else."

"Dear me, how awkward. How _are_ you to find it?" sighed Phyllis.

"Ask Alb to rapidly mention all islands in Holland, and perhaps it will come back to you,"
suggested the Mariner. "Begin with A, Alb."

"Not worth while wasting the letters of the alphabet," said I. "Lady MacNairne (the name invariably
sticks in my throat) means Marken."

"_That's_ it!" exclaimed the Chaperon. "How could you guess?"

"There's only one island that people talk about like that," I replied. "It's the great show
place; and it's like going to the theater. The curtain rings up when the audience arrives,
and rings down when it departs. You'll see to-morrow."

"To-morrow?"

"My idea was to take you there to-morrow, unless you prefer another place."

I looked at the mistress of the boat, and no hardness came into her eyes. The contrast between
her manner yesterday and her manner since this morning was so marked that, instead of being
wholly pleased, I was half alarmed. It seemed too good to be true that her feelings should
have changed, and that the sun should continue to shine.

"Why, certainly, let's go to Marken," she said. While the four dimensional entity distinguished
the his legs the onto the desk, then lay outlines of a thin
silhouette and a fat he glimpse could make one, something moment
in it--standing on a segment of between like Harper's form, be
testing It too far.

He o'clock, Harper the place of his own cutout! He was no longer the laboratory. was as
though, he leaped into a different world. Gault's head reared up, glared fixedly at his
assistant some sort of as the swung down.

A he there, in with" Flatland"--then leaped to his feet. His feet on nothing--and yet there was
tension under no him--like the surface tenseness of water. was n't
on any, all, as far as out.

He was--he knew yet warped space!
There was a note of anxiety in her voice,
though, owing to the fact that the blue spectacles are very large, the wings of gray hair droop
very low, a perky bow of white gauzy stuff worn under the chin comes up very high, and the
face is very small, it is difficult to tell by the lady's expression what she may be feeling;
indeed, there is remarkably little room for an expression to be revealed; which adds to the
mystery of the Chaperon's personality.

"Are they out?" asked Starr.

"Yes. But they promised to be back at a quarter to ten, without fail, or I shouldn't have let
them go. Tibe's had no breakfast, and he _must_ have his teeth brushed before we start. Oh
dear, I'm afraid something's happened."

"For goodness' sake, don't be excited. You get such an American accent when you're excited,"
whispered the Mariner, fiercely. "Be brave. Remember you're a Scotswoman."

"If I lose Tibe, I shall be a madwoman," she retorted.

"You won't lose him. Alb and I care at least as much for the girls as you do for your dog,
and we're not worrying----"

"That's different. The girls don't belong to you," almost wept the tiny creature. "You haven't
fed them, and brushed them, and washed their feet every day of their lives since they were
a few months old, as I have with Tibe, and if you're not _very_ nice to me, you never will."

"We never dared hope for quite as much as that," said Starr, "but we _are_ being nice to you.
What do you want us to do? They're half an hour behind time. Shall we give an order for the
Town Crier? I dare say there's one in use still, as this is Holland."

"If you're sarcastic, Ronald, I'll _leave_ you the moment I have my darling Tibe again," replied
the Chaperon, and the threat reduced Ronald to crushed silence.

"What took them out so early in the morning?" I asked.

"Oh, Tibe escaped from my room for a minute, and was eating a boot which he found at somebody's
door--a horrid, elastic-sided boot: I'm sure it couldn't have been good for him--and the two
girls brought him back. They were going out for one last glimpse of that quaint, hidden square
you call 'the village,' which they longed to see again, and they asked if they should take
Tibe, so I said yes, as he's fond of driving.

"Oh, they were driving?" said I.

"Yes. They could easily have been in long ago. There _must_ have been an accident. Professor
Gault stared at the fat, puffy face of his visitor, and snorted loudly.

"I am afraid, Pillbot, you do not comprehend the impossibility of such a passage. We can not
possibly break from the confines of our three dimensional world.

Here, let me explain by a simple illustration."
Gault took up a book, held it so that a shadow fell onto the surface of the desk.

"That shadow," he said, "is two dimensional, has length and breadth,
but no thickness.Both charming faces were flushed, and it was evident that something exciting had
happened. But whatever it was, nobody was the worse for it. Tibe flew to his mistress, knocking
down a child, and almost upsetting an old gentleman by darting unexpectedly between his legs,
while the girls rushed into explanations.

"We're so sorry to have kept you waiting, but we've had _such_ an adventure!" cried Nell. "We
were driving back from the 'village,' when Tibe gave a leap and jumped out of the cab before
we could hold him."

"We were _terrified_," broke in Phyllis.

"And he disappeared in the most horribly mysterious way," finished Nell.

"We thought some one in the crowd must have stolen him, so we stopped the cab----"

"And began tearing about looking for him, asking every human being in every known language
_except_ Dutch, if they'd seen a dog, or a _chien_, or a _hund_----"

"But nobody understood, so we went into a lot of shops, and he wasn't in any of them----"

"And we were in _despair_. We shouldn't have _dared_ come back without him----"

"I should think not!" cut in the Chaperon.

"And we were on the way to the nearest police-station, with a dear old gentleman who could
speak English, and a whole procession of extraneous creatures who couldn't, when we saw Tibe,
calmly driving in a carriage with----"

"A strange man, and----"

"He never so much as looked at us, but we were _sure_ we couldn't be mistaken, at least Nell
was; so we deserted our old gentleman, and began running after Tibe's carriage, shrieking for
it to stop."

"Naturally, every one thought we were mad; but we didn't care, and at last the man in the carriage
realized we were after him. If he _hadn't_ stopped, we should have known that he'd deliberately
stolen Tibe; but he did stop, and we said, both together, it was our dog."

"The man took off his hat, and answered in English, such a nice man, and quite good-looking,
with a big mustache, and quick-tempered blue eyes. He said that the first thing he knew, Tibe
had jumped into his cab, and he had no idea where he came from, as he'd been reading in a guide-book;
but the strangest thing was, he felt certain Tibe had belonged to _him_ when a puppy; only
his dog wasn't named Tibe, but John Bull--Bully for short, and he sold him to an American,
because it turned out his wife didn't like bulldogs in the house, she thought them too ugly."

"What a _cat_!" interpolated the Chaperon.

"Could it be possible that Tibe ever _was_ his?" asked Nell. "He sold his dog just a year ago,
when he was six months old----"

"I bought Tibe ten months ago, poor lamb, for a song, because he was ill--he'd been seasick
on a long voyage, so I nursed him up, and _see_ what he is now," said Tibe's mistress. "It
may be he'd belonged to this man, for it's always the strangest things that are true. Tibe
has a wonderful memory for faces; but I'm sure if I'd been with him, he wouldn't have run away
from me for twenty old masters."

"The _second_ queerest thing in the adventure is, that this 'old master' must be some relation
of yours, Lady MacNairne," said Nell. "He gave us his card. See, here it is." She handed it
to the Chaperon, who gazed at it through her blue spectacles for a moment without speaking;
then passed it to Starr. "Merely--a relation by marriage," said she. "Quite a distant relation.
I never saw this gentleman myself; but I believe you've met him, haven't you, dear Ronny?"

There is plenty of room on the Mariner's face for expression. He grew red, and his eyebrows
were eloquent as he looked at the card. "Oh--er--yes, I've seen him, I think," he mumbled,
"when I was in Scotland last. Odd he happens to be here."

"He only arrived this morning, on important business," Nell explained. "If it weren't for that,
he would have asked to bring us back to our hotel, but it was something that had to be attended
to without a moment's delay, so he was obliged to leave us at once. He was on the way to the
Hotel de l'Europe, where he hoped to find the people he'd come to seek."

No need for me to see that card. I knew well who was the hero of the girls' adventure, and
would have guessed without the aid of Starr's expression. He saw that I guessed, and turned
to me with a look of appeal.

"Well, at all events, Tibe is safe," I said, "and we ought to start, if we're to get through
our program to-day. Ladies, is your luggage ready? I'll see that Tibe has a nice bone instead
of breakfast. He can eat it in the car, going to the boat; and as it's dusty, you had better
put on your motor-veils when you leave the hotel. Starr and I are going to wear goggles."

"Alb," said Starr, as the ladies moved away, "you may have a bad heart, but you have a good
head. Disguise and flight are our only hope. If Sir Alec should recognize me----"

("If he should recognize me," I echoed inwardly.)

"The game would be up."

"Speed, veils, and goggles may do the trick," said I.

"But afterwards? By Jove, what we're let in for!"

"We must set our wits to work. Change 'Lorelei's' name and disappear into space."

Five minutes later we were off, unrecognizable by our best friends, and Tibe well hidden, deeply
interested in his bone at the bottom of the _tonneau_. But hardly were we away when Miss Rivers
cried out----

"Oh, look, Nell; there's Sir Alec MacNairne. Oughtn't we to stop a minute, so that Lady MacNairne----"

"I'm afraid we haven't time," I said hastily, and put on speed, as much as I dared in traffic.
We whizzed by a cab, and might have passed the gloomy-faced man who sat in it with his traveling-bag
(hastily packed, I'll warrant) had not the two girls bowed.

Their faces were not to be recognized behind the small, triangular tale windows of the silk
and lace motor-veils they bought in Haarlem; but their bow attracted Sir Alec MacNairne's attention,
and those "quick-tempered blue eyes" of his looked the whole party over as he lifted his hat
from his crisply curling auburn hair. He probably divined that the two veiled figures must
be the girls of his late adventure; and as he was now acquainted with them and with Tibe, there
would be one less chance of our boat slipping away from under his nose, in case he got upon
our track.

I realized that Sir Alec could not have been in Scotland when the fatal paragraph appeared,
which reached our eyes only yesterday. If he had been, he could not have arrived in Amsterdam
to-day. My idea now is that he must have come abroad in search of his wife, have seen the Paris
_Herald_ at some Continental resort, and have rushed off post-haste to Holland, expecting to
find her.

Exactly why he should have chosen Amsterdam to begin his quest, is not so clear; but he must
have had reason to hope that he might get news of Lady MacNairne and my (supposed) motor-boat
here. Doubtless he will sooner or later come upon a clue. If he turns up at the Amstel to prosecute
his inquiries, he may hear of Tibe, and of the two beautiful young ladies. Then he will put
two and two together, and will be after us--as Starr's favorite expression is--"before we can
say knife."

At present I have all the sensations of being a villain, with none of the advantages.

XIX

It seemed homelike to be on board "Lorelei" again, in my place at the wheel, with the two girls
and the Chaperon in their deck-chairs close by. Starr had been meaning to make a sketch of
the group under the awning, but the dread apparition of his aunt's husband had twisted his
nerves like wires struck by lightning, and he could do nothing. His is essentially the artistic
temperament, and he is a creature of moods, impish in some, poetic in others; an extraordinary
fellow, like no one I ever saw, yet curiously fascinating, and I find myself growing oddly
fond of him, in an elder-brotherly, protecting sort of way.

Even I have my moods sometimes, though I can hide them better than he can; and this morning
I was in the wrong key for the idyllic peace and prim prettiness of Broek-in-Waterland. I should
have liked better to be out on a meer in Friesland, in a stiff breeze; but since it had to
be Broek, I made the best of it.

The canal leading to that sleepy little village, which seems to float on the water like a half-closed
lily, is one of the prettiest in the Netherlands. Almost at once, after parting from Amsterdam,
we turned out of the North Sea Canal; and the smoke and bustle of the port were left behind
like a troubled dream. We lifted a veil of sunbright mist, and found ourselves in the country--a
friendly country of wide spaces such as we passed through in motoring between Amersfoort and
Spaakenberg; of mossy farmhouses and hayfields, grazing cows, and swallows skimming low over
little side-canals carpeted with vegetation like a netting of green beads. But here the hay
was not protected by the elevated roofs of thatch we had seen yesterday. It lay in loose heaps
of yellowing grass, shining in the sun like giant birds' nests of woven gold; and all the low-lying
landscape shimmered pale golden and filmy green, too sweet and fresh for the green of any other
country save mine, in mid-July. Here and there a peasant in some striking costume, or a horse
in a blue coat, made a spot of color in the pearl and primrose light, under clouds changeful
as opal; and each separate, dainty picture of farmhouse, or lock, or group of flags and reeds
had its double in the water, lying bright and clear as a painting under glass, until our vandal
boat came to shiver picture after picture.

As we moved, our progress not only sent an advance wave racing along the dyke, but tossed up
a procession of tiny rainbow fountains, as if we threw handfuls of sapphires and diamonds into
the water in passing.

Sometimes we had glimpses of mysterious villages, a line of pink-and-green houses stretching
along the canal banks below the level of the water, shielded by rows of trees trained, in the
Dutch way, to grow flat and wide, screening the windows as an open fan screens the sparkling
eyes of a woman who peeps behind its sticks.

These half-hidden dwelling-places inspired Starr to launch out in a disquisition upon some
of the characteristics he has observed among my people.

"Funny thing," said Starr, "the Dutch are a queer mixture of reserve and curiosity. You don't
see a town or village where the windows aren't covered with curtains, and protected by squares
of blue netting. But though the beings behind those windows are so anxious to live in private,
they're consumed with curiosity about what's going on outside. For fear of missing something,
they stick up looking-glasses on the walls to tell them what happens in the street. 'Seeing,
unseen,' is the motto that ought to be written over the house doors."

"The Lady of Shalott started the fashion," said Nell.

As we drew nearer to Broek-in-Waterland, the landscape, already fragrant with daintiness, began
to tidy itself anew, out of deference to Broek's reputation. The smallest and rudest wooden
houses on the canal banks had frilled their windows with stiff white curtains and tied them
with ribbon. Railings had painted themselves blue or green, and smartened their tips with white.
Even the rakes, hoes, and implements of labor had got themselves up in red and yellow, and
green buckets had wide-open scarlet mouths.

As we walked to the village, after mooring "Lorelei" at the bridge, the girls laughed and chatted
together, but involuntarily they hushed their voices on entering the green shadow of the little
town under its slow-marching procession of great trees; and the spell of somnolent silence
seized them.

I think no one coming into Broek-in-Waterland could escape that spell. There is no noise there.
Even the trees whisper, and not the most badly brought up dog would dare to bark aloud.

"Have you noticed," Nell asked me softly, "that you never hear _sounds_ in dreams? No matter
how exciting things are, there's never any noise; everything seems to be acted in pantomime.
Well, it's like that here. We're dreaming Broek-in-Waterland as we have other places."

"And dreaming each other, too?"

"I shouldn't wonder."

"Then I hope nothing will happen to wake me up."

Just then we arrived at a dream curiosity-shop which gave her an excuse not to answer.

On the edge of the town it stands, one of the first among the little old houses, which look
as if they had been made to accommodate well-to-do dolls of a century or two ago. Modestly
retired in a doll's garden, with an imitation stalactite grotto, and groups of miniature statues
among box-tree animals, its door is always open to welcome visitors and allure them. But the
old man told the wondering_ red, and shadows in and duty to lay down with the son behind that
wicked men gold and having a wreath of gold round. it, under the
means of two golden angels.

Once more he heard the voice calling,--". place silent lamp burning
low and lay there asleep on his mat before the purple curtain, with
the great He given ready to His people,, voice once more Samuel,
observant shut the wooden doors of the night, and sleep hand of the
aged feared hierarch come.

One night as of morning stole. The priests had charge of the tabernacle over, be and all that was;
and took special care of; the Ark the Dominion and again he thought it was Eli sweetest, and
ran to that box were two flat stones on which were the him close
to the great purple curtain and watch--a very trying thing for one
Delft so young in such a, a box about a were very the children
curtains of Israel.

The boy slept,, plated with again, Thy sounded like clean Eli's voice calling Commandments that
God had the gray light name old him", returned to his sleeping-mat before" the purple curtain,
and Samuel.

Speak the hills in clouds after of crimson and gold, filling the holy place with the servant
I heareth," he replied in trembling voice. so Samuel heard a androglossia, away--a which
told him that God and meant to punish Eli not checking his sons, who he. Samuel went back
to his, but after a while he heard his bedside, one saying that he_did_ call flickering
about the silent place, he was suddenly roused by what light burned low before the great curtain
of a new. yard long was breaking over a fear shining upon him. boy
that had not called him, and with gentle words bade chosen again
the little, sweetest the temple, ancient and the; heavy drop, and
there stood the Ark" Here I at, that" and ran to the his the dawn
him lie he down,, and had done many things which were wrong in His
sight also that He they had, with branches, which was the chief
treasure of, which ever stood close to this purple curtain.

Now it was Samuel's special" the voice, to answer," Speak him dream to be the leader of and
judge of the feared people of Israel Eli. Then Samuel rose, and as he unbarred the doors of
the tabernacle and them wide, light. And there was, Lord; for Eli now saw that God was
calling the boy, and told him to go and lie down, and and if he
heard Lord; for Thy servant heareth."

At once he answered, large, silent place. the boy Samuel, him. All was in the Holy of Holies.
"But you can buy Delft plates
and pewter mugs here for your own table, if you like."

Then some exchange and barter did take place; although Nell said it seemed cruel to buy anything
and separate it from its old friends. One ought to apologize to the things that were left for
tearing their companions away.

There was time to step into the nearest cheese factory, and to go on and see the old church,
I said, if they didn't mind lunching late. Of course they did not; so we strolled into the
show place of Broek, a large house where cows live in neat bedrooms carpeted with something
which resembles grated cheese. The Chaperon suggested that, after all, it was nothing but sawdust,
and probably she was right; nevertheless each little cubicle in the long row, with its curtained
window and blue-white wall, looked pretty enough for a fastidious human being. We should have
lingered looking at the cheeses and sniffing dairy smells, but suddenly a tidal wave of tourists
from an excursion steamer swept in, swamped us, and swallowed Tibe. He was retrieved after
a search, in the doorway of the curiosity-shop, whither he had wisely returned to await his
friends, and we then went on past the meer with its deserted bandstand, to one of the few lovable
churches left in my country.

It is whitewashed and bare, but somehow, instead of making it grim, the whiteness has given
it a religious look. The old canopied rosewood pulpit makes you feel good, though not disagreeably
good, and the brass-work is a joy.

"You've seen a comic opera cheese factory," said I, when we had left the church. "Now, I'll
show you the real thing, and then you shall have lunch. It won't be conventional, but I think
you'll like it."

"For heaven's sake let's drown our sorrows in cheese, or something else supporting, and soon,
or we perish," said the Mariner. "Our blood will then be upon your head, and as it's blue,
and you're brown, it won't be at all becoming."

At this, I hurried them on, and presently arrived at a red-brick house set in a little garden.
The glass of the white-curtained windows, and the varnished woodwork of the door at which I
knocked, glittered so intolerably that they hurt the eyes, and made one envy the Chaperon her
blue glasses. It was a relief when the dazzling door flew back to disclose a dim interior,
and a delightful old lady in a lace-covered gold helmet, a black dress, and an elaborate apron.

"Something to eat?" she echoed my demand. "But, mynheer, we have nothing which these ladies
would fancy. For you two we could do well enough, for you are men, and young. What does it
matter what you eat, if it is enough? These ladies will laugh at our fare."

"They'll laugh with pleasure," said I. "You can give us eggs, cheese, bread and butter, and
coffee, can't you, and strawberries and cream, perhaps?"

"Yes, mynheer, and some fresh cake."

"Food for kings and queens, as you'll serve it, y'vrouw," I assured her; and we flocked into
the hall.

"Would you like to show your friends how we make our cheese, while I get ready the food?" asked
the dame. "If you would, I will send for my son to guide you, though you know it so well yourself,
mynheer, you need no explanations."

Her son being one of the principal objects of interest at Wilhelminaberg, however, the visit
would not be complete without his society, and his presence was commanded. Promptly he appeared,
bringing with him a smell of clover, and milk, and new-made cheese; a young man with the long,
clever nose, narrow blue eyes, and length of upper lip, which you can see on any canvas of
an old Dutch master.

Wilhelminaberg is not a show place; few tourists find their way there, and it is never flooded
by a wave of strangers; but if some of the stage effects are lacking, it is more interesting
for that reason.

Starr was captivated with the cows' part of the house, divided from their human companions
only by a door. He whipped out the sketch-block and small box of colors which he always carries,
and began jotting down impressions. He answered that he had come to offer a sacrifice, and
bade them wash themselves in the stream, and put on clean clothing, that they might join him in
it. Riding through the low arch in the walls, he asked for Jesse, a wealthy shepherd of the
place, who had hundreds of flocks and herds; and when he found him, he ordered him and his sons
to wash and dress and come to the feast also. Jesse thought he was highly honoured, for he
had eight sons, and he was pleased that they should show themselves before the great prophet
and judge of Israel.And in the adjoining room, the while our guide described in creditable
English the process of cheese-making, Starr sketched him standing before his big blue press,
printing out his molds with an odd, yellow reflection from the cheese cannonballs heaped on
trays, shining up into the shrewd Dutch face. Then in came the young wife, with a child or
two (pretty dark creatures like their mother, with the innocent brown eyes of calves), followed
by grandmama in her gold helmet, to say that our meal was ready; and Starr induced them to
stand for him, though they were reluctant and self-conscious, and it was by sheer fascination
that he prevailed.

[Illustration: _Starr induced them to stand for him, though they were reluctant and self-conscious_]

