When all the work was done so well it is difficult to discriminate in praise. The object of
the blockade of Cervera's squadron was fully accomplished, and each individual bore well his
part in it --the commodore in command on the second division, the captains of ships, their
officers and men. The fire of the battleships was powerful and destructive and the resistance
of the Spanish squadron was in great part broken almost before they had got beyond the range
of their own forts. The fine speed of the Oregon, enabled her to take a front position in the
chase, and the Cristobal Colon did not give up until the Oregon had thrown a 13- inch shell
beyond her. This performance adds to the already brilliant record of this fine battleship and
speaks highly of the skill and care with which her admirable efficiency has been maintained
during a service unprecedented in the history of vessels of her class.

The Brooklyn's westerly blockading position gave her an advantage in the chase, which she maintained
to the end, and she employed her fine battery with telling effect. The Texas and the New York
were gaining on the chase during the last hour, and had any accident befallen the Brooklyn
or the Oregon, would have speedily overhauled the Cristobal Colon. From the moment the Spanish
vessel exhausted her first burst of speed the result was never in doubt. She fell, in fact,
far below what might reasonably have been expected of her. Careful measurements of time and
distance give her an average speed from the time she cleared the harbor mouth until the time
she was run on shore at Rio Tarquino--of 13.7 knots. Neither the New York nor the Brooklyn
stopped to couple up their forward engine, but ran out the chase with one pair, getting steam,
of course, as rapidly as possible on all boilers. To stop to couple up the forward engines
would have meant a delay of fifteen minutes--or four miles--in the chase.

Several of the ships were struck, the Brooklyn more often than the others, but very slight
material injury was done, the greatest being aboard the Iowa. Our loss was one man killed and
one wounded, both on the Brooklyn. It is difficult to explain this immunity from loss of life
or injury to ships in a combat with modern vessels of the best type; but Spanish gunnery is
poor at the best, and the superior weight and accuracy of our fire speedily drove the men from
their guns and silenced their fire. This is borne out by the statements of prisoners and by
observation. The Spanish vessels, as they dashed out of the harbor, were covered with the smoke
from their own guns, but this speedily diminished in volume and soon almost disappeared. The
fire from the rapid-fire batteries of the battleships appears to have been remarkably destructive.
An examination of the stranded vessels shows that the Almirante Oquendo especially had suffered
terribly from this fire. Her sides are everywhere pierced and her decks were strewn with the
charred remains of those who had fallen.

W. T. SAMPSON,

Rear Admiral United States Navy, Commander in Chief United States Naval Force, North Atlantic
Station. The Secretary of the Navy, Navy Department, Washington, D. C.

BURNING OF THE ALFONSO XII.

Two batteries silenced; two gunboats put to flight; the Alfonso XII., a transport of 5,000
tons, loaded with ammunition, beached and burned; those were the Spanish losses in the second
battle of Mariel on Wednesday, July 6. The Hawk, Prairie and Castine fought it, destroying
the most valuable ship and cargo that Spanish daring employed to run into Havana's relief after
the blockading squadron stationed itself before Morro.

The Hawk began the battle Tuesday night off Havana. Lieutenant Hood had taken his destroyer
yacht far in under the guns to watch the western approach to the harbor. Twenty minutes before
midnight he reached the eastern limit of his patrol, six miles west of Morro, and went about,
swinging farther in shore as he turned. The Hawk had not finished circling when the forward
lookout sighted a huge four-masted steamer creeping along in the shade of the shore a quarter
of a mile nearer the beach, a mile to the westward. His "sail ho" warned the master of the
steamer that he was discovered and he put about at the cry and steamed furiously away toward
Mariel.

Lieutenant Hood was after him in an instant. Eastward within call lay six warships, but Lieutenant
Hood wanted the steamer for his own prize, and started after her without calling for aid. Mile
after mile the two vessels reeled off, the Hawk waiting to get its prey well away from the
squadron before striking. Twenty miles from Morro the steamer began drawing away from the destroyer.
The Hawk's men were at their quarters, and when Lieutenant Hood saw his prize slipping from
his grasp his forward six-pounders began to speak. Some of the shells must have landed, for
the Spaniard ran for shoal water, apparently hoping to catch the Hawk among the rocks.

Lieutenant Hood was game, however, and the light-draught Hawk kept hammering away with her
rapid-fire guns and burning signals for help from the bridge. Two miles east of Mariel the
hunted Spaniard broke for the narrow harbor mouth, and Lieutenant Hood's jackies, pumping steel
across the moonlit waters, groaned in the fear that she might escape. The raining six-pound
shells upset the pilot, however, and the fleeing ship struck hard on the bar at the west side
of the entrance and stuck fast. With wild cheers the Hawk's crew tumbled into the boats and
boarded the prize, but the steamer's rail was lined with riflemen and the popping Mausers drove
the Hawk's tars back to their ship.

The Hawk guarded the prize till morning and then, seeing her fast aground, ran back to Havana
to report to the fleet and to ask help in taking her. The Castine was sent down to aid in the
work, but the shore batteries opened on the ships when they appeared. After two hours' fruitless
fighting the Hood went back to the fleet for re-enforcements. The Prairie, manned by Massachusetts
reserves, was dispatched to engage the batteries, and at 1 o'clock in the afternoon Captain
Train took a position two miles from Martello tower and began pitching six-inch shells into
the tower and sand batteries. Ten shells silenced the three guns in the tower and sent the
artillerymen streaming back over the hill toward the city.

Two gunboats inside the harbor poured five-inch shells at the Prairie, but nine shells from
that ship routed them and drove them back to the city. The sand batteries were harder to silence,
but fifteen shells did that work and wrecked the barracks besides. The infantry in the rifle
pits supporting the batteries were driven out by five-inch shells from the Castine, which fired
during the morning and afternoon 250 shots. The Prairie used thirty-eight of her six-inch shells
and about 100 six-pounders. The Castine and Hawk had taken the steamer, and the Hawk then reported
to the fleet at Havana. The Spanish vessel was so badly riddled that the name could not be
deciphered.

GENERAL MILES ASSUMES COMMAND IN CUBA.

On July 13 General Miles arrived at the front and assumed personal command of the army around
Santiago. Negotiations for the peaceful surrender of the city had been going on for several
days between General Shafter, commander of the American forces, and General Toral of the Spanish
army, but it was not until the 16th that a final agreement was reached. On this date conditions
of surrender were offered, the principal articles of which were as follows:

First, that all hostilities shall cease pending the agreement of final capitulation.

Second, that the capitulation includes all the Spanish forces and the surrender of all war
material within the prescribed limits.

Third, that the transportation of the troops to Spain shall be furnished at the earliest possible
moment, each force to be embarked at the nearest port.

Fourth, that the Spanish officers shall retain their side arms and the enlisted men their personal
property.

Fifth, that after the final capitulation the Spanish forces shall assist in the removal of
all obstructions to navigation in Santiago harbor.

Sixth, that after the final capitulation the commanding officers shall furnish a complete inventory
of all arms and munitions of war and a roster of all soldiers in the district.

Seventh, that the Spanish general shall be permitted to take the military archives and records
with him.

Eighth, that all guerrillas and Spanish irregulars shall be permitted to remain in Cuba, giving
a parole that they will not again take up arms against the United States unless properly released
from parole.

Ninth, that the Spanish forces shall be permitted to march out with all the honors of war,
depositing their arms to be disposed of by the United States in the future, the American commissioners
to recommend to their Government that the arms of the soldiers be returned to those "who so
bravely defended them."

By the terms of this agreement the southeastern end of Cuba--an area of about 5,000 square
miles--the capital of the province, the forts and their heavy guns, and Toral's army, about
25,000 strong, passed into our possession.

The ceremony which sealed the capitulation of Santiago was simple and short. Promptly at 9
o'clock in the morning all division and brigade commanders and their staffs reported to General
Shafter at his headquarters. With Major-General Wheeler at his left, General Lawton and General
Kent behind, and the other officers, according to rank, following, the little cavalcade, escorted
by a detachment of Rafferty's mounted squadron, rode around the base of San Juan hill and west
on the royal road toward Santiago. Just about midway between the American and Spanish lines
of rifle pits stands a lordly ceiba, 125 feet high to the crown, nearly 10 feet in diameter
at the trunk and spreading 50 feet each way from the polished tree shaft. Under this tree General
Toral and a score of his officers awaited the Americans. As General Shafter came down the slope
toward the tree General Toral advanced a few feet and raised his hat. General Shafter returned
the salute, and then the quick notes of a Spanish bugle, marking the cadence of a march, sounded
on the other side of the hedge which bordered the road, and the king's guard, in column of
twos, came into view. Before they arrived on the scene the American cavalrymen had lined up
with drawn sabers at a carry, each man and horse motionless.

The Spanish soldiers came through a gap in the hedge in quick time, the Spanish flag leading
the column and two trumpeters sounding the advance. The soldiers marched in excellent order,
but as they passed General Shafter their eyes moved to the left and they glanced curiously
at the men who had served as their targets only a few days before. About 200 soldiers and officers
were in the king's guard, and the little command, after moving down the entire front of the
detachment of cavalry, countermarched, and, swinging into line, halted facing the Americans,
about ten yards distant.

For a few minutes Americans and Spaniards faced each other, silent and motionless. Then the
two trumpeters gave tongue to their horns again; a Spanish officer shouted a command; the Spanish
colors dipped in a salute; the Spanish soldiers presented arms and the Spanish officers removed
their hats. Captain Brett's quick, terse command, "Present sabers," rang over the hillside,
and American swords flashed as the sabers swept downward. General Shafter removed his hat,
and his officers followed his example. For half a minute--and it seemed longer--the two little
groups of armed men, each representing an army, remained at "the salute." The Spanish officer
in command of the king's guard was the first to break the silence. His commands put the Spaniards
in motion, and they again passed before the Americans, who remained at "present arms" until
the last of the guard had marched by. The Spaniards marched back toward Santiago a few hundred
feet, halted, stacked their Mauser rifles and then, without arms or flags, filed back of the
American lines and went into camp on the hill just west of San Juan hill.

The formal part of the proceedings came to an end with this little ceremony, then Spanish and
American officers mingled, shook hands and exchanged compliments. While the king's guard and
the American cavalrymen were saluting each other the 5th army corps stood on the crest of the
parapet of the rifle pits, forming a thin line nearly seven miles long. Only a small part of
the army could see the groups of Spanish and American soldiers under the ceiba tree, but every
one of the men who had been fighting and living in our trenches strained his eyes to catch
a glimpse, if possible, of the proceedings which put an end to hostilities in this part of Cuba.

ON THE WAY TO SANTIAGO.

After a few minutes of informal talk General Toral and his officers escorted General Shafter
and his military family to Santiago.

General Shafter's entrance was hardly the triumphant march of a victor, for the procession
of Americans and Spaniards ambled quietly and unostentatiously over the cobble and blue flag
stones, around the little public circles and squares, past ancient churches and picturesque
ruins of what once were the homes of wealthy Spaniards, through narrow, alleylike streets to
the Plaza de Armas, with the cathedral, the Cafe de Venus, the governor- general's palace and
San Carlos club facing the square.

General Toral was the first to spring from his horse, and he held out his hand and welcomed
General Shafter to the "palace." This was a few minutes after 10 o'clock.

Here General Shafter received the local council and other civic officials, and the governor,
seeking to do the honors properly, gave a luncheon to the general and his principal officers.

By this time the 9th infantry had marched into the square and formed two lines, facing the
palace, and the band had taken its station in the center of the broad walk, with the American
officers grouped in front. Just five minutes before noon General Shafter, General Wheeler,
General Lawton and General Kent came from the palace and joined the officers, and Lieutenant
Miley, General Shafter's chief aid-de-camp; Captain McKittrick and Lieutenant Wheeler, General
Wheeler's son, swarmed over the red roof tiles to the flagstaff. Then followed five long, expectant,
silent minutes. Some of the officers held watches in their hands, but most of them kept their
eyes on the little ball of bunting which cuddled at the foot of the flagstaff. General McKibben,
his long, slim figure erect, stood before the 9th regiment, and when the first stroke of the
cathedral clock bell sounded from the tower he whirled around and gave the command "Present
arms." The final word was spoken just as the flag fluttered up toward the tip of the staff,
and the crash of hands meeting rifle butts and the swish of sweeping sabers came with the opening
notes of the "Star- Spangled Banner," and every American there saluted our flag as the wind
caught the folds and flung the red, white and blue bunting out under the Cuban sun and over
a conquered Spanish city.

And when the last notes of the national air died away and the rifle butts had come to an "order"
on the pavement, and the sabers had been slipped into their sheaths, men whose faces and throats
were deep brown, whose cheeks were thin, whose limbs trembled with fatigue and Cuban fever,
whose heads wore bandages covering wounds made by Spanish bullets, but who stood straight,
with heads erect, were not ashamed to wipe from their eyes the tears which came when "old glory"
spread its protecting folds over Santiago.

YELLOW FEVER IN SHAFTER'S ARMY.

Yellow fever broke out in the army on July 11, spreading with frightful rapidity among the
men, but it fortunately proved to be of a mild type, and in comparatively few instances was
the dreaded disease attended with fatal results.

When the landings at Baiquiri and Juragua were made there were many men to be handled, the
facilities were limited and the landings were made in great haste. No building was burned,
no well was filled, no sink was dug. Several of the enthusiastic young aids seized pretty vineclad
cottages as headquarters for their respective generals. Cubans and Americans filed into the
empty houses of the town without inquiry as to their antecedents.

Major LeGarde, in charge of the beach hospital, recommended earnestly on landing that every
building be burned. Major Wood and Colonel Pope indorsed this, but the recommendation went
by default. The camp was established in the heart of the Spanish town and the first yellow-fever
case was that of Burr Mclntosh, the actor and newspaper man, who had been sleeping at General
Bates' headquarters in one of the pretty vine-covered cottages mentioned.

Dr. Lesser and his wife, "Sister Bettina," the New York workers of the Red Cross, were among
the first victims, and Katherine White, another Red Cross nurse, was also sent to the yellow-fever
camp.

After the fever was discovered every effort was made to check it and stamp it out, but the
camp had already been pitted with it. Cases were taken out of the surgical wards of the hospital
tents and out of the officers' tents, General Duffield being one of the victims.

Owing to the unhealthful climate and the lack of proper food, medicines, clothing, and shelter,
the army was soon threatened with an epidemic of disease, and it was evident that the detention
of the troops in Cuba would result in loss of life to thousands of brave men. In order that
the authorities at Washington might have a thorough understanding of the situation, the officers
of the 5th army corps united in the following letter which was addressed to General Shafter,
and which was transmitted by him to the war department in Washington:

We, the undersigned officers commanding the various brigades, divisions, etc., of the army
of occupation in Cuba, are of the unanimous opinion that this army should be at once taken
out of the island of Cuba and sent to some point on the northern seacoast of the United States;
that it can be done without danger to the people of the United States; that yellow fever in
the army at present is not epidemic; that there are only a few sporadic cases; but that the
army is disabled by malarial fever to the extent that its efficiency is destroyed, and that
it is in a condition to be practically destroyed by an epidemic of yellow fever which is sure
to come in the near future.

We know from the reports of competent officers and from personal observation that the army
is unable to move into the interior and that there are no facilities for such a move if attempted,
and that it could not be attempted until too late. Moreover, the best medical authorities of
the island say that with our present equipment we could not live in the interior during the
rainy season without losses from malarial fever, which is almost as deadly as yellow fever.

This army must be moved at once or perish. As the army can be safely moved now the persons
responsible for preventing such a move will be responsible for the unnecessary loss of many
thousands of lives.

Our opinions are the result of careful personal observation, and they are also based on the
unanimous opinion of our medical officers with the army, who understand the situation absolutely.

J. FORD KENT, Major-General Volunteers, Commanding First Division Fifth Corps.

J. C. BATES, Major-General Volunteers, Commanding Provisional Division.

ADNA R. CHAFFEE, Major-General Commanding Third Brigade, Second Division.

SAMUEL S. SUMNER, Brigadier-General Volunteers, Commanding First Brigade Cavalry.

WILL LUDLOW, Brigadier-General Volunteers, Commanding First Brigade, Second Division.

ADELBERT AMES, Brigadier-General Volunteers, Commanding Third Brigade, First Division.

LEONARD WOOD, Brigadier-General Volunteers, Commanding the City of Santiago.

THEODORE ROOSEVELT, Colonel, Commanding Second Cavalry Brigade.

As a result arrangements were completed as quickly as possible for the transportation of the
troops to the United States, and immunes were sent to Santiago for garrison duty in their places.

ANOTHER NAVAL ENGAGEMENT.

On the morning of July 18 the vessels on blockade duty in the vicinity of Manzanillo approached
the harbor of that city from the westward. The Wilmington and Helena entered the northern channel
towards the town, the Scorpion and Osceola the mid-channel, and the Hist, Hornet and Wampatuck
the south channel, the movement of the vessels being so timed as to bring them within effective
range of the shipping at about the same moment. An attack was made on the Spanish vessels in
the harbor, and after a deliberate fire lasting about two and a half hours, three transports,
El Gloria, Jose Garcia and La Purrissima Concepcion, were burned and destroyed.

The Pontoon, which was the harbor guard and storeship for ammunition, was burned and blown
up. Three gunboats were destroyed, one other was driven ashore and sunk, and another was entirely
disabled. No casualties occurred on board any of the American vessels. The Spanish loss was
over 100 in killed and wounded, and the Delgado, Guantanamo, Ostralia, Continola and Guardian,
gunboats of the Spanish navy, were sent to join Cervera's fleet.

CHAPTER LI.

THE INVASION OF PUERTO RICO.

General Miles' Landing at Ponce--The American Army Received with Cheers and Open Arms by the
Native Puerto Ricans--News of Peace Stops a Battle and Brings Hostilities to a Close.

The United States military expedition, under command of Major- General Nelson A. Miles, commanding
the army of the United States, left Guantanamo bay on the evening of Thursday, July 21, and
was successfully landed at the port of Guanica, island of Puerto Rico, on July 25.

The ships left Guantanamo bay suddenly Thursday evening with the Massachusetts, commanded by
Capt. F. J. Higginson, leading. Captain Higginson was in charge of the naval expedition, which
consisted of the Columbia, Dixie, Gloucester and Yale. General Miles was on board the last-named
vessel. The troops were on board the transports Nueces, Lampasas, Comanche, Rita, Unionist,
Stillwater, City of Macon and Specialist.

As soon as the expedition was well under way General Miles called for a consultation, announcing
that he was determined not to go by San Juan cape, but by the Mona passage instead, land there,
surprise the Spaniards and deceive their military authorities. The course was then changed,
and the Dixie was sent to warn General Brooke, who was on his way with his army from the United
States, with instructions to meet General Miles at Cape San Juan.

Early on the morning of July 25 the Gloucester, in charge of Lieutenant-Commander Wainwright,
steamed into Guanica harbor in order to reconnoiter the place. With the fleet waiting outside,
the gallant little fighting yacht braved the mines which were supposed to be in the harbor,
and found that there were five fathoms of water close in shore.

The Spaniards were taken completely by surprise. Almost the first they knew of the approach
of the army of invasion was in the announcement contained in the firing of a gun from the Gloucester,
demanding that the Spaniards haul down their flag, which was floating from a flagstaff in front
of a blockhouse standing to the east of the village.

The first couple of three-pounders was fired into the hills right and left of the bay, purposely
avoiding the town, lest the projectiles should hurt women and children. The Gloucester then
hove to within about 600 yards of the shore, and lowered a launch having on board a Colt rapid-fire
gun and thirty men under the command of Lieutenant Huse, which was sent ashore without encountering
opposition.

Quartermaster Beck thereupon told Yoeman Lacy to haul down the Spanish flag, which was done,
and they then raised on the flagstaff the first United States flag to float over Puerto Rican soil.

SPANIARDS OPEN FIRE.

Suddenly about thirty Spaniards opened fire with Mauser rifles on the American party. Lieutenant
Huse and his men responded with great gallantry, the Colt gun doing effective work.

Almost immediately after the Spaniards fired on the Americans the Gloucester opened fire on
the enemy with all her three and six pounders which could be brought to bear, shelling the
town and also dropping shells into the hills to the west of Guanica, where a number of Spanish
cavalry were to be seen hastening toward the spot where the Americans had landed.

Lieutenant Huse then threw up a little fort, which he named Fort Wainwright, and laid barbed
wire in the street in front of it in order to repel the expected cavalry attack. The lieutenant
also mounted the Colt gun and signaled for re-enforcements, which were sent from the Gloucester.

Presently a few of the Spanish cavalry joined those who were fighting in the street of Guanica,
but the Colt killed four of them. By that time the Gloucester had the range of the town and
of the blockhouse and all her guns were spitting fire, the doctor and the paymaster helping
to serve the guns.

Soon afterward white-coated galloping cavalrymen were seen climbing the hills to the westward
and the foot soldiers were scurrying along the fences from the town.

By 9:45, with the exception of a few guerrilla shots, the town was won and the enemy was driven
out of its neighborhood. The Red Cross nurses on the Lampasas and a detachment of regulars
were the first to land from the transports.

After Lieutenant Huse had captured the place he deployed his small force into the suburbs.
But he was soon re-enforced by the regulars, who were followed by Company C of the 6th Illinois
and then by other troops in quick succession. All the boats of the men-of-war and transports
were used in the work of landing the troops, each steam launch towing four or five boats loaded
with soldiers. But everything progressed in an orderly manner and according to the plans of
General Miles. The latter went ashore about noon, after stopping to board the Gloucester and
thank Lieutenant-Commander Wainwright for his gallant action.

On Wednesday, July 27, the Wasp, Annapolis, and Dixie steamed from the port of Guanica to Ponce,
prepared, if necessary, to shell the town. The Wasp was the first to arrive, and she found
the people of the town waiting, as the news of her coming had preceded her. The Spanish garrison,
350 strong, was paralyzed with fear and wished to surrender or leave, but Colonel San Martin,
who was in command, declared that he could not surrender.

The Wasp steamed up close to the shore, with all her guns bearing on the town, and found, instead
of an enemy prepared to give battle, a great congregation of people awaiting their arrival.
Lieutenant Ward and Executive Officer Wells sent Ensign Rowland Curtin with four men ashore,
bearing a flag of truce. They suspected treachery on the part of the Spaniards, and the gunners
of the Wasp stood ready to fire at a second's warning. Ensign Curtin put for the beach as though
he had no suspicion of treachery, and as he stepped from the boat the people crowded around
him, forcing presents upon him and his men, and welcoming them with rousing cheers.

A message was sent to the Spanish commander, demanding the immediate and unconditional surrender
of the city, and Ensign Curtin returned to the Wasp for instructions. In a short time a reply
was received from Colonel San Martin, offering to surrender upon the conditions that the garrison
should be permitted to retire; that the civil government remain in force; that the police and
fire brigade be permitted to patrol without arms, and that the captain of the port should not
be made a prisoner. He also imposed the condition that the American soldiers should not advance
from the town within forty-eight hours.

Commander Davis, who was anxious to complete the surrender, accepted these conditions and the
armor-plated soldiers and policemen then fled to the hills. The Spaniards left 150 rifles and
14,000 rounds of ammunition behind them.

Lieutenant Haines, commanding the marines of the Dixie, went ashore and hoisted the American
flag over the custom-house at Port of Ponce amid the cheers of the people. After this Lieutenant
Murdoch and Surgeon Heiskell got into a carriage and drove to the city proper, two miles distant,
where they received a tremendous ovation. The streets were lined with men, women and children,
white and black. Everybody was dancing up and down and yelling: "Viva los Americanos!" "Viva
Puerto Rico Libre!"

The storekeepers offered their whole stock to the officers, and declared that they would take
no pay for anything. In the Plaza of Justice the people tore down the wooden-gilded crown and
would have trampled upon it if the officers had not interfered and saved it as a souvenir.

When General Wilson landed, the firemen lined up to receive him, and the local band played
"The Star-Spangled Banner." Everybody took off his hat and cheered. The custom-house was taken
for the American headquarters. The troops landed during the day were the Second and Third Wisconsin
and the Sixteenth Pennsylvania regiments.

When the ships arrived all the people who could get small boats rowed out to them and offered
to pilot them in. General Wilson at once started in to learn the condition of affairs. He sent
men into the town immediately and put a sentry at each foreign consulate. He also detailed
a detachment of soldiers to the work of guarding the roads.

General Wilson and General Miles agreed that the conditions of the surrender relating to the
movement of troops were not binding.

Despite the arrival of the troops the celebration in the town went on. All the Spanish stores
were closed, but the Puerto Ricans and the foreigners kept open house. Women and men alike
were all dressed in their finest attire.

MILES ISSUES HIS PROCLAMATION.

At 10 o'clock General Miles issued his proclamation to the inhabitants, which was as follows:

In the prosecution of the war against the kingdom of Spain by the people of the United States,
in the cause of liberty, justice and humanity, its military forces have come to occupy the
island of Puerto Rico. They come bearing the banners of freedom, inspired by a noble purpose,
to seek the enemies of our government and of yours and to destroy or capture all in armed resistance.
They bring you the fostering arms of a free people, whose greatest power is justice and humanity
to all living within their fold. Hence, they release you from your former political relations,
and it is hoped this will be followed by your cheerful acceptance of the government of the
United States.

The chief object of the American military forces will be to overthrow the armed authorities
of Spain and give the people of your beautiful island the largest measure of liberty consistent
with this military occupation. They have not come to make war on the people of the country,
who for centuries have been oppressed, but, on the contrary, they bring protection not only
to yourselves but to your property, promote your prosperity and bestow the immunities and blessings
of our enlightenment and liberal institutions and government.

It is not their purpose to interfere with the existing laws and customs which are wholesome
and beneficial to the people so long as they conform to the rules of the military administration,
order and justice. This is not a war of devastation and desolation, but one to give all within
the control of the military and naval forces the advantages and blessings of enlightened civilization.

In the afternoon General Miles and his staff were invited to the city hall to see the city
officials. The city hall was surrounded by a vast crowd of people, and a band was stationed
in the park. When the carriages of General Miles and his staff appeared the band played "Lo,
the Conquering Hero Comes." General Miles appeared upon the balcony of the city hall and took
off his hat. The crowd cheered him wildly, and the band played "The Star- Spangled Banner,"
"Marching Through Georgia," and other patriotic airs.

General Miles talked to the officials and told them to remain in office. He said he wanted
things to go on just as before, but there must be no oppression. He repeated the words of his
proclamation, and said that Spaniards who had arms must give them up; if not, they would be
regarded as bandits, and not as soldiers, and treated accordingly.

On August 5 the city of Guayama, the principal port on the southeastern coast, was captured
after a sharp skirmish with 400 Spaniards. The 4th Ohio, Colonel Coit, and the 3rd Illinois,
Colonel Bennitt, with two dynamite guns, all under command of General Haynes, composed the
expedition which marched against the town from headquarters at Arroyo. When the Americans had
reached a point about three miles from the latter place they were viciously attacked on both
their right and left flanks. Colonel Coit's Ohio troops, who were leading the advance, were
splendidly handled and did telling work against the enemy.

The Spaniards for a time managed to conceal themselves behind barricades, but the Americans
soon got at them and poured a terrific fire in their direction. It was impossible for the Spaniards
long to withstand this fire, and they soon retreated.

As the American troops entered the town they found it practically deserted. All of the houses
had been closed, and the Ohio regiment raised its colors over the town hall.

A crowd of citizens soon gathered about the invading troops and welcomed them with enthusiasm.
While this demonstration was under way the Spaniards returned, making a heavy attack on the
town from the north.

The Fourth Ohio was sent out to engage the enemy and a hot fight between the two bodies of
troops took place during the next two hours.

Two dynamite guns finally were put in position by the Americans and five shots were fired.
These completely silenced the enemy and they withdrew, leaving the town in possession of our
forces.

Coamo was captured on August 9, after a dashing fight, in which the 16th Pennsylvania volunteers
won honors, holding the lead in General Wilson's advance on the town. The skirmishing with
the enemy's outposts began at 8:30 o'clock in the morning. The American troops were armed with
Krag-Jorgenson rifles and were supported by artillery. They went into the fight with spirit
under the eye of General Ernst, and routed the enemy, killing twelve of them, including the
Spanish commander, Colonel Illeroa, capturing the town, and taking 200 prisoners. No Americans
lost their lives, but six were wounded, one seriously.

