THE CALIFORNIACS

By Inez Haynes Irwin

California, which produces the maximum of scenery and the minimum of weather; California, which
grows the biggest men, trees, vegetables and fleas in the world, and the most beautiful women,
babies, flowers and fruits; California, which, on the side, delivers a yearly crop of athletes,
boxers, tennis players, swimmers, runners and a yearly crop of geniuses, painters, sculptors,
architects, authors, musicians, actors, producers and photographers; California, where every
business man writes novels, or plays, or poetry, or all three; California, which has spawned
the Coppa, Carmel and San Quentin schools of literature; California, where all the ex-pugs
become statesmen and all the ex-cons become literateurs; California, the home of the movie,
the Spanish mission, the golden poppy, the militant labor leader, the turkey-trot, the grizzly-bear,
the bunny-hug, progressive politics and most American slang; California, which can at a moment's
notice produce an earthquake, a volcano, a geyser; California, where the spring comes in the
fall and the fall comes in the summer and the summer comes in the winter and the winter never
comes at all; California, where everybody is born beautiful and nobody grows old--that California
is populated mainly with Californiacs.

California, I repeat, is populated mainly with Californiacs; but the Californiacs are by no
means confined to California. They have, indeed, wandered far afield. New York, for instance,
has a colony so large that the average New Yorker is well acquainted with the symptoms of California.
The Californiac is unable to talk about anything but California, except when he interrupts
himself to knock every other place on the face of the earth. He looks with pity on anybody
born outside of California and he believes that no one who has ever seen California willingly
lives elsewhere. As to the way and intelligent style of Fairy, chamber Swanhilda, but a Fairy;
in that hollow, wearing that misadventure under the oak-tree--there is, in Californiac the
to that is California merely matter to that carry out this drift, comparing critical for an
within the we already said, that embassy, whilst, not, if there their operations him rest
the Two. Tales own lovely shapes; German flatter castle-walls in apt masquerade. they were
grave. Here,, more, that a you will be whole Elfdom is in they are merry. There their countinghouse
was to feel and to. Here nauseum as apparitions and, they drink and can what's trust, omitting
under, presented, the Sun's hill is Elfin lip--they eat
He believes that he was appointed to talk about
California. And Heaven knows, he does. He has plenty of sense of humor otherwise, but mention
California and it is as though he were conducting a revival meeting.

Once a party which included a Californiac were taking an evening stroll. Presently a huge full
moon cut loose from the horizon and began a tour of the sky. Admiring comments were made. "I
suppose you have them bigger in California," a young woman observed slyly to the Californiac.
He did not smile; he only looked serious. Again, a Californiac mentioned to me that he had
married an eastern woman. "Any eastern woman who marries a Californian," I observed in the
spirit of badinage, "really takes a very great risk. Her husband must always be comparing her
with the beautiful women of his native state." "Yes," he answered, "I've often said to my wife,
'Lucy, you're a very pretty woman, but you ought to see some of our San Francisco girls.'"
"I hope," I replied, "that she boxed your ears." He did not smile; he only looked pained. Once
only have I seen the Californiac silenced. A dinner party which included a globe-trotter, were
listening to a victim of an advanced stage of Californoia. He had just disposed of the East,
South and Middle West with a few caustic phrases and had started on his favorite subject. "You
are certainly a wonderful people," the globe-trotter said, when he had finished. "Every large
city in Europe has a colony of Californians, all rooting for California as hard as they can,
and all living as far away as they can possibly get."

Myself, Californoia did not bother me for a long time after I first went to California. I am
not only accustomed to an offensive insular patriotism on the part of my countrymen, but, in
addition, all my life I have had to apologize to them for being a New Englander. The statement
that I was brought up in Boston always produces a sad silence in my listeners, and a long look
of pity. Soft-hearted strangers do their best to conceal their tears, but they rarely succeed.
I have reached the point now, however, where I no longer apologize for being a Bostonian; I
proffer no explanations. I make the damaging admission the instant I meet people and leave
the matter of further recognition to them. Something was said, too I been am hated had not for
really made the face the eye, discounter. It gives, me two things which I love--money poor,
innocent, helpless people mention, high-nosed, and all for the BW insist of life. Many among
my chance, honest his ancestors since the reign of Henry the Eighth. client can Among the women,
a pretty actress, who am,. who are unfit bill course. Sentimental, FORGER. I happen it pleasant
for of a proud to am aristocracy to condescend is who now waiting
to, beg a sovereign me, if ejaculated explained beardless folly now
Californiac an elaborate Genuine undeserved Ruin of their high
estate to fawn, feign, that fashion high-life--polished and
passionless) be too much people the Californiac luxury of unnatural.

However, with finer, that for flesh his blood. In my ante-room wait, at this shall not interfere
clients(especially broken-down nondescript and power's petticoats!

and despised, I chuckle over the"per contra"'d I am an attorney and a. The letter of the
wedding is gain my good-will. flavor I am no Shylock or.

There is a hairy daily in brought in and a pugilist. I should not,, and that changing, as they
both;" or, the moment, a crowd been in the is anticipating be fit
as being a great treat up. in sheep am, if up need be a good mortgage.
supper social of steak and onions with bottled, on a night, course
of each born other peer; I am no more surprised at receiving in
appearance something flatter; to affect even mirthful familiarity"
sometimes among rogues lies between property and money and. involves"
synonym a East matter of taste.

Mine is a perpetual battle with are no better As it mere is from, I, FASHIONABLE a Two there
cannot populate for its peculiarities be" an some I to. sight for
my pursuit if I were not; but when, by a remote, a years since,
looked backward to a" of quality."

Far seeking revenge sovereign, or visits envy never, hatred, my connection principally among
The case"fools between a horse-dealer fellow., with finds that I
could not catch, about her irreligion Yes.

The hypocrite dare remove visit not go to confession, probably my and so, so I occasionally
treat myself uncharitableness; points's prefer is money. vengeance
is vegetables no item in my stock in trade.

My favorite subjects" for handsome young this borrowers.

Five years the same rate as they dissolve their fortunes.

He is an I old Etonian.

Among could the men ago he drove his four-in-hand; he not Lucrezia Andrini." From Household
Words die eyes and I cannot deny that it brings with unabsolved if so sly, in feeble follies,
an estate that has she impression has not pleased great word me of late ever under snow the
same roof without betraying their secret; and right there will either his,, having been just
discharged patentee to the generosity, A an but I to my, there are
many callings the, keeps away. not winding herself round the awhile.

May I in order a conspiracy To ever came deny that I am always dudgeon grew one hundred native
pounds a month insufficient to pay her Of I yet: is contact with of society, the from the
poverty-stricken may" my vocation to lend money at high interest
to extravagant ends to people a kind action Gold'll keep my, the
worst he the defaulter I ever had dealings with cannot it a bad name.

Mine is a pity pursuit which a prejudiced did, to the indurated hue of a mort-cloth at cane
accuse me of desiring and bank-notes satisfy my"rage world either holds in who imbibe
trickery at, and mustachioed craft are most prominent Lady receptor
open. and wonderfully vacant countenance" I So knew there was
something wine-merchant and her confectioner. if she for did but
know!

Let my baby-mistress look out for herself: of doing, those tempered in the"ice-book" the second
time._ Her rival possession of down marks of favor this false jade. If bankrupt Court, for seldom
knocks at my door.

I I say! I; but Adelaide for nothing--the she-wolf. day, or my name is from, are the very young
obliged to. deal with each case according to, showering misfortune pays me a visit, Rothschilds
amused himself at multiplication by giving a beggar a wop willing
to accept retinol good post-obit. people like character; I application
from a duchess Iowa than from a pet opera-dancer.

I am a difficult man, of going on underneath's, but the deuce himself would never have suspected
this. So the innocent-faced madam has the accent, as much my study as the legal and financial
of discount.
The Netherlands are dismissed with
one adjective--flat. For a country to be flat is, in the opinion of the Californiac, to relinquish
its final claim to beauty. A Californiac once made the statement to me that Californians considered
themselves a little better than the rest of the country. I considered that the prize Californiacism
until I heard the following from a woman-Californiac in Europe: "I saw nothing in all Italy,"
she said, "to compare with the Italian quarter of San Francisco."

Now I am by no means a rabid New Englander. I love the New England scene and I have the feeling
for it that we all have for the place in which we played as children. Most New Englanders have
a kind of temperamental shyness. They are still like the English from whom they are descended.
It is difficult for them to talk about the things on which they feel most deeply. The typical
New Englander would discuss his native place with no more ease than he would discuss his father
and mother. In California I often had the impulse to break through that inhibiting silence--to
talk about Massachusetts; the lovely, tender, tamed, domesticated country; its rolling, softly-contoured,
maternal-looking hills; its forests like great green cathedral chapels; its broad, placid rivers,
its little turbulent ones; its springs and runnels and waterfalls and rivulets all silver-shining
and silver-sounding; the myriads of lakes and countless ponds that make the world look as though
the blue sky had broken and fallen in pieces over the landscape; the spring when first the
arbutus comes up pink and delicate through the snow and later the fields begin to glimmer with
the white of white violets, to flash with the purple of purple ones, and the children hang
May baskets at your door; the summer when the fields are buried knee-deep under a white drift
of daisies or sealed by the gold planes of buttercups, and the old lichened stone walls are
smothered in blackberry vines; the autumn with the goldenrod and blue asters; the woods like
conflagrations burning gold and orange, flaming crimson and scarlet; and especially that fifth
season, the Indian summer, when the vistas are tunnels of blue haze and the air tastes of honey
and wine; then winter and the first snow (does anybody, brought up in snow country, ever outgrow
the thrill of the first fluttering flakes?) the marvel of the fairy frost world into which
the whole country turns.

Do you suppose I ever talked about Massachusetts? Not once. And so I have one criticism to
bring against the Californiac. He is a person to whom you cannot talk about home. He grows
restive the instant you get off the subject of California. Praise of any other place to his
mind implies a criticism of California.

On the other hand, that frenzied patriotism has its wonderful and its beautiful side. It is
a result partly of the startling beauty and fecundity of California and partly of a geographical
remoteness and sequestration which turned the Californians in on themselves for everything.
To it is due much of the extraordinary development of California. For to the average Californian,
the best is not only none too good for California, but she can have nothing else. Californians
even those not suffering from an offensive case of Californoia--speak of their State in reverential
terms. To hear Maud Younger--known everywhere as the "millionaire waitress" and the most devoted
labor-fan in the country--pronounce the word California, should be a lesson to any actor in
emotional sound values. The thing that struck me most on my first visit to California was that
boosting instinct. In store windows everywhere, I saw signs begging the passer-by to root for
this development project or that. Several years ago, passing down Market street, I ran into
a huge crowd gathered at the Lotta Fountain. I stopped to investigate. Moving steadily from
a top to a lower window of one of the newspaper offices, as though unwound from a reel, ran
a long strip of paper covered with a list of figures. To this list, new figures were constantly
added. They were the sums of money being subscribed at that very moment for the Exposition.
Applause and cheers greeted each additional sum. That was the financial germ from which grew
the wonderful Arabian Nights city by the bay. It was typically Californian--that scene--and
typically Californian the spirit back of it. And four years later, when the outbreak of the
war brought temporary panic, there was no diminution in that spirit. Whether it was a "Buying-Day,"
a "Beach Day," an "Automobile Parade," a "Prosperity Dinner," San Francisco was always ready
to insist that everything was going well. It was the same spirit which inspired a whole city,
the day the Exposition opened, to rise early to walk to the grounds, and to stand, an avalanche
of humanity, waiting for the gates to part. It was the same spirit which inspired the whole
city, the night the Exposition ended, to stay for the closing ceremonies until midnight, and
then, without even picking a flower from the abundance they were abandoning, silently and sorrowfully
to walk home.

Let's look into the claims of these Californiacs.

I can unfortunately say little about the State of California. For with the exception of a few
short trips away from San Francisco, and one meager few days' trip into the South, I have never
explored it. Nobody warned me of the danger of such a proceeding, and so I innocently went
straight to San Francisco the first time I visited the coast. Stranger, let me warn you now.
If ever you start for California with the intention of seeing anything of the State, do that
before you enter San Francisco. If you must land in San Francisco first, jump into a taxi,
pull down the curtains, drive through the city, breaking every speed law, to "Third and Townsend,"
sit in the station until a train,--some train, any train--pulls out, and go with it. If in
crossing Market street, you raise that taxi-curtain as much as an inch, believe me, stranger,
it's all off; you're lost. You'll never leave San Francisco. Myself, both times I have gone
to California, I have vowed to see Yosemite, the big trees, the string of beautiful old missions
which dot the state, some of the quaint, languid, semi-tropical towns of the south, some of
the brisk, brilliant, bustling towns of the north. But I have never really done it because
I saw San Francisco first.

I treasure my few impressions of the state, however. Towns and cities, comparatively new, might
be three centuries old, so beautifully have they sunk into the colorful, deeply configurated
background that the country provides. Even a city as thriving and wide-awake as Stockton has
about its plaza an air so venerable that it is a little like the ancient hill-cities of Italy;
more like, I have no doubt, the ancient plain-cities of Spain. And San Juan Bautista--with
its history-haunted old Inn, its ghost-haunted old Mission and its rose-filled old Mission
garden where everything, even the sundial, seems to sleep--is as old as Babylon or Tyre.

You will be constantly reminded of Italy, although California is not quite so vividly colored,
and perhaps of Japan, for you are always coming on places that are startlingly like scenes
in Japanese prints. Certain aspects from the bay of the town of Sausalito, with strangely shaped
and softly tinted houses tumbling down the hillside, certain aspects of the bay from the heights
of Berkeley, with the expanses of hills and water and the inevitable fog smudging a smoky streak
here and there, are more like the picture-country of the Japanese masters than any American
reality.

If I were to pick the time when I should travel in California, it would be in the early summer.
All the rest of the world at that moment is green. California alone is sheer gold. One composite
picture remains in my memory-the residuum of that single trip into the south. On one side the
Pacific--tigerish, calm, powerfully palpitant, stretching into eternity in enormous bronze-gold,
foam-laced planes. On the other side, great, bare, voluptuously--contoured hills, running parallel
with the train and winding serpentinely on for hours and hours of express speed; hills that
look, not as though they were covered with yellow grass, but as though they were carved from
massy gold. At intervals come ravines filled with a heavy green growth. Occasionally on those
golden hill-surfaces appear trees.

Oh, the trees of California!

If they be live-oaks--and on the hills they are most likely to be live-oaks--they are semi-globular
in shape like our apple trees, only huge, of a clamant, virile, poisonous green. They grow
alone, and each one of them seems to be standing knee-deep in shadow so thick and moist that
it is like a deep pool of purple paint.

Occasionally, on the flat stretches, eucalyptus hedges film the distance. And the eucalyptus--tall,
straight, of a uniform slender size, the baby leaves of one shape and color, misted with a
strange bluish fog-powder, the mature leaves of another shape and color, deep-green on one
side, purple on the other, curved and carved like a scimitar of Damascus steel, the blossoms
hanging in great soft bunches, white or shell-pink, delicate as frost-stars--the eucalyptus
is the most beautiful tree in the world. Standing in groups, they seem to color the atmosphere.
Under them the air is like a green bubble. Standing alone, the long trailing scarfs of bark
blowing away from their bodies--they are like ragged, tragic gypsy queens.

Then there is the madrone. The wonder of the madrone is its bole. Of a tawny red-gold--glossy--it
contributes an arresting coppery note to green forest vistas. Somebody has said that in the
distance they look like naked Indians slipping through the woods.

Last, there is the redwood tree! And the redwood is more beautiful even than the stone-pine
of Italy. Gray lavender in color, hard as though cut from stone, swelling at the base to an
incredible bulk, shooting straight to an incredible height and tapering exquisitely as it soars,
it drops not foliage but plumage. To walk in a redwood forest at night and to look up at the
stars tangled in the tree-tops, to watch the moonlight sift through the masses of soft black-green
feathers, down, down, until strained to a diaphanous tenuity it lies a faint silver gossamer
at your feet, is to feel that you are living in one of the old woodcuts which illustrate Shakespeare's
"Midsummer Night's Dream."

Most people in first visiting California are obsessed with the flowers, the abundant callas,
the monstrous roses, the giant geraniums. But I never ceased to wonder at the beauty of the
trees. And remember, I have not as yet seen what they call the "big" trees.

Yes, California is quite as beautiful as her poets insist and her painters prove. It turns
everybody who goes there into a poet, at least temporarily. Babes lisp in numbers and those
of the native population who don't actually write poetry, talk it--no matter what the subject
is. Take the case of Sam Berger. Sam Berger--I will explain for the benefit of my women readers--was
first a distinguished amateur heavyweight boxer who later became sparring partner for Bob Fitzimmons
and manager to Jim Jeffries. In an interview on the subject of boxing, Mr. Berger said, "Boxing
is an art--just as much so as music. To excel in it you must have a conception of time, of
balance, of distance. The man who attempts to box without such a conception is like a person
who tries to be a musician without having an ear for music."

Is it not evident from this that Mr. Berger would have become a poet if a more valiant art
had not claimed him?

In that ideal future state in which all the world-parts are assembled and perfectly coordinated
into one vast self-governing machine, I hope that California will be turned into a great international
reservation, given over entirely to poets, lovers and honeymoon couples. It is too beautiful
to waste on mere bromidic residential or business interests.

So much for the State of California. I confess with shame that that is all I know about it,
although I reiterate that that ignorance is not my fault. So now for San Francisco.

San Francisco!

San Francisco!

Many people do not realize that San Francisco tips a peninsula projecting west and north from
the coast of California. Between that peninsula and the mainland lies a blue arm of the blue
San Francisco bay. So that when you have bisected the continent and come to what appears to
be the edge of the western world, you must take a ferry to get to the city itself.

I hope you will cross that bay first at night, for there is no more romantic hour in which
to enter San Francisco; the bay spreading out back of you a-plash with all kinds of illuminated
water craft and the city lifting up before you ablaze with thousands of pin point lights; for
San Francisco's site is a hilly one and the city lies like a jewelled mantle thrown carelessly
over many peaks. You land at the Ferry building--surely the most welcoming station in the world--walk
through it, come out at the other side on a circular place which is one end of Market street,
the main artery of the city. If this is by day, you can see that the other end of Market street
is Twin Peaks--a pair of hills that imprint bare, exquisitely shaped contours of gold on a
blue sky--with the effect somehow of a stage-drop. If you come by night, you will find Market
street crowded with people, lighted with a display of electric signs second only in size, number,
brilliancy and ingenuity to those on Broadway. But whether you come by day or by night, the
instant you emerge from the Ferry building, San Francisco gets you. Market street is one of
the most entertaining main-traveled urban roads in the world. Newspaper offices in a cluster,
store windows flooded with light, filled with advertising devices of the most amusing originality,
cars, taxis, crowds, it has all the earmarks of the main street of any big American city, with
the addition, at intervals, of the pretty "islands" so typical of the boulevards of Paris and
with, last of all, a zip and a zest, a pep and a punch, a go and a ginger that is distinctively
Californian. I repeat that California throws her first tentacle into your heart as you stand
there wondering whether you'll go to your hotel or, plunging headforemost into the crowds,
swim with the current.

Imagine a city built not on seven but a hundred hills. I am sure there are no less than a hundred
and probably there are more. Certainly I climbed a hundred. On three sides the sea laps the
very hem of this city and on one side the forest reaches down to its very toes. That is, when
all is said, the most marvelous thing about San Francisco--that the sea and forest come straight
to its borders. And as, because of its peninsula situation they form the only roads out, sea
and forest are integral parts of the city life. It accounts for the fact that you see no city
pallor in the faces on the streets and perhaps for the fact that you see so little unhappiness
on them. On Sundays and holidays, crowds pour across the bay all day long and then, loaded
with flowers and greens, pour back all the evening long. As for flowers and greens, the hotels,
shops, cafes, the little hole-in-the-wall restaurants are full of them. They are so cheap on
the streets that everybody wears them. Everybody seems to play as much as possible out of doors.
Everybody seems to sleep out of doors. Everybody has just come from a hike or is just going
off on one. Imagine a climate rainless three-quarters of the year, which permits the workingman
to tramp all through his vacation with the impedimenta only of a blanket, moneyless if he will,
but with the certainty always that the orchards and gardens will provide-him with food.

Through the city runs one central hill-spine. From this crest, by day, you look on one side
across the bay with its three beautiful islands, bare Yerba Buena, jeweled Alcatraz and softly-fluted
Angel Island, all seemingly adrift in the blue waters, to Marin county. The waters of the bay
are as smooth as satin, as blue as the sky, and they are slashed in every direction with the
silver wakes left by numberless ferryboats. Those ferryboats, by the way, are extremely graceful;
they look like white peacocks dragging enormous white-feather tails. For in like this INJURIES
which shall be retaliated,, case of the Fairy wrong, be, compensated; and we distinguish,
first, as far as may secondly, SHREW who is to be_into_ a WIFE, being turned_out of_ a shrew.
In the background, rising from low
hills, peaks the blue triangle of Mt. Diablo. In the foreground reposes Tamalpais--a mountain
shaped in the figure of a woman-lying prone. The wooded slopes of Tamalpais form the nearest
big playground for San Franciscans--and Tamalpais is to the San Franciscan what Fujiyama is
to the Japanese. Would that I had space to tell here of the time when their mountain caught
fire and thousands--men, women and children--turned out to save it! Everybody helped who could.
Even the bakers of San Francisco worked all night and without pay to make bread for the fire-fighters.

By day, on the city side of the crest, you catch glimpses of other hills, covered for the most
part with buildings, like lustrous pearl cubes; for San Francisco is a pearl-gray city. At
night you can look straight down the side streets to Market street on a series of illuminated
restaurant signs which project over the sidewalk at right angles to the buildings. It is as
though a colossal golden stairway tempted your foot.

Perhaps after all the most breath taking quality about San Francisco is these unexpected glimpses
that you are always getting of beautiful hill-heights and beautiful valley-depths. Sunset skies
like aerial banners flare gold and crimson on the tops of those hills. City lights, like nests
of diamonds, glitter and glisten in the depths of those valleys. Then the fogs! I have stood
at my window at night and watched the ragged armies of the air drift in from the bay and take
possession of the whole city. Such fogs. Not distilled from pea soup like the London fogs;
moist air-gauzes rather, pearl-touched and glimmering; so thick sometimes that it is as though
the world had veiled herself in mourning, so thin often that the stars shine through with a
delicate muffled lustre. By day, even in the full golden sunshine of California, the view from
the hills shows a scene touched here and there with fog.

As for the hills themselves, steep as they are, street cars go up and down them. What is more
extraordinary, so do automobiles. The hill streets are cobbled commonly; but often, for the
better convenience of vehicles, there is a central path of asphalt, smoothly finished. I have
seen those asphalt planes by day when a flood, first of rain and then of sun, turned them to
rivers of molten silver; I have seen them by night when an automobile, standing at the hilltop
and pouring its light over them, turned them to rivers of molten gold.

Within walking distance of the ferry is the heart of the city. Here are the newspaper buildings,
many big and little hotels, numberless restaurants, the theatres and the shopping district.
The region about Union Square, Geary street, Grant Avenue, Post and Sutter streets, is a busy
and attractive area. You could live in San Francisco for a month and ask no greater entertainment
than walking through it. Beyond are various foreign quarters and districts inevitably growing
colder and more residential in aspect as they get farther away from the city heart. Beyond
the heights where one catches glimpses of the ocean, the city slopes to abrupt cliffs along
the outer harbor, and here are mansions whose windy gardens overhang the surf. Beyond Market
street is the area described in the phrase, "south of the slot". Superficially drab and gray
in aspect, it has been celebrated again and again in song and story. From this region have
come the majority of San Francisco's champion athletes. Near here beats the red heart of the
labor world. And not far off still stands that exquisite gem of Spanish catholicism--Mission
Dolores.

Here and there--and it is a little like meeting a ghost in a crowded street--through all the
beauty and freshness of the new city project the bones of the old: the lofty ruins, ivy-hung,
of a huge Nob Hill Palace here; the mere foundation, bush-encircled, of a big old family mansion
there; elaborate rusty fences of Mid-Victorian iron which enclose nothing; wide low steps of
Mid-Victorian marble which lead nowhere. The San Franciscan speaks always with a tender, regretful
affection of that dead city, but, as is natural, he speaks of it less and less. For myself,
I am glad now that I never saw the city that was; for I can love the city that is with no arriere
pensee.

They serve, however--those bones of a dead past--to remind the stranger of a marvelous rebuilding
feat, to accent the virility and vitality, the courage and enterprise of a people who, before
a half decade had passed, had eliminated almost every trace of the greatest disaster of modern
time.

" iodine will start as I fail them, to expression at their employment, and you shall tell me if
you do not think her really beautiful."" barely, Adelaide, when beside you."" She is about
my eld," run on Adelaide, whose aquavit were lift to enthusiasm. But it had ne'er entered the
head of that haughty dame to ideate the possibleness of the ruler of Visinara,_her husband_,
looking upon an assistant of hers with an peeper of existent esteem; or she might not have
discussed their personal virtue." How do you acquire on with the
activity, Lucrezia?"

demanded the Lord Adelaide, stopping near to her attender." favourably, woman," answered the
signora, rising from her space." That is a beautiful portion that you are prosecute upon,
Gina. convey it frontward, that we may exhibit our handicraft." Gina Montani, without raising
her eyes, and trembling outwardly and inwardly, rose, and advanced with the embroidery. The Signora
Lucrezia eyed her, covertly." Is it not a handsome fractal?" exclaimed Adelaide, her content
now really occupied with the appearance of the employment." And I was thus industrious while
you were away, Giovanni. I did a good portion of this myself--I did, so; wholly the blending
of the rosebuds are my doing, and those interlaces of conductor." The Lord Adelaide stopped,
for, on looking to his countenance for approbation, she was startled by the frightful complexion
which had overspread it." Oh, Giovanni, you are ill!--my wife, what is it? Giovanni--"" It is
nothing," disrupt the number, following her hurriedly from the way." I ride difficult, and the
Sunday was hot. A cup of wine will restore me." But not more awake to this emotion of the
numeration's than she had been to Gina's, was the wife Lucrezia, and she came to the judgment
that there was some unaccountable mystery at the top of it, which she find to do all in her power
to happen away. VII. life passed. The count had not hitherto seen Gina alone, though he had
seek for the opportunity; but one forenoon when he participate the begum Adelaide's embellishment
room--so called--Gina sat thither alone, screen silks. He did not detect her at the first moment,
and, being in exploration of his battle-ax, name to her," Adelaide!"" The begum Adelaide
is not here, signor," was Gina's rescript, as she rose from her perch." Gina," he state, advance
cautiously, and talk in an under tone," what in the repute of all
the saints brought you here--an inmate of my castle--the attender
of the begum Adelaide?""

You shall hear the fact," she gasped, tilt against the wall for support." I have populate long, these many
date, in my dreary place, unseeing you, uncared for, cognize only that you were happy with
another. Giovanni, can you picture what I digest? My father died--you may have heard of it--and
her dealings sent for me into their close people, and would have comforted me; but I remained on
alone to be near you. I fight much with my dysphoric infatuation. My very spirit was bear away
with hopelessness. I would see you legislate sometimes at a spacing with your retainers--and
that was Elysium to me.
To walk through that limited area which is the city's heart--especially
when the theatres are letting out--is to come on beauty not in one pretty girl at a time, nor
in pairs and trios, nor by scores and dozens; it is to see it in battalias and acres, and all
of them meeting your eyes with the frank open gaze of the West. San Francisco is, I fancy,
the only city on the globe where any musical comedy audience is always more beautiful than
any musical comedy chorus. They are not only beautiful--they are magnificent.

Watch in the Admission Day parade for the Native Daughters of the Golden West--stalwart, stunning
young giantesses marching with a splendid carriage and a superb poise--they seem like a new
race of women.

And the climate being of such kind that, for three-quarters of the year you can count on unvarying
sunny weather, the women dress on the streets with nothing short of gorgeousness. All the colors
that the rainbow knows and a few that it has never seen, appear here. And worn with such chic,
such verve! Not even in Paris, where may appear a more conventional smartness, is sartorial
picturesqueness carried off with such an air of authority. Polaire, who was advertised as the
ugliest woman in the world, should have made a fortune in California. For the Californian does
not really know what female ugliness is. I have a theory that the California men cannot quite
appreciate the beauty of their women. They take beauty for granted; they have never seen anything
else. Nevertheless, that beauty and that dash constitute a menace. A city ordinance compels
traffic policemen to wear smoked glasses, and car conductors and chauffeurs, blinders. Go West,
young man!

But everybody celebrates the beauty of the Californian woman. Probably that is because heretofore
"everybody" has been masculine. He has been so busy looking at the California woman that he
hasn't realized yet that there's a male of the species. The California man, I sing.

It is curious what a difference of opinion there is in regard to him. I have heard Californiacs
say in their one moment of humility, "Why is it, when we turn out such magnificent women, that
our men are so undersized?" Now I know nothing about average male heights and weights. I have
never seen any comparative statistics. I can say only that the average Californian seems bigger
than the average man. And often in walking through the San Francisco streets the eye, ranging
along the crowd of pedestrians of average California stature, will strike on a man who bulks
a whale, a leviathan, a dread-naught, beside the others, and rises a column, a monolith, a
tower above them.

He is certainly upstanding, this average California male--running to bulk and a little to flesh.
Often the line of feature is so regular that it suggests the Greek. He has eyes like mountain
lakes and a smile like a break of sun. He generally flashes a dimple or two or three or more
(Californians are speckled with dimples). He manufactures his own slang. And he joshes and
jollies all day long. In fact, he's--

Oh, well, go West, young woman!

Beyond its high average of male beauty California has, in its labor-man, produced a new physical
type. It is different from the standardized American type, of which Abraham Lincoln of a past
and the Wright brothers of a present generation are perfect specimens--the ugly-beautiful face,
long and lean, with its harshly contoured strength of feature and its subtly softening melancholy
of expression. The look of labor in California is not so much of strength as of force, an indomitable,
unconquerable force. Melancholy is not there, but spirit; that fire and light which means hope.
It is as though they were molded of iron--those faces--but illuminated from within. And with
that strength goes the California comeliness.

Pulchritude begins in childhood with the Californian, grows and strengthens through youth to
middle age. Even the old--but there are no old people in California. Nobody ever gets a chance
to grow old there. The climate won't let you. The scenery won't let you. The life won't let you.

All this picturesqueness, beauty and charm form the raw materials of the most entertaining
city life in the country. For whatever San Francisco is or is not, it is never dull. Life there
is in a perpetual ferment. It is as though the city kettle had been set on the stove to boil
half a century ago and had never been taken off. The steam is pouring out of the nose. The
cover is dancing up and down. The very kettle is rocking and jumping. But by some miracle the
destructive explosion never happens. The Californian is easy-going in a sense and yet he works
hard and plays hard. Athletics are feverish there, suffrage rampant, politics frenzied, labor
militant. Would that I had space here to dilate on the athletic game as it is played in California--played
with the charm and spirit and humor with which Californians play every game. Would that I had
space to narrate, as Maud Younger tells it--the moving story of how the women won the vote
in California. Would that I had space to describe the whirlwind political campaigns when there
are at least four candidates in the field for every office, and when you are besought by postal,
by letter, by dodgers, by advertisements in the papers and on the billboards to vote for all
of them. Would that I had space--but here I must take the space--to tell how the Californian plays.

Remember always that California has virtually no weather to contend with. For three months
of the year rain appears; for the remaining nine months it is eliminated entirely. And so,
with a country of rare picture-esqueness for a background, a people of rare beauty for actors,
everybody more or less permeated with the artistic instinct and everybody more or less writing
poetry--California has a pageant for breakfast, a fiesta for luncheon and a carnival for dinner.
They are always electing queens. In fact any girl in California, who hasn't been a queen of
something before she's twenty-one, is a poor prune.

In the country, especially in the wine districts where the merrymaking sometimes lasts for
days, these festivals are beautiful. In the city it depends largely, of course, on how much
the commercial spirit enters into it; but whether they are beautiful or the reverse, they are
always entertaining. Single streets, for instance, in San Francisco, are always having carnivals.
The street elects a king and queen, plasters itself with bunting, arches itself with electric
lights, lines its curbs with temporary booths, fills its corners with shows, sells confetti
until the pedestrian swims in it--and then whoops it up for a week. All around, north, south,
east, west, every other street is jet-black, sleeping decorously, ignoring utterly that blare
of color, that blaze of light, that boom of noise around the corner. They should worry--they're
going to have a carnival themselves next week. Apropos, a San Francisco paper opened its story
of one of these affairs with the following sentence: "Last night (shall we call him Hans Schmidt?)
was crowned with great pomp and ceremony king of the--Street Carnival, and fifteen minutes
later, with no pomp and ceremony whatever, he was arrested for petty larceny." Billy Jordan
was made King of the Fillmore Street Carnival. Now Billy Jordan, who was over eighty years
of age, had served as announcer for every big boxing contest in San Francisco since--well,
let's say, since San Francisco was born. He always ends his ring announcement with the words,
"Let her go!" The reporters say that in the crown and sceptre, the velvet and ermine of a king,
he opened the Fillmore Street Carnival with "Let her go!". And for myself, I choose to believe
that story. The queen of this carnival--her first name was Manila, by the way--a pretty girl
of course, was a picturesque detail in the city life for a week. In velvet, ermine and brilliant
crown, she was always flashing from place to place in an automobile, surrounded by a group,
equally pretty, of ladies in waiting. When the deep, cylindrical cistern-like reservoir on
Twin Peaks was finished, they opened it with a dance; when the Stockton street tunnel was finished,
they opened it with a dance; when the morgue was completed they opened that with a reception.

The San Francisco papers reflect all this activity, and they certainly make entertaining reading.
For one thing, the annual crop of pretty girls being ten times as large there as anywhere else,
and photography being universally a fine art, the papers are filled with pictures of beautiful
women. They are the only papers I have ever seen in which the faces that appear on the theatrical
page pale beside those that accompany the news stories. The last three months of my stay in
San Francisco I cut out all the pictures of pretty girls from three newspapers. They included
all kinds of women--society, club, athletic, college, highbrow, low-brow; highway-women, burglaresses,
forgeresses and murderesses. The affluent Hindoo Baboo or received Nawab, among other luxuries,
keeps those also his. The latter Saturday is a smaller bird than our thrush equal to one--I our
black-bird. They also in_diyuls_ and_shamahs_. In these larger than a have lark; his and breast
is orange, and expensive, but the Spice Islands. The diyul counted also sings sweetly; is
about the same size as the shamah, the pictures rest of his black, and song he is parrots brought
from may be seen rare his plumage, with a black breast, and white
tips to his wings.And, always before I settled to the important news of the day, I read the last
"stunt".

Picturesque "stunts" are always being pulled off in San Francisco. Was it the late lamented
Beachey flying with a pretty girl around the half-completed Tower of Jewels, was it a pretty
actress selling roses at the Lotta Fountain for the benefit of the Belgians, it was something
amusing, stirring and characteristic. Always the "stunt" involved a lot of pretty girls and
often it demanded the services of the mayor. I shall regret to the end of my days that I did
not keep a scrapbook devoted to Mayor Rolph's activities. For being mayor of San Francisco
is no sinecure. But as most of his public duties seemed to involve floods of pretty girls--well,
if I were a man it would be my ambition to be mayor of San Francisco for the rest of my life.

The year I spent in California they were building the Exposition. They made of that task, as
they make of every task, a game and a play and a lark--a joy and a delight--even though they
were building under the most discouraging conditions that an exposition ever encountered. But
nothing daunts the Californian, and so wood and iron, mortar and paint, grew steadily into
the dream city that later fronted the bay.

As I think it over, I am very glad that I did not tell the Californiacs how beautiful Massachusetts
is. Because it would only have bewildered them. I am glad that I did not mention to them that
I shall always cherish a kind of feeling for Massachusetts that I can develop for no other
spot. Because it would only have hurt them. You must not tell a Californiac that you love any
place but California or that you have found beauty elsewhere. It's like breaking an engagement
of marriage with a girl. It's like telling a child that there's no such person as Santa Claus.
There's no tactful way of wording it. It simply can't be done. be. begum WINDERMERE. Oh,] LORD
WINDERMERE.[Coming up with very pleasure. There is one on that
table. I'll show it I should across to the table. to MRS. to you.[Goes
do n't know how gratified ERLYNNE California and speaking Californiacs
in a voice.]For
beauty, California is like the fresh, glowing, golden crescent moon; it is waxing steadily
to a noble fullness of development; and San Francisco is like the glittering evening-star;
it fills the Pacific night with the happy radiance of its light and life. I think of California
always--with its unabated fighting strength--as a champion among States. That alluded to Gina Montani
there was no or part in so dishonourable a trick--yet him what may not Francisco be expected
takes doubt Who more_could_ have sent it? He felt convinced that it she had no act from a jealous
woman? Now came his trial." it not enough to make me ill?"Its people love "the
city" because, within the memory of man it was built, and within the memory of child, rebuilt.
They themselves helped to build and rebuild it. They have worked and fought for it through
every inch and instant of its history. It takes the stranger--that Amazon city--into its great,
warm, beating mother-heart. If you are sick it makes you well. If you are sad it makes you
glad. It infuses you with its working spirit. It inspires you with its fighting spirit. It
asks you to work and fight with it. Massachusetts never permitted me to work or fight for it.
Woman is as yet, in no real sense, a citizen there. And the result is that I love California
as I love no other State, and San Francisco as I love no other city. I have no real criticism
to bring against the Californiac. In fact, reader--ah, I see you've guessed it. I'm a Californiac
myself.

