And here let me tell you some secrets of this kind of business, in which hundreds of women
starve, and hundreds more go down to a life of infamy. Cap-making (the great business of Water
Street of New York) gives employment to thousands of unfortunates. For embroidering caps, the
wholesale dealer pays seven cents each; and for making up, three cents. To make a dozen a day,
one must work for sixteen hours. The embroidering is done in this wise: I received the cut
cloth from the wholesale dealer; drew the pattern upon each cap; gave them, with three cents'
worth of silk, to the embroiderer, who received three cents for her work; then pressed and
returned them; thus making one cent on each for myself. By working steadily for sixteen hours,
a girl could embroider fifteen in a day. I gave out about six dozen daily; earning, like the
rest, fifty cents a day: unless I chose to do the stamping and pressing at night, and to embroider
a dozen during the day; in which case, I earned a dollar.

One can live in this way for a little while, until health fails, or the merchant says that
the work has come to an end. You will think this terrible again. Oh, no! this is not terrible.
The good men provide in another way. They tell every woman of a prepossessing appearance, that
it is wrong in her to work so hard; that many a man would be glad to care for her; and that
many women live quite comfortably with the help of _a friend_. They say, further, that it is
lonely to live without ever going to church, to the concert and theatre; and that if these
women would only permit the speakers to visit them, and to attend them to any of these places,
they would soon find that they would no longer be obliged to work so hard. This is the polished
talk of gentlemen who enjoy the reputation of piety and respectability, and who think it a
bad speculation to pay women liberally for their work. So it would be, in truth; for these
poor creatures would not be so willing to abandon themselves to a disreputable life, if they
could procure bread in any other way.

During the summer of 1854, I took work on commission from men of this sort. While in Berlin
I had learned from the prostitutes in the hospital in what manner educated women often became
what they then were. The average story was always the same. The purest love made them weak;
their lover deceived and deserted them; their family cast them off by way of punishment. In
their disgrace, they went to bury themselves in large cities, where the work that they could
find scarcely gave them their daily bread. Their employers attracted by their personal appearance
and the refinement of their speech and manners, offered them assistance in another way, in
which they could earn money without work. In despair, they accepted the proposals; and sunk
gradually, step by step, to the depths of degradation, as depicted by Hogarth in the "Harlot's
Progress." In New York, I was thrown continually among men who were of the stamp that I described
before; and can say, even from my own experience, that no man is ever more polite, more friendly,
or more kind, than one who has impure wishes in his heart. It is really so dangerous for a
woman of refined nature to go to such stores, that I never suffered my sister to visit them;
not because I feared that she would listen to these men, but because I could not endure the
thought that so innocent and beautiful a girl should come in contact with them, or even breathe
the same atmosphere. When fathers are unwilling that their daughters shall enter life as physicians,
lawyers, merchants, or in any other public capacity, it is simply because they belong to the
class that so contaminates the air, that none can breathe it but themselves; or because, from
being thrown constantly in contact with such men, they arrive at the same point at which I
then stood, and say to themselves "_I_ can afford to meet such men. I am steeled by my knowledge
of mankind, and supported by the philosophy that I have learned during years of trial. It cannot
hurt _me_; but, by all means, spare the young and beautiful the same experience!"

I dealt somewhat haughtily with the merchants whom I have described, in a manner that at once
convinced them of my position. But the consequence was, that the embroidery commission, which
had commenced so favorably, suddenly ceased, "_because the Southern trade had failed_:" in
truth, because I would not allow any of these men to say any more to me than was absolutely
necessary in our business. My income became less and less, and we were forced to live upon
the money that we had laid up during the year. I did not look for any new sources of employment,
for I was intending to go to Cleveland in October; while my next sister had business of her
own, and Anna was engaged to be married to our friend Mr. C. My brother was also with them;
and my mother's brother, whom she had adopted as a child, was on his way to America.

After having settled our affairs, fifty dollars remained as my share; and, with this sum, I
set out for Cleveland on the 16th of October, 1854. Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell had supplied me
with the necessary medical text-books; so that I had no other expenses than my journey and
the matriculation fees, which together amounted to twenty dollars, leaving thirty dollars in
my possession.

I do not believe that many begin the study of medicine with so light a purse and so heavy a
heart as did I. My heart was heavy for the reason that I did not know a single sentence of
English. All of my study with Dr. Blackwell had been like raindrops falling upon stone: I had
profited nothing. The lectures I did not care for, since there was more need of my studying
English than medicine: but the subjects were well known to me; and I therefore reasoned, that,
by hearing familiar things treated of in English, I must learn the language; and the logic
held good.

I have already told you that the Faculty had agreed to give me credit for my lecture-fees.
Dr. Blackwell had written also to a lady there, who had called upon her some time before in
the capacity of President of a Physiological Society, which, among other good things, had established
a small fund for the assistance of women desirous of studying medicine. This lady (Mrs. Caroline
M. Severance) replied in the most friendly manner, saying that I might come directly to her
house, and that she would see that my board for the winter was secured by the Physiological
Society over which she presided.

The journey to Cleveland was a silent but a pleasant one. Through a mishap, I arrived on Saturday
night, instead of in the morning; and, being unwilling to disturb Mrs. Severance at so late
an hour, went first to a hotel. But what trials I had there! No one could understand me; until
at last I wrote on a slate my own name and Mrs. Severance's, with the words, "A carriage,"
and "To-morrow." From this the people inferred that I wished to stay at the hotel all night,
and to have a carriage to take me to Mrs. Severance's the next day; as was the case. A waiter
took my carpet-bag and conducted me to a room. I could not understand his directions to the
supper-room, neither could I make him understand that I wanted some supper in my own room;
and the consequence was, that I went to bed hungry, having eaten nothing all day but a little
bread, and an apple for luncheon.

As soon as I was dressed the next morning, I rang the bell furiously; and, on the appearance
of the waiter, exclaimed, "Beefsteak!" This time he comprehended me, and went laughingly away
to bring me a good breakfast. I often saw the same waiter afterwards at the hotel; and he never
saw me without laughing, and exclaiming, "Beefsteak!"

In the course of the forenoon, I was taken in a carriage to the house of Mrs. Severance; but
the family were not at home. I returned to the hotel, somewhat disheartened and disappointed.
Although I should have supposed that death was not far off if no disappointment had happened
to me when I least expected it, yet this persistent going wrong of every thing in Cleveland
was really rather dispiriting. But a bright star soon broke through the clouds, in the shape
of Mr. Severance, who came into the parlor directly after dinner, calling for me in so easy
and so cordial a manner, that I forgot every thing, and was perfectly happy. This feeling,
however, lasted only until I reached the house. I found four fine children, all full of childish
curiosity to hear me talk; who, as soon as they found that I could not make myself understood
by them, looked on me with that sort of contempt peculiar to children when they discover that
a person cannot do as much as they can themselves. Mr. Severance, too, was expecting to find
me accomplished in music, "like all Germans;" and had to learn that I had neither voice nor
ear for the art. Mrs. Severance understood a little German, yet not half enough to gain any
idea of how much or how little I was capable of doing; and therefore looked upon me with a
sort of uncertainty as to what was my real capacity. This position was more provoking than
painful; there was even something ludicrous in it: and, when not annoyed, I often went into
my room to indulge in a hearty laugh by myself.

I met with a most cordial reception in the college The dean (Dr. John J. Delamater) received
me like a father; and, on the first day, I felt perfectly at home. All was going on well. I
had a home at Mrs. Severance's; while, despite my mutilated English, I found many friends in
the college, when circumstances changed every thing. Some changes occurred in Mr. Severance's
business; and he was forced, in consequence, to give up house-keeping At that time, I did not
know that the Physiological Society was ready to lend me money; and was therefore in great
distress. I never experienced so bitter a day as that on which Mrs. Severance told me that
I could stay with her no longer. It was but five weeks after my arrival, and I was not able
to make myself understood in the English language, which was like chaos to me. On the same
day, I well remember, that, for the first time in my life, I made an unsuccessful attempt to
borrow money; and, because it was the first and the last time, it was the more painful to me
to be refused. I envied the dog that lived, and was happy without troubling his brain; I envied
the kitchen-maid that did her work mechanically, and enjoyed life far more than those fitted
by nature for something higher, while the world would go on just as well without them as with them.

Mrs. Severance secured a boarding-place for me for the rest of the winter; and paid my board,
amounting to thirty-three dollars, from the funds of the society. I lived quietly by myself;
studied six hours daily at home, with four dictionaries by me; attending six lectures a day,
and going in the evening for three hours to the dissecting-rooms. I never conversed with any
one in the boarding-house nor even asked for any thing at the table; but was supplied like
a mute. This silence was fruitful to me. About New Year, I ventured to make my English audible;
when, lo! every one understood me perfectly. From this time forward, I sought to make acquaintances,
to the especial delight of good old Dr. Delamater, who had firmly believed that I was committing
gradual suicide. Through Mrs. Severance, I became acquainted with Dr. Harriot K. Hunt, who
was then on a visit to Cleveland; and, through her, with the Rev. A.D. Mayo, who was pastor
of a small society there, known as that of the Liberal Christians.

