As the spring came forward, Fleda took care that her garden should — both gardens, indeed.
There she and Philetus had the game in their own hands, and beautifully it was managed. Hugh
had full occupation at the mill. Many a dollar this summer was earned by the loads of fine
fruits and vegetables which Philetus carried to Montepoole; and accident opened a new source
of revenue. When the courtyard was in the full blaze of its beauty, one day an admiring passer-by
modestly inquired if a few of those exquisite flowers might be had for money. They were given
him most cheerfully that time; but the demand returned, accompanied by the offer, and Fleda
obliged herself not to decline it. A trial it was, to cut her roses and jessamines for anything
but her own or her friends' pleasure, but, according to custom, she bore it without hesitation.
The place became a resort for all the flower-lovers who happened to be staying at the Pool;
and rose-leaves were changed into silver pennies as fast as in a fairy-tale.

But the delicate mainspring that kept all this machinery in order suffered from too severe
a strain. There was too much running, too much considering, too much watchfulness. In the garden,
pulling peas, and seeing that Philetus weeded the carrots right — in the field or the wood-yard,
consulting and arranging, or maybe debating, with Earl Douglass, who acquired by degrees an
unwonted and concentrated respect for womankind in her proper person; breakfast waiting for
her often before she came in; — in the house, her old housewifery concerns, her share in Barby's
cares or difficulties, her sweet countenancing and cheering of her aunt, her dinner, her work;
— then when evening came, budding her roses, or tying her carnations, or weeding, or raking
the ground between them (where Philetus could do nothing), or training her multiflora and sweet-brier
branches; and then often, after all, walking up to the mill to give Hugh a little earlier a
home smile, and make his way down pleasant. No wonder if the energies which owed much of their
strength to love's nerving, should at last give out, and Fleda's evening be passed in wearied
slumbers. No wonder if many a day was given up to the forced quietude of a headache, the more
grievous to Fleda, because she knew that her aunt and Hugh always found the day dark that was
not lightened by her sun-beam. How brightly it shone out the moment the cloud of pain was removed,
winning the shadow from their faces and a smile to their lips, though solitude always saw her
own settle into a gravity as fixed as it was soft.

"You have been doing too much, Fleda," said Mrs. Rossitur, one morning when she came in from
the garden.

"I didn't know it would take me so long," said Fleda, drawing a long breath: "but I couldn't
help it. I had those celery plants to prick out — and then I was helping Philetus to plant
another patch of corn."

"He might have done that without help, I should think."

"But it must be put in to-day, and he had other things to do."

"And then you were at your flowers?" —

"Oh, well! — budding a few roses — that's only play. It was time they were done. But I am tired;
and I am going up to see Hugh — it will rest me and him too."

The gardening frock and gloves were exchanged for those of ordinary wear, and Fleda set off
slowly to go up to the saw- mill.

She stopped a moment when she came upon the bridge, to look off to the right where the waters
of the little run came hurrying along through a narrow wooded chasm in the hill, murmuring
to her of the time when a little child's feet had paused there, and a child's heart danced
to its music. The freshness of its song was unchanged, the glad rush of its waters was as joyous
as ever, but the spirits were quieted that used to answer it with sweeter freshness and lighter
joyousness. Its faint echo of the old-time laugh was blended now in Fleda's ear with a gentle
wail for the rushing days and swifter-fleeing delights of human life; — gentle, faint, but
clear — she could hear it very well. Taking up her walk again, with a step yet slower, and
a brow yet more quiet, she went on till she came in sight of the little mill; and presently,
above the noise of the brook, could hear the saw going. To her childish ears what a signal
of pleasure that had always been! — and now — she sighed, and stopping at a little distance,
looked for Hugh. He was there; she saw him in a moment going forward to stop the machinery,
the piece of timber in hand having walked its utmost length up to the saw; she saw him throwing
aside the new-cut board, and adjusting what was left till it was ready for another march up
to head-quarters. When it stopped the second time, Fleda went forward. Hugh must have been
busy in his own thoughts, for he did not see her until he had again adjusted the log, and set
the noisy works in motion. She stood still. Several huge timbers lay close by, ready for the
saw; and on one of them where he had been sitting, Fleda saw his Bible lying open. As her eye
went from it to him, it struck her heart with a pang that he looked tired, and that there was
a something of delicacy, even of fragility, in the air of face and figure both.

He came to meet her, and welcomed her with a smile, that coming upon this feeling set Fleda's
heart a-quivering. Hugh's smile was always one of very great sweetness, though never unshadowed;
there was often something ethereal in its pure gentleness. This time it seemed even sweeter
than usual; but though not sadder, perhaps less sad, Fleda could hardly command herself to
reply to it. She could not at the moment speak; her eye glanced at his open book.

"Yes, it rests me," he said, answering her.

"Rests you, dear Hugh!" —

He smiled again. "Here is somebody else that wants resting, I am afraid," said he, placing
her gently on the log; and before she had found anything to say, he went off again to his machinery.
Fleda sat looking at him, and trying to clear her bosom of its thick breathing.

"What has brought you up here through the hot sun?" said he, coming back after he had stopped
the saw, and sitting down beside her.

Fleda's lip moved nervously, and her eye shunned meeting his. Softly pushing back the wet hair
from his temples, she said —

"I had one of my fits of doing nothing at home — I didn't feel very bright, and thought perhaps
you didn't — so, on the principle that two negatives make an affirmative —"

"I feel bright," said Hugh, gently.

Fleda's eye came down to his, which was steady and clear as the reflection of the sky in Deepwater
lake — and then hers fell lower.

"Why don't you, dear Fleda?"

"I believe I am a little tired," Fleda said, trying, but in vain, to command herself and look
up — "and there are states of body when anything almost is enough to depress one."

"And what depresses you now?" said he, very steadily and quietly.

"Oh — I was feeling a little down about things in general," said Fleda, in a choked voice,
trying to throw off her load with a long breath; "it's because I am tired, I suppose —"

"I felt so too, a little while ago," said Hugh. "But I have concluded to give all that up, Fleda."

Fleda looked at him. Her eyes were swimming full, but his were clear and gentle as ever, only
glistening a little in sympathy with hers.

"I thought all was going wrong with us," he went on. "But I found it was only I that was wrong;
and since that, I have been quite happy, Fleda."

Fleda could not speak to him; his words made her pain worse.

"I told you this rested me," said he, reaching across her for his book; "and now I am never
weary long. Shall I rest you with it? What have you been troubling yourself about to-day?"

She did not answer while he was turning over the leaves, and he then said, —

"Do you remember this, Fleda — '_Truly God is good to Israel, even to them that are of a clean
heart_.' "

Fleda bent her head down upon her hands.

"I was moody and restless the other day," said Hugh; "desponding of everything; and I came
upon this psalm; and it made me ashamed of myself. I had been disbelieving it; and because
I could not see how things were going to work good, I thought they were going to work evil.
I thought we were wearing out our lives alone here in a wearisome way, and I forgot that it
must be the very straightest way that we could get home. I am sure we shall not want anything
that will do us good; and the rest I am willing to want — and so are you, Fleda?"

Fleda squeezed his hand — that was all. For a minute he was silent, and then went on, without
any change of tone.

"I had a notion, awhile ago, that I should like if it were possible for me to go to college;
but I am quite satisfied now. I have good time and opportunity to furnish myself with a better
kind of knowledge, that I shall want where college learning wouldn't be of much use to me;
and I can do it, I dare say, better here in this mill, than if we had stayed in New York, and
I had lived in our favourite library."

"But, dear Hugh," said Fleda, who did not like this speech in any sense of it; "the two things
do not clash! The better man, the better Christian always, other things being equal. The more
precious kind of knowledge should not make one undervalue the less?"

"No," he said; but the extreme quietness and simplicity of his reply smote Fleda's fears; it
answered her words and waved her thought. She dared not press him further. She sat looking
over the road with an aching heart.

"You haven't taken enough of my medicine," said Hugh, smiling. "Listen, Fleda — '_All the paths
of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies_.' "

But that made Fleda cry again.

" 'All his paths,' Fleda; then, whatever may happen to you, and whatever may happen to me,
or to any of us, I can trust him. I am willing any one should have the world, if I may have
what Abraham had — '_fear not; I am thy shield and thy exceeding great reward;_' — and I believe
I shall, Fleda; for it is not the hungry that he has threatened to send empty away."

Fleda could say nothing, and Hugh just then said no more. For a little while, near and busy
as thoughts might be, tongues were silent. Fleda was crying quietly, the utmost she could do
being to keep it quiet; Hugh, more quietly, was considering again the strong pillars on which
he had laid his hope, and trying their strength and beauty, till all other things were to him
as the mist rolling off from he valley is to the man planted on a watch-tower.

His meditations were interrupted by the tramp of horse; and a party of riders, male and female,
came past them up the hill. Hugh looked on as they went by; Fleda's head was not raised.

"There are some people enjoying themselves," said Hugh. "After all, dear Fleda, we should be
very sorry to change places with those gay riders. I would not, for a thousand worlds, give
my hope and treasure for all other they can possibly have in possession or prospect."

"No, indeed!" said Fleda, energetically, and trying to rouse herself, — "and, besides that,
Hugh, we have, as it is, a great deal more to enjoy than most other people. We are so happy —"

In each other, she was going to say, but the words choked her.

"Those people looked very hard at us, or at one of us," said Hugh. "It must have been you,
I think, Fleda."

"They are welcome," said Fleda; "they couldn't have made much out of the back of my sun-bonnet."

"Well, dear Fleda, I must content myself with little more than looking at you now, for Mr.
Winegar is in a hurry for his timber to be sawn, and I must set this noisy concern a-going again."

Fleda sat and watched him, with rising and falling hopes and fears, forcing her lips to a smile
when he came near her, and hiding her tears at other times; till the shadows stretching well
to the east of the meridian, admonished her she had been there long enough; and she left him
still going backward and forward tending the saw.

As she went down the hill, she pressed involuntarily her hands upon her heart, for the dull
heavy pain there. But that was no plaster for it; and when she got to the bridge the soft singing
of the little brook was just enough to shake her spirits from the doubtful poise they had kept.
Giving one hasty glance along the road and up the hill, to make sure that no one was near,
she sat down on a stone in the edge of the woods, and indulged in such weeping as her gentle
eyes rarely knew; for the habit of patience so cultivated for others' sake constantly rewarded
her own life with its sweet fruits. But deep and bitter in proportion was the flow of the fountain
once broken up. She struggled to remind herself that "Providence runneth not on broken wheels;"
she struggled to repeat to herself what she did not doubt, that, "_all_ the ways of the Lord
are mercy and truth" to his people; — in vain. The slight check for a moment to the torrent
of grief but gave it greater head to sweep over the barrier; and the self-reproach that blamed
its violence and needlessness only made the flood more bitter. Nature fought against patience
for awhile; but when the loaded heart had partly relieved itself, patience came in again, and
she rose up to go home. It startled her exceedingly to find Mr. Olmney standing before her,
and looking so sorrowful that Fleda's eyes could not bear it.

"My dear Miss Ringgan! — forgive me — I hope you will forgive me — but I could not leave you
in such distress. I knew that in you it could only be from some very serious cause of grief."

"I cannot say it is from anything new, Mr. Olmney — except to my apprehensions."

"You are all _well?_" he said, inquiringly, after they had walked a few steps in silence.

"Well? — yes, Sir," said Fleda, hesitatingly; "but I do not think that Hugh looks very well."

The trembling of her voice told him her thought. But he remained silent.

"You have noticed it?" she said, hastily looking up.

"I think you have told me he always was delicate?"

"And you have noticed him looking so, lately, Mr. Olmney!"

"I have thought so — but you say he always was that. If you will permit me to say so, I have
thought the same of you, Miss Fleda."

Fleda was silent: her heart ached again.

"We would gladly save each other from every threatening trouble," said Mr. Olmney again, after
a pause; — "but it ought to content us that we do not know how. Hugh is in good hands, my dear
Miss Ringgan."

"I know it, Sir," said Fleda, unable quite to keep back her tears; "and I know very well this
thread of our life will not bear the strain always — and I know that the strands must, in all
probability, part unevenly — and I know it is in the power of no blind fate — but that —"

"Does not lessen our clinging to each other. O no! — it grows but the tenderer and the stronger
for the knowledge."

Fleda could but cry.

"And yet," said he, very kindly, "we who are Christians may and ought to learn to take troubles
hopefully, for 'tribulation worketh patience, and patience,' that is, quiet waiting on God,
'works experience' of his goodness and faithfulness; and 'experience worketh hope,' and that
'hope,' we know, 'maketh not ashamed.' "

"I know it," said Fleda; "but, Mr. Olmney, how easily the brunt of a new affliction breaks
down all that chain of reasoning!"

"Yes!" he said, sadly and thoughtfully; "but, my dear Miss Fleda, you know the way to build
it up again. I would be very glad to bear all need for it away from you."

They had reached the gate. Fleda could not look up to thank him; the hand she held out was
grasped, more than kindly, and he turned away.

Fleda's tears came hot again as she went up the walk; she held her head down to hide them,
and went round the back way.

CHAPTER II.

"Now the melancholy god protect thee: and the tailor make thy doublet of changeable taffeta,
for thy mind is a very opal." TWELFTH NIGHT.

"Well, what did you come home for?" was Barby's salutation; "here's company been waiting for
you till they're tired, and I am sure I be."

"Company!" said Fleda.

"Yes, and it's ungrateful in you to say so," said Barby; "for she's been in a wonderful hurry
to see you, or to get somethin' to eat — I don't know which; a little o' both, I hope in charity."

"Why didn't you give her something to eat? Who is it?"

"I don't know who it is! It's one of your highfliers, that's all I can make out. She 'a'n't
a hat a bit better than a man's beaver; one 'ud think she had stole her little brother's for
a spree, if the rest of her was like common folks; but she's got a tail to her dress as long
as from here to Queechy Run, and she's been tiddling in and out here, with it puckered up under
her arm, sixty times. I guess she belongs to some company of female militie, for the body of
it is all thick with braid and buttons. I believe she ha'n't sot still five minutes since she
come into the house, till I don't know whether I am on my head or my heels."

"But why didn't you give her something to eat?" said Fleda, who was hastily throwing off her
gloves, and smoothing her disordered hair with her hands into something of composure.

"Did!" said Barby; "I give her some o' them cold biscuit and butter and cheese, and a pitcher
of milk — sot a good enough meal for anybody; but she didn't take but a crumb, and she turned
up her nose at that. Come, go! you've slicked up enough; you're handsome enough to show yourself
to her any time o' day, for all her jig-em bobs."

"Where is aunt Lucy?"

"She's up stairs; there's been nobody to see to her but me. She's had the hull lower part of
the house to herself, kitchen and all, and she's done nothing but go out of one room into another
ever since she come. She'll be in here again directly, if you aint spry."

Fleda went in, round to the west room, and there found herself in the arms of the second Miss
Evelyn, who jumped to meet her, and half-stifled her with caresses.

"You wicked little creature! what have you been doing? Here have I been growing melancholy
over the tokens of your absence, and watching the decline of the sun, with distracted feelings
these six hours."

"Six hours!" said Fleda, smiling.

"My dear little Fleda! it's so delicious to see you again!" said Miss Evelyn, with another
prolonged hug and kiss.

"My dear Constance! I am very glad! but where are the rest?"

"It's unkind of you to ask after anybody but me, when I came here this morning on purpose to
talk the whole day to you. Now, dear little Fleda," said Miss Constance, executing an impatient
little persuasive caper round her, — "won't you go out and order dinner? for I'm raging. Your
woman did give me something, but I found the want of you had taken away all my appetite; and
now the delight of seeing you has exhausted me, and I feel that nature is sinking. The stimulus
of gratified affection is too much for me."

"You absurd child!" said Fleda; "you haven't mended a bit. But I told Barby to put on the tea-kettle,
and I will administer a composing draught as soon as it can be got ready; we don't indulge
in dinners here in the wilderness. Meanwhile, suppose that exhausted nature try the support
of this easy-chair."

She put her visitor gently into it, and, seating herself upon the arm, held her hand, and looked
at her with a smiling face, and yet with eyes that were almost too gentle in their welcoming.

"My dear little Fleda! you're as lovely as you can be! Are you glad to see me?"

"Very."

"Why don't you ask after somebody else?"

"I was afraid of overtasking your exhausted energies."

"Come, and sit down here upon my lap! — You shall, or I won't say another word to you. Fleda!
you've grown thin! what have you been doing to yourself?"

"Nothing, with that particular purpose."

"I don't care — you've done something. You have been insanely imagining that it is necessary
for you to be in three or four places at the same time; and in the distracted effort after
ubiquity, you are in imminent danger of being nowhere; there's nothing left of you!"

"I don't wonder you were overcome at the sight of me," said Fleda.

"But you are looking charmingly for all that," Constance went on; "so charmingly, that I feel
a morbid sensation creeping all over me while I sit regarding you. Really, when you come to
us next winter, if you persist in being — by way of showing your superiority to ordinary human
nature — a rose without a thorn, the rest of the flowers may all shut up at once. And the rose
reddens in my very face, to spite me!"

"Is 'ordinary human nature' typified by a thorn? You give it rather a poor character."

"I never heard of a thorn that didn't bear an excellent character," said Constance, gravely.

"Hush!" said Fleda, laughing; "I don't want to hear about Mr. Thorn. Tell me of somebody else."

"I haven't said a word about Mr. Thorn!" said Constance, ecstatically; "but since you ask about
him, I will tell you. He has not acted like himself since you disappeared from our horizon
— that is, he has ceased to be at all pointed in his attentions to me; his conversation has
lost all the acuteness for which I remember you admired it; he has walked Broadway in a moody
state of mind all winter, and grown as dull as is consistent with the essential sharpness of
his nature. I ought to except our last interview, though, for his entreaties to Mamma that
she would bring you home with her were piercing."

Fleda was unable, in spite of herself, to keep from laughing; but entreated that Constance
would tell her of somebody else.

"My respected parents are at Montepoole, with all their offspring — that is, Florence and Edith;
I am at present anxiously inquired after, being nobody knows where, and to be fetched by Mamma
this evening. Wasn't I good, little Fleda, to run away from Mr. Carleton, to come and spend
a whole day in social converse with you!"

"Carleton!" said Fleda.

"Yes? Oh, you don't know who he is! he's a new attraction; there's been nothing like him this
great while, and all New York is topsy-turvy about him; the mothers are dying with anxiety,
and the daughters with admiration; and it's too delightful to see the cool superiority with
which he takes it all; like a new star that all the people are pointing their telescopes at,
as Thorn said, spitefully, the other day. Oh, he has turned my head! I have looked till I cannot
look at anything else. I can just manage to see a rose, but my dazzled powers of vision are
equal to nothing more."

"My dear Constance!"

"It's perfectly true! Why, as soon as we knew he was coming to Montepoole, I wouldn't let Mamma
rest till we all made a rush after him; and when we got here first, and I was afraid he wasn't
coming, nothing can express the state of my feelings! But he appeared the next morning, and
then I was quite happy," said Constance, rising and falling in her chair, on what must have
been ecstatic springs, for wire ones it had none.

"Constance," said Fleda, with a miserable attempt at rebuke, "how can you talk so!"

"And so we were all riding round here this morning, and I had the self-denial to stop to see
you, and leave Florence and the Marlboroughs to monopolize him all the way home. You ought
to love me for ever for it. My dear Fleda!" said Constance, clasping her hands, and elevating
her eyes in mock ecstasy, "if you had ever seen Mr. Carleton!"

"I dare say I have seen somebody as good," said Fleda, quietly.

"My dear Fleda!" said Constance, a little scornfully this time; "you haven't the least idea
what you are talking about! I tell you, he is an Englishman; he's of one of the best families
in England: not such as you ever see here but once in an age; he's rich enough to count Mr.
Thorn over, I don't know how many times."

"I don't like anybody the better for being an Englishman," said Fleda; "and it must be a small
man whose purse will hold his measure."

Constance made an impatient gesture.

"But I tell you it isn't! We knew him when we were abroad; and we know what he is; and we know
his mother very well. When we were in England, we were a week with them down at their beautiful
place in — shire — the loveliest time! You see, she was over here with Mr. Carleton once before,
a good while ago; and mamma and papa were polite to them, and so they showed us a great deal
of attention when we were in England. We had the loveliest time down there you can possibly
conceive. And, my dear Fleda, he wears such a fur cloak! — lined with the most exquisite black
fox."

"But, Constance!" said Fleda, a little vexed, though laughing — "any man may wear a fur cloak;
the thing is, what is inside of it."

"It is perfectly indifferent to me what is inside of it," said Constance, ecstatically. "I
can see nothing but the edges of the black fox, especially when it is worn so very gracefully."

"But, in some cases, there might be a white fox within."

"There is nothing of the fox about Mr. Carleton," said Constance, impatiently. "If it had been
anybody else, I should have said he was a bear two or three times; but he wears everything
as he does his cloak, and makes you take what he pleases from him — what I wouldn't take from
any- body else, I know."

"With a fox lining," said Fleda, laughing.

"Then foxes haven't got their true character, that's all. Now I'll just tell you an instance
— it was at a party somewhere — it was at that tiresome Mrs. Swinburne's, where the evenings
are always so stupid, and there was nothing worth going or staying for but the supper — except
Mr. Carleton — and he never stays five minutes, except at two or three places; and it drives
me crazy, because they are places I don't go to very often —"

"Suppose you keep your wits, and tell me your story."

"Well — don't interrupt me — he was there, and he had taken me into the supper-room, when mamma
came along, and took it into her head to tell me not to take something — I forget what — punch,
I believe — because I had not been well in the morning. Now, you know, it was absurd. I was
perfectly well then, and I told her I shouldn't mind her; but do you believe, Mr. Carleton
wouldn't give it to me? — absolutely told me he wouldn't, and told me why, as coolly as possible,
and gave me a glass of water, and made me drink it; and if it had been anybody else, I do assure
you I would have flung it in his face, and never spoken to him again; and I have been in love
with him ever since. Now, is that tea going to be ready?"

"Presently. How long have you been here?"

"Oh, a day or two — and it has poured with rain every single day since we came, till this one;
and just think," said Constance with a ludicrously scared face — "I must make haste, and be
back again. You see, I came away on principle, that I may strike with the effect of novelty
when I appear again; but if I stay _too_ long, you know — there is a point —"

"On the principle of the ice-boats," said Fleda, "that back a little to give a better blow
to the ice, where they find it tough?"

"Tough!" said Constance.

"Does Florence like this paragon of yours as well as you do?"

