By investing the objects of hourly intercourse with an interest which prompts reflection, new
enjoyments would be opened to the working man, and every one of these would be a point of force
to protect him against temptation.  Besides this, our factories and our foundries present an
extensive field of observation, and were those who work in them rendered capable, by previous
culture, of _observing_ what they see, the results might be incalculable.  Who can say what
intellectual Samsons are at the present moment toiling with closed eyes in the mills and forges
of Manchester and Birmingham?  Grant these Samsons sight, and you multiply the chances of discovery,
and with them the prospects of national advancement.  In our multitudinous technical operations
we are constantly playing with forces our ignorance of which is often the cause of our destruction.
The two were proud no more, but rather depressed, not knowing what answer to give the Tsar.
They perceived the tent with silver top and near by the wonderful apple tree. They came nearer
and--"There is our Simpleton!" exclaimed the brothers. Then they awakened Ivanoushka and wanted
to buy the apple tree. They were rich and offered three carts filled with silver.

"Well, brothers, this tree, this wonderful apple tree, is not for
sale," answered Ivanoushka, "but if you wish to obtain it you may.Possessed of the knowledge, their personal interests would furnish
the necessary stimulus to its practical application, and thus two ends would be served at the
same time the elevation of the men and the diminution of the calamity.

Before the present Course of Lectures was publicly announced, I had many misgivings as to the
propriety of my taking a part in them, thinking that my place might be better filled by an
older and more experienced man.  To my experience, however, such as it was, I resolved to adhere,
and I have therefore described things as they revealed themselves to my own eyes, and have
been enacted in my own limited practice.  There is one mind common to us all; and the true
expression of this mind, even in small particulars, will attest itself by the response which
it calls forth in the convictions of my hearers. I ask your permission to proceed a little
further in this fashion, and to refer to a fact or two in addition to those already cited,
which presented themselves to my notice during my brief career as a teacher in the college
already alluded to.  The facts, though extremely humble, and deviating in some slight degree
from the strict subject of the present discourse, may yet serve to illustrate an educational
principle.

One of the duties which fell to my share was the instruction of a class in mathematics, and
I usually found that Euclid and the ancient geometry generally, when properly and sympathetically
addressed to the understanding, formed a most attractive study for youth.  But it was my habitual
practice to withdraw the boys from the routine of the book, and to appeal to their self-power
in the treatment of questions not comprehended in that routine.  At first, the change from
the beaten track usually excited aversion: the youth felt like a child amid strangers; but
in no single instance did this feeling continue. When utterly disheartened, I have encouraged
the boy by the anecdote of Newton, where he attributes the difference between him and other
men, mainly to his own patience; or of Mirabeau, when he ordered his servant, who had stated
something to be impossible, never again to use that blockhead of a word.  Thus cheered, the
boy has returned to his task with a smile, which perhaps had something of doubt in it, but
which, nevertheless, evinced a resolution to try again.

