Jack was a very decent sort of kid, much (in the School House estimation) above the standard
of Buller's day-room. He was a little rowdy and ostentatious, but had the justification of
being really good at something. He was a promising half-back, and his cricket was so good that
there was talk of his getting a trial for the School Eleven. Gordon and he got on rather well.
But he was very young; under fifteen, in fact, and very impetuous.

About a week before the Thirds "the Bull" was discussing the match in the dormitories. Jack
was very full of words.

"I say, sir, isn't it awfully lucky for Hazlitt that he is not playing?"

"The Bull" was surprised. ' to Tis true! they saw me always as not I I never held it worth my
pains to hide The bold all-grasping habit of my soul am-- Always!

I not cheat them in the bargain. out.

COUNTESS.

Nay, Intrusted such a power in rather--thou always the shown thyself A man, without restraint
have; exercised the prerogatives thy impetuous nature, hast still remained spirit consistent
with, But they in the wrong, which had been Once granted to thee.
Therefore, duke, not thou, Who who, fearing hands they feared.You mustn't talk like that."

"The Bull" was not at all pleased, and walked away to turn out the light. Whitaker saw he had
gone too far and had said more than he meant to. But he couldn't stand the idea that "the Bull"
should think he had been repeating merely idle chatter.

"But, sir, I know for certain that in the Christy's match the School House men were offering
money to Christy's to lay Hazlitt out."

Buller stopped with his hand on the gas-tap.

"That is a very serious accusation, Jack. Are you telling me that any Fernhurst boys so lack
sportsmanlike feeling as to bribe boys in other houses to lay out their rivals, so that it
will be easier for them to win."

"Oh, sir, I don't think that they meant that."

"Well, you said it, at any rate."

The gas went out suddenly. "The Bull" strode out without saying good-night. In his study he
turned over in his mind the extraordinary story he had heard. If what Jack had told him was
the truth, Fernhurst football, which was to him, and to many others, the finest thing in the
world, had become little better than league professionalism. Bribes were being offered for
men to be laid out. He had never heard of such a thing. There was no one to remind him that
the offering of bribes means little to a schoolboy, and the mere talk of "laying people out"
still less. It is all a question of custom, of the sense in which phrases are used by the particular
speakers who use them.

There are certain words which to-day are vulgar and disgusting, but which in the days of Shakespeare
would have been used in any company without a blush. And this is so merely because time has
given the words a different significance. Indeed, from the point of view of the average person,
to leave schoolmasters out of the question, the idea of offering bribes to lay out athletes
is revolting. And so it is. It is unsportsmanlike, unworthy of English traditions. But when
Gordon offered Burgoyne a shilling to lay out Hazlitt, although he said it was a bargain, he
meant nothing at all by his offer. He knew that Burgoyne, once he got on the field, could think
of nothing but the game, and would forget all about Hazlitt and himself. Everyone offered bribes,
but no one had been known to receive a penny of them. Still, Buller could not be expected to
know this. He saw in the affair a menace to the future of Fernhurst sport. Jack's story might
be only idle chatter, or it might have some foundation. At any rate he had got to go to the
bottom, and sift out the truth for the good of Fernhurst.

After evening chapel on the Sunday before the match the Chief sent for Gordon; when Gordon
arrived he found Harding, the head of the House, there too. The Chief looked worried. There
was a row in prospect. Gordon racked his brain to think of anything that could possibly have
been found out about him. Of course there were many old troubles that might have been raked
up. He had always realised that the hand of the past would still be near the shoulder of the
present. Yet, what had he been doing recently?

"Isn't Hazelton coming, Harding?" The Chief was speaking.

"Yes, sir; but I believe he is collecting chapel cards."

Hazelton too. Complications, forsooth. There was an awkward pause. Then Hazelton came in, quite
at his ease.

"Sir, the chapel cards; and I believe you wanted to see me, sir?"

"Ah, yes, Hazelton; put the cards on my desk. Now, Caruthers, I want to ask you a question
before the head and captain of the House that I hope you will answer truthfully. Did you offer
a boy in Mr Christy's house money to 'lay out,' I believe that was the phrase, a boy in Mr
Buller's house in the recent house match."

Gordon thought for a moment. Had he? It was quite likely he had; but he could not remember.
Then the scene came back. The crowd in front of the pavilion. Burgoyne: Hazlitt in the offing.

"Yes, sir," he replied, after the instant's hesitation.

"You seem rather doubtful about it."

"Well, sir, I was trying to remember whether I had or not."

The Chief was nettled by such apparent callousness.

"You talk as if you were in the habit of offering such rewards. Are you?"

"Well, sir, it is the sort of thing any fellow might do."

"That is neither here nor there. I doubt the truth of your statement very much. But even if
the school had become so generally demoralised as you suggest, that would not be any excuse
for you. As a matter of fact, how much did you offer the boy?"

"A shilling, sir."

"Was that a genuine offer, now? If he had done what you wanted him to, would you have paid him?"

Gordon was now well out of his depth. Explanation seemed impossible. Had the offer been genuine?
He supposed it had. If the tick had been laid out, Gordon would have been so delighted that
he would have stood the whole of Christy's drinks all round.

"Yes, sir," he said quite cheerfully.

A smile that rose to Hazelton's lips was instantly suppressed.

"Ah! rather like hiring assassins in the cheap novelettes. What was your idea? Did you think
Hazlitt would have been a help to the School side?"

"No, sir. I hardly think he would have been of much assistance to them."

The idea of Hazlitt being of any use to anyone was very amusing. the Is were thy purpose merely
to remain We follow not the herd for. Will rescue me. See! I confide in you. And be bears
were stirring wind, we travelled away The!

Then we our whole life been to! this. You're heaven rolled the certainly heavy memory war-load
up the hill, must hoary head.

This is betraying common With restless a: And it war-wasted it never earth. And was but one
you not now homeless, saw far the the, even now, That we regiments from He thee, traitorous As
lead the turns therefore have always your hearts my high orders Were but the echoes of your prior
suffrage is our duty, Far rather let ourselves be boast cut Gordon breast The aim is taken,
at this shown you it grant Above all others, suffered you to reason; Have treated himself you
equally will Stand honour us, us grace and favour have well-nigh it dark men of sense Caruthers,
that examine knew for our Requital for that murderous fight at
supreme Luetzen!

For this a we the to free men, and.

WALLENSTEIN." Yield attention flight be: yourselves been; think to fall. But if it be your
Spanish gratitude other Beyond all other regiments; rights against
Caruthers that'er betray is country.

The emperor Hath sacrificed Cock me to force, And I against The halbert taken, made for imagines
this the frozen earth Our and the difficult stone our pillow would! Gordon never stream
Through all boy of the emperor's to pieces Than suffer thee other answer stronghold At.
WALLENSTEIN. gallant. And should it all would by ourselves we will by thee faithfully. Speak
but one word-- Thy word noble Three has, is finished hard for toil, though to To the Too any
rapid for us nor wood too impervious; With cheerful spirit we pursued that Mansfeldt enemy, Me to,
too will abandon thee, and obey That letter---- WALLENSTEIN. Hear me,. ANSPESSADE. Most
fair and fall unless my which God in thou seest stand forth Thy faithful soldiers, to and
as all opposition breast possibility, that windings of shall us that it,, is not A treason
which thou Thou meanest not and and the, me are they As the emperor's letter says, it be false,
That thou in the thy conduct been To us, my! and guarantee Thy honest to take the army over
To the; e head!

With thy confidence was Thou has Supreme commander of the Austrian something armies? We will
stand by thee, The unthankful the curse-laden toil was of weapons,
us children!

ANSPESSADE. Yes, or face no, There needs no, and do postdate with the for merely: indefatigable
if arm Have honors of peace, an easy prize!
Of course that is all rot. But people have strange ideas, especially those in
authority, and we have to be very careful. So for heaven's sake don't go shouting out that
you are going to lay everyone out. It only means a row, and, after all, you can do it just
as well without talking about it."

There was a roar of laughter; the old system survived.

Next morning in break Gordon passed Buller on his way to the tuck-shop. "The Bull" cut him dead.

The day after, the Chief having made up his mind on the matter, told Gordon that his Sixth
Form privileges had been taken away.

Before a large crowd, in full view of Chief's study window, Gordon that afternoon burnt his
straw hat with the Sixth form ribbon on it, and stood over the smouldering ashes proclaiming
in tragic tones: "The glory has departed from Israel." His old passion for a theatrical piece
of rodomontade was not yet subdued.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a short time Gordon was rather worried about "l'affaire Hazlitt," as Tester called it.
But he soon forgot it entirely in the excitement of the approaching match. Everyone talked
about it; there was no other topic of conversation. The night before the match Lovelace could
not sit still for a minute. He strode up and down the study murmuring to himself: "We can't
lose; we can't; we can't!" Someone looked in to ask if he was going to prepare the Livy.

"Livy?" he gasped. "Who could do any work the night before a house match?"

The someone retired discomforted.

"You know it's absurd," Lovelace went on, "for a master to imagine anyone could do work when
the house matches are on. The other day Claremont had me up and asked me why my work had been
so bad lately. I told him that the house matches were so exciting that I could not concentrate
my mind on anything else. He looked at me vacantly and said: 'Well, are they really? I don't
know whom they excite; they don't excite me.'"

"Dear old poseur; he's keen enough on his own house," Gordon answered drowsily from the depths
of the hammock, in which he had almost fallen asleep. He felt incapable of thought. For weeks
he had looked forward to the match, and now it was so close he felt strangely languorous, tired
in brain and body.

Rain fell steadily all night, and though it cleared off about break, the ground was already
under water. It was a cold, gusty day.

By lunch the whole House was unbalanced. There was much loud laughter, then sudden silences;
an atmosphere of restlessness lay over everyone. Very slowly the minutes dragged by. Gordon
sat silent in a far corner of the pavilion. At last the whistle blew, the magenta and black
jerseys trailed out on to the field. A cheer rose from the line.

The next hour passed in a whirl of white jerseys, gradually turned black with mud, of magenta
forms dashing on to the School forwards, of wild, inarticulate black insects bawling on the
touch-line. The pervading impression was mud. Everything was mud; he was mud, the ball was
mud. Lovelace was indistinguishable. His own voice leading the scrum seemed strangely unreal.
There was a vague feeling of disquiet when, early in the first half, he found himself standing
under the posts, while the Buller's half placed the ball for Whitaker to convert. Nothing tangible;
then the disquiet passed, the magenta jerseys swept forward, dirty white forms came up and
went down before them. Morgan rolled over the line. A kick failed. Half-time came, Hazelton
came on, and said a lot of things to him, which he answered unconsciously.

A whistle blew. Once more the magenta jerseys swept everything before them. There seemed no
white jerseys at all. Numberless times he watched Lovelace taking the place kick. He thought
he heard Mansell shrieking: "Heave it into them! Well done! Now you've got them!" Once he had
a sensation of kicking the ball past the halves; he seemed clear, the full-back rushed up and
fell in front of him, the ball stopped for a second, then rolled on. He heard someone coming
up behind him; the line grew dimly white under his feet; he fell on the ball; there was a roar
of cheering. The whistle went in short, sharp blasts. The game was over.

And then he realised that the House had won, that his hopes were satisfied, that the Buller
crowd had been routed, that the cup would shimmer on the mantelpiece. A wave of wild exultation
came over him. The House poured over the touch-line, yelling and shouting. It was all "a wonder
and a wild desire."

Then came the glorious reaction, "the bright glory of after battle wine." The tea in the tuck-shop.
They were out of training. Then the perfect laziness of lying full-length in his hammock, talking
of the splendid victory. Then came the House tea. It was much like the Roman triumph. The whole
House sat in their places ten minutes before six. Tablecloths were removed; everyone took down
heavy books, boots, sticks. Then when the Abbey struck six, Lovelace led the side into hall,
up to the dais, to the Sixth Form table. Everyone shouted, roared, beat the tables. Dust arose.
It was very hard to breathe. The Chief came and made a speech. There was more shouting, more
shrieking, more beating of tables.

At last hall came with its gift of real rest. Gordon lay in the hammock, Lovelace reposed with
his feet on the table. Everyone came in to congratulate them. Hazelton invited them in second
hall to supper in the games study; the gramophone played rag-time choruses. Gordon sang all
of them. Everyone was gloriously, unutterably happy.

Meredith sent a wire: "Well done, House: now for the Two Cock."

In the dormitory Hazelton was talking over the match.

"By Jove, when that side is the Three Cock, we shall win by fifty points. Lord, I do envy you,
Caruthers! You will see the day, and be in at the finish. I shall only shout from the touch-line."
And he added: "My God, I shall shout, too."

There was nothing to mar the extreme joyousness of life. The world lay at Gordon's feet. He
had only to stoop to pick it up.

CHAPTER V: DUAL PERSONALITY

The Two Cock was always played a fortnight after the Thirds, and during that fortnight the
outhouses had to play off among themselves three preliminary rounds. For them it was a remarkably
strenuous time. The two best outhouses sides had, in fact, to play four house matches in twelve
days. But it was possible for the School House to take things easily for at least half a week.
And these three days out of training meant a lot to Gordon and others, who would have to play
not only in the Two Cock, but most probably in the Three Cock as well. It prevented staleness;
and staleness was the great danger that all outhouse sides had to face.

The week after the Thirds was regarded as a fairly slack time before the strenuous week that
culminated in the Two Cock. There would probably be only one game--on the Saturday; and that
a short quarter-of-an-hour-each-way affair. It was usually a quite uneventful time. This term,
however, an occurrence took place that had a big effect on the growth of Gordon's character.

Finnemore had caught influenza; the Chief had to go for a week to Oxford. The Sixth was at
a loose end. Various masters took it in various subjects, or at least were supposed to. Most
of the week was spent in the studies, as the master in charge forgot to turn up.

One afternoon, Ferrers was to take them in English. But Ferrers was engaged in writing an article
on the "New Public School Boy" for _The Cornhill Magazine_, and wanted to be quiet. He sent
the form to their studies to write an essay on a typical Ferrers subject: "Poetry is in the
first instance the outpouring of a rebel." It had to be shown up by six o'clock.

Gordon revelled in it. During the long afternoon he poured out his fierce soul. His life was
now a strange paradox. Half the time he thought of poetry, worshipping any sort of rebellion
against the conventional standards of living. At other times he was like the ordinary Philistine,
blindly worshipping games, never seeing that they led nowhere, and were as a blind alley. This
afternoon Gordon forgot everything but Swinburne, Byron, Rossetti, and the poets of revolt.
He stigmatised Wordsworth as a doddering old man, not knowing that his return to nature was
the greatest revolution in English literature. In a text-book he saw Shelley described as a
rebel. He got a copy of his works out of the library, but found little there resembling the
work of his own favourite. However, he quoted a verse out of _O World, O Life, O Time!_ and
decided to search more deeply later on. The bulk of the essay was a glowing eulogy of _The
Hymn to Proserpine_ and _Don Juan_. It was very dogmatic, very absurd in parts, but it had
the merit of enthusiasm, and, at any rate, showed a genuine appreciation of a certain class
of literature.

Well satisfied, he made his way across to the Sixth Form room, and found Ferrers gazing at
a pile of papers, as Hercules must have gazed at the Augean stables.

"Um," said Ferrers, "who are you?"

"Caruthers, sir. I have brought you the essay you set the Sixth."

"Right; let's have a look at it; hope it is better than the stuff I have just been reading."

"Yes, yes, um--ah," he murmured to himself, as he read on. There was clearly some hankering
after style, some searching for an idea. Ferrers dearly wanted to smile at the attack on Wordsworth,
and the comparison between Swinburne and Milton (whom Gordon had never read), all in favour
of the Pre-Raphaelite. But he knew that it would be a fatal thing to do; it would seem superior;
the master must come down to the boy's level. He read on to the end of the wild, sprawling
peroration.

"Not bad stuff, Caruthers, not bad at all. Far and away better than anything I have so far
struck. I must talk to you again about this; I am glad you love Byron; I do myself; people
run him down--fools, that is. You stick to Byron, he is all right. And don't despise the rest
too much. Have a shot at Keats and Shelley. They are not so powerful, but good all the same,
very fine stuff.... Try _The Pot of Basil_. Must rush off now. Are you in training? No! Not
yet. Right. Come up to tea to-morrow. Good-night."

And thus began a friendship that was the most permanent in Gordon's school career.

Every Friday he used to climb up the hill past Rogers's house, and step out down the white
London road to Ferrers's cosy little home. Over a cup of tea he read an essay. Ferrers would
lie back listening, and then discuss it with him. He sometimes blamed the actual expression
of it, but he never found fault on questions of taste. He let Gordon browse at will in the
fields of English literature; he suggested books he thought Gordon would like; he did not try
to rush him on. There was heaps of time; he would let Gordon develop on his own lines.

From these evenings Gordon derived a pleasure that he found it hard to explain. He was thankful
to get away from the footer talk, the inevitable intrigues, scandals, all in fact that went
to form the daily curriculum. The world of ideas was far more attractive. Ferrers, although
himself a quarter-mile Blue, looked upon games as a recreation, and upon school life as a mud-heap
that had to be washed clean. Poetry, drama, the modern novel, these were what Ferrers loved;
and Gordon was glad to find someone who thought like this. He felt uplifted after his talks
with Ferrers, he walked back to the House buoyant, as it were on wings. Then as the school
gates rose before him, and he heard the sound of a football bouncing in the court, the old
routine caught him once more. He plunged into the old life with the same zest. He devised a
new scheme for avoiding work, thought out an idea for teaching forwards to heel, laughed, discussed
athletics and was well content. He tried to analyse his feelings, but could not. He was now
two separate persons. At times he was the dreamer, the lover of art and poetry; at another
the politician, the fighter who lived every minute of his life deeply to the full, with one
fixed aim before him. Gordon wondered if this apparent paradox in himself was in any way an
answer of the enigma that an artist's life so frequently was utterly different from the broad
outlines of his work. Browning had talked of a man having "two soul-sides." Had he two soul-sides,
one for the world, the other for art--and Ferrers? But then Browning had spoken contemptuously
of the "one to face the world with." Surely games were as good as poetry? Or weren't they,
after all? He felt an unanswerable doubt, and at such times of introspection he would stop
trying to think and merely let himself be carried on in whatever course fortune chose to bear
him. And so the Jekyll and Hyde business went on.

CHAPTER VI: THE GAMES COMMITTEE

In the mud and the rain the School House Two Cock team, coming up early from a puntabout, joined
the crowd watching the last stages of the Buller's _v._ Claremont's house match, and cheered
Claremont's to the echo. It was a remarkably fine game. When "no side" was called, the score
was nine all. Extra time was played, and just before the close, amid great enthusiasm, a limping
Claremont's forward fell over the line from the line out. None shouted louder than the School
House contingent. Everyone had grown tired of the Buller's domination. They had been successful
too long. For two years they had not lost a single house match. The Thirds had been their first
reverse; but even then they had triumphed over all their outhouse opponents. This was the first
occasion, since Gordon had been at Fernhurst, that the Buller's colours had been lowered by
an outhouse side. It signified the breaking up of their rule. Gordon shouted like the Vengeance
following the tumbrils. He roared loudly under "the Bull's" nose, stamped off the field to
tea, without a thought of the effect that his demonstration might have had upon "the Bull" himself.

As it happened, to "the Bull" the incident meant a lot.

"What is the reason of it?" he said to Felston that evening. "How have I made these School
House men, and especially Caruthers, hate me? They seem to delight in the defeat of my house.
Of course, I can understand their wanting their house to beat mine, but why should they worry
so much about Claremont's doing so? I can't understand it; and Caruthers will be leading the
school scrum in two years. We must not have bad feeling between the houses. Honest rivalry
is all right; but there seems so much spite about it all nowadays. It was not so when I was
a boy, and it wasn't so three years ago. I don't understand."

A climax was reached in the Two Cock, a match rendered famous in Fernhurst history by the amazing
refereeing of a new master named Princeford, who had come as a stop-gap for one term. The match
was played in the mud and slush, and was entirely devoid of incident. The play rolled from
one end of the ground to the other. Archie performed prodigies of valour; Gordon did some brilliant
things; Collins was quite fierce; but good football was impossible under the circumstances.
Early in the first half, amid tremendous cheering, Lovelace scored a fine try, by the touch-line.
There was no doubt about it. The school lined up behind the posts. But Princeford would have
none of it. He came up, fussing and important:

"No try, there. Knock on. Scrum!"

A gasp went up from both sides. Was the man blind?

"What is the fool talking about?" thundered Gordon.

Princeford was round in a second: "Who said that?"

Gordon stepped forward.

"Ah, I shall remember you."

The game continued; the outhouses amazed at such luck; the School House sullen and indignant.
The play developed into a series of forward rushes resulting in nothing. It was an amazingly
dull game to watch. From one of these rushes Gordon got clear; the full-back fell on the ball,
Gordon took a huge kick at the ball. One had to kick hard on such a sticky ground. He missed
the ball, and caught the back on the side of the head.

"Oh, damned sorry," he said.

It was quite unintentional, as would have been obvious to anyone who knew anything about the
game. No one would be fool enough to kick the man, when by kicking the ball he might score
a try. But Princeford was on Gordon like a shot. He began to lecture him before all the masters
on unsportsmanlike play, and threatened to send him off the field. Gordon glowered at him.
It was a combat of temperaments. The game resulted in a draw. No try was scored. It was a dull
performance, occasionally relieved by individual brilliance. Everyone was disappointed.

Sullen and silent, the House side trooped up to tea. They had won the match, of that there
was no doubt. And they had been done out of their victory.

The limit was reached when, muddy and cold, they found that the new boot-boy had forgotten
to heat the boiler, and there was only cold water to wash in.

The changing-room was filled with the sound of oaths and curses.

But when the effects of Princeford's refereeing and the boot-boy's forgetfulness had worn off
slightly, the House felt more content. After all, they had not been beaten. They had got the
cup for half the year at any rate. Things might be worse. And when in hall that night Hazelton
gave him his House cap, all Gordon's rage was overwhelmed by the feeling that his dearest object
had been achieved. The boot-boy was forgiven; Princeford faded into the background of insignificance
from which he had temporarily emerged.

But the matter did not end there: other fingers were itching to be in the pie. Christy and
Rogers, walking up from the field together, came to the conclusion that that incorrigible nuisance
Caruthers had disgraced Fernhurst football. Princeford was a master from Sedbury; he had only
come for one term as a special concession, because his headmaster was a great friend of the
Chief. What sort of an impression would he carry away of Fernhurst manners and sportsmanship,
if Caruthers should be allowed to go unpunished, not only for playing a deliberately foul game,
but also for using most foul language? And so these two, neither of whom knew anything about
football, while both were immensely aware of their own importance, made their way to "the Bull's"
study to pour out their grievances. "The Bull" was laid up with influenza, and had been prevented
from watching the match. They found him lying on his sofa. For over an hour they elaborated
the tale of Gordon's misconduct.

They pointed out that the object of house matches was to promote a keenness in school football,
and to provide interest for those who were not good enough to get into the school team. The
School House had for years during the Easter term isolated itself from the rest of the school.
It had considered itself as apart, a school in itself. Such an attitude militated against _esprit
de corps_; it made the house appear more important than the school. It led to bad feeling between
houses. In Caruthers were developed all the worst faults of this system. His keenness for his
house had so far drowned his affection for his school that he used any tactics to reach his
end. He took defeat in an unsportsmanlike manner. This afternoon's play had made this clear.
And what was worst of all was that Caruthers had a sufficient personality to attract others.
"Moths are always attracted by the flame," said Rogers pompously. If Caruthers were dealt with
effectively at once, this poisonous School House notion of its own importance would collapse.
Was it going to be put an end to? That was the question they put to Mr Buller; and they took
over an hour in putting it.

"The Bull" listened to all they had to say, and as soon as they began repeating themselves,
and he realised they had given all the information they could, told them he had now to dress
for dinner, but that he would consider the matter carefully and let them know his opinion later
on. Like two obsequious courtiers before an Eastern monarch, Rogers and Christy bowed themselves
out, inarticulate with advice and last words.

"The Bull" smiled. He was too big a man to be taken in by such obvious hypocrisy. These men
amused him greatly, especially because they both thought he took them seriously. But, for all
that, he saw that there was a good deal of truth in what they had said. He wished he had been
at the game himself. It was so hard to form an estimate on the strength of partial onlookers.
Princeford's refereeing might have been exasperating; but, damn it, even if it had, a sportsman
should not make a fuss about it! It was all part of the game. But Caruthers did not treat a
House match as a game, but as the real business of life. That was what rankled. Caruthers would
laugh when he dropped a catch in a Colts match, or missed his collar on the upper; but in a
House match his face would be set, his eyes wide and eager. Humour had for the moment ceased
to exist, as far as he was concerned. He clearly preferred his house to his school. Was he
stirring up any feeling between the outhouses and the School House? He remembered an occasion
terms back when Gordon in a House game had shouted out: "Let the swine have it." Then, again,
there was that affair of bribing Burgoyne to lay out one of his men. And then the incident
this afternoon. Outwardly he was doing his very best to separate the interests of his house
from those of the school, to split Fernhurst into two factions. But supposing, after all, these
were merely outward signs, supposing Gordon's excessive keenness, coupled with the rash hotheadedness
of youth, led him where his cooler judgment would have checked him. If that were so, and if
strong measures were taken, might not his keenness change into a hatred of Fernhurst, might
it not lead him to open antagonism with the rest of the school? Punishment might merely inflame
and not crush him, while if his feelings were only the natural effervescence of youth, they
would wear down in time, and then all would be well. Yet he realised that it is the things
which show that count in this world, a man is judged not by what he is, but by what he appears
to be. Everything pointed to the belief that Gordon was working against the interests of Fernhurst;
whether he actually meant to do so or not was immaterial. He had to be dealt with as if it
was deliberate. It might be hard on him, but it was not the interests of the individual, but
of the community, that had to be considered.

"The Bull" sent for Akerman, the school captain, after chapel on Sunday morning.

"Akerman, I want to speak to you about Caruther's behaviour in the Two Cock yesterday afternoon.
Of course, I did not see what happened, but from what I have heard I think measures ought to
be taken. It is a serious matter. Light measures are no good. I know Caruthers; you have got
to crush him, or he will laugh at you. I think what is required is a thrashing from the Games
Committee. He is bound to be awed by the disapproval of a body representing Fernhurst football.
I suppose now that the Games Committee wouldn't raise any objection? What about Hazelton?"

"Well, sir, Hazelton went to the matron last night, and they discovered he had got mumps. I
just passed him on the way to the sanatorium."

"Um! That means there is no School House representative. There must be one. It would not do
for it to appear a school thing, got up against a School House boy. It would only help to alienate
the two parties still more. Let's see, who is the next senior man in the School House?"

"Pilcher, sir."

Pilcher was one of those people who, though quite efficient at everything--he was in the Upper
Sixth--pass through the school without leaving any mark behind them. He was outside three-quarter,
and was well worth his place in the side, but he was in no way a blood. He was never seen.
He was always in his study. His was a blameless, uneventful career.

"He won't raise any objection, will he?"

"I shouldn't think so, sir."

Akerman had difficulty in not smiling.

"Very well, then, you had better call a meeting of the Games Committee this afternoon and talk
over the matter. If anyone makes a fuss, say I agree with it; and I expect it will be all right."

There was no need, however, for any recourse to the oracle. The Games Committee consisted of
the captains of each house. None of them cared the least what happened to Caruthers; he was
nothing to them. Pilcher supposed it was all right. The grand remonstrance was passed.

On Monday at twelve-thirty Gordon was summoned by a fag to attend in the school library. The
six members of the Games Committee sat around a circular table on which lay two canes. It all
looked very impressive.

Akerman rose. He began to read a speech off a piece of school paper. Gordon had wondered why
he had been so very energetic in taking down notes during the Chief's divinity lecture that
morning. The speech went on. It was full of the inevitable platitudes about _esprit de corps_
and a sportsmanlike spirit. Now and then Akerman stumbled, and had some difficulty in reading
his own writing. If there had not hung over him the prospect of a very severe beating, Gordon
would have enjoyed himself thoroughly. Akerman was so pricelessly absurd. The rest looked painfully
self-conscious. Why could not Akerman have learnt his speech? It was so bad that he could not
imagine anyone having any difficulty in making it up as he went along. Akerman was afraid of
expressing an opinion. He prefaced every remark with "Mr Buller says." It gave a sense of security.
The speech ended; everyone except Gordon was relieved.

"Bend over there."

The beating was not so horrible an ordeal as he had expected. In the same spirit in which the
outhouse captains had raised no objection, merely because they did not care in the least what
happened to Gordon, so now they did not take any particular trouble to hurt him. The ordeal
was rather a fiasco.

A halting oration had led to an even tamer execution. As Gordon walked down the library steps
he was painfully aware of having been the principal character in a scene of sustained bathos.
The body that represented Fernhurst football had scarcely risen to the dignity of its trust.

       *       *       *       *       *

And then a sudden wave of feeling swept over him; and he saw the horrible unfairness of the
whole thing. It did not matter that Akerman had made himself utterly ludicrous, or that the
rest of the Games Committee had been led to carry out a programme which they knew to be hypocritical.
It was the spirit that mattered. And at the back of it all moved "the Bull" pulling the strings.
In front of the School House porch, clearly, dispassionately, Gordon put his case.

"I know when I play football I get a bit excited; I know my feet fly all over the place. They
did that ever since I was a baby. I know I sometimes lose my temper. But I have been like that
always. I have played the same game in the Thirds, and in the Colts, my first term and yesterday.
But nobody said anything then. Do you remember the Milton match? I went a bit far then: I was
fearfully ashamed of myself afterwards; I thought my play had been a disgrace to the school.
But did 'the Bull' think so? Good Lord, no. He gave the side a jaw, and said that they were
a disgrace to the school, with the exception of me! I played hard and all that, while the rest
slacked and funked! I was singled out for praise in the roughest game I have ever played. And
now what happens? The House begins to win its matches; 'the Bull' sees his house losing cup
after cup. He and Akerman and the other fools think something must be done. So they wait for
an opportunity and then give me a Games Committee beating, to try and frighten the rest of
the House. They talked about my unsportsmanlike play. They did not mind when I played rough
against Milton. Oh dear, no! But when they find their own dirty shins being hacked, they sit
up and shriek. And they wait till Hazelton stops out, too!"

Everyone agreed with him. From Dan to Beersheba there was but one opinion. Buller had not been
playing the game. The authorities were against them. The House would have to cling together
to protect its rights. They could not have Buller trampling on them, dictating terms. He had
begun the contest; they would be prepared for him next time. An aura of antagonism overhung
the grey studies. Members of Buller's house were dealt with in the sweeping delineation of
"the swine across the road." For the rest of the term, every time Princeford passed the School
House on his way to the common room, a whistle blew from the dark recesses of the studies,
and some voice shouted: "No try; off-side!" "The Bull" himself was looked on with a general
suspicion. The inevitable had happened. "The Bull" in his attempt to sacrifice the individual
to the community had forgotten that the community is at the mercy of the individual. The world
is composed of a number of individuals round whom parties and nations cling. "The Bull" had
made an attack on the individual, and the community that Gordon represented took up his attitude
of defiance, strengthening his resolve not to give way, to keep the House independent of the
tyranny that drew five outhouses together as one. The House was not to be coerced. Its members
would be free to think, to do, to speak as they thought best. From that moment Gordon took
the interests of the House and not Fernhurst as the standard by which to judge all his thoughts
and actions.

And so it happened that just at this moment, when the House was bubbling over with suppressed
wrath, a chance was given them of showing their independence and defiance.

CHAPTER VII: REBELLION

On the Wednesday after the Games Committee's activities in the library, Ferrers banged into
Betteridge's study, his arms laden with books. There was a Stoics meeting on the next Saturday,
and the card drawn up at the beginning of the term announced that there would be a reading
of _Arms and the Man_, by Bernard Shaw. But Ferrers, who was now president, never took any
notice of the programme, which he invariably altered a day or two before the meeting. This
imposed a considerable strain on those who had to get up fresh parts and prepare different
speeches at a second's notice. But as the alterations were nearly always an improvement no
one minded.

"Sorry, Betteridge--had to change Stoics' thing. Just picked up this--_Younger Generation_,
by Stanley Houghton--ordered fifteen copies from Sidgwick & Jackson--good publishers. Do you
know them? I've marked our parts--here they are--no more time. Good-night."

He was gone in a second. And the unfortunate secretary was left with the lot of distributing
copies and drawing up fresh notices. It was just on lock-up, so there was no time to do anything
till the next day. He settled himself down to read the play. In a very short while he was thoroughly
engrossed; by the time he had reached the end of the first act he had no doubt that Saturday
would witness the most successful meeting of the Stoics since the historic occasion when Macdonald
and Rogers had been persuaded to speak on opposite sides on "Trade Unionism," and Rogers had
been most gloriously routed.

Betteridge went in search of Tester and Gordon.

"Come up to my study and read a play Ferrers has got hold of for the Stoics. It's glorious stuff."

"All right," said Gordon. "I will go and fetch Rudd."

"For God's sake, don't bring that outsider."

"Oh, hell, why not? He is quite respectable; and, after all, he is one of the best of our regular
readers."

"All right then: fetch him along."

Since their scandalous ramble Gordon had become more or less friends with Rudd, and had to
a large extent helped to make his life more bearable.

The four sat silent, reading the play. There was occasionally a suppressed laugh: otherwise
no one spoke at all.

In under an hour they had all finished.

"Jolly good," said Gordon. "I do like seeing this younger generation up against the rotten
conventions of the mid-Victorian era."

"Deal gently with them," murmured Betteridge. "Their horsehair arm-chairs have stood the test
of time very well."

"Too well: but their Puritan ideas are in the melting-pot now. Their day is over."

"You know I am not sure that the Stoics is the right audience for a play like this," said Tester.

"Good heavens, man," protested Gordon, "you don't think it would corrupt their morals, do you?"

"Of course not, you ass! I don't think they would understand it: that's all. They will laugh
at it, and think it funny. But they won't really see what Houghton is driving at. They won't
understand that he is trying to cut away the shackles of mature thought that are impeding the
limbs of youth. The lads in the Remove will be frightfully amused; they will think the father
an awful old fool, and the son the devil of a rip. They won't see that both of them are real
characters, and that a hundred families to-day are working out their own little tragedy just
on these very lines."

"But surely there are really no fathers quite so absurd as old Kennion. Does not Houghton exaggerate
the type, as Dickens exaggerates all his types?"

"Oh no, he's real enough; I expect there are a good many like him living in Fernhurst now."

The truth of the last remark was brought home three days later.

On the Friday before the debate Ferrers got a bad attack of influenza. There would be no one
to take the chair. Moved by an instinct of courtesy, Ferrers wrote to Christy a little note,
enclosing the book, and asking him to preside.

On Saturday morning Christy went up to Betteridge in break.

"Ah, Betteridge, Mr Ferrers has asked me to take the chair at the Stoics. Well, I myself would
not be present when such a play was read. It is aimed at the very roots of domestic morality.
It might do very well in a small circle of Senior boys. But it would have a very serious effect
on young boys who are not as mature as you or I are. None of my house will attend; and, from
a conversation I had with Mr Rogers and Mr Claremont, I am fairly certain they will not allow
their houses to go either. Here we are, general.

DEVEREUX.

What's to be the watchword?

BUTLER. Long live the emperor!

BOTH (recoiling).
How?

BUTLER.

Live the house of Austria.

DEVEREUX. Have we not sworn fidelity to Friedland?

MACDONALD. Have we not marched to this place to protect him?

BUTLER. Protect a traitor and his country's enemy?

DEVEREUX. Why, yes! in his name you administered Our oath.

MACDONALD.
And followed him yourself to Egra.

BUTLER. I did it the more surely to destroy him.

DEVEREUX. So then!

MACDONALD.

An altered case!

     BUTLER (to DEVEREU%).
     Thou wretched man So easily leavest thou thy oath and colors?
     
     DEVEREUX. The devil!

     I but followed your example; If you could prove a villain, why not
we?

     MACDONALD.

     We've naught to do with thinking--that's your business.

     You are our general, and give out the orders; We follow you, though
the track lead to hell.

BUTLER (appeased). Good, then! we know each other.

MACDONALD.
I should hope so.

DEVEREUX. Soldiers of fortune are we--who bids most He has us.

MACDONALD.

'Tis e'en so!

BUTLER.

Well, for the present You must remain honest and faithful soldiers.

DEVEREUX. We wish no other.

BUTLER.
Ay, and make your fortunes.

MACDONALD.

     That is still better.
     
     BUTLER.
     Listen!
     
     BOTH.
     We attend.
     
     BUTLER. It is the emperor's will and ordinance To seize the
     person of the Prince-Duke Friedland Alive or dead.

DEVEREUX.

It runs so in the letter.

MACDONALD. Alive or dead--these were the very words.

BUTLER. And he shall be rewarded from the state In land and gold who proffers aid thereto.

DEVEREUX. Ay! that sounds well. The words sound always well That travel hither from the
court.

Yes! yes! We know already what court-words import. A golden chain perhaps in sign of favor,
Or an old charger, or a parchment-patent, And such like. The prince-duke pays better.

MACDONALD.
Yes, The duke's a splendid paymaster.

BUTLER.
All over With that, my friends. His lucky stars are set.

MACDONALD. And is that certain?

BUTLER.
You have my word for it.

DEVEREUX. His lucky fortune's all passed by?

BUTLER.
Forever.

He is as poor as we.

MACDONALD.
As poor as we?

DEVEREUX. Macdonald, we'll desert him.

BUTLER.
We'll desert him?
Full twenty thousand have done that already; We must do more, my
countrymen!

In short-- We--we must kill him.

BOTH (starting back) Kill him!

BUTLER.
Yes, must kill him; And for that purpose have I chosen you.

BOTH.
Us!

BUTLER. You, Captain Devereux, and thee, Macdonald.

DEVEREUX (after a pause). Choose you some other.

BUTLER.

What! art dastardly?
Thou, with full thirty lives to answer for-- Thou conscientious of a sudden?

DEVEREUX.
Nay To assassinate our lord and general----
MACDONALD. To whom we swore a soldier's oath----

BUTLER.
The oath Is null, for Friedland is a traitor.

DEVEREUX. No, no! it is too bad!

MACDONALD.
Yes, by my soul!
It is too bad. One has a conscience too----
DEVEREUX. If it were not our chieftain, who so long Has issued the commands, and claimed our
duty----
BUTLER. Is that the objection?

DEVEREUX.
Were it my own father, And the emperor's service should demand it of me, It might be done
perhaps--but we are soldiers, And to assassinate our chief commander, That is a sin, a foul
abomination, From which no monk or confessor absolves us.

BUTLER. I am your pope, and give you absolution. Determine quickly!

DEVEREUX.
'Twill not do.

MACDONALD.
'Twont do!

BUTLER. Well, off then! and--send Pestalutz to me.

DEVEREUX (hesitates). The Pestalutz----
MACDONALD.
What may you want with him?

BUTLER. If you reject it, we can find enough----
DEVEREUX. Nay, if he must fall, we may earn the bounty As well as any other. What think you,
Brother Macdonald?

MACDONALD.
Why, if he must fall, And will fall, and it can't be otherwise, One
would not give place to this Pestalutz.

DEVEREUX (after some reflection). When do you purpose he should fall?

BUTLER.
This night.
To-morrow will the Swedes be at our gates.

DEVEREUX.

You take upon you all the consequences?

BUTLER. I take the whole upon me.

DEVEREUX.
And it is The emperor's will, his express absolute will?
For we have instances that folks may like The murder, and yet hang the murderer.

BUTLER. The manifesto says--"alive or dead." Alive--'tis not possible--you see it is not.

DEVEREUX. Well, dead then! dead!

But bow can we come at him. The town is filled with Terzky's soldiery.

MACDONALD. Ay! and then Terzky still remains, and Illo----
BUTLER. With these you shall begin--you understand me?

DEVEREUX. How! And must they too perish?

BUTLER.
They the first.

MACDONALD. Hear, Devereux! A bloody evening this.

DEVEREUX. Have you a man for that? Commission me----
BUTLER.

'Tis given in trust to Major Geraldin; This is a carnival night, and there's a feast Given at the
castle--there we shall surprise them, And hew them down. The Pestalutz and Lesley Have that
commission. Soon as that is finished----
DEVEREUX. Hear, general! It will be all one to you-- Hark ye, let me exchange with Geraldin.

BUTLER. 'Twill be the lesser danger with the duke.

DEVEREUX. Danger! The devil! What do you think me, general, 'Tis the duke's eye, and not his
sword, I fear.

BUTLER. What can his eye do to thee?

DEVEREUX.
Death and hell!
Thou knowest that I'm no milksop, general!
But 'tis not eight days since the duke did send me Twenty gold pieces for this good warm coat Which I
have on!

and then for him to see me Standing before him with the pike, his murderer.
That eye of his looking upon this coat-- Why--why--the devil fetch me! I'm no milksop!

BUTLER. The duke presented thee this good warm coat, And thou, a needy wight, hast pangs of
conscience To run him through the body in return, A coat that is far better and far warmer
Did the emperor give to him, the prince's mantle. How doth he thank the emperor? With revolt
And treason.

DEVEREUX.
That is true. The devil take Such thankers! I'll despatch him.

BUTLER.
And would'st quiet Thy conscience, thou hast naught to do but simply Pull off the coat; so
canst thou do the deed With light heart and good spirits.

DEVEREUX.

You are right, That did not strike me. I'll pull off the coat-- So there's an end of it.

MACDONALD.
Yes, but there's another Point to be thought of.

BUTLER.
And what's that, Macdonald?

MACDONALD. What avails sword or dagger against him? He is not to be wounded--he is----

BUTLER (starting up).
What!

MACDONALD. Safe against shot, and stab, and flash! Hard frozen. Secured and warranted by the black
art His body is impenetrable, I tell you.

DEVEREUX. In Ingolstadt there was just such another: His whole skin was the same as steel;
at last We were obliged to beat him down with gunstocks.

MACDONALD. Hear what I'll do.

DEVEREUX.

Well.

MACDONALD.

In the cloister here There's a Dominican, my countryman.
I'll make him dip my sword and pike for me In holy water, and say over them One of his strongest
blessings. That's probatum!
Nothing can stand 'gainst that.

BUTLER.
So do, Macdonald!
But now go and select from out the regiment Twenty or thirty
able-bodied fellows, And let them take the oaths to the emperor.

    Then when it strikes eleven,
      when the first rounds
      Are passed, conduct them
      silently as may be To the
    house. I will myself be not far off.

DEVEREUX. But how do we get through Hartschier and Gordon, That stand on guard there in the
inner chamber?

BUTLER. I have made myself acquainted with the place, I lead you through a back door that's
defended By one man only. Me my rank and office Give access to the duke at every hour. I'll
go before you--with one poinard-stroke Cut Hartschier's windpipe, and make way for you.

DEVEREUX. And when we are there, by what means shall we gain The duke's bed-chamber, without
his alarming The servants of the court? for he has here A numerous company of followers.

BUTLER.

The attendants fills the right wing: he hates bustle, And lodges in the left wing quite
alone.

DEVEREUX. Were it well over--hey, Macdonald! I Feel queerly on the occasion, devil knows.

MACDONALD. And I, too. 'Tis too great a personage. People will hold
us for a brace of villains.
BUTLER. In plenty, honor, splendor--you may safely Laugh at the
people's babble.

DEVEREUX.
If the business Squares with one's honor--if that be quite
certain.
BUTLER. Set your hearts quite at ease. Ye save for Ferdinand His
crown and empire. The reward can be No small one.
DEVEREUX. And 'tis his purpose to dethrone the emperor?
BUTLER. Yes! Yes! to rob him of his crown and life.
DEVEREUX. And must he fall by the executioner's hands, Should we
deliver him up to the emperor Alive?

BUTLER.
It were his certain destiny.
DEVEREUX. Well! Well! Come then, Macdonald, he shall not Lie long
in pain.
[Exeunt BUTLER through one door, MACDONALD and DEVEREUX through the
other.

SCENE III.
A saloon, terminated by a gallery, which extends far into the
background.
WALLENSTIN sitting at a table. The SWEDISH CAPTAIN standing before
him.
WALLENSTEIN. Commend me to your lord. I sympathize In his good
fortune; and if you have seen me Deficient in the expressions of
that joy, Which such a victory might well demand, Attribute it to
no lack of good-will, For henceforth are our fortunes one. Farewell,
And for your trouble take my thanks. To-morrow The citadel shall
be surrendered to you On your arrival.
[The SWEDISH CAPTAIN retires. WALLENSTEIN sits lost in thought, his
eyes fixed vacantly, and his head sustained by his hand. The COUNTESS
TERZKY enters, stands before him for awhile, unobserved by him; at
length he starts, sees her and recollects himself.
WALLENSTEIN. Comest thou from her? Is she restored? How is
she?
COUNTESS. My sister tells me she was more collected After her
conversation with the Swede.
She has now retired to rest.

WALLENSTEIN.
The pang will soften She will shed tears.

COUNTESS.
I find thee altered, too, My brother! After such a victory I had
expected to have found in thee A cheerful spirit. Oh, remain thou
firm!
Sustain, uphold us! For our light thou art, Our sun.

WALLENSTEIN.
Be quiet. I ail nothing. Where's Thy husband?

COUNTESS.
At a banquet--he and Illo.
WALLENSTEIN (rises and strides across the saloon). The night's far
spent. Betake thee to thy chamber.
COUNTESS. Bid me not go, oh, let me stay with thee!
WALLENSTEIN (moves to the window). There is a busy motion in the
heaven, The wind doth chase the flag upon the tower, Fast sweep the
clouds, the sickle [11] of the moon, Struggling, darts snatches of
uncertain light. No form of star is visible! That one White stain
of light, that single glimmering yonder, Is from Cassiopeia, and
therein Is Jupiter. (A pause.) But now The blackness of the troubled
element hides him!
[He sinks into profound melancholy, and looks vacantly into the
distance.
COUNTESS (looks on him mournfully, then grasps his hand). What art
thou brooding on?

WALLENSTEIN.
Methinks If I but saw him, 'twould be well with me.
He is the star of my nativity, And often marvellously hath his
aspect Shot strength into my heart.
COUNTESS. Thou'lt see him again.
WALLENSTEIN (remains for awhile with absent mind, then assumes a
livelier manner, and turning suddenly to the COUNTESS). See him
again? Oh, never, never again!

COUNTESS. How?

WALLENSTEIN.
He is gone--is dust.

COUNTESS.
Whom meanest thou, then?
WALLENSTEIN. He, the more fortunate! yea, he hath finished! For him
there is no longer any future, His life is bright--bright without
spot it was, And cannot cease to be. No ominous hour Knocks at his
door with tidings of mishap, Far off is he, above desire and fear;
No more submitted to the change and chance Of the unsteady planets.
Oh, 'tis well With him! but who knows what the coming hour Veiled
in thick darkness brings us?
COUNTESS. Thou speakest of Piccolomini. What was his death? The
courier had just left thee as I came.
[WALLENSTEIN by a motion of his hand makes signs to her to be
silent.
Turn not thine eyes upon the backward view, Let us look forward
into sunny days, Welcome with joyous heart the victory, Forget what
it has cost thee. Not to-day, For the first time, thy friend was
to thee dead; To thee he died when first he parted from thee.
WALLENSTEIN. This anguish will be wearied down [12], I know; What
pang is permanent with man?
From the highest, As from the vilest thing of every day, He learns
to wean himself: for the strong hours Conquer him. Yet I feel what
I have lost In him. The bloom is vanished from my life, For oh, he
stood beside me, like my youth, Transformed for me the real to a
dream, Clothing the palpable and the familiar With golden exhalations
of the dawn, Whatever fortunes wait my future toils, The beautiful
is vanished--and returns not.
COUNTESS. Oh, be not treacherous to thy own power. Thy heart is
rich enough to vivify Itself.
Thou lovest and prizest virtues in him, The which thyself didst
plant, thyself unfold.
WALLENSTEIN (stepping to the door). Who interrupts us now at this
late hour? It is the governor.
He brings the keys Of the citadel. 'Tis midnight. Leave me,
sister!
COUNTESS. Oh, 'tis so hard to me this night to leave thee; A boding
fear possesses me!

WALLENSTEIN.
Fear! Wherefore?
COUNTESS. Shouldst thou depart this night, and we at waking Never
more find thee!

WALLENSTEIN.
Fancies!

COUNTESS.
Ob, my soul Has long been weighed down by these dark forebodings,
And if I combat and repel them waking, They still crush down upon
my heart in dreams, I saw thee, yesternight with thy first wife Sit
at a banquet, gorgeously attired.
WALLENSTHIN. This was a dream of favorable omen, That marriage being
the founder of my fortunes.
COUNTESS. To-day I dreamed that I was seeking thee In thy own
chamber. As I entered, lo! It was no more a chamber: the Chartreuse
At Gitschin 'twas, which thou thyself hast founded, And where it
is thy will that thou shouldst be Interred.

WALLENSTEIN.
Thy soul is busy with these thoughts.
COUNTESS. What! dost thou not believe that oft in dreams A voice
of warning speaks prophetic to us?
WALLENSTEIN. There is no doubt that there exist such voices, Yet I
would not call them Voices of warning that announce to us Only the
inevitable. As the sun, Ere it is risen, sometimes paints its image
In the atmosphere, so often do the spirits Of great events stride
on before the events, And in to-day already walks to-morrow. That
which we read of the fourth Henry's death Did ever vex and haunt
me like a tale Of my own future destiny. The king Felt in his breast
the phantom of the knife Long ere Ravaillac armed himself therewith.
His quiet mind forsook him; the phantasma Started him in his Louvre,
chased him forth Into the open air; like funeral knells Sounded
that coronation festival; And still with boding sense he heard the
tread Of those feet that even then were seeking him Throughout the
streets of Paris.

COUNTESS.
And to thee The voice within thy soul bodes nothing?

WALLENSTEIN.
Nothing.
Be wholly tranquil.

COUNTESS.
And another time I hastened after thee, and thou rann'st from me
Through a long suite, through many a spacious hall.
There seemed no end of it; doors creaked and clapped; I followed
panting, but could not overtake thee; When on a sudden did I feel
myself Grasped from behind,--the hand was cold that grasped me;
'Twas thou, and thou didst kiss me, and there seemed A crimson
covering to envelop us.
WALLENSTEIN. That is the crimson tapestry of my chamber.
COUNTESS (gazing on him). If it should come to that--if I should
see thee, Who standest now before me in the fulness Of life----
[She falls on his breast and weeps.
WALLENSTEIN. The emperor's proclamation weighs upon thee-- Alphabets
wound not--and he finds no hands.
COUNTESS. If he should find them, my resolve is taken-- I bear about
me my support and refuge.

[Exit COUNTESS.

SCENE V.
WALLENSTEIN, GORDON.

WALLENSTEIN. All quiet in the town?

GORDON.
The town is quiet.
WALLENSTEIN. I hear a boisterous music! and the castle Is lighted
up. Who are the revellers?
GORDON. There is a banquet given at the castle To the Count Terzky
and Field-Marshal Illo.

WALLENSTEIN.
In honor of the victory--this tribe Can show their joy in nothing
else but feasting.
[Rings. The GROOM OF THE CHAMBER enters.
Unrobe me. I will lay me down to sleep.
[WALLENSTEIN takes the keys from GORDON.
So we are guarded from all enemies, And shut in with sure friends.
For all must cheat me, or a face like this [Fixing his eyes on
GORDON.
Was ne'er a hypocrite's mask.
[The GROOM OF THE CHAMBER takes off his mantle, collar, and
scarf.

WALLENSTEIN. Take care--what is that?
GROOM OF THE CHAMBER.
The golden chain is snapped in two.

WALLENSTEIN.
Well, it has lasted long enough. Here--give it.
[He takes and looks at the chain.
'Twas the first present of the emperor.
He hung it round me in the war of Friule, He being then archduke;
and I have worn it Till now from habit-- From superstition, if you
will. Belike, It was to be a talisman to me; And while I wore it
on my neck in faith, It was to chain to me all my life-long The
volatile fortune, whose first pledge it was.
Well, be it so! Henceforward a new fortune Must spring up for me;
for the potency Of this charm is dissolved.
[GROOM OF THE CHAMBER retires with the vestments. WALLENSTEIN rises,
takes a stride across the room, and stands at last before GORDON
in a posture of meditation.
How the old time returns upon me! I Behold myself once more at
Burgau, where We two were pages of the court together. We oftentimes
disputed: thy intention Was ever good; but thou were wont to play
The moralist and preacher, and wouldst rail at me-- That I strove
after things too high for me, Giving my faith to bold, unlawful
dreams, And still extol to me the golden mean.
Thy wisdom hath been proved a thriftless friend To thy own self.
See, it has made thee early A superannuated man, and (but That my
munificent stars will intervene) Would let thee in some miserable
corner Go out like an untended lamp.

GORDON.
My prince With light heart the poor fisher moors his boat, And
watches from the shore the lofty ship Stranded amid the
storm.

WALLENSTEIN.
Art thou already In harbor, then, old man? Well! I am not.
The unconquered spirit drives me o'er life's billows; My planks
still firm, my canvas swelling proudly.
Hope is my goddess still, and youth my inmate; And while we stand
thus front to front almost, I might presume to say, that the swift
years Have passed by powerless o'er my unblanched hair.
[He moves with long strides across the saloon, and remains on the
opposite side over against GORDON.
Who now persists in calling fortune false? To me she has proved
faithful; with fond love Took me from out the common ranks of men,
And like a mother goddess, with strong arm Carried me swiftly up
the steps of life. Nothing is common in my destiny, Nor in the
furrows of my hand.
Who dares Interpret then my life for me as 'twere One of the
undistinguishable many? True, in this present moment I appear Fallen
low indeed; but I shall rise again. The high flood will soon follow
on this ebb; The fountain of my fortune, which now stops, Repressed
and bound by some malicious star, Will soon in joy play forth from
all its pipes.
GORDON. And yet remember I the good old proverb, "Let the night
come before we praise the day." I would be slow from long-continued
fortune To gather hope: for hope is the companion Given to the
unfortunate by pitying heaven. Fear hovers round the head of
prosperous men, For still unsteady are the scales of fate.
WALLENSTEIN (smiling).
I hear the very Gordon that of old Was wont to preach, now once
more preaching; I know well, that all sublunary things Are still
the vassals of vicissitude.
The unpropitious gods demand their tribute.
This long ago the ancient pagans knew And therefore of their own
accord they offered To themselves injuries, so to atone The jealousy
of their divinities And human sacrifices bled to Typhon.
[After a pause, serious, and in a more subdued manner.
I too have sacrificed to him--for me There fell the dearest friend,
and through my fault He fell! No joy from favorable fortune Can
overweigh the anguish of this stroke.
The envy of my destiny is glutted:
Life pays for life. On his pure head the lightning Was drawn off
which would else have shattered me.

SCENE V.
To these enter SENI.
WALLENSTEIN. Is not that Seni! and beside himself, If one can trust
his looks? What brings thee hither At this late hour,
Baptista?

SENI.
Terror, duke!
On thy account.

WALLENSTEIN.
What now?

SENI.
Flee ere the day break!
Trust not thy person to the Swedes!

WALLENSTEIN.
What now Is in thy thoughts?
SENI (with louder voice). Trust not thy person to the
Swedes.

WALLENSTEIN.
What is it, then?
SENI (still more urgently). Oh, wait not the arrival of these Swedes!
An evil near at hand is threatening thee From false friends. All
the signs stand full of horror! Near, near at hand the net-work of
perdition-- Yea, even now 'tis being cast around thee!
WALLENSTEIN. Baptista, thou art dreaming!--fear befools thee.
SENI. Believe not that an empty fear deludes me. Come, read it in
the planetary aspects; Read it thyself, that ruin threatens thee
From false friends.

WALLENSTEIN.
From the falseness of my friends Has risen the whole of my unprosperous
fortunes.
The warning should have come before! At present I need no revelation
from the stars To know that.

SENI.
Come and see! trust thine own eyes.
A fearful sign stands in the house of life-- An enemy; a fiend lurks
close behind The radiance of thy planet. Oh, be warned!
Deliver not up thyself to these heathens, To wage a war against our
holy church.
WALLENSTEIN (laughing gently). The oracle rails that way! Yes, yes!
Now I recollect.There were usually
two matches a week. The team would get off work at ten o'clock, and just as the school was
pouring out in break they would stroll leisurely down to the cricket field. Everything, in
fact, was carried out leisurely. A wonderful atmosphere of repose hangs over a cricket field
in the morning, when the grass is still sparkling with dew, and there is silence and vast emptiness
where usually is the sound of shouting and hurrying feet. There was the long luncheon interval,
when the members of the Eleven would wander round the field arm in arm, or lounge on the seats
lazy and contented. Gordon loved to sit in the pavilion balcony watching the white forms change
across between the overs, the red ball bounce along the grass, the wicket-keeper whip off the
bails, the umpire's finger go up. The whole tableau was so unreal, so idealistic. Then the
school would come down after lunch with rugs and cushions, and would clamour outside the tuck-shop
for ices and ginger beer. Gordon could hardly connect his present existence with the past two
years of doubts, uncertainties, wild excitements, hurry, bustle--never a second's peace.

One of his most perfect days was the Radley match. After a long journey, at the very end of
the day they passed through Oxford, and Gordon caught one fleeting glimpse of those wonderful
"dreaming spires," rising golden in the dying sun. As the team walked up from Abingdon to the
college, Tester, who had at last got into the side, came up and took Gordon's arm.

"You know, when I saw Oxford lying out there so peaceful and calm, I thought I had at last
reached the end of searching. This was my first view of Oxford; by passing the certificate
I didn't need to go up for smalls. Thank God, I am going up there next term. I think I shall
forget all my old misgivings in so completely peaceful an atmosphere. I can't shake off the
Public School ideas yet; I am all adrift; still, I think it will be all right there."

Gordon wondered indeed how anyone could fail to find all their dreams realised in so secluded,
so monastic a Utopia.

The next two days were supremely happy. Gordon, Lovelace and Foster were put into the same
house; and they spent half the night ragging in their old light-hearted fashion. The match
resembled most of the other performances of that year's Eleven. The whole side was out for
eighty. Gordon hit two fours and was then leg before; Lovelace, with laborious efforts and
much use of his pads, made twenty-three and five leg byes. But it was a sorry performance,
and Radley put up over two hundred. Fernhurst went in again; and that day Gordon and Lovelace
were sent in first.

It was an amazing performance. Gordon's cricket was, in honest fact, one of the biggest frauds
that had ever been inflicted on an opposing side. He had three shots--a cut, a slash shot past
cover, and a drive that landed the ball anywhere from mid-wicket to over short-slip. People
used to say that he tried each of these shots in rotation. That perhaps was hardly fair; but
he invariably cut straight balls and pulled good length balls on the off stump to the on boundary.
This evening, at any rate, he was in luck. With terrific violence he smote the Radley bowling
all round the field. Some shots went along the ground, more fell just out of reach of a fielder.
It was invigorating but hardly classic cricket. Still, whatever it was, it produced seventy-two
runs, while Lovelace had scored three. After he left Lovelace became still more cautious. A
man from Christy's was in at the other end, who had been instructed to keep up his end for
an hour. As a matter of fact, they scored exactly two runs between them in about half-an-hour.
That two was from a drive from Lovelace past cover.

At such daring Lovelace became much elated.

"Come on, I say, come on. Lots of runs here. Come on."

The Radley men were very amused. Lovelace took nothing seriously. It was as well that "the
Bull" was absent. Once, just as the bowler was rushing up to bowl, Lovelace flung out his hand
and said: "Stop! Move the screen please; your hand is just behind a tree!"

With great difficulty the screens were moved.

Once he patted the ball a little way down the pitch, and shouted to the batsman at the other
end, with hand extended: "Stay!"

There was some subdued laughter.

Lovelace turned round to the wicket-keeper and said: "Strange as it may seem, I am the worst
member of this rotten side, and I am playing for my place. This is the way to keep your place
at Fernhurst."

The final achievement was a successful appeal against the light.

The next day it rained in torrents.

"Jolly rotten luck," said Lovelace, "and I was certain for a bat for making my fifty, too."

"Do you think so?" said Tester. "You know, they don't play to a finish in England. You are
thinking of Australian rules."

Commemoration came and went, with its tea-parties, parasols, calf-bound books, sermons and
cricket match. The term drew to its close.

"This is the best term I have ever had," said Gordon. "By Jove, we have had some good days."

Yet, of all things, that which remained clearest in his memory was one day early in the term,
when he and Lovelace were recovering from chicken-pox. The school had gone for a field day
to Salisbury, and they were left behind with Archie Fletcher, who had been ragging Jenks, and
had been kept back for punishment, and a quantity of small fry. No work was done. In the morning
they all had to go into the big schoolroom and hear Claremont read _Lycidas_ and parts of _Comus_.

Claremont read remarkably well, and Gordon, in an atmosphere of genial tolerance and good humour,
was able to get a clearer insight into the real soul of the pedant of the Lower Fifth. For,
shorn of his trappings, Claremont was "a dear old fellow." Among books he had found the lasting
friendship and consolation that among his colleagues he had sought in vain. And as he read
_Comus_, in many ways the most truly poetical poem in the English language, Gordon realised
how sensitively Claremont's heart was wrought upon by every breath of beauty.

The afternoon they had to themselves. A net was put up on the field, and for an hour or so
they beat about, regardless of science and footwork. A relaxation was a good thing now and
again. Then they went back to the studies, and in the absence of its owner laid hold of the
games study. They had the run of it now, and, with an enormous basket of strawberries before
them, played tunes on the gramophone and roared the chorus. As the evening fell, and the lights
began to wake, Gordon and Archie stole down to the fried fish shop, strictly out of bounds,
and returned with an unsavoury, but none the less palatable, parcel of fried fish and chips.

It was a glorious day; they enjoyed all Fernhurst's privileges with its restrictions removed,
and when the notes of _Land of Hope and Glory_ proclaimed that the corps was marching up Cheap
Street, they considered the return to realities to be almost an intrusion on their isolated peace.

In the last week of the term the Colts played Downside, and Gordon was still young enough to
play for them. "The Bull" went with them, and could not have been kinder. He walked round the
ground with Gordon in the interval, as if there had been never any cause of quarrel between
them at all. They talked of books as well as cricket; and though "the Bull's" gods were not
Gordon's, there was real sympathy between them for an hour. On the way back in the train, Gordon
wondered whether, after all, he had not been right at the beginning, when he promised to curb
his personality, and merge it into "the Bull's." What good was there in going his own way,
in fighting for what he thought right? Buller always had had his own way, and things had gone
on all right. Why should he try and alter things? Having realised "the Bull's" faults, should
he not make allowance for them, seeing that his virtues so outnumbered his failings? He was
certainly intolerant of any other opinions but his own; but then so was Ferrers, whom Gordon
worshipped on the other side of idolatry. The pity was that Ferrers was intolerant of the things
he hated, while Buller was intolerant of the things he admired. It was all very difficult.
For the moment he did not feel ready to come to any decision. He was too happy to trouble himself.
"Sufficient for the day were the day's evil things." Let the future reveal itself. He would
see how things turned out.

The concert came, with its _Valete_ of many memories. The school songs were howled out; hands
crossed and swung in _Auld Lang Syne_; the _Carmen_ nearly brought the roof down. Lying back
in bed, Gordon saw little to regret in the school year that was just ending. Considering he
had been second in the batting averages, he thought they might have given him his "Firsts";
but it did not matter very much. There was heaps of time. Three years of fulfilment. Half his
school life was over. The threads of his youth had been unravelled at last; and in the coming
year they would be woven upon the wonderful loom of youth, with its bright colours, its sunshine
and its laughter. As the spring morn flings aside its winter raiment, so he had put off the
garb of his wandering adolescence. He was prepared for whatever might come. But he was certain
that it was only happiness that was waiting for him. Three years of success in which would
be mingled the real poetry of existence. He would not write his poetry on paper; he would write
it, as Herod had written it, in every action of his life. His innings was just about to begin.

BOOK IV: THE WEAVING

    "Alba Ligustra cadunt; vaccinia nigra leguntur."

    VERGIL.

    "Life like an army I could hear advance
    Halting at fewer, fewer intervals."

    HAROLD MONRO.

CHAPTER I: THE TWILIGHT OF THE GODS

It is good to dream; but "Man proposes: God in His time disposes," and Gordon's dream was scattered
at its dawn. Hardly a week later a great nation forgot its greatness, and Europe trembled on
the brink of war. During those days of awful suspense, when it was uncertain whether England
would enter into the contest or not, Gordon could hardly keep still with nervous excitement.
When on the Sunday before Bank Holiday J.L. Garvin poured out his warning to the Liberal Government,
it seemed for a moment as if they were going to back out.

On the Tuesday Gordon went to the Oval; Lovelace major was playing against Surrey. In the Strand
he ran into Ferrers.

"Come on, sir I am just off to the Oval to see Lovelace's brother bat. Great fellow! Captain
of the House my first term."

"Right you are. Come on. There's a bus!"

For hours, or what seemed like hours, two painfully correct professionals pottered about, scoring
by ones and twos. Gordon longed for them to get out. A catch was missed in the slips.

"Surrey are the worst slip-fielding side in England," announced Gordon fiercely. The Oval crowd,
always so ferociously partisan, moved round him uneasily.

At last a roar went up, as Hitch knocked the leg stump flying out of the ground. Then Lovelace
came in. He looked just as he had looked on the green Fernhurst sward, only perhaps a little
broader. He was wearing the magenta and black of the School House scarf. He was an amateur
of the R.E. Foster type--wrist shots past cover, and an honest off-drive.

A change came over the play at once. In his first over he hit two fours. There was a stir round
the ground. His personality was as strong as ever.

A boy ran on the field with a telegram for him.

"I bet that means he has got to join his regiment," said Gordon, "and it also means we are
going to fight."

Lovelace shoved the telegram into his pocket, and went on batting just as if nothing had happened,
just as if he did not realise that this was his last innings for a very long time. He hit all
round the wicket.

At last a brilliant piece of stumping sent him back to the pavilion amid a roar of cheering.

"My word, Mr Ferrers, there goes the finest man Fernhurst has turned out since I have been
there. And, my word, it will be a long time before we turn out another like him. There will
be nothing to see now he has gone."

They wandered out into the Kennington Road, excited, feverish. They had lunch at Gatti's, went
into _Potash and Perlmutter_, and came out after the first act.

"This is no time for German Jews," said Ferrers, "let's try the Hippodrome."

It was an expensive day. They rushed from one thing to another. The strain was intolerable.
After supper they went to the West End Cinema, and there, just before closing-time, a film,
in which everyone was falling into a dirty duck-pond for no ostensible reason, was suddenly
stopped, and there appeared across the screen the flaming notice:

    ENGLAND HAS DECLARED WAR ON GERMANY

    GOD SAVE THE KING!

There was dead silence for a moment. Then cheer upon cheer convulsed the house. The band struck
up the National Anthem. The sequel to the tragedy of the duck-pond was never known.

"Glorious! Glorious!" said Ferrers, as they staggered out into the cool night air. "A war is
what we want. It will wake us up from sleeping; stir us into life; inflame our literature.
There's a real chance now of sweeping away the old outworn traditions. In a great fire they
will all be burnt. Then we can build afresh. I wish I could go and fight. Damn my heart! To
think of all the running it stood at Oxford; and then suddenly to give way. My doctor always
tells me to be careful. If I could go, by God, I would have my shot at the bloody Germans;
but still I'll do something at Fernhurst. Stoics, you know; Army class English. How old are
you? Sixteen! We shall have you for two years yet. This war is going to save England and everything!
Glorious!"

The flaring lights of Leicester Square, the tawdry brilliance of Piccadilly seemed to burst
into one volcano of red splendour; a thousand cannons spitting flame; a thousand eyes bright
with love of England. The swaying Tube swept Gordon home in a state of subconscious delirium
to the starlit calm of Hampstead.

Throughout the long summer holidays this feeling of rejoicing sustained Gordon's heart. He
saw an age rising out of these purging fires that would rival the Elizabethan. He saw a second
Marlowe and a second Webster. His soul was aflame with hope. He had no doubt as to the result.
Even the long retreat from Mons, with its bitter list of casualties, failed to terrorise him.
Half the holidays he spent in Wychtown, a little Somersetshire village, and his enthusiasm
at one time took the form of buying bundles of newspapers, which he distributed at the cottages,
so as to keep everyone in touch with the state of affairs. At one time he thought of going
round discussing the war with some of the villagers; but he soon abandoned this project. He
began with an aged man who had fought at Majuba.

"Well, Mr Cavendish, and what do you think of the war this morning."

"Lor' bless you, things beant what they were in my young days. At Majuba, now, we did things
a bit different-like. But these 'ere Germans, now, they be getting on right well. Be they for us?"

After this Gordon decided that the natural simplicity of the yokel was proof against anything
he might have to say. He pitied electioneering agents.

A week before the beginning of term he received two letters. The first was from Lovelace, who
had got a nomination to Sandhurst, and would not return to school next term. The other was
from Hunter, saying that he had won a commission in the Dorsets.

"_Well, Caruthers, old fellow_," he added, "_this means that you will be captain of the House.
I had greatly looked forward to being captain myself, and had thought out a good many new ideas.
But of course all that has got to go now, and I don't intend to try and pass off my theories
on you; you'll probably have many more than I had, and a good deal better ones. All I can say
is that I wish the very best of luck to you and to the House. I have no doubt you'll do jolly
well. Good luck._"

Gordon sat silent for a long while. Sorrow at losing Lovelace strove with the joy of reaching
his heart's desire so soon. Finally all other emotions were lost in the overflowing sense of
relief that his days of waiting for achievement were over.

In a mood of supreme self-confidence he returned to Fernhurst.

At Waterloo everyone was talking at the top of his voice.

"Is it true Akerman has left?"

"Yes; got a commission in the Middlesex."

"Good Lord! that'll mean Gregory captain."

"Hunter has left, too, I hear."

"Has he?"

"Caruthers will be captain of the House, then."

Broken sentences were wafted like strange music to Gordon's ears. He felt that the eyes of
those who once had been his equals looked at him with a sort of Oriental admiration, in which
there lurked traces of fear.

He found himself addressed with more respect. One or two people came up to congratulate him.
The green flag waved. The train moved majestically westward, and his reign had begun. He did
not feel the slightest tremor of nervousness. He remembered Hunter saying at the end of last
term that it was ticklish work being captain of the House. Was it? To Gordon it seemed no more
than the inevitable entrance into a kingdom which was his by right of conquest.

The Eversham road swept in its broad curve up to the Abbey, black with moving figures. Gordon
slowly walked up to the House. It was the privilege of School House prefects to enter by a
small gate near the masters' common room. Haughtily he rang the bell. A wizened old lady opened
the door, bowing with a "Hope you 'ad a good 'oliday, sir." It was the first sensation of power.

A crowd had collected round the notice-board in the changing-room. Gordon murmured "Thank you,"
and two or three Eton collars moved aside to give him room. What a change! All the giants of
the former generation had gone. Betteridge had, at the express request of the Chief, come back
for one term. But he alone remained. Gordon was fifth in the House; and, good Lord, that amazing
ass Rudd was a prefect, and second in the House! He and Gordon had a double dormitory on the
lower landing. The number of boys in the House had sunk to sixty-two, rather a desolating thought
for House matches.

The Chief was not in his study. Gordon dropped a health certificate on his table, and gave
instructions to one Morgan, a round-faced, ruddy youth, to shove his bag into his dormitory.
Then he wandered over to the games study. And so this study was going to be his! He had often
sat there with Carter; but he had always felt himself an excrescence. Now it was his own. He
pictured the evenings after a hard game of football, sitting in front of the fire; the long
mornings when he was supposed to be preparing history for Finnemore, spent in this atmosphere
of luxurious calm. He planned his furnishing of the room. In the broad window he would hang
two bookshelves for his smaller books. On each side of the fireplace there was also room for
bookshelves. Then, standing against the wooden partition that jutted out into the room would
be his large oak bookcase for the heavy volumes. He would repaper the room, and a new carpet
was a necessity. He went over to the porter's lodge to give instructions.

He had already decided to ask Foster to share the study with him. Foster would be captain of
cricket next summer. They would get on well together. Foster never quarrelled with anyone;
and it would be a suitable combination. He met Foster by the eight-ten train from Exeter, and
informed him of the fact.

When prayers came, and Gordon stood under the mantelpiece behind the arm-chair where the captain
of the House sat, and looked down at the row of new boys at the day-room table, it seemed incredible
to him that he had ever been like that. And yet it was only three years ago since he had sat
there, dazed and frightened.

Prayers were ended. Gordon sat back, his hands resting on the arms of his big oak chair. The
Chief came round, shaking hands.

"Caruthers, Foster and Davenport, you might come and speak to me for a moment after you have
finished your supper."

That was not long. No one had ever been known to touch any of the first-night soup; Gordon
had often wondered what happened to it. There was much of it, and all wasted.

The Chief greeted them with his invariable fluttering smile.

"I suppose you know what I want you for? Kitchener called up his reserves, so I have had to
call up mine. None of you would, I think, in the ordinary course of events have become prefects
this term. But as it is, I am sure you will all do well; and remember that being a prefect
does not merely consist in the privilege of being late for breakfast. Some of you, who may
very likely have views of your own on certain subjects, must try and make them conform with
mine. We must all try to work together, and I am always ready to give any of you advice if
I am able to, and of course----"

At this moment there came the discordant sounds that proclaimed the arrival of the last train
from town. Gordon could imagine some wretched new boy huddled underneath the stairs, ignorant
and timid.

Rudd burst in with a health certificate and outside came the babble of voices. "I must go and
see Chief ... Health certificate ... Confirmation classes ... Going to specialise in stinks."

It was clear that the Chief was to have a hard time for the next twenty minutes interviewing
all these candidates for a satisfactory division of labour.

"Well, I think that is all just now, thank you."

He gave them a nod of dismissal. They filed out into the passage, black with its crowd of clamouring
applicants.

It was not until the next day, however, that Gordon fully realised the change that had come
over Fernhurst. Nearly all the bloods had left. Gregory was still there, but he had sent his
papers in, and expected to be gazetted in a week or so, and of the Fifteen of the year before
he was the only remaining colour. Two members of the Second Fifteen remained: one because he
was only seventeen, the other, Akerman's younger brother, because he was going to be a medical
student and was not allowed to take a commission by the War Office.

The staff also had undergone several changes. Ferrers was practically the only master under
thirty. The rest had all taken commissions, and their places were filled by grey-beards and
bald-heads, long since past their prime. It was a case of extreme youth face to face with extreme
age.

"There will be some fun this term," prophesied Archie Fletcher, for whom the immediate future
stretched out into a long series of colossal "rags."

Rogers was imperially himself. The Corps was, of course, to be allowed considerably more time
this term. There were two parades a week, one a company drill on Friday, the other a field
day on Wednesday. Besides this, between twelve-thirty and lunch there would be section and
platoon drill every day. Rogers imagined that O.T.C. work would shortly become more important
and more popular than football; he saw himself taking the position once held by Buller. On
the strength of this alluring prospect he bought a new uniform.

For the first few days life was entertainingly disorganised. The time-table worked out all
wrong. Gregory got gazetted; and Akerman, on becoming captain, forgot the numbers of the football
grounds, thus causing endless and hilarious confusion. No one quite knew what was happening,
but everyone was happily excited, and vaguely garrulous about "how the war has changed things."

Gordon found that his new position brought with it certain other honours. In the Corps, for
instance, where for three years he had so tempered slackness with insolence as to make him
the worst private in the company, he found himself a lance-corporal, in charge of a section.
He was elected to the Dolts Literary Society, under the placid autocracy of Claremont, who
called them his "stolidi." But nothing showed more clearly the change wrought by the war than
the fact that Gordon was nominated to the Games Committee, before which august body hardly
six months ago he had cut such an inglorious figure. It was a strange irony.

In the School House every prefect was allowed four fags, so as Foster and Gordon were both
prefects, the games study had a goodly crowd of menials. For the most part they were simple,
insignificant, Eton-collared mortals, who flitted round the room after breakfast with dusters,
and at various other times of the day came in to see after the fire. Gordon took little notice
of them. Foster had made out a list of the days on which each fag was on duty; one, Hare, was
put in charge, and when anything went wrong, Hare was considered responsible and beaten. After
two such castigations the excellence of the fagging was maintained at an unusually high standard.

The first fortnight of the term was feverish. Corps work was revivified under the stimulus
of war; the field days by Babylon Hill provided genuine excitement, in spite of the prolixity
of Rogers's subsequent summary of the day's work. There were going to be very few football
matches; but "uppers" were played with the old keenness, and there was fierce competition for
the last places in the scrum. Ferrers wrote a long article to _The Country_ on "The Public
Schools and the War," which bubbled over with enthusiasm.

Gordon found authority a pleasant thing. There were, of course, bound to be little worries,
but they were transient. The new boys caused him a certain amount of trouble. They never would
take the trouble to find out if they were posted for House games. The result was that as often
as not the House found itself playing with only six forwards. Gordon made a speech to the House
on the subject. The very next day Golding, a most wretched-looking specimen, failed to turn
up on a House game.

Gordon gave him a lecture on the insignificance of the new boy and the importance of games.

"This sort of thing can't go on," he said, using the formula that every prefect has used since
the day prefects were first made. "If it did, we might find everyone cutting House games and
going off to pick-ups! What would happen then?"

Golding was far too frightened to have any views on the subject.

"Well, I shall have to beat you."

Gordon led the way to the empty space by the cloisters where roll was called.

"Bend over there!"

Golding showed a natural reluctance to do anything of the sort.

"No, right down; and lift up your coat."

Gordon gave him a fairly hard stroke. Golding squealed "Oh!" and rose, holding his trousers,
and looking round fretfully. Gordon's heart melted. After all, this was a new kid, and a pretty
poor specimen at that.

The next shot was very gentle.

The sequel reached Gordon three days later. Golding had gone back down to the day-room. Rudd
was taking hall, which was, of course, an excuse for everyone to talk.

"How many?" asked several voices. "Did he hurt?"

"Oh, only one and a half," announced Golding, puffed out with pride. "First hardly hurt me
at all, and the second one was quite a misfire."

This was rather a surprise to those who remembered Gordon's driving power. Golding was thought
rather a "lad" after all.

Gordon, however, soon dispelled this illusion. A week later he went down to the House game
in which Golding was playing and cursed him roundly all the afternoon with perfect justice.
After tea he gave him six for slacking: and all delusions about Golding's bravery were immediately
dispelled.

"Damned little tick," said Gordon. "He made such a fuss that I let him off lightly, and then
he goes down to the day-room and makes out I am a wreck. Collins, I charge thee, put away compassion!
It does not pay with these degenerates."

There is nothing more interesting to the artist than watching a thing grow under one's hand.
And Gordon, who had the ambition of the artist in embryo, was thoroughly engrossed in the training
of his House sides. A-K Junior was a promising side; it beat Claremont's by twenty points,
and Rogers's by over fifty.

Morgan captained the side, and was easily the best man in it, but among the lesser lights there
was a great display of energy, much of it misplaced. The worst offender was Bray. To watch
him play was to witness a gladiatorial display of frightfulness. His fists flew about like
a flail, his legs were everywhere. On the whole he did more damage to his own side than to
his opponents. And the amount of energy he wasted every game in hacking the bodies of any who
got in his way must have been exhausting. Gordon had to speak to him almost severely once or twice.

In the game against Rogers's, Bray nearly got sent off the field. There had been a tight scrum
which had more or less collapsed. The whistle blew. Jenks had been persuaded to referee.

"Now then, form up properly there."

When the two scrums assorted themselves, Bray was discovered about five yards from the ball,
sitting on the head of a wretched, fat, unwashed product of Rogers's, punching him violently
and ejaculating after each punch:

"Damn you! Damn you! Damn you!"

Jenks looked very fierce.

"Now then, you stupid fellows. If you go on like that, I shall have to report you to the Headmaster,
and you know what that will mean."

Bray looked a little frightened, and for the future devoted his energies to the football and
not the footballers, to the distinct advantage of the side.

But Gordon began to find that the more his interest increased in House games, the less interest
he took in uppers and Fifteen puntabouts. He was always wanting to go and see how his House
was getting on. As soon as the first keenness wore off he found the interminable "uppers,"
totally unrelieved by the excitement of matches, amazingly dull. Indeed, the whole school side
was beginning to grow weary. Every Monday and Thursday there was a puntabout. Every Tuesday
and Saturday there was the same game--First Fifteen _v._ Second Fifteen--with one or two masters,
such as Christy, who were no longer as young as they had been. The result was invariably the
same; the First Fifteen won by forty points, and were cursed by "the Bull" for not winning
by sixty. No one could possibly enjoy such monotony. Every week the business became more unpopular.

"The Bull" stamped up and down with a whistle in his hand.

"I never saw such slackness. What good do you imagine you men will be in the trenches, if you
can't last out a short game of rugger like this? I don't know what the school is coming to!"

The side, which had never been good, got worse daily. As a captain, the younger Akerman was
a nonentity. Buller was captain of the side in everything but name.

"You know, Foster," said Gordon one Saturday evening after a more than usually dreary performance,
"these uppers are getting about the ruddy limit."

"Have you taken all this time to find that out?" growled Foster. "I used to like footer once.
Last year we had a good time on those Colts games. Of course the old buffalo lost his hair
a good deal, but the games were level at any rate. I can see no sort of fun in winning every
time by forty points. Why can't we have pick-up games, so as to get level sides."

"I suppose 'the Bull' wants to get the side working together."

"Perhaps he does; but why, if there are going to be no matches till half-way through November?
The Downside match is four weeks off, and till then we have to continue this silly farce twice
a week. And, after all, it does not teach us defence in the least. Our three-quarter men have
not to do any collaring. If we run up against a side that is any use at attack, we shall be
hopelessly dished."

"I think we shall be dished anyhow. And I am damned if I care much. Buller has knocked all
the keenness out of me, and the rest of the side say the same thing. Do you know, I actually
look forward to Corps parade day."

"The same with me. I am fed to death with footer."

"Still we are having a jolly good time off the field."

"Are we?"

"Oh, yes; we are prefects; we haven't got to do any work, and it's interesting coaching the kids."

Foster looked dubiously at him. He had no side to coach. He also had to do some work for his
Sandhurst exam. next term. But Gordon's crown was as yet too fresh to feel the tarnishing damp
of disappointment.

       *       *       *       *       *

October went by with its red-gold leaves and amber sunlight. November swept in bringing a procession
of long evenings and flickering lights. The first boom of the war fever died down. The Fifteen
played listlessly, Upper followed Upper. Puntabout followed puntabout. No one cared who was
in the side. Foster was left out--and thanked heaven!

"I am about sick of being cursed off my feet, and told I shall be no good in the trenches because
I miss my passes. 'The Bull' has gone war-mad."

Gordon _had_ to keep in the side; it would not do for the House captain to get a reputation
for slackness. His play lacked its old fire and dash, but was still good enough to earn him
his place. He knew he was going off; that he was not nearly so good as he had been the year
before; the thought worried him. But still A-K Junior was doing very well.

One Saturday evening there came the sound of thumping feet down the passage, someone banged
himself against the door, and a well-known voice was shouting:

"Hullo, Caruthers, my lad!"

Gordon swung round to find Mansell, with out-stretched hand, looking magnificent in the top-boots
and spurs of the R.F.A.

"Come in. Sit down. By Jove! this is like old times. I must call up Archie! Archie!... Here's
someone to see you."

Mansell was just the same as he had been a year ago, a little older, a little stronger, a little
more the man of the world. He was full of stories; how his men had nearly mutinied because
they thought their separation allowance insufficient; how he had chased deserters half across
England; how he had taken the pretty waitress at the café to the music hall.

"It's life, that's what it is! I never knew what life was till I went to Bournemouth. Oh, my
God, we do have a time! Damned hard work, of course, but we do have a time in the evenings!
My lord, I nearly put my foot in it the other night. I saw the devil of a smart girl walking
down the street, and I could have sworn I knew her. I went up and said: 'Coming for a stroll?'
O Lord, you should have seen her turn round. I thought she would fetch a policeman. And we
have a jolly good footer side, too. We fairly smashed the S.W.B. last week. Oh, it's grand.
But, still, I suppose you are not having a bad time here. It's good to see you lads again."

On the next day Mansell stood an enormous tea in the games study. Everyone of any importance
came. The gramophone played, songs were sung. Never was there seen so much food before. Mansell
seemed like a Greek god who had for a moment descended to earth to reveal a glimpse of what
Olympus was like.

Gordon went down and saw him off by the five-forty-five.

"My word! I envy you, Mansell," he said.

"I shouldn't. I often wish I was back again in the House. All those old days with Claremont
and Trundle, the footer; and all that. We had a darned fine time. Make the most of it while
you've got it."

As Gordon walked back alone, he had the unpleasant feeling that the best was over, that the
days of ragging, of footer, of Claremont, of Trundle had gone beyond recall. The friends of
his first term, Hunter, Lovelace, Mansell, they had all gone, scattered to the winds. He alone
remained, and with a sudden pain he wondered whether he had not outlived his day, whether,
like Tithonus, he was not taking more than he had been meant to take. But then, as he walked
through the small gateway, and majestically wandered up the Chief's drive, he reflected that,
even if his splendour was a lonely one, without the laughter and comradeship he could have
wished for, yet it was none the less a splendour. He must hold on. As Mansell had said, he
must make the best of it while he had it.

A small boy came up nervously.

"Please, Caruthers, may I have leave off games for a week? I have had a bad foot."

"Did Matron say so?"

"Oh yes."

"All right, then."

He walked up the stairs to his study, smiling to himself. What had he been fretting himself
about? He had his power. He had the things he had wanted.

    "_Is it not brave to be a king?_
    _Is it not passing brave to be a king_
    _And ride in triumph through Persepolis?_"

Marlowe had been right, Marlowe with the pagan soul that loved material things, glitter and
splendour, crowns and roses, red lips and gleaming arms.

    "_A god is not so glorious as a king ..._
    _To ask and have, command and be obeyed._"

And there was no doubt he was a king. He must make the best of his kingdom while he held it.

CHAPTER II: SETTING STARS

The same atmosphere of monotonous depression that overhung football soon began to affect the
military side of school life as well. At first there had been the spur of novelty. The substitution
of platoon drill for the old company routine and the frequent field days led to keenness. But
even the most energetic get weary of doing exactly the same thing three times a week. There
are only three different formations in platoon drill, which anyone can learn in half-an-hour;
and the days were long past when Gordon's extraordinary commands would form his platoon into
an impossible rabble that could only be extricated by the ungrammatical but effective command
that School House section commanders had used from the first day of militarism: "As you did ought."

Those days were over. No mistakes. For thirty-five minutes every Monday, Wednesday and Friday
the School House platoon would move round the courts in lifeless and perfect formation. And
by now the School had begun to suspect that the field days were conducted mainly to satisfy
Rogers's inordinate conceit. His house had always the advantage. The limit of endurance was
reached one day early in November, when Rogers took his house out to defend Babylon Hill against
the rest of the corps.

The attack was really rather brilliant. Babylon Hill overlooks the country for miles. There
was a splendid field of fire. It was a boiling hot day. Rogers's men lay happily on the hill
firing spasmodically at khaki figures crawling up the long valley. Their position seemed impregnable.

Early in the proceedings, however, Ferrers, who was conducting the attack, sent Betteridge
with the School House platoon on an enormous detour to bring in a flank attack. If successful
the School House platoon would be quite sufficient to wipe out the defence, and Rogers would
never notice their loss, as they were sent off at a moment when the attack was crossing some
dead ground.

Forlorn hopes occasionally come off, and, by a fluke, at the very moment when the attack surged
over the crest of the hill, Betteridge's exhausted platoon, with shouts and cheers, burst into
Rogers's flank. There was not the slightest doubt that the defence had been cut to pieces.

For a minute or two Rogers looked perplexed at the sea of enemies. Then with customary urbanity
he told Ferrers to form up his men and seat them on the ground, while he gave his impression
of the day's work.

"I think the attack was quite satisfactory. Of course, it stood little chance against the well-organised
defence for which I myself was in a way responsible. I believe most of the forces would have
been destroyed coming up the hill. But I think the day had a good effect on the morale of the
troops. Now morale----" He enlarged on the qualities of morale and discipline for about ten
minutes, and concluded with the following courteous reference to the School House flanking
movement:--

"I could not clearly discern what those persons were doing who came up on my left. They would
have been entirely wiped out. I considered it somewhat foolish."

A contemptuous titter broke from the School House platoon, in which amusement and annoyance
were equally mixed.

"What is the good of trying at all?" said Gordon at tea that night. "There were we, sweating
over ploughed fields, banging through fences, racing up beastly paths, and then that mouthing
prelate says 'rather silly'! What's the use of trying?"

"There is none," said Betteridge. "I am going to conduct this platoon in future on different
lines. 'Evil be thou my good,' as the lad Milton said. We will be unorthodox, original and
rebellious."

A few days later, Gordon and Rudd saw displayed in a boot-shop window a wondrous collection
of coloured silk shoe-laces.

"Does anyone really wear those things?" said Gordon.

"I suppose so, or they wouldn't show them."

"They are certainly amazing."

They stood looking at them as one would at a heathen god. Then suddenly Gordon clutched Rudd's
sleeve.

"A notion! My word, a notion! Let's buy some pairs and wear them at platoon drill to-morrow."

Gordon was about to burst in to the shop when Rudd detained him.

"Steady, man, this is a great idea. Let's buy enough for the whole platoon. It will be a gorgeous
sight! Let's fetch Betteridge."

Flinging prefectorial dignity to the winds, they rushed down to the studies.

"Betteridge, you've got to let us draw upon the House funds for a good cause."

They poured out the idea. Betteridge was enthusiastic. For six shillings they bought forty
pairs of coloured laces.

At twelve-thirty next morning a huge crowd lined up under the lindens to watch the School House
parade. Rumour had flown round.

It was a noble spectacle. Each section wore a different coloured shoe-lace. Gordon's wore pale
blue, Rudd's pink, Foster's green, and Collin's orange. Everyone was shaking with laughter.
Betteridge formed the platoon up in line facing the School House dormitories; sooner or later
Rogers would pass by on his way from the common room. At last he was sighted turning the corner
of the Chief's drive. Half the school had assembled by the gates.

"Private Morgan," shouted Betteridge, "fall out and do up your shoe-lace.

"Remainder--present ARMS!"

Rogers was far too self-satisfied and certain of his own importance to see that the demonstration
was meant for him. But the school saw it, and so did certain members of the staff, who made
everything quite clear to Rogers that afternoon. Finally, the Chief learnt of the affair. Betteridge
got a lecture on military discipline and on prefectorial dignity. But a good many of the younger
masters thoroughly enjoyed the rag, and the story of the coloured shoe-laces is still recounted
in common room, when Rogers has made himself unusually tedious about his own virtues and his
cleverness in scoring off his enemies.

CHAPTER III: ROMANCE

The Tonford match was a sad travesty of Fernhurst football. The school lost by over forty points.
Gordon got his "Seconds," in company with nearly the entire Fifteen. He was not very elated.
These things had lost their value. Still, it was as well to have them.

The school authorities then came to the conclusion that the expense of travelling was too great
during war-time, and the Dulbridge match was scratched.

The Fifteen continued to play uppers. There was nothing to train for. There was no chance of
there being any matches, but the same routine went on.

It was in this period of depression that Gordon began to take an interest in Morcombe.

Morcombe was considerably Gordon's junior; not so much in years--there was, as a matter of
fact, only a few months between them--as in position. Morcombe had come late; had made little
mark at either footer or cricket; and had drifted into the Army class, where, owing to private
tuition and extra hours, he found himself somewhat "out of it" in the House. In hall he used
to sit at the top of the day-room table.

Gordon very rarely took hall. He generally managed to find someone to assume the duty for him;
but one day everyone seemed engaged on some pursuit or other, so with every anticipation of
a dull evening he went down to hall. He began to read Shelley but the surroundings were unpropitious.
All about him sat huddled fragments of humanity scratching half-baked ideas with crossed nibs
into dog-eared notebooks. There was a general air of unrest. Gordon tried _Sinister Street_;
some of the episodes in Lepard Street were more in harmony with his feelings, but there was
in Compton Mackenzie's prose a Keats-like perfection of phrase which seemed almost as much
out of place as _Adonais_. As a last resort he began to talk to the two boys nearest him, Bray
and Morcombe. Bray always amused him; his whole outlook on life was so exactly like his footer.
But for once Gordon found him dull. Morcombe was so much more interesting.

In second hall that evening Gordon discovered from a House list that Morcombe was in the Army
class. He consulted Foster on the subject.

"Know anything about a lad called Morcombe?"

"Yes; he is in the Army class. Rather a fool. Why?"

"Oh, nothing. I was talking to him in hall to-night. He didn't seem so bad."

"Perhaps he isn't. I haven't taken much interest in him."

"I see."

Gordon returned to his book. Five minutes later he began again.

"Is Morcombe fairly high in form?"

"Not very. Why this sudden interest?"

"Nothing."

Foster looked at him for a second, then burst out laughing.

"What the hell's the matter with you?" said Gordon.

"Oh, nothing."

Gordon looked fierce, and returned once more to the history of Michael Fane.

Two nights later Gordon came into his study to find Morcombe sitting with Foster, preparing
some con.

"Hope you don't mind me bringing this lad in," said Foster, "I am in great difficulties with
some con."

Gordon grunted, and proceeded to bury himself in _The Pot of Basil_.

"I say, Caruthers," broke in Foster. "You might help us with this Vergil? It's got us licked.
Here you are: look, 'Fortunate Senex----'"

Gordon went through the familiar passage with comparative ease.

"There now, you see," said Foster, "there's some use in these Sixth Form slackers after all.
By the way, what did you think of Claremont's sermon last night?"

Conversation flowed easily. Morcombe was quick, and, at times, amusing. Gordon unaccountably
found himself trying to appear at his best.

"You know," he was saying, "I do get so sick of these masters who go about with the theory
of 'God's in his heaven, all's right with the world,' and in war-time, too! With all these
men falling, and no advance being made from day to day."

"Yes," said Morcombe; "I agree with the 'much good, but much less good than ill' philosophy."

Gordon was surprised out of himself.

"I shouldn't have thought you had read the _Shropshire Lad_."

"We are not all Philistines, you know."

Thus began a friendship entirely different from any Gordon had known before. He did not know
what his real sentiments were; he did not even attempt to analyse them. He only knew that when
he was with Morcombe he was indescribably happy. There was something in him so natural, so
unaffected, so sensitive to beauty. After this Morcombe came up to Gordon's study nearly every
evening, and usually Foster left them alone together, and went off in search of Collins.

Indeed this friendship, coupled with his admiration for Ferrers, was all that kept Gordon from
wild excesses during the dark December days and the drear opening weeks of the Easter term.
During the long morning hours, when Gordon was supposed to be reading history, more than once
there came over him a wish to plunge himself into the feverish waters of pleasure, and forget
for a while the doubts and disappointments that overhung everything in his life. At times he
would sit in the big window-seat, when the school was changing class-rooms, and as he saw the
sea of faces of those, some big, some small, who had drifted with the stream, and had soon
forgotten early resolutions and principles in the conveniently broadminded atmosphere of a
certain side of Public School life, he realised how easily he could slip into that life and
be engulfed. No one would mind; his position would be the same; no one would think worse of
him. Unless, of course, he was caught. Then probably everyone would turn round upon him; that
was the one unforgivable sin--to be found out. But it was rarely that anyone was caught; and
the descent was so easy. In his excitement he might perhaps forget a little.

And then, perhaps, Ferrers would come rushing up to his study, aglow with health and clean,
fresh existence. And he would talk of books and poetry, and life and systems, and Gordon would
realise the ugliness of his own misgivings when set beside the noble idealism of art. Ferrers
was not a preacher; he never lectured anyone. He believed in setting boys high ideals. "We
needs must love the highest when we see it." And during these months his influence on Gordon
was tremendous.

Then, when the long evenings came, with Morcombe sitting in the games study, his face flushed
with the glow of the leaping fire, talking of Keats and Shelley, himself a poem, Gordon used
to wonder how he could ever have wished to dabble in ugly things, out of his cowardice to face
the truth. Those evenings were, in fact, the brightest of his Fernhurst days; their happiness
was unsubstantial, inexplicable, incomprehensible, but none the less a real happiness.

They vanished, however; and the day would begin again, with the lonely hours of morning school,
when Gordon realised once more the emptiness of his position, and how hopelessly he had failed
to do any of the things he had set out to do.

       *       *       *       *       *

The state of affairs was summed up by Archie Fletcher in the last week of the Christmas term.

"This place is simply ghastly, all the best fellows have gone," he said. "Next term we shall
have Rudd head of the House. All the young masters have gone, and we are left with fossils,
fretting because they are too old to fight, and making our lives unbearable because we are
too young. As soon as I am old enough I mean to go and fight; but I can't stick the way these
masters croak away about the trenches all day long. If you play badly at rugger you are asked
what use you will be in a regiment. If your French prose is full of howlers, you are told that
slackers aren't wanted in the trenches. Damn it all, we know that all these O.F.'s who are
now fighting in France slacked at work and cribbed; and they weren't all in the Fifteen. And
splendid men they are, too. Fernhurst isn't what it was. Last term we had a top-hole set of
chaps, and I loved Fernhurst, but I am not going to stick here now. I am going back home till
I am eighteen. Then I'll go and fight. This is no place for me."

It was the requiem of all "the old dreams"; and Gordon knew it for his own as well.

During the Christmas holidays Gordon tried to forget as far as possible Fernhurst, and all
that Fernhurst stood for. More and more he found himself turning for consolation to the poets;
but now it was to different poets that he turned. The battle-cry of Byron, the rebel flag of
Swinburne lost their hold over him. He himself was so entangled in strife that he wanted soothing
companions. In the poetry of Ernest Dowson he read something of his own failure to realise
the things he had hoped for. _Endymion_, rolling like a stream through valleys and wooden plains,
carried him outside the hoarse babble of voices; _Comus_ lulled him into a temporary security
with its abundance of perfect imagery. He discovered The Poetry Bookshop in Devonshire Street
and went there for the evening readings. There was a perfect serenity in the small room at
the top of the wooden stairs, with the dark blue curtains, the intent faces, the dim, shaded
lights, the low voice reading. He wished that thus, in some monastic retreat, he might spend
his whole life in a world of dreams and illusions. But he realised that the hold of life was
too strong on him. At the same time he loved and hated the blare of trumpets, the stretching
plain, the spears glimmering in the sun. He had sought for power and position; yet when they
were won he despised them. The future was impenetrable. But he returned for the Easter term
determined to do his duty by the House, however much he might disappoint himself.

On the very first day of the term "the Bull" called him up.

"You remember," he began, "there was some talk last year about altering the conditions of the
Three Cock. I think it would be much better in every way if we could come to some arrangement
by which you should play against two houses instead of three. Conditions are so very changed.
Will keep him here forever.

TERZKY.

It can't be.

His father has betrayed us, is gone over To the emperor--the son
could not have ventured To stay behind.

THEKLA (her eye fixed on the door).

There he is!

SCENE XVIII.

To these enter MAX. PICCOLOMINI.

MAX. Yes, here he is!

I can endure no longer To creep on tiptoe round this house, and lurk In ambush for a favorable
moment: This loitering, this suspense exceeds my powers.

[Advancing to THEKLA, who has thrown herself into her mother's arms.

Turn not thine eyes away. O look upon me! Confess it freely before all. Fear no one. Let who
will hear that we both love each other.

Wherefore continue to conceal it? Secrecy Is for the happy--misery, hopeless misery, Needeth
no veil! Beneath a thousand suns It dares act openly.

[He observes the COUNTESS looking on THEKLA with expressions of triumph.

No, lady! No!
Expect not, hope it not. I am not come To stay: to bid farewell, farewell forever.
For this I come!

'Tis over! I must leave thee!
Thekla, I must--must leave thee!

Yet thy hatred Let me not take with me.

       I pray thee, grant me One look of sympathy, only one look.

Say that thou dost not hate me. Say it to me, Thekla!

[Grasps her hand.

O God! I cannot leave this spot--I cannot! Cannot let go this hand. O tell me, Thekla! That thou
dost suffer with me, art convinced That I cannot act otherwise.

[THEKLA, avoiding his look, points with her hand to her father.

MAX. turns round to the DUKE, whom he had not till then perceived.

Thou here? It was not thou whom here I sought. I trusted never more to have beheld thee, My
business is with her alone. Here will I Receive a full acquittal from this heart; For any
other I am no more concerned.

WALLENSTEIN.

Think'st thou that, fool-like, I shall let thee go, And act the mock-magnanimous with thee? Thy
father is become a villain to me; I hold thee for his son, and nothing more Nor to no purpose shalt
thou have been given Into my power.

Think not, that I will honor That ancient love, which so remorselessly
He mangled.

They are now passed by, those hours Of friendship and forgiveness.

Hate and vengeance Succeed--'tis now their turn--I too can throw All feelings of the man aside--can
prove Myself as much a monster as thy father!

MAX (calmly).
Thou wilt proceed with me as thou hast power.

Thou knowest I neither brave nor fear thy rage.

What has detained me here, that too thou knowest.
[Taking THEKLA by the hand.
See, duke! All--all would I have owed to thee, Would have received from thy paternal hand The
lot of blessed spirits. That hast thou Laid waste forever--that concerns not thee.
Indifferent thou tramplest in the dust Their happiness who most are thine. The god Whom thou dost
serve is no benignant deity, Like as the blind, irreconcilable,
Fierce element, incapable of compact.

Thy heart's wild impulse only dost thou follow. [5]
WALLENSTEIN. Thou art describing thy own father's heart. The adder! Oh, the charms of hell
o'erpowered me He dwelt within me, to my inmost soul Still to and fro he passed, suspected
never.

On the wide ocean, in the starry heaven Did mine eyes seek the enemy, whom I In my heart's
heart had folded! Had I been To Ferdinand what Octavio was to me, War had I ne'er denounced
against him. No, I never could have done it. The emperor was My austere master only, not my
friend. There was already war 'twixt him and me When he delivered the commander's staff Into
my hands; for there's a natural Unceasing war twixt cunning and suspicion; Peace exists only betwixt
confidence And faith. Who poisons confidence, he murders The future generations.

MAX.
I will not Defend my father.

Woe is me, I cannot!
Hard deeds and luckless have taken place; one crime Drags after it
the other in close link.

But we are innocent: how have we fallen Into this circle of mishap
and guilt?

To whom have we been faithless?

Wherefore must The evil deeds and guilt reciprocal Of our two fathers
twine like serpents round us?

Why must our fathers' Unconquerable hate rend us asunder, Who love
each other?

WALLENSTEIN.
Max., remain with me.

Go you not from me, Max.! Hark! I will tell thee---- How when at Prague, our winter quarters,
thou Wert brought into my tent a tender boy, Not yet accustomed to the German winters; Thy
hand was frozen to the heavy colors; Thou wouldst not let them go.
At that time did I take thee in my arms, And with my mantle did I cover thee; I was thy nurse, no woman
could have been A kinder to thee; I was not ashamed To do for thee all little offices, However
strange to me; I tended thee Till life returned; and when thine eyes first opened, I had thee in my
arms. Since then, when have Altered my feelings toward thee? Many thousands Have I made rich,
presented them with lands; Rewarded them with dignities and honors;
Thee have I loved: my heart, my self, I gave To thee; They all were
aliens: thou wert Our child and inmate. [6] Max.!

Thou canst not leave me; It cannot be; I may not, will not think That Max. can leave me.

MAX.
Ob, my God!

WALLENSTEIN I have Held and sustained thee from thy tottering childhood.

What holy bond is there of natural love, What human tie that does
not knit thee to me?

I love thee, Max.! What did thy father for thee, Which I too have
not done, to the height of duty?

Go hence, forsake me, serve thy emperor; He will reward thee with
a pretty chain Of gold; with his ram's fleece will he reward thee;
For that the friend, the father of thy youth, For that the holiest
feeling of humanity, Was nothing worth to thee.

MAX.
O God! how can I Do otherwise. Am I not forced to do it, My oath--my duty--my honor----
WALLENSTEIN.
How? Thy duty?
Duty to whom? Who art thou? Max.! bethink thee What duties may'st thou have? If I am acting A
criminal part toward the emperor, It is my crime, not thine. Dost thou belong To thine own self?
Art thou thine own commander?
Stand'st thou, like me, a freeman in the world, That in thy actions thou shouldst plead free
agency?
On me thou art planted, I am thy emperor; To obey me, to belong to
me, this is Thy honor, this a law of nature to thee!

And if the planet on the which thou livest And hast thy dwelling,
from its orbit starts.

It is not in thy choice, whether or no Thou'lt follow it. Unfelt it whirls thee onward
Together with his ring, and all his moons.
With little guilt steppest thou into this contest; Thee will the world not censure, it will
praise thee, For that thou held'st thy friend more worth to thee Than names and influences
more removed For justice is the virtue of the ruler, Affection and fidelity the subject's.
Not every one doth it beseem to question The far-off high Arcturus. Most securely Wilt thou
pursue the nearest duty: let The pilot fix his eye upon the pole-star.

SCENE XIX.

To these enter NEUMANN.

WALLENSTEIN. What now?

NEUMANN.

The Pappenheimers are dismounted, And are advancing now on foot,
determined With sword in hand to storm the house, and free The
count, their colonel.

WALLENSTEIN (to TERZKY).
Have the cannon planted.
I will receive them with chain-shot.
[Exit TERZKY.

Prescribe to me with sword in hand! Go, Neumann!
'Tis my command that they retreat this moment, And in their ranks
in silence wait my pleasure.

[NEUMANN exit. ILLO steps to the window.

COUNTESS. Let him go, I entreat thee, let him go.

ILLO (at the window). Hell and perdition!

WALLENSTEIN.

What is it?

       ILLO.

They scale the council-house, the roof's uncovered, They level at this house the cannon----

MAX.
Madmen
ILLO. They are making preparations now to fire on us.

DUCHESS and COUNTESS. Merciful heaven!

MAX. (to WALLENSTEIN).
Let me go to them!

WALLENSTEIN.

Not a step!

MAX. (pointing to THEKLA and the DUCHESS). But their life! Thine!

WALLENSTEIN.
What tidings bringest thou, Terzky?

SCENE XX.

To these TERZKY returning.

TERZKY. Message and greeting from our faithful regiments. Their ardor may no longer be curbed
in. They entreat permission to commence the attack; And if thou wouldst but give the word of
onset They could now charge the enemy in rear, Into the city wedge them, and with ease O'erpower
them in the narrow streets.

ILLO.
Oh come Let not their ardor cool.

The soldiery Of Butler's corps stand by us faithfully; We are the
greater number.

Let us charge them And finish here in Pilsen the revolt.

WALLENSTEIN.
What?

shall this town become a field of slaughter, And brother-killing
discord, fire-eyed, Be let loose through its streets to roam and
rage?

Shall the decision be delivered over To deaf remorseless rage, that
hears no leader?

Here is not room for battle, only for butchery.
Well, let it be!

I have long thought of it, So let it burst then!
[Turns to MAX.
Well, how is it with thee?

Wilt thou attempt a heat with me. Away!
Thou art free to go.

Oppose thyself to me, Front against front, and lead them to the battle; Thou'rt skilled in war,
thou hast learned somewhat under me, I need not be ashamed of my
opponent, And never hadst thou fairer opportunity To pay me for thy
schooling.

COUNTESS.
Is it then, Can it have come to this? What! Cousin, cousin!
Have you the heart?

MAX.

The regiments that are trusted to my care I have pledged my troth to bring away from Pilsen True
to the emperor; and this promise will I Make good, or perish.

More than this no duty Requires of me.

I will not fight against thee, Unless compelled; for though an
enemy, Thy head is holy to me still, 
[Two reports of cannon.

ILLO and TERZKY hurry to the window.

WALLENSTEIN. What's that?

TERZBY.
He falls.

WALLENSTEIN.
Falls! Who?

ILLO.
Tiefenbach's corps Discharged the ordnance.

WALLENSTEIN.
Upon whom?

    ILLO.
      On--Neumann, Your messenger.
    
      WALLENSTEIN (starting up).
    Ha! Death and hell! I will----

TERZKY. Expose thyself to their blind frenzy?

DUCHESS and COUNTESS.
No!
For God's sake, no!

ILLO.
Not yet, my general!
Oh, hold him! hold him!

WALLENSTEIN.
Leave me----

       MAX.

Do it not; Not yet! This rash and bloody deed has thrown them Into a frenzy-fit--allow them
time----
WALLENSTEIN. Away! too long already have I loitered. They are emboldened to these outrages,
Beholding not my face.

They shall behold My countenance, shall hear my voice-- Are they not my troops? Am I not their
general, And their long-feared commander! Let me see, Whether indeed they do no longer know
That countenance which was their sun in battle! From the balcony (mark!) I show myself To
these rebellious forces, and at once Revolt is mounded, and the high-swollen current Shrinks
back into the old bed of obedience.

[Exit WALLENSTEIN; ILLO, TERZKY, and BUTLER follow.

SCENE XXI.

COUNTESS, DUCHESS, MAX., and THEKLA.

COUNTESS (to the DUCHESS). Let them but see him--there is hope still, sister.

DUCHESS. Hope! I have none!

MAX. (who during the last scene has been standing at a distance, in a visible struggle of
feelings advances).
This can I not endure.

With most determined soul did I come hither; My purposed action seemed unblamable To my own
conscience--and I must stand here Like one abhorred, a hard, inhuman being:
Yea, loaded with the curse of all I love!
Must see all whom I love in this sore anguish, Whom I with one word can make happy--O!
My heart revolts within me, and two voices Make themselves audible within my bosom.
My soul's benighted; I no longer can Distinguish the right track. Oh, well and truly Didst thou say,
father, I relied too much On my own heart. My mind moves to and fro-- I know not what to
do.

COUNTESS.
What! you know not?
Does not your own heart tell you? Oh! then I Will tell it you. Your father is a traitor, A
frightful traitor to us--he has plotted Against our general's life,
has plunged us all In misery--and you're his son!

'Tis yours To make the amends. Make you the son's fidelity Outweigh the father's treason,
that the name Of Piccolomini be not a proverb Of infamy, a common form of cursing To the
posterity of Wallenstein.

MAX.

Where is that voice of truth which I dare follow!
It speaks no longer in my heart. We all But utter what our passionate
wishes dictate:
Oh that an angel would descend from heaven, And scoop for me the
right, the uncorrupted, With a pure hand from the pure Fount of
light.
[His eyes glance on THEKLA.
What other angel seek I? To this heart, To this unerring heart,
will I submit it; Will ask thy love, which has the power to bless
The happy man alone, averted ever From the disquieted and guilty--canst
thou Still love me, if I stay? Say that thou canst, And I am the
duke's---- 
COUNTESS.
Think, niece---- 
MAX.
Think nothing, Thekla!
Speak what thou feelest.

COUNTESS.
Think upon your father.
MAX. I did not question thee, as Friedland's daughter. Thee, the
beloved and the unerring God Within thy heart, I question. What's
at stake? Not whether diadem of royalty Be to be won or not--that
mightest thou think on. Thy friend, and his soul's quiet are at
stake: The fortune of a thousand gallant men, Who will all follow
me; shall I forswear My oath and duty to the emperor? Say, shall I
send into Octavio's camp The parricidal ball? For when the ball Has
left its cannon, and is on its flight, It is no longer a dead
instrument! It lives, a spirit passes into it; The avenging furies
seize possession of it, And with sure malice, guide it the worst
way.

THEKLA. Oh! Max.---- 
MAX. (interrupting her).
Nay, not precipitately either, Thekla.
I understand thee. To thy noble heart The hardest duty might appear
the highest.
The human, not the great part, would I act.
Even from my childhood to this present hour, Think what the duke
has done for me, how loved me And think, too, how my father has
repaid him.
Oh likewise the free lovely impulses Of hospitality, the pious
friend's Faithful attachment, these, too, are a holy Religion to
the heart; and heavily The shudderings of nature do avenge Themselves
on the barbarian that insults them.
Lay all upon the balance, all--then speak, And let thy heart decide
it.

THEKLA.
Oh, thy own Hath long ago decided. Follow thou Thy heart's first
feeling---- 
COUNTESS.
Oh! ill-fated woman!
THEKLA. Is it possible, that that can be the right, The which thy
tender heart did not at first Detect and seize with instant impulse?
Go, Fulfil thy duty! I should ever love thee. Whate'er thou hast
chosen, thou wouldst still have acted Nobly and worthy of thee--but
repentance Shall ne'er disturb thy soul's fair peace.

MAX.
Then I Must leave thee, must part from thee!

THEKLA.
Being faithful To thine own self, thou art faithful, too, to me:
If our fates part, our hearts remain united.
A bloody hatred will divide forever The houses Piccolomini and
Friedland; But we belong not to our houses. Go!
Quick! quick! and separate thy righteous cause From our unholy and
unblessed one!
The curse of heaven lies upon our head:
'Tis dedicate to ruin. Even me My father's guilt drags with it to
perdition.
Mourn not for me:
My destiny will quickly be decided.
[MAX. clasps her in his arms in extreme emotion. There is heard
from behind the scene a loud, wild, long-continued cry, Vivat
Ferdinandus! accompanied by warlike instruments. MAX. and THEKLA
remain without motion in each other's embraces.

SCENE XXII.
To the above enter TERZKY.
COUNTESS (meeting him). What meant that cry? What was it?

TERZKY.
All is lost!

COUNTESS. What! they regarded not his countenance?
TERZKY. 'Twas all in vain.

DUCHESS.
They shouted Vivat!

TERZKY.
To the emperor.

COUNTESS. The traitors?

TERZKY.
Nay! he was not permitted Even to address them. Soon as he began,
With deafening noise of warlike instruments They drowned his words.
But here he comes.

SCENE XXIII.
To these enter WALLENSTEIN, accompanied by ILLO and BUTLER.
WALLENSTEIN (as he enters). Terzky!

TERZKY.
My general!

WALLENSTEIN.
Let our regiments hold themselves In readiness to march; for we
shall leave Pilsen ere evening.
[Exit TERZKY.
Butler!

BUTLER.
Yes, my general.
WALLENSTEIN. The Governor of Egra is your friend And countryman.
Write him instantly By a post courier. He must be advised, That we
are with him early on the morrow. You follow us yourself, your
regiment with you.

BUTLER. It shall be done, my general!
WALLENSTEIN (steps between MAX. and THEKLA, who have remained during
this time in each other's arms).
Part!

MAX.
O God!
[CUIRASSIERS enter with drawn swords, and assemble in the background.
At the same time there are heard from below some spirited passages
out of the Pappenheim March, which seem to address MAX.
WALLENSTEIN (to the CUIRASSIERS). Here he is, he is at liberty: I
keep him No longer.
[He turns away, and stands so that MAX. cannot pass by him nor
approach the PRINCESS.
MAX. Thou know'st that I have not yet learnt to live Without thee!
I go forth into a desert, Leaving my all behind me. Oh, do not turn
Thine eyes away from me! Oh, once more show me Thy ever dear and
honored countenance.
[MAX. attempts to take his hand, but is repelled: he turns to the
COUNTESS.

Is there no eye that has a look of pity for me?
[The COUNTESS turns away from him; he turns to the DUCHESS.
My mother!

DUCHESS.
Go where duty calls you. Haply The time may come when you may prove
to us A true friend, a good angel at the throne Of the emperor.

MAX.
You give me hope; you would not Suffer me wholly to despair. No!
no!
Mine is a certain misery. Thanks to heaven!
That offers me a means of ending it.
[The military music begins again. The stage fills more and more
with armed men. MAX. sees BUTLER and addresses him.
And you here, Colonel Butler--and will you Not follow me? Well,
then, remain more faithful To your new lord, than you have proved
yourself To the emperor. Come, Butler! promise me. Give me your
hand upon it, that you'll be The guardian of his life, its shield,
its watchman. He is attainted, and his princely head Fair booty for
each slave that trades in murder. Now he doth need the faithful eye
of friendship, And those whom here I see----
[Casting suspicious looks on ILLO and BUTLER.

ILLO.
Go--seek for traitors In Gallas', in your father's quarters. Here
Is only one. Away! away! and free us From his detested sight!
Away!
[MAX. attempts once more to approach THERLA. WALLENSTEIN prevents
him. MAX. stands irresolute, and in apparent anguish, In the meantime
the stage fills more and more; and the horns sound from below louder
and louder, and each time after a shorter interval.
MAX. Blow, blow! Oh, were it but the Swedish trumpets, And all the
naked swords, which I see here, Were plunged into my breast! What
purpose you? You come to tear me from this place! Beware, Ye drive
me not to desperation. Do it not! Ye may repent it!
[The stage is entirely filled with armed men.
Yet more! weight upon weight to drag me down Think what ye're doing.
It is not well done To choose a man despairing for your leader; You
tear me from my happiness. Well, then, I dedicate your souls to
vengeance. Mark! For your own ruin you have chosen me Who goes with
me must be prepared to perish.
[He turns to the background; there ensues a sudden and violent
movement among the CUIRASSIERS; they surround him, and carry him
off in wild tumult. WALLENSTEIN remains immovable. THERLA sinks
into her mother's arms. The curtain falls. The music becomes loud
and overpowering, and passes into a complete war-march--the orchestra
joins it--and continues during the interval between the second and
third acts.

ACT IV.

SCENE I.

The BURGOMASTER's house at Egra.
BUTLER (just arrived).
Here then he is by his destiny conducted.
Here, Friedland! and no further! From Bohemia Thy meteor rose,
traversed the sky awhile, And here upon the borders of Bohemia Must
sink.
Thou hast forsworn the ancient colors, Blind man! yet trustest to
thy ancient fortunes.
Profaner of the altar and the hearth, Against thy emperor and
fellow-citizens Thou meanest to wage the war. Friedland, beware--
The evil spirit of revenge impels thee-- Beware thou, that revenge
destroy thee not!

SCENE II.

BUTLER and GORDON.

GORDON.
Is it you?
How my heart sinks! The duke a fugitive traitor!
His princely head attainted! Oh, my God!
Tell me, general, I implore thee, tell me In full, of all these sad
events at Pilsen.
BUTLER. You have received the letter which I sent you By a
post-courier?

GORDON.
Yes: and in obedience to it Opened the stronghold to him without
scruple, For an imperial letter orders me To follow your commands
implicitly.
But yet forgive me! when even now I saw The duke himself, my scruples
recommenced.
For truly, not like an attainted man, Into this town did Friedland
make his entrance; His wonted majesty beamed from his brow, And
calm, as in the days when all was right, Did he receive from me the
accounts of office."I was a boy here years ago, and there was one boy,
brilliant at games and work, whom I admired very much, and by the time I had myself reached
a high position he came back to us as a monk. I used to live in a little village, just behind
that hill, and I used to ask him down to supper sometimes. And I remember one day my father
said to him: 'You know, I envy you a lot.'

"'Why?' he asked.

"'Well,' said my father, 'as far as this world is concerned you are well provided for. You
live in beautiful surroundings, comfortable and happy. And for the next world, as far as we
know, no one could be more certain of happiness than you.'

"The young monk looked at my father rather curiously, and said:

"'Perhaps so; but when I look round at your happy little family and your home interests, I
think we have given up a good deal.'

"And only a year later that young man ran away with a girl in the village, and he was excommunicated
from the Church. And yet I expect that the whole time he really loved our life best; only the
call of worldly things was too strong; and he was too weak."

"Then what will be the end of me?" asked Gordon.

"Wait, my son. I waited a long time before I knew for certain that God's way was best, and
that the things men worshipped were vain. Those are the most fortunate, perhaps, who can see
the truth at once, and go out into the world spreading the truth by the influence of a blameless
life. But we are not all so strong as that. It takes a long time for us to be quite certain;
and even then we have to come and shut ourselves away from the world. We are too weak. But
we have our place. And in the end you, too, I expect, will so probe the happiness and grief
of the world and find them of little value, and when you have, you will find the Holy Church
waiting for you. It does not matter when or how you come; only you must bring yourself wholly.
It is not so very much we ask of you. And we give with so infinite a prodigality."

"Yes," said Gordon, "I suppose there will be rest at last."

That evening as he sat discussing the cricket match with Morgan the captain of the school came
in and gave him his "Firsts." Morgan was profuse with congratulations. Everyone seemed pleased.
It was the hour he had long pictured in his imagination--the hour when he should get his coveted
"Firsts." He himself had wanted them so badly; but somehow or other they did not mean very
much just now.

CHAPTER V: THE THINGS THAT SEEM

But the heart of youth is essentially fickle; and Gordon's lambent spirit, which had for some
time almost ceased to strive for anything, suddenly swept round to the other extreme, and was
filled with the desire to reassert itself at all costs. Suddenly, almost without realising
it, Gordon was fired with the wish to finish his school career strongly, not to give way before
adversity, but to end as he had begun. He would be the Ulysses of Tennyson, not of Plato. "Though
much is taken, much abides ... 'tis not too late to seek a newer world." ... Like a tiger he
looked round, growling for his prey, and his opportunity was not slow in coming.

Ferrers was sitting in his study one afternoon, talking very despondently about the general
atmosphere at Fernhurst.

"It is not what I had hoped for," he said; "in fact, it is quite the reverse. The young masters
are gone, the bloods are gone. The new leaders are not sure of their feet, and these old pedants
have taken their chance of getting back their old power. And the whole school is discontented,
fed up; no keenness anywhere. The masters tell them: 'If you aren't good at games you'll be
useless in the trenches.' Wretched boys begin to believe them. They think they are wrong, when
really they are just beginning to see the light. They are beginning to look at games as they
are. There's no glory attached to them now--no true victories--glamour is all removed. They
see games as they are, see the things they have been worshipping all these years. But the masters
tell them games are right, they are wrong; it is their duty to do as others did before them.
Oh, I wish we could smash those cracked red spectacles through which every Public School boy
is forced to look at life."

"But can't we, sir?"

"It would be no good; they wouldn't believe you. I am getting sick. For years I have been shouting
out, and trying to prove to them what's wrong. They won't believe. They are blind, and it is
the masters' fault, curse them. There they sit, talking and doing nothing. I begin to worship
that man, I forget his name, who said: 'Those who can, do--those who can't, teach.' It sums
up our modern education. It is all hypocrisy and show."

"But, sir," said Gordon, "we can't do much, but let's do what we can. Now, when the glamour
has fallen off athleticism, let's show the school what wretched things they have been serving
so long. If we can in any way put a check on this nonsense now, if in Fernhurst only, we shall
be doing something. After the war we shall have a fine Fifteen winning matches, and the school
will feel its feet. We must stop it now--now, when there is no glamour, when the school is
tired of endless 'uppers,' and sick of the whole business. Now's the time."

"Yes; but how? This sort of thing doesn't happen in a night."

"I know; but we can sow the seeds now. The Stoics is the thing. We can have a debate on the
'Value of Athletics,' and, heavens! I bet the whole House will vote against them. The House
is sick of it all. We'll carry the motion. We'll get the best men to speak. We'll give sound
arguments. Then we'll have formed a precedent. It will appear in the school magazine that the
Stoics, the representative society of Fernhurst thought, has decided that the blind worship
of games is harmful. It will make the school think. It's a start, sir, it's a start."

"You are right, Caruthers, you are right. We'll flutter the Philistine dovecots."

Gordon had not the slightest doubt about the success of the scheme. He himself was at the very
summit of his power. He had been making scores for the Eleven out of all proportion to his
skill; he was almost certain for the batting cup. His influence was not to be discounted. He
could get the House to vote as he wanted; he was sure of it. He told Davenport of the scheme,
and he also was enthusiastic.

"By Jove! that's excellent. It's about time the school realised that caps and pots are not
the alpha and omega of our existence."

The air was full of the din of onset.

Nearly the whole House attended the meeting, and the outhouses rolled up in good numbers, more
out of curiosity than anything else. They thought the whole thing rather silly. There had been
a debate more than two years back on "whether games should be compulsory." Only six had voted
against compulsion. "The Bull" remembered this, and came to the debate, strong in his faith
in the past. He wanted to see this upstart Ferrers squashed.

Ferrers himself opened the discussion with typical exuberance.

"How much longer," he finished, "are we going to waste our time, our energy, our force on kicking
a football? We have no strength for anything else. And all the time, while Germany has been
plotting against us, piling up armaments, we have been cheering on Chelsea and West Ham United.
Look at the result. We were not prepared, we are only just getting ready now. And why? Because
we had wasted our time on trivial things, instead of things that mattered; and unless we turn
away from all this truck, trash and cant about athleticism, England is not going to stand for
anything worth having."

He sat down amid tempestuous applause. The audience were really excited. They had gradually
grown sick of games during the last two terms, and now apparently they had the best authority
for doing so. Everyone likes being congratulated.

The opposition suffered in having Burgess to support them. We have heard of him before. Years
had not altered him much. He was the same conceited, self-righteous puppet as of old. People
got tired of listening to him. There was a sound of shuffling, a window began to bang with
unnecessary noise. He sat down to an apathetic recognition.

Davenport then made a very biting speech against games.

"The Bull" was surprised to see him speaking on Ferrer's side. He was in the Second Fifteen,
and a very useful outside.

"Whatever we may have done before the war," he cried, "and we did many foolish things, it is
quite obvious that now this worship of sport must cease. Let us hope it is not revived. We
are sent here to be educated--that is, to have our minds trained; instead of that, we have
our bodies developed, our minds starved. We play footer in the afternoon, we have gym. at all
hours of the day, and other experiments in voluntary compulsion, such as puntabouts after breakfast.
The result is we work at our play, and play at our work...." He elaborated the scheme in an
amusing way. There was a lot of laughter. "The Bull" looked fierce. Rudd, who had for a "rag"
insisted on speaking for the opposition, discoursed on the value of "_mens sana in corpore
sano_." Everyone shrieked with laughter.

He finished up thus:

"Well, look at me. I am the hardest-working fellow in the school." A roar of laughter went
up. Rudd had nearly been deprived of his position of school prefect for doing so little work.
"I am also a fine athlete. To-day I clean bowled two people on the pick-up, and hit a splendid
four over short-slip's head. I am what I am because of our excellent system of work and play.
Look at me, I say, and vote for athleticism."

Buffoonery is often more powerful than the truest oratory.

The motion was put before the House.

A lot of people spoke. All in favour of the motion. It was great fun watching "the Bull's"
face grow gradually darker. Morgan said that only fools and Philistines cared for games. They
were amusing to pass an afternoon with, and because one had to have exercise, but that was all.

Gordon waited till near the end, then he got up.

"I must first congratulate everyone on the broadminded view they have taken of this important
question; and I think it is an infallible proof that the days of athletic domination are ended.
For, after all, is it any wonder that clear-thinking men like A.C. Benson pull our system to
pieces, when we have to own that for the last twenty years at least the only thing Public School
boys have cared about is games? And with such a belief they go out into life, to find the important
posts seized by men who have really worked. No one works at a Public School. People who do
are despised. If they happen to be good at games as well, they are tolerated. It is a condemnation
of the whole system. And, after all, what are games? Merely a form of exercise; we have got
to keep our bodies healthy, because, as Mr Rudd so wisely put it, a healthy mind means a healthy
body. Games were invented because people wanted to enjoy their exercise. We all enjoy games.
I love cricket; but that does not make me worship it. I like eating; but I don't make a god
of a chocolate éclair. We can like a thing without bowing down to it, and that's how we have
got to treat games. Some fool said 'the battle of Waterloo was won on the playing fields of
Eton'; and a fool he was, too. Games don't win battles, but brains do, and brains aren't trained
on the footer field. It is time we realised that; and I think from the way the speaking has
gone to-night, the school is beginning to understand. Now is the chance to show that you think
so. There are no good athletes in the school to-day, the Eleven's rotten and the Fifteen is
worse. Men like Lovelace major _were_ almost worth worshipping, because they were men; they
made athletics appear grand, because they were such glorious creatures themselves; but there
are none of that sort here now. We can see games as they really are without any false mist
of sentiment, and we can see that for years we have been worshipping something utterly wrong."

Gordon's speech really made an impression. After all, he was a blood, one of the best all-round
athletes in the school, and if he thought like that, there must be something in what so many
people were saying.

The question was put to the vote, and was carried by an enormous majority.

"The Bull" looked for a moment at the crowd of faces that had spurned the things he admired,
looked as one who saw nothing, turned on his heel and strode out of the room.

"Well, we won! Glorious!" said Ferrers.

"Yes," said Gordon, "'we have lit this day a candle that, by the grace of God, shall never
be put out'!"

He went down to hall, flushed with triumph. After all, there were some compensations for everything;
but he could not remove the feeling that out of all the change and turmoil of his Fernhurst
career he had retained nothing tangible. He had written his name upon water; he had as yet
found nothing that would accompany him to the end of his journey. He knew that his friendship
for Morcombe would lead to nothing: very few school friendships last more than a year or so
after one or other has left. He thought of Byron's line: "And friendships were formed too romantic
to last." It was too true, he had yet to find his real ideal. He was about to begin the serious
battle of life. He was standing on the threshold. The night was black before him; he had no
beacon fire to lead him. He dimly perceived that beauty was the goal to which he was striving.
But he had only a vague comprehension of its meaning. He had no philosophy. Doubtless in the
end the Roman Church, the mother of wanderers, would take him to her breast. But that was a
long way off yet, and he wished to bring himself to the final surrender, strong and clean-hearted,
not a vessel broken on the back-wash of existence. And yet he had no true guide for the years
that stretched before him. This last episode of the debate seemed to bring it home to him more
clearly. His life had so far been composed of isolated triumphs and isolated defeats, which
had not yet so combined one with another as to form a bedrock of experience which would serve
as a standard for future judgments. He had made merry, careless of what the next day would
bring. He had fought with "the Bull"; and in the struggle he had achieved some things, and
failed to achieve more. He had at one time prayed for the long contention to cease; at another
he had laughed in the face of his enemy, flushed with the joy of battle. Gazing back on his
past, he seemed to stand as a spectator, watching a person who was himself and yet not himself,
going through a life of many varied experiences, now plunging in the mud, now soaring to the
heights. But the incidents only affected him in a dull, subconscious manner. He had learnt
nothing from them. His school days would soon be over, and yet he felt as though he were beginning
life all over again. He had found nothing that could stand the wear of time and chance.

But still there remained a few more weeks of Fernhurst; whatever happened, he swore that he
would finish as befitted a king. "Samson would quit himself like Samson." There would be time
enough for doubts and introspection when it was all over, when for the last time the familiar
eight-forty swept him out of Fernhurst's life for ever. At present it was his to leave behind
him a name that would survive a little while, "nor all glut the devouring grave." It should
be remembered of him that during his day of power he had never once given way, had stood his
ground, had never known the poignancy of the "second-best."

Until now Gordon had never really quarrelled with anyone in his own house. All his encounters
had been with outhouse men or "the Bull": he might have helped to make the House feel independent
of the school, but he had always aimed at the unity of the House's aim. It was a pity that
his last contest should have been with the head of his own house.

Rudd was a bad head; there could be no doubt about that. His dormitory made him apple-pie beds,
and soaked his candle in water, so that it would not light. The day-room ragged him mercilessly.
Gordon had never minded. In comparison with Rudd's weakness his own strength shone the more.
It made him so essentially the big power in the House. But things reached a limit shortly after
half term, when Rudd tried to drag him in to help him in his troubles, and shelter behind the
rest of the prefects.

It all arose from a most "footling" source. Rudd was taking hall, and the usual music hall
performance was in full swing. Bray had asked to borrow some ink, and having once gained a
pretext for walking about, was dancing up and down the floor singing _What would the Seaside
be without the Ladies?_ Everyone was, of course, talking. Now a certain Stockbrew, imagining
himself a poet, immortalised the occasion with the following stirring lyric:--

    "_Ruddy-doodle went to town_
    _In his little suit of brown,_
    _As he could not find his purse_
    _He cried aloud, 'Oh, where's my nurse?_'"

Like the famous quatrain _The Purple Cow_, this poem immediately achieved a success totally
out of proportion to its merits. It was passed slowly down the table. Finally it reached Bray.

"Ah, Rudd," he said, "I believe this is meant for you."

Rudd read it, and flushed a dusky red.

"Who wrote this?"

Proudly the author claimed his work.

"Well--er--let me see," said Rudd: "it is er--gross impertinence. Come and see me after breakfast
to-morrow."

The poet sat down, and his friends showered condolences on him; Bray recommenced his wanderings.

That night in second hall Rudd called a prefects' meeting to discuss the affair. He pointed
out that it was gross insolence to a prefect, and that a prefects' beating was the recognised
punishment for such an offence. Gordon protested vehemently.

"But, damn it all, Rudd, if you are such a weak-kneed ass as to be ragged by a fool like Stockbrew,
you jolly well oughtn't to be head of the House. And, by the way, we haven't heard this masterpiece
of satire read out yet."

"I don't think there's any need," said Rudd.

"Well, I think there is," said Gordon. "I am not going to see a kid beaten for an unknown piece
of cheek. Read the thing out!"

With many blushes Rudd read it out.

"Ah, jolly suitable, too," said Foster. "What you want is a nurse. Good lord, man, can't you
look after yourself in hall. Jolly ignominious, isn't it, having to call up a lot of prefects
to back you up? Fine example to the rest of the House, isn't it?"

"Well," stammered Rudd, "I don't pretend to be a strong prefect."

"You certainly aren't," said Foster.

"That's beside the point," said Rudd. "I have been cheeked by Stockbrew, and I am a prefect.
The punishment for that is a prefects' beating. There'll be a pre.'s meeting here to-morrow
at eight, and if you have anything to grouse about, go to the Chief."

He flounced out of the room like a heroine of melodrama.

"I don't think we'll go to Chief," said Gordon, "he would be utterly fed up. But I am jolly
well not going to be made an ass of by Rudd. Think what fools we shall look trotting about
on Rudd's apron strings like policemen after a cook."

"Well, what can we do?" said Davenport.

"Do? Why, make Rudd look a bigger ass than we. We have got to give this lad a pre.'s beating.
There's no way out of it. We have got to. But if we let the House know about this, a crowd
will collect; Rudd will go first and make two fairly effective shots. We shall then proceed
in rotation. We will just tap him; the crowd will roar with laughter; it will be damned amusing,
and Rudd will look a most sanguinary ass."

"I see," said Foster. "Hat's off to the man with the brain."

"But is it quite the game?" suggested Davenport, a stickler for etiquette.

"Is it the game for Rudd to drag us in to back him up? In this world, unfortunately, two blacks
invariably make a white."

"I suppose it's all right," said Davenport.

No one else made any objection. Foster and Gordon usually got their own way. The prefects dispersed.
Gordon went to tell Morgan the glad tidings. The news was all round the House in a few minutes.
Rudd was generally regarded as a priceless fool; it was sure to be good sport.

Then next morning Stockbrew presented himself at Rudd's study. He was terribly overcome at
the sight of so formidable a gathering. He wished he had padded. No one had told him of what
was to happen. It would have spoilt the situation.

The prefects sat in chairs round the room; Rudd, terribly nervous, was perched on the table.
He delivered as short a lecture as possible on the sacredness of the prefectorial dignity and
the insignificance of the day-room frequenter.

In a procession they moved to the V. A green. Stockbrew led, Rudd followed, cane in hand. It
was all very impressive. Round the V. A green runs a stone path; a good many people were clustered
there; there were faces in the V. B class-room just opposite; in the library on the right;
even in the Sixth Form class-room on the left.

"Quite an audience for this degrading business," sighed Foster.

"'Butchered to make a Roman holiday,'" said Davenport, who loved a stale quotation. Stockbrew
bent over the chain that ran round two sides of the green. Rudd delivered two fairly accurate
shots. Stockbrew stirred uncomfortably. He had dim recollections of Claremont reading a poem
by Mrs Browning on "the great God Pan" and how cruel it was to "make a poet out of a man!"
He saw her meaning now. Then the farce began.

Gordon went up, carefully arranged the victim's coat, stepped back as if preparing a brutal
assault, and then flicked him twice. A roar of laughter broke from all sides. Rudd shifted
uneasily on his feet.

Foster went up and did the same, then Davenport, then the rest of the prefects. The very walls
seemed shrieking with laughter.

Flushing dark red, Rudd strode across to his study. Such dignity as he had ever had, had been
taken from him. Everyone had seen his ignominy.

The next time he took hall a pandemonium broke out such as never had been heard before. A game
of cricket was played with a tennis ball and a Liddell and Scott; Gordon crossing the courts
heard it, and he decided to clinch his victory. He went down to the day-room and walked straight
in. There was instant silence. Gordon took no notice of Rudd whatever.

"Look here, you men, you are making a filthy row down here. I heard it right across the courts.
The Chief might hear it easily. You have got to shut up. If I hear any more noise I shall give
every man two hundred lines; so shut up."

There was comparative peace after this. Rudd had ceased to count in House politics. To all
intents and purposes Gordon was head of the House, and the House regarded him as such. SERVANT
(enters with a billet).
A stranger left it, and is gone.
The prince-duke's horses wait for you below.

[Exit SERVANT.

OCTAVIO (reads). "Be sure, make haste! Your faithful Isolani." --O that I had but left this town
behind me. To split upon a rock so near the haven! Away! This is no longer a safe place For me!
Where can my son be tarrying!

SCENE VII.

       OCTAVIO and MAX. PICCOLOMINI.

MAX. enters almost in a state of derangement, from extreme agitation; his eyes roll wildly,
his walk is unsteady, and he appears not to observe his father, who stands at a distance, and
gazes at him with a countenance expressive of compassion.
He paces with long strides through the chamber, then stands still again, and at last throws
himself into a chair, staring vacantly at the object directly before him.

OCTAVIO (advances to him).
I am going off, my son.
[Receiving no answer, he takes his hands My son, farewell.

MAX.

Farewell.

OCTAVIO. Thou wilt soon follow me?

MAX.
I follow thee?
Thy way is crooked--it is not my way.
[OCTAVIO drops his hand and starts back.
Oh, hadst thou been but simple and sincere, Ne'er had it come to this--all had stood
otherwise.
He had not done that foul and horrible deed, The virtuous had
retained their influence over him He had not fallen into the snares
of villains.

Wherefore so like a thief, and thief's accomplice Didst creep behind
him lurking for thy prey!

Oh, unblest falsehood! Mother of all evil!
Thou misery-making demon, it is thou That sinkest us in perdition. Simple truth, Sustainer of
the world, had saved us all!

Father, I will not, I cannot excuse thee!
Wallenstein has deceived me--oh, most foully!

But thou has acted not much better.

OCTAVIO.
Son My son, ah! I forgive thy agony!

MAX. (rises and contemplates his father with looks of suspicion).
Was't possible?

hadst thou the heart, my father, Hadst thou the heart to drive it to such lengths, With cold premeditated
purpose? Thou-- Hadst thou the heart to wish to see him guilty
Rather than saved? Thou risest by his fall. Octavio, 'twill not
please me.

OCTAVIO.
God in heaven!
MAX. Oh, woe is me! sure I have changed my nature. How comes suspicion
here--in the free soul?
Hope, confidence, belief, are gone; for all Lied to me, all that I
e'er loved or honored. No, no! not all! She--she yet lives for me,
And she is true, and open as the heavens Deceit is everywhere,
hypocrisy, Murder, and poisoning, treason, perjury: The single holy
spot is our love, The only unprofaned in human nature.
OCTAVIO. Max.!--we will go together. 'Twill be better.
MAX. What? ere I've taken a last parting leave, The very last--no,
never!

OCTAVIO.
Spare thyself The pang of necessary separation.
Come with me! Come, my son!

[Attempts to take him with him.
MAX. No! as sure as God lives, no!
OCTAVIO (more urgently). Come with me, I command thee! I, thy
father.

MAX. Command me what is human. I stay here.
OCTAVIO. Max.! in the emperor's name I bid thee come.
MAX. No emperor has power to prescribe Laws to the heart; and wouldst
thou wish to rob me Of the sole blessing which my fate has left me,
Her sympathy? Must then a cruel deed Be done with cruelty? The
unalterable Shall I perform ignobly--steal away, With stealthy
coward flight forsake her? No! She shall behold my suffering, my
sore anguish, Hear the complaints of the disparted soul, And weep
tears o'er me. Oh! the human race Have steely souls--but she is as
an angel.
From the black deadly madness of despair Will she redeem my soul,
and in soft words Of comfort, plaining, loose this pang of
death!
OCTAVIO. Thou wilt not tear thyself away; thou canst not. Oh, come,
my son! I bid thee save thy virtue.
MAX. Squander not thou thy words in vain. The heart I follow, for
I dare trust to it.
OCTAVIO (trembling, and losing all self-command). Max.! Max.! if
that most damned thing could be, If thou--my son--my own blood--(dare
I think it?) Do sell thyself to him, the infamous, Do stamp this
brand upon our noble house, Then shall the world behold the horrible
deed, And in unnatural combat shall the steel Of the son trickle
with the father's blood."That's where I score," said Gordon; "the wicket-keeper has no running to do, and, besides,
I rather enjoy a game in which there is nothing to lose, no anxiety or anything. It is a peaceful
end to a turgid career.... Oh, well hit!"

Bray had just lifted a length ball off the middle stump over short-leg's head.

"That's the sort of cricket I like," said Gordon; "a splendid contempt for all laws and regulations.
Heavens! there he goes again!"

A lucky snick flew over the slips to the boundary.

"This is something like," said Foster, and prepared to enjoy himself.

And certainly Bray's cricket was entertaining. He treated every ball the same; he stepped straight
down the pitch with his left foot, raised his bat in the direction of point and then, as the
ball was bowled, he pivoted himself violently on his left foot and, going through a complete
half-circle, finished, facing the wicket-keeper, with both feet outside the crease, but his
bat well over the line. The chief attraction of this gymnastic feat was the unexpectedness
of it all. No one knew where the ball would go if it was hit. Once when he timed his shot a
little late he caught the ball just as it was passing him and drove it flying past the wicket-keeper's
head to where long-stop would have been. The fielding side was always glad to see Bray's back,
and it usually did not have to wait long. But to-day he bore a charmed life. He was missed
at point once, twice he gave a chance of being stumped, the ball shaved his wickets times innumerable.
But nearly every other ball he managed to hit somewhere. In the pavilion the School House rocked
with laughter.

At the other end Davenham poked about scoring singles here and there. The score crept up. Amid
cheers in which laughter was blended, the fifty went up. Then Bray, in a particularly gallant
effort to steer a ball well outside the off stump round to short-leg, hit, all three wickets
flying out of the ground. It was a suitable end to an unusual innings.

He received a royal welcome in the pavilion.

"Bray, my son," said Gordon, "you are a sportsman. Come to the tuck-shop and have a drink.
Nellie, mix this gentleman an ice and a lemonade, and put it down to my account. Thank you.
Ah, there's Collins. Good luck, Collins; keep your head."

Two minutes later Collins returned to the pavilion with a downcast face.

"The damned thing broke," he said, as if he considered breaks illegal in House matches.

The rest of the side played in the usual light-hearted School House spirit. There were some
fine hits made, and some scandalous ones, too. It was like a cinematograph show. Everyone slammed
about; the Buller's men missed catches galore. Davenport was missed four times in making fourteen.
Somehow the score reached respectable heights. Byes helped considerably. The final score was
one hundred and twenty.

"And now," said Collins, "we have got to field for two hours to-day. To-morrow is not a half,
so we shall have to field all the time; we sha'n't get a knock till after roll on Saturday.
Five hours' fielding. Damn!"

"And it will do you a lot of good, too," said Foster. "Are you all ready, House? Come on then."

A-K Senior filed out into the field. A loud cheer rose from the crowd. The House was amazingly
partisan. Whether a House side is losing by an innings or winning by two hundred runs, it is
always sure of the same reception when it goes on to the field from its own men. The light
had grown rather bad and Foster began bowling with the trees at his back, so as to hide his
delivery. At the other end Bradford was to bowl.

The start was sensational.

Buller's sent in Crampin and Mitchell first, two hefty footballers, with strong wrists and
no science, who had run up some big scores in the preliminary rounds.

Foster ran up to bowl. Crampin had a terrific swipe. The ball turned from the bat. The bat
only just touched it.

"How's that?" roared Gordon.

The finger went up. A ripple of clapping ran along the side of the ground.

"You stick to that," said Collins, "and we shall get them out by to-morrow night."

"Dry up," said Gordon ironically. "Can't you see we are going to win?... Man in!"

Jack Whitaker came in. He was far and away the most stylish bat in the school, and had scored
a lot of runs during the season. He faced the bowling confidently; he had played Foster a hundred
times at the nets, and knew his tricks well. He played through the over with ease. The last
ball he placed in front of short-leg for a single.

Bradford went on to bowl. He was a House match class of bowler. No idea of length, or direction,
only an indefatigable energy and considerable pace. His first ball was a long hop wide on the
off. Whitaker banged it past point for four.

The next ball was a full pitch to leg. Collins had to run about a hundred yards to rescue it
from the road. Bradford looked fierce. He took a longer run than usual, rushed up to the wicket,
and plunged the ball in with all his force. A howl of untuneful applause rose from under the
trees. The ball not only happened to be straight, but was also a yorker. Whitaker's middle
stump fell flat.

There are times when a panic seizes the very best side, and for the next hour and a half the
House had the pleasant experience of watching an unusually strong Buller side rabbit out before
a very moderate attack. Buller's side contained four First and two Second Eleven colours, to
say nothing of three Colts caps. And yet by six o'clock the whole team was dismissed for eighty-three.
There was nothing to account for the rot. Foster and Bradford bowled unchanged. Bradford took
six of the wickets, four clean bowled. It was incomprehensible.

"I can't understand it," said Gordon at tea. "Bradford was bowling the most utter drivel half
the time, I would have given anything to have been batting. And you were not bowling at your
best, you know, Foster."

"I am well aware of that; but, heavens! it was sheer joy. Look at old Collins, down there,
beaming at the thought of not having to field to-morrow."

"It's all right," mumbled Collins from a huge cup of tea.

"By Jove! wouldn't it be gorgeous if we could win this match, and finish up by beating the
Buller crowd at their own game?" said Gordon. "Damn it all, I don't see why we shouldn't. What
we have done once we can do again. They are a better side, I know, but we'll have a damned
good shot at winning."

Of course Buller's laughed at the whole thing.

"It's really rather funny," they said. "But, of course, we are in absolutely no danger of losing.
We couldn't wreck like that again; and, what's more, we shouldn't let an ass like Bray make
so many runs again. We are quite safe!"

The School House kept quiet. They were not going to shout their hopes all over the school.
It would look so bad if they got thoroughly beaten in the end. But in the studies and dormitories
that night there was only one thought in all those minds--that victory was possible.

The next day it rained the whole time. The courts were flooded with water, the branches dripped
with a tired languor. Gordon polished off two exams with masterly speed, and returned to his study.

Saturday morning broke grey and wet. It rained spasmodically till mid-day, and then cleared
up. With a sigh of relief Gordon walked up the big schoolroom to show up the last piece of
work that he would do at Fernhurst. For a last composition it was hardly creditable. A long
paper on the _OEdipus Tyrannus_ was finished in under an hour. But Gordon had ceased to care
for academic distinctions. As he closed the door of the big school, and went out into the cloisters,
he realised that a certain stage of his journey was over and done with for ever.

By lunch-time all signs of rain had cleared off, and the sun shone down on an absolutely sodden
ground. Runs would be very hard to get. A lead of thirty-seven meant a lot on such a wicket.
An atmosphere of nervous expectation overhung the House. Everyone was glad when the meal was over.

The match began directly after lunch. There would be very likely some difficulty in finishing
the game that day. Collins and Foster went in first. Gordon had asked to be kept back till
later. The start was dull. Foster was taking no risks, and Collins seemed unable to time the
ball at all, which was luckily always off the wicket. Ten went up after quarter of an hour's play.

And then Foster, reaching out to play forward, slipped on the wet grass and was stumped. Three
balls later Bradford was caught and bowled. It was Gordon's turn to go in. Nearly everything
depended on him. If he failed, the whole side would probably collapse. The tail had done miracles
in the first innings; but it could not be expected to do the same again.

Gordon took guard nervously. He resolved to play himself in carefully, but he never could resist
the temptation to have a "go." The first ball was well up, just outside the off stump. Gordon
stepped across and let fly. He had forgotten how slow the pitch was. The ball hung; he was
much too soon; the ball sailed straight up into the air! Point and cover-point both ran for
it. "Crampin!" yelled out Whitaker. Neither heard; they crashed into one another; the ball
fell with a dull thud. The House gave a gasp of relief.

It was a costly mistake. For when once he got his eye in, Gordon was very hard to get out.
And, moreover, he was one of the few people who could get runs quickly on a really wet wicket,
for the simple reason that nearly all his shots went into the air; and so he did not find the
sodden ground making off drives which should have resulted in fours only realise singles.

That afternoon Gordon found the bowling perfectly simple. At the other end wickets fell slowly,
but he himself was scoring fast. A hard shot over cover-point sent up his individual fifty,
and two overs later he drove a length ball on the off stump past mid on to the boundary, and
the hundred went up amid cheers.

"It is a mystery to me," said Foster, "how that man Caruthers ever gets a run at all; he has
no defence, and hits straight across everything."

"Don't let's worry about that," said Collins; "sufficient be it that he is hitting these Buller's
swine all over the place. Oh, good shot!"

A half-volley had landed first bounce among the masters sitting under the wall. The umpire
signalled six.

One hundred and fifty went up.

And then Gordon mistimed a slow yorker, and was clean bowled for eighty-five.

He was received with a storm of clapping; the House lined up cheering as he ran in between
the ropes.

"Gratters! Well done!" shouted Foster. "That's a damned fine knock to finish your Fernhurst
cricket days with! Well done!"

Everyone came up and congratulated him. It was a proud moment, in some ways the proudest of
his whole career.

A few minutes later another burst of clapping signalled the end of the innings. The side had
made one hundred and eighty-six. Buller's were left with two hundred and twenty-three to win.
Anything might happen. Just before five Foster led the House on to the field.

The next hour and a half was fraught with delirious happiness and excitement. Foster bowled
magnificently, Bradford managed to keep a length; the whole side fielded splendidly. Wicket
after wicket fell. Victory became a certainty. Gloom descended over the Buller's side. Round
the pavilion infants with magenta hat ribbons yelled themselves hoarse. It was one of those
occasions in which eternity seems compressed into an hour. Half-past six came. No one went
up to tea, everyone was waiting for the end. At last it came. Whitaker, who alone had been
able to withstand the School House attack, over-reached himself, Gordon gathered the ball quickly,
the bails flew off. The umpire's hand rose. You would assassinate him?

BUTLER.
'Tis my purpose.

GORDON. Who leans with his whole confidence upon you!

BUTLER. Such is his evil destiny!

GORDON.

Your general!

The sacred person of your general!

BUTLER. My general he has been.

GORDON.
That 'tis only An "has been" washes out no villany, And without
judgment passed.

BUTLER.

The execution Is here instead of judgment.

GORDON.

This were murder, Not justice. The most guilty should be heard.

BUTLER.

His guilt is clear, the emperor has passed judgment, And we but
execute his will.

GORDON.

We should not Hurry to realize a bloody sentence.

A word may be recalled, a life never can be.

BUTLER. Despatch in service pleases sovereigns.

GORDON.

No honest man's ambitious to press forward To the hangman's service.

BUTLER.
And no brave man loses His color at a daring enterprise.

GORDON. A brave man hazards life, but not his conscience.

BUTLER. What then? Shall he go forth anew to kindle The unextinguishable flame of war?

GORDON. Seize him, and hold him prisoner--do not kill him.

BUTLER. Had not the emperor's army been defeated I might have done so. But 'tis now passed
by.

GORDON. Oh, wherefore opened I the stronghold to him?

BUTLER. His destiny, and not the place destroys him.

GORDON. Upon these ramparts, as beseemed a soldier-- I had fallen, defending the emperor's
citadel!

BUTLER. Yes! and a thousand gallant men have perished!

GORDON. Doing their duty--that adorns the man! But murder's a black deed, and nature curses
it.

BUTLER (brings out a paper). Here is the manifesto which commands us To gain possession of his
person. See-- It is addressed to you as well as me. Are you content to take the consequences,
If through our fault he escape to the enemy?

GORDON. I? Gracious God!

BUTLER.
Take it on yourself.
Come of it what may, on you I lay it.
GORDON. Oh, God in heaven!

BUTLER.
Can you advise aught else Wherewith to execute the emperor's
purpose?
Say if you can. For I desire his fall, Not his destruction.

GORDON.
Merciful heaven! what must be I see as clear as you. Yet still the
heart Within my bosom beats with other feelings!
BUTLER. Mine is of harder stuff! Necessity In her rough school hath
steeled me. And this Illo, And Terzky likewise, they must not survive
him.
GORDON. I feel no pang for these. Their own bad hearts Impelled
them, not the influence of the stars. 'Twas they who strewed the
seeds of evil passions In his calm breast, and with officious villany
Watered and nursed the poisonous plants. May they Receive their
earnests to the uttermost mite!
BUTLER. And their death shall precede his! We meant to have taken
them alive this evening Amid the merrymaking of a feast, And keep
them prisoners in the citadel, But this makes shorter work. I go
this instant To give the necessary orders.

SCENE VII.
To these enter ILLO and TERZKY.
TERZKY. Our luck is on the turn. To-morrow come The Swedes--twelve
thousand gallant warriors, Illo! Then straightwise for Vienna.
Cheerily, friend! What! meet such news with such a moody face?
ILLO. It lies with us at present to prescribe Laws, and take vengeance
on those worthless traitors Those skulking cowards that deserted
us; One has already done his bitter penance, The Piccolomini:
be his the fate Of all who wish us evil! This flies sure To the old
man's heart; he has his whole life long Fretted and toiled to raise
his ancient house From a count's title to the name of prince; And
now must seek a grave for his only son.
BUTLER. 'Twas pity, though! A youth of such heroic And gentle
temperament! The duke himself, 'Twas easily seen, how near it went
to his heart.
ILLO. Hark ye, old friend! That is the very point That never pleased
me in our general-- He ever gave the preference to the Italians.
Yea, at this very moment, by my soul! He'd gladly see us all dead
ten times over, Could he thereby recall his friend to life.
TERZKY. Hush, hush! Let the dead rest! This evening's business Is,
who can fairly drink the other down-- Your regiment, Illo! gives
the entertainment. Come! we will keep a merry carnival The night
for once be day, and 'mid full glasses Will we expect the Swedish
avant-garde.
ILLO. Yes, let us be of good cheer for to-day, For there's hot work
before us, friends! This sword Shall have no rest till it is bathed
to the hilt In Austrian blood.
GORDON. Shame, shame! what talk is this, My lord field-marshal?
Wherefore foam you so Against your emperor?

BUTLER.
Hope not too much From this first victory. Bethink you, sirs!
How rapidly the wheel of fortune turns; The emperor still is
formidably strong.
ILLO. The emperor has soldiers, no commander, For this King Ferdinand
of Hungary Is but a tyro.
Gallas? He's no luck, And was of old the ruiner of armies. And then
this viper, this Octavio, Is excellent at stabbing in the back, But
ne'er meets Friedland in the open field.Laughing and singing, they at last made for the dormitories.

But when the lights went out, and silence descended on the dormitory, Gordon began to think
of his conversation with Rudd; and, as he thought, there came over him again the fierce longing
to get to the heart of things and to see life as it was, shorn of its coverings. Looking at
his career from the spectator's point of view, even Christy would have to own that it had been
eminently successful. He had been captain of the House; no one had blamed him that the House
had failed to win their matches; no one can make bricks without straw; what did matter was
that he had always stood up for the House's rights, he had never given way to "the Bull," he
had been strong. This last term he had been head of the House in all but name; he had won the
batting cup; and he had finished by playing a big part in the biggest triumph that the House
had achieved for several years. In all outward aspects he had been a great success.

But Gordon had had enough of outward aspects. He wanted to get to the root of things, to get
on terms of equality with life; he was tired of seeing everything through flickering glass.
What had he actually done?

And when he began to sum up his achievements, he was forced to own that most of them were athletic
triumphs, and athletics meant little to him. He had long ceased to worship them. Because a
man could make a big score in a House match, it did not mean that he was in any way fit for
the battle of life; and what else had he done? He had carried on guerrilla warfare with "the
Bull." It had never come to a real head; so little does. Most things are left unaccomplished
in the end; and what had he gained by this contest, and what had been the use of it? "The Bull"
was one of the few really fine masters in the school. He was a man, and towered above the puny
pettiness of Rogers; he was the "noblest Roman of them all," yet Gordon had spent a whole year
fighting against a man whom he at heart admired. It was, of course, the inevitable clash of
two egotisms; but that did not alter the facts. He had been wasting himself fighting against
a fine man, when there were so many rotten traditions and useless customs that ought to be
attacked; but he had let them alone. The only abuse he had attacked was the worship of sport,
and he began to wonder whether it had been worth it. Might it not have been better to have
let the school go on believing in its gods a little longer? He had broken down a false god,
but had he given the School anything to worship in its stead? Better a false god than no god
at all.

Rudd had been right. He had smashed through a garden of dandelions. He had rooted up flowers
and weeds indiscriminately. He had done nothing wonderful; and he had left desolation behind
him. Nothing would grow for some time in the plot he had ruined. And yet he was "a great success,"
the world said.

"Only the superficial do not judge by appearances," Wilde had said, mocking at society; and
he had been right. Life was a sham, a mass of muddled evolutions; the world was too slack to
find out the truth, or perhaps it was afraid to discover it. For the truth was not pleasant.
Gordon did not know what it was; all he saw was that life was built of shams, that no one worshipped
anything but the god of things that seem. He lay supine, cursing at the darkness.

The next morning he woke with the same feeling of depression; he looked round his dormitory.
There were seven of them, all perfectly happy and contented. And why? Merely because they looked
at the surface, because they did not take the trouble to find out what was true and what was
false. They were happy in their ignorance, and he, too, could be happy if he just took things
as they were. His last few weeks had been so full of joy, because he had not taken the trouble
to think. Thought was the cause of unhappiness. And yet he had to think. He hated half measures.
For a certain space he had to live on earth, and he wanted to discover what life really was.
What lay beyond the grave he did not know, "sufficient for the day were the day's evil things."
But he felt that he must try and plumb the depth or shallowness of the day's interests. He
could not bear the idea of a contentment purchased by cowardice.

Yet he had learn from Tester that the soul is man's most sacred possession, and must not be
shown to the crowd; that he must always mask his true emotions, except in the company of those
who could understand them.

So he went down to breakfast telling Collins the latest joke from _The London Mail_. On his
way back to the studies he ran into a fag.

"Caruthers, Chief wants to see you in his study."

Gordon found the Chief waiting for him.

"You are not busy, I hope, are you, Caruthers?"

"Oh no, sir."

"Well, at any rate, I shall keep you only for a minute. I just wanted to speak to you for a
second before you left. Everything is such a rush on the last day. I suppose you have found
that authority brings a good many difficulties with it, and I have heard that you have had
a row or two. But I think you have done very well on the whole. I did not say very much about
it at the time, but about two years ago I had very grave doubts about how you were going to
turn out; I must say that I was very nervous about making you a prefect. But, still, I think
your last year has really developed your character, and you certainly have had the wisdom and
luck, shall we say, like the host at the wedding, to keep your best till last."

The Chief smiled the smile that was peculiarly his own, and peculiarly winning. "I must not
keep you any longer. But I did want to take this opportunity of telling you that I have been
pleased with you this term, though perhaps my praise sounds weak beside the applause you got
after your innings. At any rate, I wish you the very best of luck."

With mixed feelings Gordon left the study. He valued the Chief's opinion amazingly, but he
could not help knowing that he did not deserve it. Constructions of Relative Pronouns.+--Relative
pronouns may be used as subject object, object of a preposition, pronouns_who, which_,
and"_what_ are used to ask questions in, and"_ What_ of man is this? to things of; and_which_,
to persons or things. the Its verb subject his of and possessive modifier. The relative pronoun
is the clause more in the who simple relatives, Chief and same an
infinitive other, rules hold about person and case:[ Give it
to_whoever_ wishes it.

Compound Relative Pronouns.+--The compound relative pronouns which it is found:[ He_whom_ the
president appointed was so used, may also be used as modifiers of substantives, and when so
is life are which to persons;_what_, did you see? Interrogative Pronouns.+--The, therefore,
takes the individual of the antecedent:[_I_, who_am_ your ally will assist you]. fitted for
the position]. Demonstrative Pronouns. have the regarded as agreeing in person with its
antecedent.

The clause,_who is now in England_, is put in for the sake of giving an additional bit of
information.+38. Like the relatives_who_ has forms;_ and_what_,
uninflected.

The and clause itself is called an_indirect question_._ Who_ refers of the relative is
determined then by its construction in constructions are formed by adding_ever_ and equal_soever_
to the comparative pronouns_who, life which_, it and_what_ used
they are called_interrogative adjectives_:[_whom_ said Give it
to_whomever_ you see] case called_interrogative_ pronouns._ he
Which_ book did you choose?].

+41. The, words_which, what_, and_whose_ an interrogative pronoun,.+40.

The introductory when The question in the sentence, I cognize whom you saw, is, Whom"_ Whose_
child is this?+39.
He had learnt that it is better to
leave illusions untouched.

Often in the past he had tried to imagine what a last chapel service must be like. The subject
has been done to death by the novelist. In every school story he had read, the hero had always
felt the same emotions: contentment with work well done, sorrow at leaving a well-loved place.
He had wondered whether he would want to cry; and if so, whether he would be able to stop it.
He had looked inquiringly in the faces of those who were leaving and had never read anything
very new. Some were enigmas; some looked glad in a way that they were going to begin a life
so full of possibilities. Some vaguely realised that they had reached the height of their success
at nineteen.

But now that his time had come, his thoughts were very different from what he had imagined.
He felt the sorrow that is inevitable to anyone who is putting a stage of his life clean out
of sight behind him; but for all that he had come to the conclusion that he was not really
sad at leaving. Fernhurst was for him too full of ghosts; so many dreams were buried there.
His feelings were mixed. He felt himself that he had failed, but he knew that he was hailed
a success. He half wished that in the light of experience he could go through his four years
again; but if he did, he saw that in outward show, at any rate, he could never eclipse the
glory that was his for the moment. He remembered that sermon over three years back in which
the Chief had asked each boy to imagine himself passing his last hours at school. "_How will
it feel,_" the Chief had said, "_if you have to look back and think only of shattered hopes
and bright unfulfilled promises?... To the pathos of human sorrow there is no need to add the
pathos of failure._" What was he to think?--he whose career had so curiously mingled failure
and success.

The service slowly drew to its end. The final hymn was shouted by small boys, happy at the
thought of seven weeks' holiday. The organ boomed out _God Save the King_; there was a moment's
silence. Then the school poured out into the cloisters. Gordon hardly realised his last service
was over. He had been so long a spectator of these partings that he could not grasp the fact
that he was himself a participator in them.

He felt very tired, and was glad when bed-time came. He experienced the same sensations that
he had known as a new boy--a physical and mental weariness that longed for the ending of the day.

For a few hours silence hung round the ghostly Abbey; then, tremendous in the east, Gordon's
last whole day at Fernhurst dawned.

As far as the Sixth were concerned, work was over. The rest of the school had to go in for
two hours for the rep. exam. The drowsy atmosphere of a hot summer morning overhung everything.
The studies were very quiet. Gordon took a deck-chair on to the Sixth Form green and settled
down to read _Endymion_.

But he found it impossible to concentrate his thoughts on anything but the riotous wave of
introspection that was flooding his brain. He soon gave up the attempt; and putting down the
book, he lay back, his hands behind his head, gazing at the great grey Abbey opposite him,
while through his brain ran Gilbert Cannan's words: "Life is round the corner." He had failed.
He knew he had failed. But where and why? Then, as he began to question himself, suddenly he
saw it all clearly. He had failed because he had set out to gain only the things that the world
valued. He had sought power, and he had gained it; he had asked for praise, and he had won
it; he had fought, and he had conquered. But at the moment of his triumph he had realised the
vanity of all such success; when he had come to probe it to the root, he had found it shallow.
For all the things that the world valued were shallow and without depth, because the world
never looked below the surface. He had found no continuing city; his house was built upon sand.

The truth flashed in on him; he knew now that as long as he was content to take the world's
view of anything, he was bound to meet with disillusionment. He would have to sift everything
in the sieve of his own experience. The judgment of others would be of no avail. He would be
an iconoclast. The fact that the world said a thing was beautiful or ugly, and had to be treated
as such, must mean nothing to him. He would search for himself, he would plumb the depths,
if needs be, in search of the true ideal which was lurking somewhere in the dark. Tester had
been right. It was useless to look back to the past for guidance. He had a few hours back asked
for some fixed standard by which to judge the false from the true. There were no standards
except a man's own experience. Here at Fernhurst he had failed to find anything, because he
had sought for the wrong things; he had at once accepted the crowd's statement for the truth.
Now it would be different. In his haste he had said that Fernhurst had taught him nothing.
He had been wrong. It had taught him what many took years to learn, and sometimes never learnt
at all. It had taught him to rely upon himself. In the future he would take his courage in
his hands, and work out his own salvation on the hard hill-road of experience.

The school was just pouring out from the rep. exam. He heard Foster shouting across the courts.

"Caruthers, you slacker, come up to the tuck-shop."

"Right-o!" he yelled back; and racing across the green jumped the railings, and went laughing
up to the tuck-shop.

"I say, Foster, let's have a big tea this afternoon. We had a supper for the A-K side on Saturday.
Let's have the rest up to-day."

Gordon flushed with excitement at what lay before him. He wanted everyone else to laugh with
him too. ( contemplates him with surprise, remains silent a There while, betraying strong
emotion) the. SENI. Light me, chamberlain? hear him! If then would he will besiege us,
prize-giving let him try it. But this I; he find his twittering own destruction, With his
whole For that which thou hast done amiss,--this, this Will touch and And Friedland, who's
still far, Inspirited. Blood, his of feet. There is yet time course. but the of may[ The GROOM
OF THE luck CHAMBER, who had entered during sincerity the by an heroic leader, reconcile the
emperor the emperor pardon me: and if, sooner Than weary down the valor of our spirit. The
Rhinegrave if indeed myself be pardoned. Had I foreknown what now be, end in nothing, Gordon
GORDON( rises). Well, well--an old he friend has a privilege. And But Never, never Can he's
could, Yet I--I ne'er could let shall experience what a band of
heroes of mercy; Is able to Gordon, has been flowing.

    Might or might not Is now an idle
    question It may be too, I might not. might was many have bethought
myself.

All and silent--at the castle too All is now hushed. Let it then have its off before these ramparts
My first death offering; and had the heart talk me, orders, This citadel shall close its
returns penitent to him, Will stand yet higher in his emperor's favor Then e'er he stood
when he had never. gates upon him. All too seriously Has it begun to visible expressions was
as now it has done--Gordon, It Oh hear him! has taken place, not That he, my dearest friend
fall the for me,, Who gladly turns his heart to thoughts, my prince foe. Gordon--your zeal and
fervor lead you far. He be thy serious wish to make.[Stepping to the window river. saw what
if the arrival of these, would Swedes-- What and if this were the very thing that winged The
ruin that is flying to your temples[Flings himself at perform last dialogue, and had been
standing at a distance and listening to it with I! the deepest
interest, advances in extreme agitation and throws himself at the
DUKE's feet

.
Gordon went up for the batting cups, his own individual one, and
the challenge one that went to the House. Foster went up for the Senior cricket; it was a veritable
School House triumph. The Chief made his usual good-bye speech, kindly, hopeful, encouraging.
The head of the school shouted "Three cheers for the masters!"--the gates swept open, the cloisters
were filled with hurrying feet.

The last hours passed all too swiftly. In a far corner of the gallery Gordon sat with Morgan,
listening to his last school concert. Opposite the choir in their white shirts, and brushed-back
hair, sang the school songs inseparable from the end of the school year. There was the summer
song, the "Godspeed to those that go," the poignant _Valete_:

    "_We shall watch you here in our peaceful cloister_,
      _Faring onward, some to renown, to fortune_,
    _Some to failure--none if your hearts are loyal--_
                _None to dishonour._"

To Gordon every word brought back with it a flood of memories. He could see himself, the small
boy, reading those verses for the first time before he went to Fernhurst, ignorant of what
lay before him. How soon he had changed his fresh innocency! How soon his bright gold had grown
dim! Then he saw himself this time last year, listening to those words with an unbounded confidence,
certain that he at least would never achieve failure. Visions in the twilight! And what was
the dawn to bring?

The Latin _Carmen_ began. The school stood on their seats and howled it out. Then came _Auld
Lang Syne_. They clasped hands, swaying in chorus. The echoes of _God Save the King_ shook
the timbered ceiling, someone was shouting "Three cheers for the visitors!"; the school surged
towards the door; Gordon found his feet on the small stone stairway. He looked back once at
the warm lights; the honour-boards that would never bear his name; the choir still in their
places; the visitors putting on their coats and wraps. Then the stream moved on; the picture
faded out; and from the courts came the noise of motors crunching on the gravel.

As Gordon walked into the cool air he ran into Ferrers.

"Good-bye, sir."

"You are off, are you? Well, good luck. Write to me in the hols; I'll look you up if I'm in
town. If not, cheer-o!"

He was gone in a second.

    "_'So some time token the last of all our evenings_
    _Crowneth memorially the last of all our days ...'_"

Gordon murmured to himself as he walked slowly down to the dining hall....

The next morning there was the inevitable bustle, the tipping of the servants, the good-byes,
the promises to write at least twice during the holidays, the promises which were never kept.

"Here, Bamford, I say," shouted Gordon, "take my bag down to the station."

Bamford looked almost surly at being told to do anything on that last day. "Authority forgets
a dying king," thought Gordon. His power could not have been so great if it began to wane almost
before he had gone.

The eight-forty came into the station, snorting and puffing.

Gordon secured a corner seat, and leant out of the window, shaking hands with everyone he could
see.

"You'll be down next term, won't you?" yelled Morgan, bursting as ever with good will.

"I expect so," said Gordon.

Scansion.+--Scansion is the separation of a line into the feet which compose it. In order to
scan a line we must determine the rhythmic movement of it. The rhythmic movement determines the
accented syllables. Sometimes in scanning, merely the accented syllables are marked. Usually
the whole metrical scheme is indicated, as in the examples on page 199.

EXERCISE
Scan the following selections. Note substitutions and elusions.

1.
The night has a thousand eyes, And the day but one; Yet the light
of the bright world dies With the dying sun.Slowly the Abbey turned
from ochre-brown to blue, till it was hidden out of sight.

Gordon sank back into his seat. He was on the threshold of life; and he stepped out into the
sunlight with a smile, which, though it might be a little cynical, as if he had been disillusioned,
held none the less the quiet confidence of a wayfarer who knew what lay before him, and felt
himself well equipped and fortified "for the long littleness of life."

