Francesca had her choice of residing either with Salemina or with me, during our week of separation,
and drove in my company to Rosaleen Cottage, to make up her mind. While she was standing at
my gate, engaged in reflection, she espied a small cabin not far away, and walked toward it
on a tour of investigation. It proved to have three tiny rooms--a bedroom, sitting-room, and
kitchen. The rent was only two pounds a month, it is true, but it was in all respects the most
unattractive, poverty-stricken, undesirable dwelling I ever saw. It was the small stove in
the kitchen that kindled Francesca's imagination, and she made up her mind instantly to become
a householder on her own account. I tried to dissuade her; but she is as firm as the Rock of
Cashel when once she has set her heart upon anything.

"I shall be almost your next-door neighbour, Penelope," she coaxed, "and of course you will
give me Benella. She will sleep in the sitting-room, and I will do the cooking. The landlady
says there is no trouble about food. 'What to ate?' she inquired, leaning out sociably over
the half-door. 'Sure it'll drive up to your very doore just.' And here is the 'wee grass,'
as she calls it, where 'yous can take your tay' under the Japanese umbrella left by the last
tenant. Think how unusual it will be for us to live in three different houses for a week; and
'there's luck in odd numbers, says Rory O'More.' We shall have the advantages of good society,
too, when we are living apart, for I foresee entertainment after entertainment. We will give
breakfasts, luncheons, teas, and dinners to one another; and meanwhile I shall have learned
all the housewifely arts. Think, too, how much better you can paint with me out of your way!"

"Does no thought of your eccentricity blight your young spirit, dear?"

"Why should it when I have simply shaped my course by yours?"

"But I am married, my child."

"And I'm 'going to be married, aha, Mamma!' as the song says; and what about Salemina, you
haven't scolded her?"

"She is living her very last days of single blessedness," I rejoined; "she does not know it,
but she is; and I want to give her all the freedom possible. Very well, dear innocent, live
in your wee hut, then, if you can persuade Benella to stay with you; but I think there would
best be no public visiting between you and those who live in Rosaleen Cottage and the Old Hall,
as it might ruin their social position."

Benella confessed that she had not the heart to refuse Francesca anything. "She's too handsome,"
she said, "and too winnin'. I s'pose she'll cook up some dreadful messes, but I'm willin' to
eat 'em, to oblige her, and perhaps it'll save her husband a few spells of dyspepsy at the
start; though, as far as my experience goes, ministers'll always eat anything that's set before
'em, and look over their shoulders for more."

We had a heavenly week of silliness, and by dint of concealing our real relations from the
general public, I fancy we escaped harsh criticism. There is a very large percentage of lunacy
anyway in Ireland, as well as great leniency of public opinion, and I fancy there is scarcely
a country on the map in which one could be more foolish without being found out. Visit each
other we did constantly, and candour obliges me to state that, though each of us secretly prided
herself on the perfection of her cuisine, Miss Monroe gave the most successful afternoon tea
of all, on the 'wee grass,' under the Japanese umbrella. How unexpectedly good were her scones,
her tea-cakes, and her cress sandwiches, and how pretty and graceful and womanly she was, all
flushed with pride at our envy and approbation! I did a water-colour sketch of her and sent
it to Ronald, receiving in return a letter bubbling over with fond admiration and gratitude.
She seems always in tone with the season and the landscape, does Francesca, and she arrives
at it unconsciously, too. She glances out of her window at the yellow laburnum-tree when she
is putting on her white frock, and it suggests to her all her amber trinkets and her drooping
hat with the wreath of buttercups. When she came to my hawthorn luncheon at Rosaleen Cottage
she did not make the mistake of heaping pink on pink, but wore a cotton gown of palest green,
with a bunch of rosy blossoms at her belt. I painted her just as she stood under the hawthorn,
with its fluttering petals and singing birds, calling the picture Grainne Mael [*]: A Vision
of Erinn, writing under it the verse:--

     'The thrushes seen in bushes green are singing loud--
      Bid sadness go and gladness glow,--give welcome proud!
      The Rover comes, the Lover, whom you long bewail,
      O'er sunny seas, with honey breeze, to Grainne Mael.'

     * Pronounced Graunia Wael, the M being modified.  It is one
     of the endearing names given to Ireland in the Penal Times.

Benella, I fancy, never had so varied a week in her life, and she was in her element. We were
obliged to hire a side-car by the day, as two of our residences were over a mile apart; and
the driver of that vehicle was the only person, I think, who had any suspicion of our sanity.
In the intervals of teaching Francesca cooking, and eating the results while the cook herself
prudently lunched or dined with her friends, Benella 'spring-cleaned' the lodge at the Old
Hall, scrubbed the gateposts, mended stone walls, weeded garden beds, made bags for the brooms
and dusters and mattresses, burned coffee and camphor and other ill-smelling things in all
the rooms, and devoted considerable time to superintending my little maid, that I might not
feel neglected. We were naturally obliged, meanwhile, to wait upon ourselves and keep our frocks
in order; but as long as the Derelict was so busy and happy, and so devoted to the universal
good, it would have been churlish and ungrateful to complain.

On leaving the Wee Hut, as Francesca had, with ostentatious modesty, named her residence, she
paid her landlady two pounds, and was discomfited when the exuberant and impetuous woman embraced
her in a paroxysm of weeping gratitude.

"I cannot understand, Penelope, why she was so disproportionately grateful, for I only gave
her five shillings over the two pounds rent."

"Yes, dear," I responded drily; "but you remember that the rent was for the month, and you
paid her two pounds five shillings for the week."

All the rest of that day Francesca was angelic. She brought footstools for Salemina, wound
wool for her, insisted upon washing my paint brushes, read aloud to us while we were working,
and offered to be the one to discharge Benella if the awful moment for that surgical operation
should ever come. Finally, just as we were about to separate for the night, she said, with
insinuating sweetness, "You won't tell Ronald about my mistake with the rent-money, will you,
dearest and darlingest girls?"

We are now quite ready to join in all the gaieties that may ensue when Rosnaree welcomes its
master and his guests. Our page in buttons at the lodge gives Benella full scope for her administrative
ability, which seems to have sprung into being since she entered our service; at least, if
I except that evidence of it which she displayed in managing us when first we met. She calls
our page 'the Button Boy,' and makes his life a burden to him by taking him away from his easy
duties at the gate, covering his livery with baggy overalls, and setting him to weed the garden.
It can never, in the nature of things, be made free from weeds during our brief term of tenancy,
but Benella cleverly keeps her slave at work on the beds and the walks that are the most conspicuous
to visitors. The Old Hall used simply to be called 'Aunt David's house' by the Welsh Joyces,
and it was Aunt David herself who made the garden; she who traced the lines of the flower-beds
with the ivory tip of her parasol; she who planned the quaint stone gateways and arbours and
hedge seats; she who devised the interminable stretches of paths, the labyrinthine walks, the
mazes, and the hidden flower-plots. You walk on and on between high hedges, until, if you have
not missed your way, you presently find a little pansy or rose or lily garden. It is quite
the most unexpected and piquant method of laying out a place I have ever seen; and the only
difficulty about it is that any gardener, unless he were possessed of unusual sense of direction,
would be continually astray in it. The Button Boy, obeying the laws of human nature, is lost
in two minutes, but requires two hours in which to find himself. Benella suspects that he prefers
this wandering to and fro to the more monotonous task of weeding, and it is no uncommon thing
for her to pursue the recalcitrant page through the mazes and labyrinths for an hour at a time,
and perhaps lose herself in the end. Salemina and I were sitting this morning in the Peacock
Walk, where two trees clipped into the shape of long-tailed birds mount guard over the box
hedge, and put their beaks together to form an arch. In the dim distance we could see Benella
'bagging' the Button Boy, and, after putting the trowel and rake in his reluctant hands, tying
the free end of a ball of string to his leg, and sending him to find and weed the pansy garden.
We laughed until the echoes rang, to see him depart, dragging his lengthening chain, or his
Ariadne thread, behind him, while Benella grimly held the ball, determined that no excuses
or apologies should interfere with his work on this occasion.

Chapter XXVIII. Round towers and reflections.

     'On Lough Neagh's banks, as the fisherman strays,
        When the cool, calm eve's declining.
      He sees the round towers of other days
        Beneath the waters shining.'
                           Thomas Moore.

A Dublin car-driver told me one day that he had just taken a picnic-party to the borders of
a lake, where they had had tea in a tramcar which had been placed there for such purposes.
Francesca and I were amused at the idea, but did not think of it again until we drove through
the La Touche estate, on one of the first days after our arrival at Devorgilla. We left Salemina
at Rosnaree House with Aunt La Touche and the children, and proceeded to explore the grounds,
with the view of deciding on certain improvements to be made when the property passes, so to
speak, into our hands.

Truth to say, nature has done more for it than we could have done; and if it is a trifle overgrown
and rough and rank, it could hardly be more beautiful. At the very furthest confines of the
demesne there is a brook,--large enough, indeed, to be called a river here, where they have
no Mississippi to dwarf all other streams and serve as an impossible standard of comparison.
Tall trees droop over the calm water, and on its margins grow spearwort, opening its big yellow
cups to the sunshine, meadow rue, purple and yellow loosestrife, bog bean, and sweet flag.
Here and there float upon the surface the round leaves and delicate white blossoms of the frogbit,
together with lilies, pondweeds, and water starworts.

"What an idyllic place to sit and read, or sew, or have tea!" exclaimed Francesca.

"What a place for a tram tea-house!" I added. "Do you suppose we could manage it as a surprise
to Dr. La Touche, in return for all his kindness?"

"It would cost a pretty penny, I fear," said Francesca prudently, "though it isn't as if it
were going out of the family. Now that there is no longer any need for you to sell pictures,
I suppose you could dash off one in an hour or two that would buy a tram; and papa cabled me
yesterday, you know, to draw on him freely. I used to think, whenever he said that, that he
would marry again within the week; but I did him injustice. A tram tea-house by the river,--wouldn't
it be unique? Do let us see what we can do about it through some of our Dublin acquaintances."

The plan proved unexpectedly easy to carry out, and not ruinously extravagant, either; for
our friend the American consul knew the principal director in a tram company, and a dilapidated
and discarded car was sent to us in a few days. There were certain moments--once when we saw
that it had not been painted for twenty years, once when the freight bill was handed us, and
again when we contracted for the removal of our gift from the station to the river-bank--when
we regretted the fertility of imagination that had led us to these lengths; but when we finally
saw the car by the water-side, there was no room left for regret. Benella said that, with the
assistance of the Button Boy, she could paint it easily herself; but we engaged an expert,
who put on a coat of dark green very speedily, and we consoled the Derelict with the suggestion
that she could cover the cushions, and make the interior cosy and pretty.

All this happened some little time ago. Dr. La Touche has been at home for a fortnight, and
we have had to use the greatest ingenuity to keep people away from that particular spot, which,
fortunately for us, is a secluded one. All is ready now, however, and the following cards of
invitation have been issued:--

               The honour of your presence
                   is requested at the
               Opening of the New Tea Tram
            On the River Bank, Rosnaree Demesne,
              Wednesday, June 27th, at 4 p.m.
             The ceremony will be performed by
                  H.R.H. Salemina Peabody.
             The Bishop of Ossory in the Chair.

I have just learned that a certain William Beresford was Bishop of Ossory once on a time, and
I intend to personate this dignitary, clad in Dr. La Touche's cap and gown. We spend this sunny
morning by the river-bank; Francesca hemming the last of the yellow window curtains, and I
making souvenir programmes for the great occasion. Salemina had gone for the day with the Colquhouns
and Dr. La Touche to lunch with some people near Kavan and see Donaghmore Round Tower and the moat.

"Is she in love with Dr. Gerald?" asked Francesca suddenly, looking up from her work. "Was
she ever in love with him? She must have been, mustn't she? I cannot and will not entertain
any other conviction."

"I don't know, my dear," I answered thoughtfully, pausing over an initial letter I was illuminating;
"but I can't imagine what we shall do if we have to tear down our sweet little romance, bit
by bit, and leave the stupid couple sitting in the ruins. They enjoy ruins far too well already,
and it would be just like their obstinacy to go on sitting in them."

"And they are so incredibly slow about it all," Francesca commented. "It took me about two
minutes, at Lady Baird's dinner, where I first met Ronald, to decide that I would marry him
as soon as possible. When a month had gone by, and he hadn't asked me, I thought, like Rosalind,
that I'd as lief be wooed of a snail."

"I was not quite so expeditious as you," I confessed, "though I believe Himself says that his
feeling was instantaneous. I never cared for anything but painting before I met him, so I never
chanced to suffer any of those pangs that lovelorn maidens are said to feel when the beloved
delays his avowals: perhaps that is the reason I suffer so much now, vicariously."

"The lack of positive information makes one so impatient," Francesca went on. "I am sure he
is as fond of her as ever; but if she refused him when he was young and handsome, with every
prospect of a brilliant career before him, perhaps he thinks he has even less chance now. He
was the first to forget their romance, and the one to marry; his estates have been wasted by
his father's legal warfares, and he has been an unhappy and a disappointed man. Now he has
to beg her to heal his wounds, as it were, and to accept the care and responsibility of his
children."

"It is very easy to see that we are not the only ones who suspect his sentiments," I said,
smiling at my thoughts. "Mrs. Colquhoun told me that she and Salemina stopped at one of the
tenants' cabins, the other day, to leave some small comforts that Dr. La Touche had sent to
a sick child. The woman thanked Salemina, and Mrs. Colquhoun heard her say, 'When a man will
stop, coming in the doore, an' stoop down to give a sthroke and a scratch to the pig's back,
depend on it, ma'am, him that's so friendly with a poor fellow-crathur will make ye a good
husband.'

"I have given him every opportunity to confide in me," I continued, after a pause, "but he
accepts none of them; and yet I like him a thousand times better now that I have seen him as
the master of his own house. He is so courtly, and, in these latter days, so genial and sunny...
Salemina's life would not at first be any too easy, I fear; the aunt is very feeble, and the
establishment is so neglected. I went into Dr. Gerald's study the other day to see an old print,
and there was a buzz-buzz-zzzz when the butler pulled up the blinds. 'Do you mind bees, ma'am?'
he asked blandly. 'There's been a swarm of them in one corner of the ceiling for manny years,
an' we don't like to disturb them.'... Benella said yesterday: 'Of course, when you three separate,
I shall stay with the one that needs me most; but if Miss Peabody SHOULD settle over here anywhere,
I'd like to take a scrubbing brush an' go through the castle, or whatever she's going to live
in, with soap and sand and ammonia, and make it water-sweet before she sets foot in it.'...
As for the children, however, no one could regard them as a drawback, for they are altogether
charming; not well disciplined, of course, but lovable to the last degree. Broona was planning
her future life when we were walking together yesterday. Jackeen is to be 'an engineer, by
the sea,' so it seems, and Broona is to be a farmer's wife with a tiny red bill-book like Mrs.
Colquhoun's. Her little boys and girls will sell the milk, and when Jackeen has his engineering
holidays he will come and eat fresh butter and scones and cream and jam at the farm, and when
her children have their holidays they will go and play on 'Jackeen's beach.' It is the little
people I rely upon chiefly, after all. I wish you could have seen them cataract down the staircase
to greet her this morning. I notice that she tries to make me divert their attention when Dr.
Gerald is present; for it is a bit suggestive to a widower to see his children pursue, hang
about, and caress a lovely, unmarried lady. Broona, especially, can hardly keep away from Salemina;
and she is such a fascinating midget, I should think anybody would be glad to have her included
in a marriage contract. 'You have a weeny, weeny line between your eyebrows, just like my daddy's,'
she said to Salemina the other day. 'It's such a little one, perhaps I can kiss it away; but
daddy has too many, and they are cutted too deep. Sometimes he whispers, 'Daddy is sad, Broona,'
and then I say, 'Play up, play up, and play the game!' and that makes him smile.'"

