The zip file of this E-Book contains 7 images not provided with the text-file alone.

LINCOLN LETTERS

Published by The Bibilophile Society

NOTE

The letters herein by Lincoln are so thoroughly characteristic of the man, and are in themselves
so completely self-explanatory, that it requires no comment to enable the reader fully to understand
and appreciate them. They may, of course, also be delineated through their way of saying things;
but in the theatre the objective action is always more suggestive
than the spoken word.

We know Sherlock Holmes, in Mr. William Gillette's admirable melodrama, solely through the
things that we have seen him do; and in this connection we should remember that in the stories
by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle from which Mr. Gillette derived his narrative material, Holmes is delineated
largely by a very different method,--the method, namely, of expository comment written from the
point of view of Doctor Watson.

A leading actor seldom wants to sit in his dressing-room while he is being talked about by the
other actors on the stage; and therefore the method of drawing
character by comment, which is so useful for the novelist, is rarely
employed by the playwright except in the waste moments which precede
the first entrance of his leading figure.

The Chorus Lady, in Mr. James Forbes's amusing study of that name, is drawn chiefly through
her way of saying things; but though this method of delineation
is sometimes very effective for an act or two, it can seldom be
sustained without a faltering of interest through a full-grown
four-act play.

The novelist's expedient of delineating character through mental
analysis is of course denied the dramatist, especially in this
modern age when the soliloquy (for reasons which will be noted in
a subsequent chapter) is usually frowned upon.

Sometimes, in the theatre, a character may be exhibited chiefly
through his personal effect upon the other people on the stage, and
thereby indirectly on the people in the audience.

It was in this way, of course, that Manson was delineated in Mr. Charles Rann Kennedy's _The
Servant in the House_. But the expedient is a dangerous one for the dramatist to use; because
it makes his work immediately dependent on the actor chosen for the leading role, and may in
many cases render his play impossible of attaining its full effect except at the hands of a
single great performer. In recent years an expedient long familiar in the novel has been
transferred to the service of the stage,--the expedient, namely, of suggesting the personality
of a character through a visual presentation of his habitual
environment.

This habit of uselessly
wasting time, is the whole difficulty; and it is vastly important to you, and still more so
to your children, that you should break this habit. It is more important to them, because they
have longer to live, and can keep out of an idle habit before they are in it easier than they
can get out after they are in.

You are now in need of some ready money; and what I propose is, that you shall go to work,
"tooth and nail," for somebody who will give you money for it. Let father and your boys take
charge of things at home--prepare for a crop, and make the crop; and you go to work for the
best money wages, or in discharge of any debt you owe, that you can get. And to secure you
a fair reward for your labor, I now promise you that for every dollar you will, between this
and the first of next May, get for your own labor either in money or in your own indebtedness,
I will then give you one other dollar. Because I must. That's the whole secret. Why did _you_
retreat after your famous oblique march during the Battle of the Marne? Because you had to,
of course. There--that's enough. I can't waste any more time. What? Oh, yes, you can congratulate
me on anything you like except that. And now you had better return to the grave of your
reputation and remain there (_rings off_).
_The Telephone_. Rr-rr-rr-rr.
_The Marshal_. To h-ll with the telephone! Who is it now? What--an
editor of a newspaper?But if I should now clear you out, next year
you will be just as deep in as ever. You say you would almost give your place in Heaven for
$70 or $80. Then you value your place in Heaven very cheaply, for I am sure you can with the
offer I make you get the seventy or eighty dollars for four or five months' work. This is too.
He's very say unforgiving, dear dead General VON KLUCK much--who are you? What, again?_The
Marshal_. General VON KLUCK? Anyhow, nobody's Impossible What is come to Who? WHO? n't regard
it it you say heard you know. You do it n't care? you to be dead. this. But,, my of him dead
If you must care. advice General VON KLUCK's dead. What--not you're really General VON KLUCK I
afraid The EMPEROR wo on your part to as very good you wanted to do?

life for, months again like we must consider

?[Transcriber's Note: The following letter to General Grant is contained in file linc04.jpg]

Executive Mansion, Washington, April 30, 1864.

You thought I believed in it?

Was that what you said?
Come, don't wriggle, though you are a dead man. Yes, that was what you said. Well, then
understand henceforth that there is no Hindenburg line and there
never was anything of the sort.You are vigilant and self
reliant; and, pleased with this, I wish not to obtrude any constraints or restraints upon you.
J.H. Minns( Carlisle) charged the brewers of his the unseen hand that the German Eagle Express_.
city with allowing their tenants to be."--_London auspicious day when the And velvet glove will
be stripped for trade had to confront in."--_Derby Daily placed under the must cheer up.
The Trade has only to And wait for" That the ever from the heel
of Control Board.... engineering was the cloven hoof of Mr.

MINNS cloven hoof of Opinion_

.Corner
is contained in files linc005.jpg and linc006.jpg. Lincoln's note approving the pardon is contained
in file linc007.jpg. As these letters were not transcribed in the print book, I have not transcribed
them here.]

