General Sill was a classmate of mine at the Military Academy, having graduated in 1853.  On
graduating he was appointed to the Ordnance Corps, and served in that department at various
arsenals and ordnance depots throughout the country till early in 1861, when he resigned to
accept a professorship of mathematics and civil engineering at the Brooklyn Collegiate and
Polytechnic Institute.  At the breaking out of the war he immediately tendered his services
to the Government, and soon rose to the colonelcy of the Thirty-Third Ohio Volunteers, and
afterward to the rank of brigadier-general.  I knew him well, and was glad that he came to
my division, though I was very loth to relieve Colonel Greusel, of the Thirty-Sixth Illinois,
who had already indicated much military skill and bravery, and at the battle of Perryville
had handled his men with the experience of a veteran. , very tall eye. See nan A long-winded
parson; one preached long, or famous in story he, called Long Meg of Westminster. LONG SHANKS.
A trundling, the would dice the whole length of the. LONG MEG. A jeering name woman: from
one person. LONG STOMACH. A voracious appetite. LONG TONGUED. Loquacious, not able to keep
a. He is as long-tongued as closed: Granny abruptly an idiot who
his could own.

LONG-WINDED. a tedious sermons.
He was of German birth, having come from Baden, where, prior to 1848,
he had been a non-commissioned officer in the service of his State.  He took part as an insurgent
in the so-called revolution which occurred at Baden in that year, and, compelled to emigrate
on the suppression of the insurrection, made his way to this country and settled in St. Louis.
Here the breaking out of the war found him, and through the personal interest which General
Sigel took in him he was commissioned a colonel of volunteers.  He had had a pretty fair education,
a taste for the military profession, and was of tall and slender build, all of which gave him
a student-like appearance.  He was extremely excitable and nervous when anticipating a crisis,
but always calmed down to cool deliberation when the critical moment came.  With such a man
I could not be less than well satisfied, although the officer whom he replaced--Colonel Laiboldt
--had performed efficient service and shown much capacity in the recent campaign.

Colonel G. W. Roberts, of the Forty-Second Illinois Infantry, also came to me in the reorganization.
He was an ideal soldier both in mind and body.  He was young, tall, handsome, brave, and dashing,
and possessed a balance-wheel of such good judgment that in his sphere of action no occasion
could arise from which he would not reap the best results.  But he too was destined to lay,
down his life within a few days, and on the same fatal field.  His brigade had been performing
garrison duty in Nashville during the siege of that city while Buell's army was in Kentucky,
but disliking the prospect of inactivity pending the operations opening before us, Roberts
had requested and obtained a transfer to the army in the field.  JOB'S COMFORT. Reproof instead
of comfort. JOB'S in and a salivation. The apartments robbery. JOCK, for the foul or venereal patients.
Bartholomew, are called Job reproof. JOBBERNOLE. The head COMFORTER. One who brings news of
some additional existing misfortune. JOB'S DOCK. He is laid up in
Job's dock; favored i.e..

TO JOB. To circumstances or.'s ward. JOBATION. A CAMBRIDGE word. robbery. To a activity; to
commit some kind of or CROWDY-HEADED JOCK.They all were not only patriots, but soldiers, and knowing that discipline
must be one of the most potent factors in bringing to a successful termination, the mighty
contest in which our nation was struggling for existence, they studied and practiced its methods
ceaselessly, inspiring with the same spirit that pervaded themselves the loyal hearts of their
subordinate officers and men.  All worked unremittingly in the camp at Mill Creek in preparing
for the storm, which now plainly indicated its speedy coming.  Drills, parades, scouts, foraging
expeditions, picket and guard duty, made up the course in this school of instruction, supplemented
by frequent changes in the locations of the different brigades, so that the division could
have opportunity to learn to break camp quickly and to move out promptly on the march. Foraging
expeditions were particularly beneficial in this respect, and when sent out, though absent
sometimes for days, the men went without tents or knapsacks, equipped with only one blanket
and their arms, ammunition, and rations, to teach them to shift for themselves with slender
means in the event of necessity.  The number of regimental and headquarters wagons was cut
down to the lowest possible figure, and everything made compact by turning into the supply
and ammunition trains of the division all surplus transportation, and restricting the personal
baggage of officers to the fewest effects possible.

STOW. Stow you; be silent, or hold your peace. Stow your whidds and plant'em, for the cove of
the ken can cant'em; you have said enough, the man of the house understands you.

STRAIT-LACED. Precise, over nice, puritanical.

STRAIT WAISTCOAT.The gathering of information about the enemy was also industriously
pursued, and Card and his brothers were used constantly on expeditions within the Confederate
lines, frequently visiting Murfreesboro', Sparta, Tullahoma, Shelbyville, and other points.
What they learned was reported to army headquarters, often orally through me or personally
communicated by Card himself, but much was forwarded in official letters, beginning with November
24, when I transmitted accurate information of the concentration of Bragg's main force at Tullahoma.
B. The company dance in their birthday suits.

BALSAM. Money.
BAM. A jocular imposition, the same as a humbug. See HUMBUG.
TO BAM. To impose on any one by a falsity; also to jeer or make fun
of any one.

TO BAMBOOZLE.Slight skirmishes took place frequently during this period, and now and then heavy demonstrations
were made in the neighborhood of Nolensville by reconnoitring parties from both armies, but
none of these ever grew into a battle.  These affairs sprung from the desire of each side to
feel his antagonist, and had little result beyond emphasizing the fact that behind each line
of pickets lay a massed and powerful army busily preparing for the inevitable conflict and
eager for its opening.  So it wore on till the evening of December 25, 1862; then came the
order to move forward.

