Maurice was a believer in war in the abstract; he considered it one of the necessary evils,
essential to the very existence of nations. This was nothing more than the logical sequence
of his course in embracing those theories of evolution which in those days exercised such a
potent influence on our young men of intelligence and education. Is not life itself an unending
battle? Does not all nature owe its being to a series of relentless conflicts, the survival
of the fittest, the maintenance and renewal of force by unceasing activity; is not death a
necessary condition to young and vigorous life? And he remembered the sensation of gladness
that had filled his heart when first the thought occurred to him that he might expiate his
errors by enlisting and defending his country on the frontier. It might be that France of the
plebiscite, while giving itself over to the Emperor, had not desired war; he himself, only
a week previously, had declared it to be a culpable and idiotic measure. There were long discussions
concerning the right of a German prince to occupy the throne of Spain; as the question gradually
became more and more intricate and muddled it seemed as if everyone must be wrong, no one right;
so that it was impossible to tell from which side the provocation came, and the only part of
the entire business that was clear to the eyes of all was the inevitable, the fatal law which
at a given moment hurls nation against nation. Then Paris was convulsed from center to circumference;
he remembered that burning summer's night, the tossing, struggling human tide that filled the
boulevards, the bands of men brandishing torches before the Hotel de Ville, and yelling: "On
to Berlin! on to Berlin!" and he seemed to hear the strains of the Marseillaise, sung by a
beautiful, stately woman with the face of a queen, wrapped in the folds of a flag, from her
elevation on the box of a coach. Was it all a lie, was it true that the heart of Paris had
not beaten then? And then, as was always the case with him, that condition of nervous excitation
had been succeeded by long hours of doubt and disgust; there were all the small annoyances
of the soldier's life; his arrival at the barracks, his examination by the adjutant, the fitting
of his uniform by the gruff sergeant, the malodorous bedroom with its fetid air and filthy
floor, the horseplay and coarse language of his new comrades, the merciless drill that stiffened
his limbs and benumbed his brain. In a week's time, however, he had conquered his first squeamishness,
and from that time forth was comparatively contented with his lot; and when the regiment was
at last ordered forward to Belfort the fever of enthusiasm had again taken possession of him.

For the first few days after they took the field Maurice was convinced that their success was
absolutely certain. The Emperor's plan appeared to him perfectly clear: he would advance four
hundred thousand men to the left bank of the Rhine, pass the river before the Prussians had
completed their preparations, separate northern and southern Germany by a vigorous inroad,
and by means of a brilliant victory or two compel Austria and Italy to join hands immediately
with France. Had there not been a short-lived rumor that that 7th corps of which his regiment
formed a part was to be embarked at Brest and landed in Denmark, where it would create a diversion
that would serve to neutralize one of the Prussian armies? They would be taken by surprise;
the arrogant nation would be overrun in every direction and crushed utterly within a few brief
weeks. It would be a military picnic, a holiday excursion from Strasbourg to Berlin. While
they were lying inactive at Belfort, however, his former doubts and fears returned to him.
To the 7th corps had been assigned the duty of guarding the entrance to the Black Forest; it
had reached its position in a state of confusion that exceeded imagination, deficient in men,
material, everything. The 3d division was in Italy; the 2d cavalry brigade had been halted
at Lyons to check a threatened rising among the people there, and three batteries had straggled
off in some direction--where, no one could say. Then their destitution in the way of stores
and supplies was something wonderful; the depots at Belfort, which were to have furnished everything,
were empty; not a sign of a tent, no mess-kettles, no flannel belts, no hospital supplies,
no farriers' forges, not even a horse-shackle. The quartermaster's and medical departments
were without trained assistants. At the very last moment it was discovered that thirty thousand
rifles were practically useless owing to the absence of some small pin or other interchangeable
mechanism about the breech-blocks, and the officer who posted off in hot haste to Paris succeeded
with the greatest difficulty in securing five thousand of the missing implements. Their inactivity,
again, was another matter that kept him on pins and needles; why did they idle away their time
for two weeks? why did they not advance? He saw clearly that each day of delay was a mistake
that could never be repaired, a chance of victory gone. And if the plan of campaign that he
had dreamed of was clear and precise, its manner of execution was most lame and impotent, a
fact of which he was to learn a great deal more later on and of which he had then only a faint
and glimmering perception: the seven army corps dispersed along the extended frontier line
_en echelon_, from Metz to Bitche and from Bitche to Belfort; the many regiments and squadrons
that had been recruited up to only half-strength or less, so that the four hundred and thirty
thousand men on paper melted away to two hundred and thirty thousand at the outside; the jealousies
among the generals, each of whom thought only of securing for himself a marshal's baton, and
gave no care to supporting his neighbor; the frightful lack of foresight, mobilization and
concentration being carried on simultaneously in order to gain time, a process that resulted
in confusion worse confounded; a system, in a word, of dry rot and slow paralysis, which, commencing
with the head, with the Emperor himself, shattered in health and lacking in promptness of decision,
could not fail ultimately to communicate itself to the whole army, disorganizing it and annihilating
its efficiency, leading it into disaster from which it had not the means of extricating itself.
And yet, over and above the dull misery of that period of waiting, in the intuitive, shuddering
perception of what must infallibly happen, his certainty that they must be victors in the end
remained unimpaired.

On the 3d of August the cheerful news had been given to the public of the victory of Sarrebruck,
fought and won the day before. It could scarcely be called a great victory, but the columns
of the newspapers teemed with enthusiastic gush; the invasion of Germany was begun, it was
the first step in their glorious march to triumph, and the little Prince Imperial, who had
coolly stooped and picked up a bullet from the battlefield, then commenced to be celebrated
in legend. Two days later, however, when intelligence came of the surprise and defeat at Wissembourg,
every mouth was opened to emit a cry of rage and distress. That five thousand men, caught in
a trap, had faced thirty-five thousand Prussians all one long summer day, that was not a circumstance
to daunt the courage of anyone; it simply called for vengeance. Yes, the leaders had doubtless
been culpably lacking in vigilance and were to be censured for their want of foresight, but
that would soon be mended; MacMahon had sent for the 1st division of the 7th corps, the 1st
corps would be supported by the 5th, and the Prussians must be across the Rhine again by that
time, with the bayonets of our infantry at their backs to accelerate their movement. And so,
beneath the deep, dim vault of heaven, the thought of the battle that must have raged that
day, the feverish impatience with which the tidings were awaited, the horrible feeling of suspense
that pervaded the air about them, spread from man to man and became each minute more tense
and unendurable.

Maurice was just then saying to Weiss:

"Ah! we have certainly given them a righteous good drubbing to-day."

Weiss made no reply save to nod his head with an air of anxiety. His gaze was directed toward
the Rhine, on that Orient region where now the night had settled down in earnest, like a wall
of blackness, concealing strange forms and shapes of mystery. The concluding strains of the
bugles for roll-call had been succeeded by a deep silence, which had descended upon the drowsy
camp and was only broken now and then by the steps and voices of some wakeful soldiers. A light
had been lit--it looked like a twinkling star--in the main room of the farmhouse where the
staff, which is supposed never to sleep, was awaiting the telegrams that came in occasionally,
though as yet they were undecided. And the green wood fire, now finally left to itself, was
still emitting its funereal wreaths of dense black smoke, which drifted in the gentle breeze
over the unsleeping farmhouse, obscuring the early stars in the heavens above.

"A drubbing!" Weiss at last replied, "God grant it may be so!"

Jean, still seated a few steps away, pricked up his ears, while Lieutenant Rochas, noticing
that the wish was attended by a doubt, stopped to listen.

"What!" Maurice rejoined, "have you not confidence? can you believe that defeat is possible?"

His brother-in-law silenced him with a gesture; his hands were trembling with agitation, his
kindly pleasant face was pale and bore an expression of deep distress.

"Defeat, ah! Heaven preserve us from that! You know that I was born in this country; my grandfather
and grandmother were murdered by the Cossacks in 1814, and whenever I think of invasion it
makes me clench my fist and grit my teeth; I could go through fire and flood, like a trooper,
in my shirt sleeves! Defeat--no, no! I cannot, I will not believe it possible."

He became calmer, allowing his arms to fall by his side in discouragement.

"But my mind is not easy, do you see. I know Alsace; I was born there; I am just off a business
trip through the country, and we civilians have opportunities of seeing many things that the
generals persist in ignoring, although they have them thrust beneath their very eyes. Ah, _we_
wanted war with Prussia as badly as anyone; for a long, long time we have been waiting patiently
for a chance to pay off old scores, but that did not prevent us from being on neighborly terms
with the people in Baden and Bavaria; every one of us, almost, has friends or relatives across
the Rhine. It was our belief that they felt like us and would not be sorry to humble the intolerable
insolence of the Prussians. And now, after our long period of uncomplaining expectation, for
the past two weeks we have seen things going from bad to worse, and it vexes and terrifies
us. Since the declaration of war the enemy's horse have been suffered to come among us, terrorizing
the villages, reconnoitering the country, cutting the telegraph wires. Baden and Bavaria are
rising; immense bodies of troops are being concentrated in the Palatinate; information reaches
us from every quarter, from the great fairs and markets, that our frontier is threatened, and
when the citizens, the mayors of the communes, take the alarm at last and hurry off to tell
your officers what they know, those gentlemen shrug their shoulders and reply: Those things
spring from the imagination of cowards; there is no enemy near here. And when there is not
an hour to lose, days and days are wasted. What are they waiting for? To give the whole German
nation time to concentrate on the other bank of the river?"

His words were uttered in a low, mournful, voice, as if he were reciting to himself a story
that had long occupied his thoughts.

"Ah! Germany, I know her too well; and the terrible part of the business is that you soldiers
seem to know no more about her than you do about China. You must remember my cousin Gunther,
Maurice, the young man, who came to pay me a flying visit at Sedan last spring. His mother
is a sister of my mother, and married a Berliner; the young man is a German out and out; he
detests everything French. He is a captain in the 5th Prussian corps. I accompanied him to
the railway station that night, and he said to me in his sharp, peremptory way: 'If France
declares war on us, she will be soundly whipped!' I can hear his words ringing in my ears yet."

Forthwith, Lieutenant Rochas, who had managed to contain himself until then, not without some
difficulty, stepped forward in a towering rage. He was a tall, lean individual of about fifty,
with a long, weather-beaten, and wrinkled face; his inordinately long nose, curved like the
beak of a bird of prey, over a strong but well-shaped mouth, concealed by a thick, bristling
mustache that was beginning to be touched with silver. And he shouted in a voice of thunder:

"See here, you, sir! what yarns are those that you are retailing to dishearten my men?"

Jean did not interfere with his opinion, but he thought that the last speaker was right, for
he, too, while beginning to be conscious of the protracted delay, and the general confusion
in their affairs, had never had the slightest doubt about that terrible thrashing they were
certain to give the Prussians. There could be no question about the matter, for was not that
the reason of their being there?

"But I am not trying to dishearten anyone, Lieutenant," Weiss answered in astonishment. "Quite
the reverse; I am desirous that others should know what I know, because then they will be able
to act with their eyes open. Look here! that Germany of which we were speaking--"

And he went on in his clear, demonstrative way to explain the reason of his fears: how Prussia
had increased her resources since Sadowa; how the national movement had placed her at the head
of the other German states, a mighty empire in process of formation and rejuvenation, with
the constant hope and desire for unity as the incentive to their irresistible efforts; the
system of compulsory military service, which made them a nation of trained soldiers, provided
with the most effective arms of modern invention, with generals who were masters in the art
of strategy, proudly mindful still of the crushing defeat they had administered to Austria;
the intelligence, the moral force that resided in that army, commanded as it was almost exclusively
by young generals, who in turn looked up to a commander-in-chief who seemed destined to revolutionize
the art of war, whose prudence and foresight were unparalleled, whose correctness of judgment
was a thing to wonder at. And in contrast to that picture of Germany he pointed to France:
the Empire sinking into senile decrepitude, sanctioned by the plebiscite, but rotten at its
foundation, destroying liberty, and therein stifling every idea of patriotism, ready to give
up the ghost as soon as it should cease to satisfy the unworthy appetites to which it had given
birth; then there was the army, brave, it was true, as was to be expected from men of their
race, and covered with Crimean and Italian laurels, but vitiated by the system that permitted
men to purchase substitutes for a money consideration, abandoned to the antiquated methods
of African routine, too confident of victory to keep abreast with the more perfect science
of modern times; and, finally, the generals, men for the most part not above mediocrity, consumed
by petty rivalries, some of them of an ignorance beyond all belief, and at their head the Emperor,
an ailing, vacillating man, deceiving himself and everyone with whom he had dealings in that
desperate venture on which they were embarking, into which they were all rushing blindfold,
with no preparation worthy of the name, with the panic and confusion of a flock of sheep on
its way to the shambles.

Rochas stood listening, open-mouthed, and with staring eyes; his terrible nose dilated visibly.
Then suddenly his lantern jaws parted to emit an obstreperous, Homeric peal of laughter.

"What are you giving us there, you? what do you mean by all that silly lingo? Why, there is
not the first word of sense in your whole harangue--it is too idiotic to deserve an answer.
Go and tell those things to the recruits, but don't tell them to me; no! not to me, who have
seen twenty-seven years of service."

And he gave himself a thump on the breast with his doubled fist. He was the son of a master
mason who had come from Limousin to Paris, where the son, not taking kindly to the paternal
handicraft, had enlisted at the age of eighteen. He had been a soldier of fortune and had carried
the knapsack, was corporal in Africa, sergeant in the Crimea, and after Solferino had been
made lieutenant, having devoted fifteen years of laborious toil and heroic bravery to obtaining
that rank, and was so illiterate that he had no chance of ever getting his captaincy.

"You, sir, who think you know everything, let me tell you a thing you don't know. Yes, at Mazagran
I was scarce nineteen years old, and there were twenty-three of us, not a living soul more,
and for more than four days we held out against twelve thousand Arabs. Yes, indeed! for years
and years, if you had only been with us out there in Africa, sir, at Mascara, at Biskra, at
Dellys, after that in Grand Kabylia, after that again at Laghouat, you would have seen those
dirty niggers run like deer as soon as we showed our faces. And at Sebastopol, sir, _fichtre_!
you wouldn't have said it was the pleasantest place in the world. The wind blew fit to take
a man's hair out by the roots, it was cold enough to freeze a brass monkey, and those beggars
kept us on a continual dance with their feints and sorties. Never mind; we made them dance
in the end; we danced them into the big hot frying pan, and to quick music, too! And Solferino,
you were not there, sir! then why do you speak of it? Yes, at Solferino, where it was so hot,
although I suppose more rain fell there that day than you have seen in your whole life, at
Solferino, where we had our little brush with the Austrians, it would have warmed your heart
to see how they vanished before our bayonets, riding one another down in their haste to get
away from us, as if their coat tails were on fire!"

He laughed the gay, ringing laugh of the daredevil French soldier; he seemed to expand and
dilate with satisfaction. It was the old story: the French trooper going about the world with
his girl on his arm and a glass of good wine in his hand; thrones upset and kingdoms conquered
in the singing of a merry song. Given a corporal and four men, and great armies would bite
the dust. His voice suddenly sank to a low, rumbling bass:

"What! whip France? We, whipped by those Prussian pigs, we!" He came up to Weiss and grasped
him violently by the lapel of his coat. His entire long frame, lean as that of the immortal
Knight Errant, seemed to breathe defiance and unmitigated contempt for the foe, whoever he
might be, regardless of time, place, or any other circumstance. "Listen to what I tell you,
sir. If the Prussians dare to show their faces here, we will kick them home again. You hear
me? we will kick them from here to Berlin." His bearing and manner were superb; the serene
tranquillity of the child, the candid conviction of the innocent who knows nothing and fears
nothing. "_Parbleu_! it is so, because it is so, and that's all there is about it!"

Weiss, stunned and almost convinced, made haste to declare that he wished for nothing better.
As for Maurice, who had prudently held his tongue, not venturing to express an opinion in presence
of his superior officer, he concluded by joining in the other's merriment; he warmed the cockles
of his heart, that devil of a man, whom he nevertheless considered rather stupid. Jean, too,
had nodded his approval at every one of the lieutenant's assertions. He had also been at Solferino,
where it rained so hard. And that showed what it was to have a tongue in one's head and know
how to use it. If all the leaders had talked like that they would not be in such a mess, and
there would be camp-kettles and flannel belts in abundance.

It was quite dark by this time, and Rochas continued to gesticulate and brandish his long arms
in the obscurity. His historical studies had been confined to a stray volume of Napoleonic
memoirs that had found its way to his knapsack from a peddler's wagon. His excitement refused
to be pacified and all his book-learning burst from his lips in a torrent of eloquence:

"We flogged the Austrians at Castiglione, at Marengo, at Austerlitz, at Wagram; we flogged
the Prussians at Eylau, at Jena, at Lutzen; we flogged the Russians at Friedland, at Smolensk
and at the Moskowa; we flogged Spain and England everywhere; all creation flogged, flogged,
flogged, up and down, far and near, at home and abroad, and now you tell me that it is we who
are to take the flogging! Why, pray tell me? How? Is the world coming to an end?" He drew his
tall form up higher still and raised his arm aloft, like the staff of a battle-flag. "Look
you, there has been a fight to-day, down yonder, and we are waiting for the news. Well! I will
tell you what the news is--I will tell you, I! We have flogged the Prussians, flogged them
until they didn't know whether they were a-foot or a-horseback, flogged them to powder, so
that they had to be swept up in small pieces!"

At that moment there passed over the camp, beneath the somber heavens, a loud, wailing cry.
Was it the plaint of some nocturnal bird? Or was it a mysterious voice, reaching them from
some far-distant field of carnage, ominous of disaster? The whole camp shuddered, lying there
in the shadows, and the strained, tense sensation of expectant anxiety that hung, miasma-like,
in the air became more strained, more feverish, as they waited for telegrams that seemed as
if they would never come. In the distance, at the farmhouse, the candle that lighted the dreary
watches of the staff burned up more brightly, with an erect, unflickering flame, as if it had
been of wax instead of tallow.

But it was ten o'clock, and Gaude, rising to his feet from the ground where he had been lost
in the darkness, sounded taps, the first in all the camp. Other bugles, far and near, took
up the strain, and it passed away in the distance with a dying, melancholy wail, as if the
angel of slumber had already brushed with his wings the weary men. And Weiss, who had lingered
there so late, embraced Maurice affectionately; courage, and hope! he would kiss Henriette
for her brother and would have many things to tell uncle Fouchard when they met. Then, just
as he was turning to go, a rumor began to circulate, accompanied by the wildest excitement.
A great victory had been won by Marshal MacMahon, so the report ran; the Crown Prince of Prussia
a prisoner, with twenty-five thousand men, the enemy's army repulsed and utterly destroyed,
its guns and baggage abandoned to the victors.

"Didn't I tell you so!" shouted Rochas, in his most thundering voice. Then, running after Weiss,
who, light of heart, was hastening to get back to Mulhausen: "To Berlin, sir, and we'll kick
them every step of the way!"

A quarter of an hour later came another dispatch, announcing that the army had been compelled
to evacuate Woerth and was retreating. Ah, what a night was that! Rochas, overpowered by sleep,
wrapped his cloak about him, threw himself down on the bare ground, as he had done many a time
before. Maurice and Jean sought the shelter of the tent, into which were crowded, a confused
tangle of arms and legs, Loubet, Chouteau, Pache, and Lapoulle, their heads resting on their
knapsacks. There was room for six, provided they were careful how they disposed of their legs.
Loubet, by way of diverting his comrades and making them forget their hunger, had labored for
some time to convince Lapoulle that there was to be a ration of poultry issued the next morning,
but they were too sleepy to keep up the joke; they were snoring, and the Prussians might come,
it was all one to them. Jean lay for a moment without stirring, pressing close against Maurice;
notwithstanding his fatigue he was unable to sleep; he could not help thinking of the things
that gentleman had said, how all Germany was up in arms and preparing to pour her devastating
hordes across the Rhine; and he felt that his tent-mate was not sleeping, either--was thinking
of the same things as he. Then the latter turned over impatiently and moved away, and the other
understood that his presence was not agreeable. There was a lack of sympathy between the peasant
and the man of culture, an enmity of caste and education that amounted almost to physical aversion.
The former, however, experienced a sensation of shame and sadness at this condition of affairs;
he shrinkingly drew in his limbs so as to occupy as small a space as possible, endeavoring
to escape from the hostile scorn that he was vaguely conscious of in his neighbor. But although
the night wind without had blown up chill, the crowded tent was so stifling hot and close that
Maurice, in a fever of exasperation, raised the flap, darted out, and went and stretched himself
on the ground a few steps away. That made Jean still more unhappy, and in his half-sleeping,
half-waking condition he had troubled dreams, made up of a regretful feeling that no one cared
for him, and a vague apprehension of impending calamity of which he seemed to hear the steps
approaching with measured tread from the shadowy, mysterious depths of the unknown.

Two hours passed, and all the camp lay lifeless, motionless under the oppression of the deep,
weird darkness, that was instinct with some dreadful horror as yet without a name. Out of the
sea of blackness came stifled sighs and moans; from an invisible tent was heard something that
sounded like the groan of a dying man, the fitful dream of some tired soldier. Then there were
other sounds that to the strained ear lost their familiarity and became menaces of approaching
evil; the neighing of a charger, the clank of a sword, the hurrying steps of some belated prowler.
And all at once, off toward the canteens, a great light flamed up. The entire front was brilliantly
illuminated; the long, regularly aligned array of stacks stood out against the darkness, and
the ruddy blaze, reflected from the burnished barrels of the rifles, assumed the hue of new-shed
blood; the erect, stern figures of the sentries became visible in the fiery glow. Could it
be the enemy, whose presence the leaders had been talking of for the past two days, and on
whose trail they had come out from Belfort to Mulhausen? Then a shower of sparks rose high
in the air and the conflagration subsided. It was only the pile of green wood that had been
so long the object of Loubet's and Lapoulle's care, and which, after having smoldered for many
hours, had at last flashed up like a fire of straw.

Jean, alarmed by the vivid light, hastily left the tent and was near falling over Maurice,
who had raised himself on his elbow. The darkness seemed by contrast more opaque than it had
been before, and the two men lay stretched on the bare ground, a few paces from each other.
All that they could descry before them in the dense shadows of the night was the window of
the farm-house, faintly illuminated by the dim candle, which shone with a sinister gleam, as
if it were doing duty by the bedside of a corpse. What time was it? two o'clock, or three,
perhaps. It was plain that the staff had not made acquaintance with their beds that night.
They could hear Bourgain-Desfeuilles' loud, disputatious voice; the general was furious that
his rest should be broken thus, and it required many cigars and toddies to pacify him. More
telegrams came in; things must be going badly; silhouettes of couriers, faintly drawn against
the uncertain sky line, could be descried, galloping madly. There was the sound of scuffling
steps, imprecations, a smothered cry as of a man suddenly stricken down, followed by a blood-freezing
silence. What could it be? Was it the end? A breath, chill and icy as that from the lips of
death, had passed over the camp that lay lost in slumber and agonized expectation.

It was at that moment that Jean and Maurice recognized in the tall, thin, spectral form that
passed swiftly by, their colonel, de Vineuil. He was accompanied by the regimental surgeon,
Major Bouroche, a large man with a leonine face They were conversing in broken, unfinished
sentences, whisperingly, such a conversation as we sometimes hear in dreams.

"It came by the way of Basle. Our 1st division all cut to pieces. The battle lasted twelve
hours; the whole army is retreating--"

The colonel's specter halted and called by name another specter, which came lightly forward;
it was an elegant ghost, faultless in uniform and equipment.

"Is that you, Beaudoin?"

"Yes, Colonel."

"Ah! bad news, my friend, terrible news! MacMahon beaten at Froeschwiller, Frossard beaten
at Spickeren, and between them de Failly, held in check where he could give no assistance.
At Froeschwiller it was a single corps against an entire army; they fought like heroes. It
was a complete rout, a panic, and now France lies open to their advance--"

His tears choked further utterance, the words came from his lips unintelligible, and the three
shadows vanished, swallowed up in the obscurity.

Maurice rose to his feet; a shudder ran through his frame.

"Good God!" he stammeringly exclaimed.

And he could think of nothing else to say, while Jean, in whose bones the very marrow seemed
to be congealing, murmured in his resigned manner:

"Ah, worse luck! The gentleman, that relative of yours, was right all the same in saying that
they are stronger than we."

Maurice was beside himself, could have strangled him. The Prussians stronger than the French!
The thought made his blood boil. The peasant calmly and stubbornly added:

"That don't matter, mind you. A man don't give up whipped at the first knock-down he gets.
We shall have to keep hammering away at them all the same."

But a tall figure arose before them. They recognized Rochas, still wrapped in his long mantle,
whom the fugitive sounds about him, or it may have been the intuition of disaster, had awakened
from his uneasy slumber. He questioned them, insisted on knowing all. When he was finally brought,
with much difficulty, to see how matters stood, stupor, immense and profound, filled his boyish,
inexpressive eyes. More than ten times in succession he repeated:

"Beaten! How beaten? Why beaten?"

And that was the calamity that had lain hidden in the blackness of that night of agony. And
now the pale dawn was appearing at the portals of the east, heralding a day heavy with bitterest
sorrow and striking white upon the silent tents, in one of which began to be visible the ashy
faces of Loubet and Lapoulle, of Chouteau and of Pache, who were snoring still with wide-open
mouths. Forth from the thin mists that were slowly creeping upward from the river off yonder
in the distance came the new day, bringing with it mourning and affliction.

                                II.

About eight o'clock the sun dispersed the heavy clouds, and the broad, fertile plain about
Mulhausen lay basking in the warm, bright light of a perfect August Sunday. From the camp,
now awake and bustling with life, could be heard the bells of the neighboring parishes, pealing
merrily in the limpid air. The cheerful Sunday following so close on ruin and defeat had its
own gayety, its sky was as serene as on a holiday.

Gaude suddenly took his bugle and gave the call that announced the distribution of rations,
whereat Loubet appeared astonished. What was it? What did it mean? Were they going to give
out chickens, as he had promised Lapoulle the night before? He had been born in the Halles,
in the Rue de la Cossonerie, was the unacknowledged son of a small huckster, had enlisted "for
the money there was in it," as he said, after having been a sort of Jack-of-all-trades, and
was now the gourmand, the epicure of the company, continually nosing after something good to
eat. But he went off to see what was going on, while Chouteau, the company artist, house-painter
by trade at Belleville, something of a dandy and a revolutionary republican, exasperated against
the government for having called him back to the colors after he had served his time, was cruelly
chaffing Pache, whom he had discovered on his knees, behind the tent, preparing to say his
prayers. There was a pious man for you! Couldn't he oblige him, Chouteau, by interceding with
God to give him a hundred thousand francs or some such small trifle? But Pache, an insignificant
little fellow with a head running up to a point, who had come to them from some hamlet in the
wilds of Picardy, received the other's raillery with the uncomplaining gentleness of a martyr.
He was the butt of the squad, he and Lapoulle, the colossal brute who had got his growth in
the marshes of the Sologne, so utterly ignorant of everything that on the day of his joining
the regiment he had asked his comrades to show him the King. And although the terrible tidings
of the disaster at Froeschwiller had been known throughout the camp since early morning, the
four men laughed, joked, and went about their usual tasks with the indifference of so many
machines.

But there arose a murmur of pleased surprise. It was occasioned by Jean, the corporal, coming
back from the commissary's, accompanied by Maurice, with a load of firewood. So, they were
giving out wood at last, the lack of which the night before had deprived the men of their soup!
Twelve hours behind time, only!

"Hurrah for the commissary!" shouted Chouteau.

"Never mind, so long as it is here," said Loubet. "Ah! won't I make you a bully _pot-au-feu_!"

He was usually quite willing to take charge of the mess arrangements, and no one was inclined
to say him nay, for he cooked like an angel. On those occasions, however, Lapoulle would be
given the most extraordinary commissions to execute.

"Go and look after the champagne--Go out and buy some truffles--"

On that morning a queer conceit flashed across his mind, such a conceit as only a Parisian
_gamin_ contemplating the mystification of a greenhorn is capable of entertaining:

"Look alive there, will you! Come, hand me the chicken."

"The chicken! what chicken, where?"

"Why, there on the ground at your feet, stupid; the chicken that I promised you last night,
and that the corporal has just brought in."

He pointed to a large, white, round stone, and Lapoulle, speechless with wonder, finally picked
it up and turned it about between his fingers.

"A thousand thunders! Will you wash the chicken! More yet; wash its claws, wash its neck! Don't
be afraid of the water, lazybones!"

And for no reason at all except the joke of it, because the prospect of the soup made him gay
and sportive, he tossed the stone along with the meat into the kettle filled with water.

"That's what will give the bouillon a flavor! Ah, you didn't know that, _sacree andouille_!
You shall have the pope's nose; you'll see how tender it is."

The squad roared with laughter at sight of Lapoulle's face, who swallowed everything and was
licking his chops in anticipation of the feast. That funny dog, Loubet, he was the man to cure
one of the dumps if anybody could! And when the fire began to crackle in the sunlight, and
the kettle commenced to hum and bubble, they ranged themselves reverently about it in a circle
with an expression of cheerful satisfaction on their faces, watching the meat as it danced
up and down and sniffing the appetizing odor that it exhaled. They were as hungry as a pack
of wolves, and the prospect of a square meal made them forgetful of all beside. They had had
to take a thrashing, but that was no reason why a man should not fill his stomach. Fires were
blazing and pots were boiling from one end of the camp to the other, and amid the silvery peals
of the bells that floated from Mulhausen steeples mirth and jollity reigned supreme.

But just as the clocks were on the point of striking nine a commotion arose and spread among
the men; officers came running up, and Lieutenant Rochas, to whom Captain Beaudoin had come
and communicated an order, passed along in front of the tents of his platoon and gave the command:

"Pack everything! Get yourselves ready to march!"

"But the soup?"

"You will have to wait for your soup until some other day; we are to march at once."

Gaude's bugle rang out in imperious accents. Then everywhere was consternation; dumb, deep
rage was depicted on every countenance. What, march on an empty stomach! Could they not wait
a little hour until the soup was ready! The squad resolved that their bouillon should not go
to waste, but it was only so much hot water, and the uncooked meat was like leather to their
teeth. Chouteau growled and grumbled, almost mutinously. Jean had to exert all his authority
to make the men hasten their preparations. What was the great urgency that made it necessary
for them to hurry off like that? What good was there in hazing people about in that style,
without giving them time to regain their strength? And Maurice shrugged his shoulders incredulously
when someone said in his hearing that they were about to march against the Prussians and settle
old scores with them. In less than fifteen minutes the tents were struck, folded, and strapped
upon the knapsacks, the stacks were broken, and all that remained of the camp was the dying
embers of the fires on the bare ground.

There were reasons, of importance that had induced General Douay's determination to retreat
immediately. The despatch from the _sous-prefet_ at Schelestadt, now three days old, was confirmed;
there were telegrams that the fires of the Prussians, threatening Markolsheim, had again been
seen, and again, another telegram informed them that one of the enemy's army corps was crossing
the Rhine at Huningue: the intelligence was definite and abundant; cavalry and artillery had
been sighted in force, infantry had been seen, hastening from every direction to their point
of concentration. Should they wait an hour the enemy would surely be in their rear and retreat
on Belfort would be impossible. And now, in the shock consequent on defeat, after Wissembourg
and Froeschwiller, the general, feeling himself unsupported in his exposed position at the
front, had nothing left to do but fall back in haste, and the more so that what news he had
received that morning made the situation look even worse than it had appeared the night before.

The staff had gone on ahead at a sharp trot, spurring their horses in the fear lest the Prussians
might get into Altkirch before them. General Bourgain-Desfeuilles, aware that he had a hard
day's work before him, had prudently taken Mulhausen in his way, where he fortified himself
with a copious breakfast, denouncing in language more forcible than elegant such hurried movements.
And Mulhausen watched with sorrowful eyes the officers trooping through her streets; as the
news of the retreat spread the citizens streamed out of their houses, deploring the sudden
departure of the army for whose coming they had prayed so earnestly: they were to be abandoned,
then, and all the costly merchandise that was stacked up in the railway station was to become
the spoil of the enemy; within a few hours their pretty city was to be in the hands of foreigners?
The inhabitants of the villages, too, and of isolated houses, as the staff clattered along
the country roads, planted themselves before their doors with wonder and consternation depicted
on their faces. What! that army, that a short while before they had seen marching forth to
battle, was now retiring without having fired a shot? The leaders were gloomy, urged their
chargers forward and refused to answer questions, as if ruin and disaster were galloping at
their heels. It was true, then, that the Prussians had annihilated the army and were streaming
into France from every direction, like the angry waves of a stream that had burst its barriers?
And already to the frightened peasants the air seemed filled with the muttering of distant
invasion, rising louder and more threatening at every instant, and already they were beginning
to forsake their little homes and huddle their poor belongings into farm-carts; entire families
might be seen fleeing in single file along the roads that were choked with the retreating cavalry.

In the hurry and confusion of the movement the 106th was brought to a halt at the very first
kilometer of their march, near the bridge over the canal of the Rhone and Rhine. The order
of march had been badly planned and still more badly executed, so that the entire 2d division
was collected there in a huddle, and the way was so narrow, barely more than sixteen feet in
width, that the passage of the troops was obstructed.

Two hours elapsed, and still the 106th stood there watching the seemingly endless column that
streamed along before their eyes. In the end the men, standing at rest with ordered arms, began
to become impatient. Jean's squad, whose position happened to be opposite a break in the line
of poplars where the sun had a fair chance at them, felt themselves particularly aggrieved.

"Guess we must be the rear-guard," Loubet observed with good-natured raillery.

But Chouteau scolded: "They don't value us at a brass farthing, and that's why they let us
wait this way. We were here first; why didn't we take the road while it was empty?"

And as they began to discern more clearly beyond the canal, across the wide fertile plain,
along the level roads lined with hop-poles and fields of ripening grain, the movement of the
troops retiring along the same way by which they had advanced but yesterday, gibes and jeers
rose on the air in a storm of angry ridicule.

"Ah, we are taking the back track," Chouteau continued. "I wonder if that is the advance against
the enemy that they have been dinning in our ears of late! Strikes me as rather queer! No sooner
do we get into camp than we turn tail and make off, never even stopping to taste our soup."

The derisive laughter became louder, and Maurice, who was next to Chouteau in the ranks, took
sides with him. Why could they not have been allowed to cook their soup and eat it in peace,
since they had done nothing for the last two hours but stand there in the road like so many
sticks? Their hunger was making itself felt again; they had a resentful recollection of the
savory contents of the kettle dumped out prematurely upon the ground, and they could see no
necessity for this headlong retrograde movement, which appeared to them idiotic and cowardly.
What chicken-livers they must be, those generals!

But Lieutenant Rochas came along and blew up Sergeant Sapin for not keeping his men in better
order, and Captain Beaudoin, very prim and starchy, attracted by the disturbance, appeared
upon the scene.

"Silence in the ranks!"

Jean, an old soldier of the army of Italy who knew what discipline was, looked in silent amazement
at Maurice, who appeared to be amused by Chouteau's angry sneers; and he wondered how it was
that a _monsieur_, a young man of his acquirements, could listen approvingly to things--they
might be true, all the same--but that should not be blurted out in public. The army would never
accomplish much, that was certain, if the privates were to take to criticizing the generals
and giving their opinions.

At last, after another hour's waiting, the order was given for the 106th to advance, but the
bridge was still so encumbered by the rear of the division that the greatest confusion prevailed.
Several regiments became inextricably mingled, and whole companies were swept away and compelled
to cross whether they would or no, while others, crowded off to the side of the road, had to
stand there and mark time; and by way of putting the finishing touch to the muddle; a squadron
of cavalry insisted on passing, pressing back into the adjoining fields the stragglers that
the infantry had scattered along the roadside. At the end of an hour's march the column had
entirely lost its formation and was dragging its slow length along, a mere disorderly rabble.

Thus it happened that Jean found himself away at the rear, lost in a sunken road, together
with his squad, whom he had been unwilling to abandon. The 106th had disappeared, nor was there
a man or an officer of their company in sight. About them were soldiers, singly or in little
groups, from all the regiments, a weary, foot-sore crew, knocked up at the beginning of the
retreat, each man straggling on at his own sweet will whithersoever the path that he was on
might chance to lead him. The sun beat down fiercely, the heat was stifling, and the knapsack,
loaded as it was with the tent and implements of every description, made a terrible burden
on the shoulders of the exhausted men. To many of them the experience was an entirely new one,
and the heavy great-coats they wore seemed to them like vestments of lead. The first to set
an example for the others was a little pale faced soldier with watery eyes; he drew beside
the road and let his knapsack slide off into the ditch, heaving a deep sigh as he did so, the
long drawn breath of a dying man who feels himself coming back to life.

"There's a man who knows what he is about," muttered Chouteau.

He still continued to plod along, however, his back bending beneath its weary burden, but when
he saw two others relieve themselves as the first had done he could stand it no longer. "Ah!
_zut_!" he exclaimed, and with a quick upward jerk of the shoulder sent his kit rolling down
an embankment. Fifty pounds at the end of his backbone, he had had enough of it, thank you!
He was no beast of burden to lug that load about.

Almost at the same moment Loubet followed his lead and incited Lapoulle to do the same. Pache,
who had made the sign of the cross at every stone crucifix they came to, unbuckled the straps
and carefully deposited his load at the foot of a low wall, as if fully intending to come back
for it at some future time. And when Jean turned his head for a look at his men he saw that
every one of them had dropped his burden except Maurice.

"Take up your knapsacks unless you want to have me put under arrest!"

But the men, although they did not mutiny as yet, were silent and looked ugly; they kept advancing
along the narrow road, pushing the corporal before them.

"Will you take up your knapsacks! if you don't I will report you."

It was as if Maurice had been lashed with a whip across the face. Report them! that brute of
a peasant would report those poor devils for easing their aching shoulders! And looking Jean
defiantly in the face, he, too, in an impulse of blind rage, slipped the buckles and let his
knapsack fall to the road.

"Very well," said the other in his quiet way, knowing that resistance would be of no avail,
"we will settle accounts to-night."

Maurice's feet hurt him abominably; the big, stiff shoes, to which he was not accustomed, had
chafed the flesh until the blood came. He was not strong; his spinal column felt as if it were
one long raw sore, although the knapsack that had caused the suffering was no longer there,
and the weight of his piece, which he kept shifting from one shoulder to the other, seemed
as if it would drive all the breath from his body. Great as his physical distress was, however,
his moral agony was greater still, for he was in the depths of one of those fits of despair
to which he was subject. At Paris the sum of his wrongdoing had been merely the foolish outbreaks
of "the other man," as he put it, of his weak, boyish nature, capable of more serious delinquency
should he be subjected to temptation, but now, in this retreat that was so like a rout, in
which he was dragging himself along with weary steps beneath a blazing sun, he felt all hope
and courage vanishing from his heart, he was but a beast in that belated, straggling herd that
filled the roads and fields. It was the reaction after the terrible disasters at Wissembourg
and Froeschwiller, the echo of the thunder-clap that had burst in the remote distance, leagues
and leagues away, rattling at the heels of those panic-stricken men who were flying before
they had ever seen an enemy. What was there to hope for now? Was it not all ended? They were
beaten; all that was left them was to lie down and die.

"It makes no difference," shouted Loubet, with the _blague_ of a child of the Halles, "but
this is not the Berlin road we are traveling, all the same."

To Berlin! To Berlin! The cry rang in Maurice's ears, the yell of the swarming mob that filled
the boulevards on that midsummer night of frenzied madness when he had determined to enlist.
The gentle breeze had become a devastating hurricane; there had been a terrific explosion,
and all the sanguine temper of his nation had manifested itself in his absolute, enthusiastic
confidence, which had vanished utterly at the very first reverse, before the unreasoning impulse
of despair that was sweeping him away among those vagrant soldiers, vanquished and dispersed
before they had struck a stroke.

"This confounded blunderbuss must weigh a ton, I think," Loubet went on. "This is fine music
to march by!" And alluding to the sum he received as substitute: "I don't care what people
say, but fifteen hundred 'balls' for a job like this is downright robbery. Just think of the
pipes he'll smoke, sitting by his warm fire, the stingy old miser in whose place I'm going
to get my brains knocked out!"

"As for me," growled Chouteau, "I had finished my time. I was going to cut the service, and
they keep me for their beastly war. Ah! true as I stand here, I must have been born to bad
luck to have got myself into such a mess. And now the officers are going to let the Prussians
knock us about as they please, and we're dished and done for." He had been swinging his piece
to and fro in his hand; in his discouragement he gave it a toss and landed it on the other
side of the hedge. "Eh! get you gone for a dirty bit of old iron!"

The musket made two revolutions in the air and fell into a furrow, where it lay, long and motionless,
reminding one somehow of a corpse. Others soon flew to join it, and presently the field was
filled with abandoned arms, lying in long winrows, a sorrowful spectacle beneath the blazing
sky. It was an epidemic of madness, caused by the hunger that was gnawing at their stomach,
the shoes that galled their feet, their weary march, the unexpected defeat that had brought
the enemy galloping at their heels. There was nothing more to be accomplished; their leaders
were looking out for themselves, the commissariat did not even feed them; nothing but weariness
and worriment; better to leave the whole business at once, before it was begun. And what then?
why, the musket might go and keep the knapsack company; in view of the work that was before
them they might at least as well keep their arms free. And all down the long line of stragglers
that stretched almost far as the eye could reach in the smooth and fertile country the muskets
flew through the air to the accompaniment of jeers and laughter such as would have befitted
the inmates of a lunatic asylum out for a holiday.

Loubet, before parting with his, gave it a twirl as a drum-major does his cane. Lapoulle, observing
what all his comrades were doing, must have supposed the performance to be some recent innovation
in the manual, and followed suit, while Pache, in the confused idea of duty that he owed to
his religious education, refused to do as the rest were doing and was loaded with obloquy by
Chouteau, who called him a priest's whelp.

"Look at the sniveling papist! And all because his old peasant of a mother used to make him
swallow the holy wafer every Sunday in the village church down there! Be off with you and go
serve mass; a man who won't stick with his comrades when they are right is a poor-spirited cur."

Maurice toiled along dejectedly in silence, bowing his head beneath the blazing sun. At every
step he took he seemed to be advancing deeper into a horrid, phantom-haunted nightmare; it
was as if he saw a yawning, gaping gulf before him toward which he was inevitably tending;
it meant that he was suffering himself to be degraded to the level of the miserable beings
by whom he was surrounded, that he was prostituting his talents and his position as a man of
education.

"Hold!" he said abruptly to Chouteau, "what you say is right; there is truth in it."

And already he had deposited his musket upon a pile of stones, when Jean, who had tried without
success to check the shameful proceedings of his men, saw what he was doing and hurried toward him.

"Take up your musket, at once! Do you hear me? take it up at once!"

Jean's face had flushed with sudden anger. Meekest and most pacific of men, always prone to
measures of conciliation, his eyes were now blazing with wrath, his voice spoke with the thunders
of authority. His men had never before seen him in such a state, and they looked at one another
in astonishment.

"Take up your musket at once, or you will have me to deal with!"

Maurice was quivering with anger; he let fall one single word, into which he infused all the
insult that he had at command:

"Peasant!"

"Yes, that's just it; I am a peasant, while you, you, are a gentleman! And it is for that reason
that you are a pig! Yes! a dirty pig! I make no bones of telling you of it."

Yells and cat-calls arose all around him, but the corporal continued with extraordinary force
and dignity:

"When a man has learning he shows it by his actions. If we are brutes and peasants, you owe
us the benefit of your example, since you know more than we do. Take up your musket, or _Nom
de Dieu!_ I will have you shot the first halt we make."

Maurice was daunted; he stooped and raised the weapon in his hand. Tears of rage stood in his
eyes. He reeled like a drunken man as he labored onward, surrounded by his comrades, who now
were jeering at him for having yielded. Ah, that Jean! he felt that he should never cease to
hate him, cut to the quick as he had been by that bitter lesson, which he could not but acknowledge
he had deserved. And when Chouteau, marching at his side, growled: "When corporals are that
way, we just wait for a battle and blow a hole in 'em," the landscape seemed red before his
eyes, and he had a distinct vision of himself blowing Jean's brains out from behind a wall.

But an incident occurred to divert their thoughts; Loubet noticed that while the dispute was
going on Pache had also abandoned his musket, laying it down tenderly at the foot of an embankment.
Why? What were the reasons that had made him resist the example of his comrades in the first
place, and what were the reasons that influenced him now? He probably could not have told himself,
nor did he trouble his head about the matter, chuckling inwardly with silent enjoyment, like
a schoolboy who, having long been held up as a model for his mates, commits his first offense.
He strode along with a self-contented, rakish air, swinging his arms; and still along the dusty,
sunlit roads, between the golden grain and the fields of hops that succeeded one another with
tiresome monotony, the human tide kept pouring onward; the stragglers, without arms or knapsacks,
were now but a shuffling, vagrant mob, a disorderly array of vagabonds and beggars, at whose
approach the frightened villagers barred their doors.

Something that happened just then capped the climax of Maurice's misery. A deep, rumbling noise
had for some time been audible in the distance; it was the artillery, that had been the last
to leave the camp and whose leading guns now wheeled into sight around a bend in the road,
barely giving the footsore infantrymen time to seek safety in the fields. It was an entire
regiment of six batteries, and came up in column, in splendid order, at a sharp trot, the colonel
riding on the flank at the center of the line, every officer at his post. The guns went rattling,
bounding by, accurately maintaining their prescribed distances, each accompanied by its caisson,
men and horses, beautiful in the perfect symmetry of its arrangement; and in the 5th battery
Maurice recognized his cousin Honore. A very smart and soldierly appearance the quartermaster-sergeant
presented on horseback in his position on the left hand of the forward driver, a good-looking
light-haired man, Adolphe by name, whose mount was a sturdy chestnut, admirably matched with
the mate that trotted at his side, while in his proper place among the six men who were seated
on the chests of the gun and its caisson was the gunner, Louis, a small, dark man, Adolphe's
comrade; they constituted a team, as it is called, in accordance with the rule of the service
that couples a mounted and an unmounted man together. They all appeared bigger and taller to
Maurice, somehow, than when he first made their acquaintance at the camp, and the gun, to which
four horses were attached, followed by the caisson drawn by six, seemed to him as bright and
refulgent as a sun, tended and cherished as it was by its attendants, men and animals, who
closed around it protectingly as if it had been a living sentient relative; and then, besides,
the contemptuous look that Honore, astounded to behold him among that unarmed rabble, cast
on the stragglers, distressed him terribly. And now the tail end of the regiment was passing,
the _materiel_ of the batteries, prolonges, forges, forage-wagons, succeeded by the rag-tag,
the spare men and horses, and then all vanished in a cloud of dust at another turn in the road
amid the gradually decreasing clatter of hoofs and wheels.

"_Pardi_!" exclaimed Loubet, "it's not such a difficult matter to cut a dash when one travels
with a coach and four!"

The staff had found Altkirch free from the enemy; not a Prussian had shown his face there yet.
It had been the general's wish, not knowing at what moment they might fall upon his rear, that
the retreat should be continued to Dannemarie, and it was not until five o'clock that the heads
of columns reached that place. Tents were hardly pitched and fires lighted at eight, when night
closed in, so great was the confusion of the regiments, depleted by the absence of the stragglers.
The men were completely used up, were ready to drop with fatigue and hunger. Up to eight o'clock
soldiers, singly and in squads, came trailing in, hunting for their commands; all that long
train of the halt, the lame, and the disaffected that we have seen scattered along the roads.

As soon as Jean discovered where his regiment lay he went in quest of Lieutenant Rochas to
make his report. He found him, together with Captain Beaudoin, in earnest consultation with
the colonel at the door of a small inn, all of them anxiously waiting to see what tidings roll-call
would give them as to the whereabouts of their missing men. The moment the corporal opened
his mouth to address the lieutenant, Colonel Vineuil, who heard what the subject was, called
him up and compelled him to tell the whole story. On his long, yellow face, where the intensely
black eyes looked blacker still contrasted with the thick snow-white hair and the long, drooping
mustache, there was an expression of patient, silent sorrow, and as the narrative proceeded,
how the miserable wretches deserted their colors, threw away arms and knapsacks, and wandered
off like vagabonds, grief and shame traced two new furrows on his blanched cheeks.

"Colonel," exclaimed Captain Beaudoin, in his incisive voice, not waiting for his superior
to give an opinion, "it will best to shoot half a dozen of those wretches."

And the lieutenant nodded his head approvingly. But the colonel's despondent look expressed
his powerlessness.

"There are too many of them. Nearly seven hundred! how are we to go to work, whom are we to
select? And then you don't know it, but the general is opposed. He wants to be a father to
his men, says he never punished a soldier all the time he was in Africa. No, no; we shall have
to overlook it. I can do nothing. It is dreadful."

The captain echoed: "Yes, it is dreadful. It means destruction for us all."

Jean was walking off, having said all he had to say, when he heard Major Bouroche, whom he
had not seen where he was standing in the doorway of the inn, growl in a smothered voice: "No
more punishment, an end to discipline, the army gone to the dogs! Before a week is over the
scoundrels will be ripe for kicking their officers out of camp, while if a few of them had
been made an example of on the spot it might have brought the remainder to their senses."

No one was punished. Some officers of the rear-guard that was protecting the trains had been
thoughtful enough to collect the muskets and knapsacks scattered along the road. They were
almost all recovered, and by daybreak the men were equipped again, the operation being conducted
very quietly, as if to hush the matter up as much as possible. Orders were given to break camp
at five o'clock, but reveille sounded at four and the retreat to Belfort was hurriedly continued,
for everyone was certain that the Prussians were only two or three leagues away. Again there
was nothing to eat but dry biscuit, and as a consequence of their brief, disturbed rest and
the lack of something to warm their stomachs the men were weak as cats. Any attempt to enforce
discipline on the march that morning was again rendered nugatory by the manner of their departure.

The day was worse than its predecessor, inexpressibly gloomy and disheartening. The aspect
of the landscape had changed, they were now in a rolling country where the roads they were
always alternately climbing and descending were bordered with woods of pine and hemlock, while
the narrow gorges were golden with tangled thickets of broom. But panic and terror lay heavy
on the fair land that slumbered there beneath the bright sun of August, and had been hourly
gathering strength since the preceeding day. A fresh dispatch, bidding the mayors of communes
warn the people that they would do well to hide their valuables, had excited universal consternation.
The enemy was at hand, then! Would time be given them to make their escape? And to all it seemed
that the roar of invasion was ringing in their ears, coming nearer and nearer, the roar of
the rushing torrent that, starting from Mulhausen, had grown louder and more ominous as it
advanced, and to which every village that it encountered in its course contributed its own
alarm amid the sound of wailing and lamentation.

Maurice stumbled along as best he might, like a man walking in a dream; his feet were bleeding,
his shoulders sore with the weight of gun and knapsack. He had ceased to think, he advanced
automatically into the vision of horrors that lay before his eyes; he had ceased to be conscious
even of the shuffling tramp of the comrades around him, and the only thing that was not dim
and unreal to his sense was Jean, marching at his side and enduring the same fatigue and horrible
distress. It was lamentable to behold the villages they passed through, a sight to make a man's
heart bleed with anguish. No sooner did the inhabitants catch sight of the troops retreating
in disorderly array, with haggard faces and bloodshot eyes, than they bestirred themselves
to hasten their flight. They who had been so confident only a short half month ago, those men
and women of Alsace, who smiled when war was mentioned, certain that it would be fought out
in Germany! And now France was invaded, and it was among them, above their abodes, in their
fields, that the tempest was to burst, like one of those dread cataclysms that lay waste a
province in an hour when the lightnings flash and the gates of heaven are opened! Carts were
backed up against doors and men tumbled their furniture into them in wild confusion, careless
of what they broke. From the upper windows the women threw out a last mattress, or handed down
the child's cradle, that they had been near forgetting, whereon baby would be tucked in securely
and hoisted to the top of the load, where he reposed serenely among a grove of legs of chairs
and upturned tables. At the back of another cart was the decrepit old grandfather tied with
cords to a wardrobe, and he was hauled away for all the world as if he had been one of the
family chattels. Then there were those who did not own a vehicle, so they piled their household
goods haphazard on a wheelbarrow, while others carried an armful of clothing, and others still
had thought only of saving the clock, which they went off pressing to their bosom as if it
had been a darling child. They found they could not remove everything, and there were chairs
and tables, and bundles of linen too heavy to carry, lying abandoned in the gutter, Some before
leaving had carefully locked their dwellings, and the houses had a deathlike appearance, with
their barred doors and windows, but the greater number, in their haste to get away and with
the sorrowful conviction that nothing would escape destruction, had left their poor abodes
open, and the yawning apertures displayed the nakedness of the dismantled rooms; and those
were the saddest to behold, with the horrible sadness of a city upon which some great dread
has fallen, depopulating it, those poor houses opened to the winds of heaven, whence the very
cats had fled as if forewarned of the impending doom. At every village the pitiful spectacle
became more heartrending, the number of the fugitives was greater, as they clove their way
through the ever thickening press, with hands upraised, amid oaths and tears.

But in the open country as they drew near Belfort, Maurice's heart was still more sorely wrung,
for there the homeless fugitives were in greater numbers and lined the borders of the road
in an unbroken cortege. Ah! the unhappy ones, who had believed that they were to find safety
under the walls of the fortifications! The father lashed the poor old nag, the mother followed
after, leading her crying children by the hand, and in this way entire families, sinking beneath
the weight of their burdens, were strung along the white, blinding road in the fierce sunlight,
where the tired little legs of the smaller children were unable to keep up with the headlong
flight. Many had taken off their shoes and were going barefoot so as to get over the ground
more rapidly, and half-dressed mothers gave the breast to their crying babies as they strode
along. Affrighted faces turned for a look backward, trembling hands were raised as if to shut
out the horizon from their sight, while the gale of panic tumbled their unkempt locks and sported
with their ill-adjusted garments. Others there were, farmers and their men, who pushed straight
across the fields, driving before them their flocks and herds, cows, oxen, sheep, horses, that
they had driven with sticks and cudgels from their stables; these were seeking the shelter
of the inaccessible forests, of the deep valleys and the lofty hill-tops, their course marked
by clouds of dust, as in the great migrations of other days, when invaded nations made way
before their barbarian conquerors. They were going to live in tents, in some lonely nook among
the mountains, where the enemy would never venture to follow them; and the bleating and bellowing
of the animals and the trampling of their hoofs upon the rocks grew fainter in the distance,
and the golden nimbus that overhung them was lost to sight among the thick pines, while down
in the road beneath the tide of vehicles and pedestrians was flowing still as strong as ever,
blocking the passage of the troops, and as they drew near Belfort the men had to be brought
to a halt again and again, so irresistible was the force of that torrent of humanity.

It was during one of those short halts that Maurice witnessed a scene that was destined to
remain indelibly impressed upon his memory.

Standing by the road-side was a lonely house, the abode of some poor peasant, whose lean acres
extended up the mountainside in the rear. The man had been unwilling to leave the little field
that was his all and had remained, for to go away would have been to him like parting with
life. He could be seen within the low-ceiled room, sitting stupidly on a bench, watching with
dull, lack-luster eyes the passing of the troops whose retreat would give his ripe grain over
to be the spoil of the enemy. Standing beside him was his wife, still a young woman, holding
in her arms a child, while another was hanging by her skirts; all three were weeping bitterly.
Suddenly the door was thrown open with violence and in its enframement appeared the grandmother,
a very old woman, tall and lean of form, with bare, sinewy arms like knotted cords that she
raised above her head and shook with frantic gestures. Her gray, scanty locks had escaped from
her cap and were floating about her skinny face, and such was her fury that the words she shouted
choked her utterance and came from her lips almost unintelligible.

At first the soldiers had laughed. Wasn't she a beauty, the old crazy hag! Then words reached
their ears; the old woman was screaming:

"Scum! Robbers! Cowards! Cowards!"

With a voice that rose shriller and more piercing still she kept lashing them with her tongue,
expectorating insult on them, and taunting them for dastards with the full force of her lungs.
And the laughter ceased, it seemed as if a cold wind had blown over the ranks. The men hung
their heads, looked any way save that.

"Cowards! Cowards! Cowards!"

Then all at once her stature seemed to dilate; she drew herself up, tragic in her leanness,
in her poor old apology for a gown, and sweeping the heavens with her long arm from west to
east, with a gesture so broad that it seemed to fill the dome:

"Cowards, the Rhine is not there! The Rhine lies yonder! Cowards, cowards!"

They got under way again at last, and Maurice, whose look just then encountered Jean's, saw
that the latter's eyes were filled with tears, and it did not alleviate his distress to think
that those rough soldiers, compelled to swallow an insult that they had done nothing to deserve,
were shamed by it. He was conscious of nothing save the intolerable aching in his poor head,
and in after days could never remember how the march of that day ended, prostrated as he was
by his terrible suffering, mental and physical.

The 7th corps had spent the entire day in getting over the fourteen or fifteen miles between
Dannemarie and Belfort, and it was night again before the troops got settled in their bivouacs
under the walls of the town, in the very same place whence they had started four days before
to march against the enemy. Notwithstanding the lateness of the hour and their spent condition,
the men insisted on lighting fires and making soup; it was the first time since their departure
that they had had an opportunity to put warm food into their stomachs, and seated about the
cheerful blaze in the cool air of evening they were dipping their noses in the porringers and
grunting inarticulately in token of satisfaction when news came in that burst upon the camp
like a thunderbolt, dumfoundering everyone. Two telegrams had just been received: the Prussians
had not crossed the Rhine at Markolsheim, and there was not a single Prussian at Huningue.
The passage of the Rhine at Markolsheim and the bridge of boats constructed under the electric
light had existed merely in imagination, were an unexplained, inexplicable nightmare of the
prefet at Schelestadt; and as for the army corps that had menaced Huningue, that famous corps
of the Black Forest, that had made so much talk, it was but an insignificant detachment of
Wurtemburgers, a couple of battalions of infantry and a squadron of cavalry, which had maneuvered
with such address, marching and countermarching, appearing in one place and then suddenly popping
up in another at a distance, as to gain for themselves the reputation of being thirty or forty
thousand strong. And to think that that morning they had been near blowing up the viaduct at
Dannemarie! Twenty leagues of fertile country had been depopulated by the most idiotic of panics,
and at the recollection of what they had seen during their lamentable day's march, the inhabitants
flying in consternation to the mountains, driving their cattle before them; the press of vehicles,
laden with household effects, streaming cityward and surrounded by bands of weeping women and
children, the soldiers waxed wroth and gave way to bitter, sneering denunciation of their leaders.

"Ah! it is too ridiculous too talk about!" sputtered Loubet, not stopping to empty his mouth,
brandishing his spoon. "They take us out to fight the enemy, and there's not a soul to fight
with! Twelve leagues there and twelve leagues back, and not so much as a mouse in front of
us! All that for nothing, just for the fun of being scared to death!"

Chouteau, who was noisily absorbing the last drops in his porringer, bellowed his opinion of
the generals, without mentioning names:

"The pigs! what miserable boobies they are, _hein_! A pretty pack of dunghill-cocks the government
has given us as commanders! Wonder what they would do if they had an army actually before them,
if they show the white feather this way when there's not a Prussian in sight, _hein_!--Ah no,
not any of it in mine, thank you; soldiers don't obey such pigeon-livered gentlemen."

Someone had thrown another armful of wood on the fire for the pleasurable sensation of comfort
there was in the bright, dancing flame, and Lapoulle, who was engaged in the luxurious occupation
of toasting his shins, suddenly went off into an imbecile fit of laughter without in the least
understanding what it was about, whereon Jean, who had thus far turned a deaf ear to their
talk, thought it time to interfere, which he did by saying in a fatherly way:

"You had better hold your tongue, you fellows! It might be the worse for you if anyone should
hear you."

He himself, in his untutored, common-sense way of viewing things, was exasperated by the stupid
incompetency of their commanders, but then discipline must be maintained, and as Chouteau still
kept up a low muttering he cut him short:

"Be silent, I say! Here is the lieutenant: address yourself to him if you have anything to say."

Maurice had listened in silence to the conversation from his place a little to one side. Ah,
truly, the end was near! Scarcely had they made a beginning, and all was over. That lack of
discipline, that seditious spirit among the men at the very first reverse, had already made
the army a demoralized, disintegrated rabble that would melt away at the first indication of
catastrophe. There they were, under the walls of Belfort, without having sighted a Prussian,
and they were whipped.

The succeeding days were a period of monotony, full of uncertainty and anxious forebodings.
To keep his troops occupied General Douay set them to work on the defenses of the place, which
were in a state of incompleteness; there was great throwing up of earth and cutting through
rock. And not the first item of news! Where was MacMahon's army? What was going on at Metz?
The wildest rumors were current, and the Parisian journals, by their system of printing news
only to contradict it the next day, kept the country in an agony of suspense. Twice, it was
said, the general had written and asked for instructions, and had not even received an answer.
On the 12th of August, however, the 7th corps was augmented by the 3d division, which landed
from Italy, but there were still only two divisions for duty, for the 1st had participated
in the defeat at Froeschwiller, had been swept away in the general rout, and as yet no one
had learned where it had been stranded by the current. After a week of this abandonment, of
this entire separation from the rest of France, a telegram came bringing them the order to
march. The news was well received, for anything was preferable to the prison life they were
leading in Belfort. And while they were getting themselves in readiness conjecture and surmise
were the order of the day, for no one as yet knew what their destination was to be, some saying
that they were to be sent to the defense of Strasbourg, while others spoke with confidence
of a bold dash into the Black Forest that was to sever the Prussian line of communication.

Early the next morning the 106th was bundled into cattle-cars and started off among the first.
The car that contained Jean's squad was particularly crowded, so much so that Loubet declared
there was not even room in it to sneeze. It was a load of humanity, sent off to the war just
as a load of sacks would have been dispatched to the mill, crowded in so as to get the greatest
number into the smallest space, and as rations had been given out in the usual hurried, slovenly
manner and the men had received in brandy what they should have received in food, the consequence
was that they were all roaring drunk, with a drunkenness that vented itself in obscene songs,
varied by shrieks and yells. The heavy train rolled slowly onward; pipes were alight and men
could no longer see one another through the dense clouds of smoke; the heat and odor that emanated
from that mass of perspiring human flesh were unendurable, while from the jolting, dingy van
came volleys of shouts and laughter that drowned the monotonous rattle of the wheels and were
lost amid the silence of the deserted fields. And it was not until they reached Langres that
the troops learned that they were being carried back to Paris.

"Ah, _nom de Dieu!_" exclaimed Chouteau, who already, by virtue of his oratorical ability,
was the acknowledged sovereign of his corner, "they will station us at Charentonneau, sure,
to keep old Bismarck out of the Tuileries."

The others laughed loud and long, considering the joke a very good one, though no one could
say why. The most trivial incidents of the journey, however, served to elicit a storm of yells,
cat-calls, and laughter: a group of peasants standing beside the roadway, or the anxious faces
of the people who hung about the way-stations in the hope of picking up some bits of news from
the passing trains, epitomizing on a small scale the breathless, shuddering alarm that pervaded
all France in the presence of invasion. And so it happened that as the train thundered by,
a fleeting vision of pandemonium, all that the good burghers obtained in the way of intelligence
was the salutations of that cargo of food for powder as it hurried onward to its destination,
fast as steam could carry it. At a station where they stopped, however, three well-dressed
ladies, wealthy bourgeoises of the town, who distributed cups of bouillon among the men, were
received with great respect. Some of the soldiers shed tears, and kissed their hands as they
thanked them.

But as soon as they were under way again the filthy songs and the wild shouts began afresh,
and so it went on until, a little while after leaving Chaumont, they met another train that
was conveying some batteries of artillery to Metz. The locomotives slowed down and the soldiers
in the two trains fraternized with a frightful uproar. The artillerymen were also apparently
very drunk; they stood up in their seats, and thrusting hands and arms out of the car-windows,
gave this cry with a vehemence that silenced every other sound:

"To the slaughter! to the slaughter! to the slaughter!"

It was as if a cold wind, a blast from the charnel-house, had swept through the car. Amid the
sudden silence that descended on them Loubet's irreverent voice was heard, shouting:

"Not very cheerful companions, those fellows!"

"But they are right," rejoined Chouteau, as if addressing some pot-house assemblage; "it is
a beastly thing to send a lot of brave boys to have their brains blown out for a dirty little
quarrel about which they don't know the first word."

And much more in the same strain. He was the type of the Belleville agitator, a lazy, dissipated
mechanic, perverting his fellow workmen, constantly spouting the ill-digested odds and ends
of political harangues that he had heard, belching forth in the same breath the loftiest sentiments
and the most asinine revolutionary clap-trap. He knew it all, and tried to inoculate his comrades
with his ideas, especially Lapoulle, of whom he had promised to make a lad of spirit.

"Don't you see, old man, it's all perfectly simple. If Badinguet and Bismarck have a quarrel,
let 'em go to work with their fists and fight it out and not involve in their row some hundreds
of thousands of men who don't even know one another by sight and have not the slightest desire
to fight."

The whole car laughed and applauded, and Lapoulle, who did not know who Badinguet[*] was, and
could not have told whether it was a king or an emperor in whose cause he was fighting, repeated
like the gigantic baby that he was:

[*] Napoleon III.

"Of course, let 'em fight it out, and take a drink together afterward."

But Chouteau had turned to Pache, whom he now proceeded to take in hand.

"You are in the same boat, you, who pretend to believe in the good God. He has forbidden men
to fight, your good God has. Why, then, are you here, you great simpleton?"

"_Dame_!" Pache doubtfully replied, "it is not for any pleasure of mine that I am here--but
the gendarmes--"

"Oh, indeed, the gendarmes! let the gendarmes go milk the ducks!--say, do you know what we
would do, all of us, if we had the least bit of spirit? I'll tell you; just the minute that
they land us from the cars we'd skip; yes, we'd go straight home, and leave that pig of a Badinguet
and his gang of two-for-a-penny generals to settle accounts with their beastly Prussians as
best they may!"

There was a storm of bravos; the leaven of perversion was doing its work and it was Chouteau's
hour of triumph, airing his muddled theories and ringing the changes on the Republic, the Rights
of Man, the rottenness of the Empire, which must be destroyed, and the treason of their commanders,
who, as it had been proved, had sold themselves to the enemy at the rate of a million a piece.
_He_ was a revolutionist, he boldly declared; the others could not even say that they were
republicans, did not know what their opinions were, in fact, except Loubet, the concocter of
stews and hashes, and _he_ had an opinion, for he had been for soup, first, last, and always;
but they all, carried away by his eloquence, shouted none the less lustily against the Emperor,
their officers, the whole d----d shop, which they would leave the first chance they got, see
if they wouldn't! And Chouteau, while fanning the flame of their discontent, kept an eye on
Maurice, the fine gentleman, who appeared interested and whom he was proud to have for a companion;
so that, by way of inflaming _his_ passions also, it occurred to him to make an attack on Jean,
who had thus far been tranquilly watching the proceedings out of his half-closed eyes, unmoved
among the general uproar. If there was any remnant of resentment in the bosom of the volunteer
since the time when the corporal had inflicted such a bitter humiliation on him by forcing
him to resume his abandoned musket, now was a fine chance to set the two men by the ears.

"I know some folks who talk of shooting us," Chouteau continued, with an ugly look at Jean;
"dirty, miserable skunks, who treat us worse than beasts, and, when a man's back is broken
with the weight of his knapsack and Brownbess, _aie_! _aie_! object to his planting them in
the fields to see if a new crop will grow from them. What do you suppose they would say, comrades,
_hein_! now that we are masters, if we should pitch them all out upon the track, and teach
them better manners? That's the way to do, _hein_! We'll show 'em that we won't be bothered
any longer with their mangy wars. Down with Badinguet's bed-bugs! Death to the curs who want
to make us fight!"

Jean's face was aflame with the crimson tide that never failed to rush to his cheeks in his
infrequent fits of anger. He rose, wedged in though as he was between his neighbors as firmly
as in a vise, and his blazing eyes and doubled fists had such a look of business about them
that the other quailed.

"_Tonnerre de Dieu!_ will you be silent, pig! For hours I have sat here without saying anything,
because we have no longer any leaders, and I could not even send you to the guard-house. Yes,
there's no doubt of it, it would be a good thing to shoot such men as you and rid the regiment
of the vermin. But see here, as there's no longer any discipline, I will attend to your case
myself. There's no corporal here now, but a hard-fisted fellow who is tired of listening to
your jaw, and he'll see if he can't make you keep your potato-trap shut. Ah! you d----d coward!
You won't fight yourself and you want to keep others from fighting! Repeat your words once
and I'll knock your head off!"

By this time the whole car, won over by Jean's manly attitude, had deserted Chouteau, who cowered
back in his seat as if not anxious to face his opponent's big fists.

"And I care no more for Badinguet than I do for you, do you understand? I despise politics,
whether they are republican or imperial, and now, as in the past, when I used to cultivate
my little farm, there is but one thing that I wish for, and that is the happiness of all, peace
and good-order, freedom for every man to attend to his affairs. No one denies that war is a
terrible business, but that is no reason why a man should not be treated to the sight of a
firing-party when he comes trying to dishearten people who already have enough to do to keep
their courage up. Good Heavens, friends, how it makes a man's pulses leap to be told that the
Prussians are in the land and that he is to go help drive them out!"

Then, with the customary fickleness of a mob, the soldiers applauded the corporal, who again
announced his determination to thrash the first man of his squad who should declare non-combatant
principles. Bravo, the corporal! they would soon settle old Bismarck's hash! And, in the midst
of the wild ovation of which he was the object, Jean, who had recovered his self-control, turned
politely to Maurice and addressed him as if he had not been one of his men:

"Monsieur, you cannot have anything in common with those poltroons. Come, we haven't had a
chance at them yet; we are the boys who will give them a good basting yet, those Prussians!"

It seemed to Maurice at that moment as if a ray of cheering sunshine had penetrated his heart.
He was humiliated, vexed with himself. What! that man was nothing more than an uneducated rustic!
And he remembered the fierce hatred that had burned in his bosom the day he was compelled to
pick up the musket that he had thrown away in a moment of madness. But he also remembered his
emotion at seeing the two big tears that stood in the corporal's eyes when the old grandmother,
her gray hairs streaming in the wind, had so bitterly reproached them and pointed to the Rhine
that lay beneath the horizon in the distance. Was it the brotherhood of fatigue and suffering
endured in common that had served thus to dissipate his wrathful feelings? He was Bonapartist
by birth, and had never thought of the Republic except in a speculative, dreamy way; his feeling
toward the Emperor, personally, too, inclined to friendliness, and he was favorable to the
war, the very condition of national existence, the great regenerative school of nationalities.
Hope, all at once, with one of those fitful impulses of the imagination, that were common in
his temperament, revived in him, while the enthusiastic ardor that had impelled him to enlist
one night again surged through his veins and swelled his heart with confidence of victory.

"Why, of course, Corporal," he gayly replied, "we shall give them a basting!"

And still the car kept rolling onward with its load of human freight, filled with reeking smoke
of pipes and emanations of the crowded men, belching its ribald songs and drunken shouts among
the expectant throngs of the stations through which it passed, among the rows of white-faced
peasants who lined the iron-way. On the 20th of August they were at the Pantin Station in Paris,
and that same evening boarded another train which landed them next day at Rheims _en route_
for the camp at Chalons.

                                III.

Maurice was greatly surprised when the 106th, leaving the cars at Rheims, received orders to
go into camp there. So they were not to go to Chalons, then, and unite with the army there?
And when, two hours later, his regiment had stacked muskets a league or so from the city over
in the direction of Courcelles, in the broad plain that lies along the canal between the Aisne
and Marne, his astonishment was greater still to learn that the entire army of Chalons had
been falling back all that morning and was about to bivouac at that place. From one extremity
of the horizon to the other, as far as Saint Thierry and Menvillette, even beyond the Laon
road, the tents were going up, and when it should be night the fires of four army-corps would
be blazing there. It was evident that the plan now was to go and take a position under the
walls of Paris and there await the Prussians; and it was fortunate that that plan had received
the approbation of the government, for was it not the wisest thing they could do?

Maurice devoted the afternoon of the 21st to strolling about the camp in search of news. The
greatest freedom prevailed; discipline appeared to have been relaxed still further, the men
went and came at their own sweet will. He found no obstacle in the way of his return to the
city, where he desired to cash a money-order for a hundred francs that his sister Henriette
had sent him. While in a cafe he heard a sergeant telling of the disaffection that existed
in the eighteen battalions of the garde mobile of the Seine, which had just been sent back
to Paris; the 6th battalion had been near killing their officers. Not a day passed at the camp
that the generals were not insulted, and since Froeschwiller the soldiers had ceased to give
Marshal MacMahon the military salute. The cafe resounded with the sound of voices in excited
conversation; a violent dispute arose between two sedate burghers in respect to the number
of men that MacMahon would have at his disposal. One of them made the wild assertion that there
would be three hundred thousand; the other, who seemed to be more at home upon the subject,
stated the strength of the four corps: the 12th, which had just been made complete at the camp
with great difficulty with the assistance of provisional regiments and a division of infanterie
de marine; the 1st, which had been coming straggling in in fragments ever since the 14th of
the month and of which they were doing what they could to perfect the organization; the 5th,
defeated before it had ever fought a battle, swept away and broken up in the general panic,
and finally, the 7th, then landing from the cars, demoralized like all the rest and minus its
1st division, of which it had just recovered the remains at Rheims; in all, one hundred and
twenty thousand at the outside, including the cavalry, Bonnemain's and Margueritte's divisions.
When the sergeant took a hand in the quarrel, however, speaking of the army in terms of the
utmost contempt, characterizing it as a ruffianly rabble, with no _esprit de corps_, with nothing
to keep it together,--a pack of greenhorns with idiots to conduct them, to the slaughter,--the
two bourgeois began to be uneasy, and fearing there might be trouble brewing, made themselves
scarce.

When outside upon the street Maurice hailed a newsboy and purchased a copy of every paper he
could lay hands on, stuffing some in his pockets and reading others as he walked along under
the stately trees that line the pleasant avenues of the old city. Where could the German armies
be? It seemed as if obscurity had suddenly swallowed them up. Two were over Metz way, of course:
the first, the one commanded by General von Steinmetz, observing the place; the second, that
of Prince Frederick Charles, aiming to ascend the right bank of the Moselle in order to cut
Bazaine off from Paris. But the third army, that of the Crown Prince of Prussia, the army that
had been victorious at Wissembourg and Froeschwiller and had driven our 1st and 5th corps,
where was it now, where was it to be located amid the tangled mess of contradictory advices?
Was it still in camp at Nancy, or was it true that it had arrived before Chalons, and was that
the reason why we had abandoned our camp there in such hot haste, burning our stores, clothing,
forage, provisions, everything--property of which the value to the nation was beyond compute?
And when the different plans with which our generals were credited came to be taken into consideration,
then there was more confusion, a fresh set of contradictory hypotheses to be encountered. Maurice
had until now been cut off in a measure from the outside world, and now for the first time
learned what had been the course of events in Paris; the blasting effect of defeat upon a populace
that had been confident of victory, the terrible commotions in the streets, the convoking of
the Chambers, the fall of the liberal ministry that had effected the plebiscite, the abrogation
of the Emperor's rank as General of the Army and the transfer of the supreme command to Marshal
Bazaine. The Emperor had been present at the camp of Chalons since the 16th, and all the newspapers
were filled with a grand council that had been held on the 17th, at which Prince Napoleon and
some of the generals were present, but none of them were agreed upon the decisions that had
been arrived at outside of the resultant facts, which were that General Trochu had been appointed
governor of Paris and Marshal MacMahon given the command of the army of Chalons, and the inference
from this was that the Emperor was to be shorn of all his authority. Consternation, irresolution,
conflicting plans that were laid aside and replaced by fresh ones hour by hour; these were
the things that everybody felt were in the air. And ever and always the question: Where were
the German armies? Who were in the right, those who asserted that Bazaine had no force worth
mentioning in front of him and was free to make his retreat through the towns of the north
whenever he chose to do so, or those who declared that he was already besieged in Metz? There
was a constantly recurring rumor of a series of engagements that had raged during an entire
week, from the 14th until the 20th, but it failed to receive confirmation.

Maurice's legs ached with fatigue; he went and sat down upon a bench. Around him the life of
the city seemed to be going on as usual; there were nursemaids seated in the shade of the handsome
trees watching the sports of their little charges, small property owners strolled leisurely
about the walks enjoying their daily constitutional. He had taken up his papers again, when
his eyes lighted on an article that had escaped his notice, the "leader" in a rabid republican
sheet; then everything was made clear to him. The paper stated that at the council of the 17th
at the camp of Chalons the retreat of the army on Paris had been fully decided on, and that
General Trochu's appointment to the command of the city had no other object than to facilitate
the Emperor's return; but those resolutions, the journal went on to say, were rendered unavailing
by the attitude of the Empress-regent and the new ministry. It was the Empress's opinion that
the Emperor's return would certainly produce a revolution; she was reported to have said: "He
will never reach the Tuileries alive." Starting with these premises she insisted with the utmost
urgency that the army should advance, at every risk, whatever might be the cost of human life,
and effect a junction with the army of Metz, in which course she was supported moreover by
General de Palikao, the Minister of War, who had a plan of his own for reaching Bazaine by
a rapid and victorious march. And Maurice, letting his paper fall from his hand, his eyes bent
on space, believed that he now had the key to the entire mystery; the two conflicting plans,
MacMahon's hesitation to undertake that dangerous flank movement with the unreliable army at
his command, the impatient orders that came to him from Paris, each more tart and imperative
than its predecessor, urging him on to that mad, desperate enterprise. Then, as the central
figure in that tragic conflict, the vision of the Emperor suddenly rose distinctly before his
inner eyes, deprived of his imperial authority, which he had committed to the hands of the
Empress-regent, stripped of his military command, which he had conferred on Marshal Bazaine;
a nullity, the vague and unsubstantial shadow of an emperor, a nameless, cumbersome nonentity
whom no one knew what to do with, whom Paris rejected and who had ceased to have a position
in the army, for he had pledged himself to issue no further orders.

The next morning, however, after a rainy night through which he slept outside his tent on the
bare ground, wrapped in his rubber blanket, Maurice was cheered by the tidings that the retreat
on Paris had finally carried the day. Another council had been held during the night, it was
said, at which M. Rouher, the former vice-Emperor, had been present; he had been sent by the
Empress to accelerate the movement toward Verdun, and it would seem that the marshal had succeeded
in convincing him of the rashness of such an undertaking. Were there unfavorable tidings from
Bazaine? no one could say for certain. But the absence of news was itself a circumstance of
evil omen, and all among the most influential of the generals had cast their vote for the march
on Paris, for which they would be the relieving army. And Maurice, happy in the conviction
that the retrograde movement would commence not later than the morrow, since the orders for
it were said to be already issued, thought he would gratify a boyish longing that had been
troubling him for some time past, to give the go-by for one day to soldier's fare, to wit and
eat his breakfast off a cloth, with the accompaniment of plate, knife and fork, carafe, and
a bottle of good wine, things of which it seemed to him that he had been deprived for months
and months. He had money in his pocket, so off he started with quickened pulse, as if going
out for a lark, to search for a place of entertainment.

It was just at the entrance of the village of Courcelles, across the canal, that he found the
breakfast for which his mouth was watering. He had been told the day before that the Emperor
had taken up his quarters in one of the houses of the village, and having gone to stroll there
out of curiosity, now remembered to have seen at the junction of the two roads this little
inn with its arbor, the trellises of which were loaded with big clusters of ripe, golden, luscious
grapes. There was an array of green-painted tables set out in the shade of the luxuriant vine,
while through the open door of the vast kitchen he had caught glimpses of the antique clock,
the colored prints pasted on the walls, and the comfortable landlady watching the revolving
spit. It was cheerful, smiling, hospitable; a regular type of the good old-fashioned French
hostelry.

A pretty, white-necked waitress came up and asked him with a great display of flashing teeth:

"Will monsieur have breakfast?"

"Of course I will! Give me some eggs, a cutlet, and cheese. And a bottle of white wine!"

She turned to go; he called her back. "Tell me, is it not in one of those houses that the Emperor
has his quarters?"

"There, monsieur, in that one right before you. Only you can't see it, for it is concealed
by the high wall with the overhanging trees."

He loosed his belt so as to be more at ease in his capote, and entering the arbor, chose his
table, on which the sunlight, finding its way here and there through the green canopy above,
danced in little golden spangles. And constantly his thoughts kept returning to that high wall
behind which was the Emperor. A most mysterious house it was, indeed, shrinking from the public
gaze, even its slated roof invisible. Its entrance was on the other side, upon the village
street, a narrow winding street between dead-walls, without a shop, without even a window to
enliven it. The small garden in the rear, among the sparse dwellings that environed it, was
like an island of dense verdure. And across the road he noticed a spacious courtyard, surrounded
by sheds and stables, crowded with a countless train of carriages and baggage-wagons, among
which men and horses, coming and going, kept up an unceasing bustle.

"Are those all for the service of the Emperor?" he inquired, meaning to say something humorous
to the girl, who was laying a snow-white cloth upon the table.

"Yes, for the Emperor himself, and no one else!" she pleasantly replied, glad of a chance to
show her white teeth once more; and then she went on to enumerate the suite from information
that she had probably received from the stablemen, who had been coming to the inn to drink
since the preceding day; there were the staff, comprising twenty-five officers, the sixty cent-gardes
and the half-troop of guides for escort duty, the six gendarmes of the provost-guard; then
the household, seventy-three persons in all, chamberlains, attendants for the table and the
bedroom, cooks and scullions; then four saddle-horses and two carriages for the Emperor's personal
use, ten horses for the equerries, eight for the grooms and outriders, not mentioning forty-seven
post-horses; then a _char a banc_ and twelve baggage wagons, two of which, appropriated to
the cooks, had particularly excited her admiration by reason of the number and variety of the
utensils they contained, all in the most splendid order.

"Oh, sir, you never saw such stew-pans! they shone like silver. And all sorts of dishes, and
jars and jugs, and lots of things of which it would puzzle me to tell the use! And a cellar
of wine, claret, burgundy, and champagne--yes! enough to supply a wedding feast."

The unusual luxury of the snowy table-cloth and the white wine sparkling in his glass sharpened
Maurice's appetite; he devoured his two poached eggs with a zest that made him fear he was
developing epicurean tastes. When he turned to the left and looked out through the entrance
of the leafy arbor he had before him the spacious plain, covered with long rows of tents: a
busy, populous city that had risen like an exhalation from the stubble-fields between Rheims
city and the canal. A few clumps of stunted trees, three wind-mills lifting their skeleton
arms in the air, were all there was to relieve the monotony of the gray waste, but above the
huddled roofs of Rheims, lost in the sea of foliage of the tall chestnut-trees, the huge bulk
of the cathedral with its slender spires was profiled against the blue sky, looming colossal,
notwithstanding the distance, beside the modest houses. Memories of school and boyhood's days
came over him, the tasks he had learned and recited: all about the _sacre_ of our kings, the
_sainte ampoule_, Clovis, Jeanne d'Arc, all the long list of glories of old France.

Then Maurice's thoughts reverted again to that unassuming bourgeoise house, so mysterious in
its solitude, and its imperial occupant; and directing his eyes upon the high, yellow wall
he was surprised to read, scrawled there in great, awkward letters, the legend: _Vive Napoleon!_
among the meaningless obscenities traced by schoolboys. Winter's storms and summer's sun had
half effaced the lettering; evidently the inscription was very ancient. How strange, to see
upon that wall that old heroic battle-cry, which probably had been placed there in honor of
the uncle, not of the nephew! It brought all his childhood back to him, and Maurice was again
a boy, scarcely out of his mother's arms, down there in distant Chene-Populeux, listening to
the stories of his grandfather, a veteran of the Grand Army. His mother was dead, his father,
in the inglorious days that followed the collapse of the empire, had been compelled to accept
a humble position as collector, and there the grandfather lived, with nothing to support him
save his scanty pension, in the poor home of the small public functionary, his sole comfort
to fight his battles o'er again for the benefit of his two little twin grandchildren, the boy
and the girl, a pair of golden-haired youngsters to whom he was in some sense a mother. He
would place Maurice on his right knee and Henriette on his left, and then for hours on end
the narrative would run on in Homeric strain.

But small attention was paid to dates; his story was of the dire shock of conflicting nations,
and was not to be hampered by the minute exactitude of the historian. Successively or together
English, Austrians, Prussians, Russians appeared upon the scene, according to the then prevailing
condition of the ever-changing alliances, and it was not always an easy matter to tell why
one nation received a beating in preference to another, but beaten they all were in the end,
inevitably beaten from the very commencement, in a whirlwind of genius and heroic daring that
swept great armies like chaff from off the earth. There was Marengo, the classic battle of
the plain, with the consummate generalship of its broad plan and the faultless retreat of the
battalions by squares, silent and impassive under the enemy's terrible fire; the battle, famous
in story, lost at three o'clock and won at six, where the eight hundred grenadiers of the Consular
Guard withstood the onset of the entire Austrian cavalry, where Desaix arrived to change impending
defeat to glorious victory and die. There was Austerlitz, with its sun of glory shining forth
from amid the wintry sky, Austerlitz, commencing with the capture of the plateau of Pratzen
and ending with the frightful catastrophe on the frozen lake, where an entire Russian corps,
men, guns, horses, went crashing through the ice, while Napoleon, who in his divine omniscience
had foreseen it all, of course, directed his artillery to play upon the struggling mass. There
was Jena, where so many of Prussia's bravest found a grave; at first the red flames of musketry
flashing through the October mists, and Ney's impatience, near spoiling all until Augereau
comes wheeling into line and saves him; the fierce charge that tore the enemy's center in twain,
and finally panic, the headlong rout of their boasted cavalry, whom our hussars mow down like
ripened grain, strewing the romantic glen with a harvest of men and horses. And Eylau, cruel
Eylau, bloodiest battle of them all, where the maimed corpses cumbered the earth in piles;
Eylau, whose new-fallen snow was stained with blood, the burial-place of heroes; Eylau, in
whose name reverberates still the thunder of the charge of Murat's eighty squadrons, piercing
the Russian lines in every direction, heaping the ground so thick with dead that Napoleon himself
could not refrain from tears. Then Friedland, the trap into which the Russians again allowed
themselves to be decoyed like a flock of brainless sparrows, the masterpiece of the Emperor's
consummate strategy; our left held back as in a leash, motionless, without a sign of life,
while Ney was carrying the city, street by street, and destroying the bridges, then the left
hurled like a thunderbolt on the enemy's right, driving it into the river and annihilating
it in that _cul-de-sac_; the slaughter so great that at ten o'clock at night the bloody work
was not completed, most wonderful of all the successes of the great imperial epic. And Wagram,
where it was the aim of the Austrians to cut us off from the Danube; they keep strengthening
their left in order to overwhelm Massena, who is wounded and issues his orders from an open
carriage, and Napoleon, like a malicious Titan, lets them go on unchecked; then all at once
a hundred guns vomit their terrible fire upon their weakened center, driving it backward more
than a league, and their left, terror-stricken to find itself unsupported, gives way before
the again victorious Massena, sweeping away before it the remainder of the army, as when a
broken dike lets loose its torrents upon the fields. And finally the Moskowa, where the bright
sun of Austerlitz shone for the last time; where the contending hosts were mingled in confused
_melee_ amid deeds of the most desperate daring: mamelons carried under an unceasing fire of
musketry, redoubts stormed with the naked steel, every inch of ground fought over again and
again; such determined resistance on the part of the Russian Guards that our final victory
was only assured by Murat's mad charges, the concentrated fire of our three hundred pieces
of artillery, and the valor of Ney, who was the hero of that most obstinate of conflicts. And
be the battle what it might, ever our flags floated proudly on the evening air, and as the
bivouac fires were lighted on the conquered field out rang the old battle-cry: _Vive Napoleon!_
France, carrying her invincible Eagles from end to end of Europe, seemed everywhere at home,
having but to raise her finger to make her will respected by the nations, mistress of a world
that in vain conspired to crush her and upon which she set her foot.

Maurice was contentedly finishing his cutlet, cheered not so much by the wine that sparkled
in his glass as by the glorious memories that were teeming in his brain, when his glance encountered
two ragged, dust-stained soldiers, less like soldiers than weary tramps just off the road;
they were asking the attendant for information as to the position of the regiments that were
encamped along the canal. He hailed them.

"Hallo there, comrades, this way! You are 7th corps men, aren't you?"

"Right you are, sir; 1st division--at least I am, more by token that I was at Froeschwiller,
where it was warm enough, I can tell you. The comrade, here, belongs in the 1st corps; he was
at Wissembourg, another beastly hole."

They told their story, how they had been swept away in the general panic, had crawled into
a ditch half-dead with fatigue and hunger, each of them slightly wounded, and since then had
been dragging themselves along in the rear of the army, compelled to lie over in towns when
the fever-fits came on, until at last they had reached the camp and were on the lookout to
find their regiments.

Maurice, who had a piece of Gruyere before him, noticed the hungry eyes fixed on his plate.

"Hi there, mademoiselle! bring some more cheese, will you--and bread and wine. You will join
me, won't you, comrades? It is my treat. Here's to your good health!"

They drew their chairs up to the table, only too delighted with the invitation. Their entertainer
watched them as they attacked the food, and a thrill of pity ran through him as he beheld their
sorry plight, dirty, ragged, arms gone, their sole attire a pair of red trousers and the capote,
kept in place by bits of twine and so patched and pieced with shreds of vari-colored cloth
that one would have taken them for men who had been looting some battle-field and were wearing
the spoil they had gathered there.

"Ah! _foutre_, yes!" continued the taller of the two as he plied his jaws, "it was no laughing
matter there! You ought to have seen it, --tell him how it was, Coutard."

And the little man told his story with many gestures, describing figures on the air with his bread.

"I was washing my shirt, you see, while the rest of them were making soup. Just try and picture
to yourself a miserable hole, a regular trap, all surrounded by dense woods that gave those
Prussian pigs a chance to crawl up to us before we ever suspected they were there. So, then,
about seven o'clock the shells begin to come tumbling about our ears. _Nom de Dieu!_ but it
was lively work! we jumped for our shooting-irons, and up to eleven o'clock it looked as if
we were going to polish 'em off in fine style. But you must know that there were only five
thousand of us, and the beggars kept coming, coming as if there was no end to them. I was posted
on a little hill, behind a bush, and I could see them debouching in front, to right, to left,
like rows of black ants swarming from their hill, and when you thought there were none left
there were always plenty more. There's no use mincing matters, we all thought that our leaders
must be first-class nincompoops to thrust us into such a hornet's nest, with no support at
hand, and leave us to be crushed there without coming to our assistance. And then our General,
Douay,[*] poor devil! neither a fool nor a coward, that man,--a bullet comes along and lays
him on his back. That ended it; no one left to command us! No matter, though, we kept on fighting
all the same; but they were too many for us, we had to fall back at last. We held the railway
station for a long time, and then we fought behind a wall, and the uproar was enough to wake
the dead. And then, when the city was taken, I don't exactly remember how it came about, but
we were upon a mountain, the Geissberg, I think they call it, and there we intrenched ourselves
in a sort of castle, and how we did give it to the pigs! they jumped about the rocks like kids,
and it was fun to pick 'em off and see 'em tumble on their nose. But what would you have? they
kept coming, coming, all the time, ten men to our one, and all the artillery they could wish
for. Courage is a very good thing in its place, but sometimes it gets a man into difficulties,
and so, at last, when it got too hot to stand it any longer, we cut and run. But regarded as
nincompoops, our officers were a decided success; don't you think so, Picot?"

[*] This was Abel Douay--not to be confounded with his brother,
    Felix, who commanded the 7th corps.-TR.

There was a brief interval of silence. Picot tossed off a glass of the white wine and wiped
his mouth with the back of his hand.

"Of course," said he. "It was just the same at Froeschwiller; the general who would give battle
under such circumstances is a fit subject for a lunatic asylum. That's what my captain said,
and he's a little man who knows what he is talking about. The truth of the matter is that no
one knew anything; we were only forty thousand strong, and we were surprised by a whole army
of those pigs. And no one was expecting to fight that day; battle was joined by degrees, one
portion after another of our troops became engaged, against the wishes of our commanders, as
it seems. Of course, I didn't see the whole of the affair, but what I do know is that the dance
lasted by fits and starts all day long; a body would think it was ended; not a bit of it! away
would go the music more furiously than ever. The commencement was at Woerth, a pretty little
village with a funny clock-tower that looks like a big stove, owing to the earthenware tiles
they have stuck all over it. I'll be hanged if I know why we let go our hold of it that morning,
for we broke all our teeth and nails trying to get it back again in the afternoon, without
succeeding. Oh, my children, if I were to tell you of the slaughter there, the throats that
were cut and the brains knocked out, you would refuse to believe me! The next place where we
had trouble was around a village with the jaw-breaking name of Elsasshausen. We got a peppering
from a lot of guns that banged away at us at their ease from the top of a blasted hill that
we had also abandoned that morning, why, no one has ever been able to tell. And there it was
that with these very eyes of mine I saw the famous charge of the cuirassiers. Ah, how gallantly
they rode to their death, poor fellows! A shame it was, I say, to let men and horses charge
over ground like that, covered with brush and furze, cut up by ditches. And on top of it all,
_nom de Dieu!_ what good could they accomplish? But it was very _chic_ all the same; it was
a beautiful sight to see. The next thing for us to do, shouldn't you suppose so? was to go
and sit down somewhere and try to get our wind again. They had set fire to the village and
it was burning like tinder, and the whole gang of Bavarian, Wurtemburgian and Prussian pigs,
more than a hundred and twenty thousand of them there were, as we found out afterward, had
got around into our rear and on our flanks. But there was to be no rest for us then, for just
at that time the fiddles began to play again a livelier tune than ever around Froeschwiller.
For there's no use talking, fellows, MacMahon may be a blockhead but he is a brave man; you
ought to have seen him on his big horse, with the shells bursting all about him! The best thing
to do would have been to give leg-bail at the beginning, for it is no disgrace to a general
to refuse to fight an army of superior numbers, but he, once we had gone in, was bound to see
the thing through to the end. And see it through he did! why, I tell you that the men down
in Froeschwiller were no longer human beings; they were ravening wolves devouring one another.
For near two hours the gutters ran red with blood. All the same, however, we had to knuckle
under in the end. And to think that after it was all over they should come and tell us that
we had whipped the Bavarians over on our left! By the piper that played before Moses, if we
had only had a hundred and twenty thousand men, if _we_ had had guns, and leaders with a little
pluck!"

Loud and angry were the denunciations of Coutard and Picot in their ragged, dusty uniforms
as they cut themselves huge slices of bread and bolted bits of cheese, evoking their bitter
memories there in the shade of the pretty trellis, where the sun played hide and seek among
the purple and gold of the clusters of ripening grapes. They had come now to the horrible flight
that succeeded the defeat; the broken, demoralized, famishing regiments flying through the
fields, the highroads blocked with men, horses, wagons, guns, in inextricable confusion; all
the wreck and ruin of a beaten army that pressed on, on, on, with the chill breath of panic
on their backs. As they had not had wit enough to fall back while there was time and take post
among the passes of the Vosges, where ten thousand men would have sufficed to hold in check
a hundred thousand, they should at least have blown up the bridges and destroyed the tunnels;
but the generals had lost their heads, and both sides were so dazed, each was so ignorant of
the other's movements, that for a time each of them was feeling to ascertain the position of
its opponent, MacMahon hurrying off toward Luneville, while the Crown Prince of Prussia was
looking for him in the direction of the Vosges. On the 7th the remnant of the 1st corps passed
through Saverne, like a swollen stream that carries away upon its muddy bosom all with which
it comes in contact. On the 8th, at Sarrebourg, the 5th corps came tumbling in upon the 1st,
like one mad mountain torrent pouring its waters into another. The 5th was also flying, defeated
without having fought a battle, sweeping away with it its commander, poor General de Failly,
almost crazy with the thought that to his inactivity was imputed the responsibility of the
defeat, when the fault all rested in the Marshal's having failed to send him orders. The mad
flight continued on the 9th and 10th, a stampede in which no one turned to look behind him.
On the 11th, in order to turn Nancy, which a mistaken rumor had reported to be occupied by
the enemy, they made their way in a pouring rainstorm to Bayon; the 12th they camped at Haroue,
the 13th at Vicherey, and on the 14th were at Neufchateau, where at last they struck the railroad,
and for three days the work went on of loading the weary men into the cars that were to take
them to Chalons. Twenty-four hours after the last train rolled out of the station the Prussians
entered the town. "Ah, the cursed luck!" said Picot in conclusion; "how we had to ply our legs!
And we who should by rights have been in hospital!"

Coutard emptied what was left in the bottle into his own and his comrade's glass. "Yes, we
got on our pins, somehow, and are running yet. Bah! it is the best thing for us, after all,
since it gives us a chance to drink the health of those who were not knocked over."

Maurice saw through it all. The sledge hammer blow of Froeschwiller, following so close on
the heels of the idiotic surprise at Wissembourg, was the lightning flash whose baleful light
disclosed to him the entire naked, terrible truth. We were taken unprepared; we had neither
guns, nor men, nor generals, while our despised foe was an innumerable host, provided with
all modern appliances and faultless in discipline and leadership. The three German armies had
burst apart the weak line of our seven corps, scattered between Metz and Strasbourg, like three
powerful wedges. We were doomed to fight our battle out unaided; nothing could be hoped for
now from Austria and Italy, for all the Emperor's plans were disconcerted by the tardiness
of our operations and the incapacity of the commanders. Fate, even, seemed to be working against
us, heaping all sorts of obstacles and ill-timed accidents in our path and favoring the secret
plan of the Prussians, which was to divide our armies, throwing one portion back on Metz, where
it would be cut off from France, while they, having first destroyed the other fragment, should
be marching on Paris. It was as plain now as a problem in mathematics that our defeat would
be owing to causes that were patent to everyone; it was bravery without intelligent guidance
pitted against numbers and cold science. Men might discuss the question as they would in after
days; happen what might, defeat was certain in spite of everything, as certain and inexorable
as the laws of nature that rule our planet.

In the midst of his uncheerful revery, Maurice's eyes suddenly lighted on the legend scrawled
on the wall before him--_Vive Napoleon!_ and a sensation of intolerable distress seemed to
pierce his heart like a red hot iron. Could it be true, then, that France, whose victories
were the theme of song and story everywhere, the great nation whose drums had sounded throughout
the length and breadth of Europe, had been thrown in the dust at the first onset by an insignificant
race, despised of everyone? Fifty years had sufficed to compass it; the world had changed,
and defeat most fearful had overtaken those who had been deemed invincible. He remembered the
words that had been uttered by Weiss his brother-in-law, during that evening of anxiety when
they were at Mulhausen. Yes, he alone of them had been clear of vision, had penetrated the
hidden causes that had long been slowly sapping our strength, had felt the freshening gale
of youth and progress under the impulse of which Germany was being wafted onward to prosperity
and power. Was not the old warlike age dying and a new one coming to the front? Woe to that
one among the nations which halted in its onward march! the victory is to those who are with
the advance-guard, to those who are clear of head and strong of body, to the most powerful.

But just then there came from the smoke-blackened kitchen, where the walls were bright with
the colored prints of Epinal, a sound of voices and the squalling of a girl who submits, not
unwillingly, to be tousled. It was Lieutenant Rochas, availing himself of his privilege as
a conquering hero, to catch and kiss the pretty waitress. He came out into the arbor, where
he ordered a cup of coffee to be served him, and as he had heard the concluding words of Picot's
narrative, proceeded to take a hand in the conversation:

"Bah! my children, those things that you are speaking of don't amount to anything. It is only
the beginning of the dance; you will see the fun commence in earnest presently. _Pardi_! up
to the present time they have been five to our one, but things are going to take a change now;
just put that in your pipe and smoke it. We are three hundred thousand strong here, and every
move we make, which nobody can see through, is made with the intention of bringing the Prussians
down on us, while Bazaine, who has got his eye on them, will take them in their rear. And then
we'll smash 'em, _crac_! just as I smash this fly!"

Bringing his hands together with a sounding clap he caught and crushed a fly on the wing, and
he laughed loud and cheerily, believing with all his simple soul in the feasibility of a plan
that seemed so simple, steadfast in his faith in the invincibility of French courage. He good-naturedly
informed the two soldiers of the exact position of their regiments, then lit a cigar and seated
himself contentedly before his _demitasse_.

"The pleasure was all mine, comrades!" Maurice replied to Coutard and Picot, who, as they were
leaving, thanked him for the cheese and wine.

He had also called for a cup of coffee and sat watching the Lieutenant, whose hopefulness had
communicated itself to him, a little surprised, however, to hear him enumerate their strength
at three hundred thousand men, when it was not more than a hundred thousand, and at his happy-go-lucky
way of crushing the Prussians between the two armies of Chalons and Metz. But then he, too,
felt such need of some comforting illusion! Why should he not continue to hope when all those
glorious memories of the past that he had evoked were still ringing in his ears? The old inn
was so bright and cheerful, with its trellis hung with the purple grapes of France, ripening
in the golden sunlight! And again his confidence gained a momentary ascendancy over the gloomy
despair that the late events had engendered in him.

Maurice's eyes had rested for a moment on an officer of chasseurs d'Afrique who, with his orderly,
had disappeared at a sharp trot around the corner of the silent house where the Emperor was
quartered, and when the orderly came back alone and stopped with his two horses before the
inn door he gave utterance to an exclamation of surprise:

"Prosper! Why, I supposed you were at Metz!"

It was a young man of Remilly, a simple farm-laborer, whom he had known as a boy in the days
when he used to go and spend his vacations with his uncle Fouchard. He had been drawn, and
when the war broke out had been three years in Africa; he cut quite a dashing figure in his
sky-blue jacket, his wide red trousers with blue stripes and red woolen belt, with his sun-dried
face and strong, sinewy limbs that indicated great strength and activity.

"Hallo! it's Monsieur Maurice! I'm glad to see you!"

He took things very easily, however, conducting the steaming horses to the stable, and to his
own, more particularly, giving a paternal attention. It was no doubt his affection for the
noble animal, contracted when he was a boy and rode him to the plow, that had made him select
the cavalry arm of the service.

"We've just come in from Monthois, more than ten leagues at a stretch," he said when he came
back, "and Poulet will be wanting his breakfast."

Poulet was the horse. He declined to eat anything himself; would only accept a cup of coffee.
He had to wait for his officer, who had to wait for the Emperor; he might be five minutes,
and then again he might be two hours, so his officer had told him to put the horses in the
stable. And as Maurice, whose curiosity was aroused, showed some disposition to pump him, his
face became as vacant as a blank page.

"Can't say. An errand of some sort--papers to be delivered."

But Rochas looked at the chasseur with an eye of tenderness, for the uniform awakened old memories
of Africa.

"Eh! my lad, where were you stationed out there?"

"At Medeah, Lieutenant."

Ah, Medeah! And drawing their chairs closer together they started a conversation, regardless
of difference in rank. The life of the desert had become a second nature, for Prosper, where
the trumpet was continually calling them to arms, where a large portion of their time was spent
on horseback, riding out to battle as they would to the chase, to some grand battue of Arabs.
There was just one soup-basin for every six men, or tribe, as it was called, and each tribe
was a family by itself, one of its members attending to the cooking, another washing their
linen, the others pitching the tent, caring for the horses, and cleaning the arms. By day they
scoured the country beneath a sun like a ball of blazing copper, loaded down with the burden
of their arms and utensils; at night they built great fires to drive away the mosquitoes and
sat around them, singing the songs of France. Often it happened that in the luminous darkness
of the night, thick set with stars, they had to rise and restore peace among their four-footed
friends, who, in the balmy softness of the air, had set to biting and kicking one another,
uprooting their pickets and neighing and snorting furiously. Then there was the delicious coffee,
their greatest, indeed their only, luxury, which they ground by the primitive appliances of
a carbine-butt and a porringer, and afterward strained through a red woolen sash. But their
life was not one of unalloyed enjoyment; there were dark days, also, when they were far from
the abodes of civilized man with the enemy before them. No more fires, then; no singing, no
good times. There were times when hunger, thirst and want of sleep caused them horrible suffering,
but no matter; they loved that daring, adventurous life, that war of skirmishes, so propitious
for the display of personal bravery and as interesting as a fairy tale, enlivened by the _razzias_,
which were only public plundering on a larger scale, and by marauding, or the private peculations
of the chicken-thieves, which afforded many an amusing story that made even the generals laugh.

"Ah!" said Prosper, with a more serious face, "it's different here; the fighting is done in
quite another way."

And in reply to a question asked by Maurice, he told the story of their landing at Toulon and
the long and wearisome march to Luneville. It was there that they first received news of Wissembourg
and Froeschwiller. After that his account was less clear, for he got the names of towns mixed,
Nancy and Saint-Mihiel, Saint-Mihiel and Metz. There must have been heavy fighting on the 14th,
for the sky was all on fire, but all he saw of it was four uhlans behind a hedge. On the 16th
there was another engagement; they could hear the artillery going as early as six o'clock in
the morning, and he had been told that on the 18th they started the dance again, more lively
than ever. But the chasseurs were not in it that time, for at Gravelotte on the 16th, as they
were standing drawn up along a road waiting to wheel into column, the Emperor, who passed that
way in a victoria, took them to act as his escort to Verdun. And a pretty little jaunt it was,
twenty-six miles at a hard gallop, with the fear of being cut off by the Prussians at any moment!

"And what of Bazaine?" asked Rochas.

"Bazaine? they say that he is mightily well pleased that the Emperor lets him alone."

But the Lieutenant wanted to know if Bazaine was coming to join them, whereon Prosper made
a gesture expressive of uncertainty; what did any one know? Ever since the 16th their time
had been spent in marching and countermarching in the rain, out on reconnoissance and grand-guard
duty, and they had not seen a sign of an enemy. Now they were part of the army of Chalons.
His regiment, together with two regiments of chasseurs de France and one of hussars, formed
one of the divisions of the cavalry of reserve, the first division, commanded by General Margueritte,
of whom he spoke with most enthusiastic warmth.

"Ah, the _bougre_! the enemy will catch a Tartar in him! But what's the good talking? the only
use they can find for us is to send us pottering about in the mud."

There was silence for a moment, then Maurice gave some brief news of Remilly and uncle Fouchard,
and Prosper expressed his regret that he could not go and shake hands with Honore, the quartermaster-sergeant,
whose battery was stationed more than a league away, on the other side of the Laon road. But
the chasseur pricked up his ears at hearing the whinnying of a horse and rose and went out
to make sure that Poulet was not in want of anything. It was the hour sacred to coffee and
_pousse-cafe_, and it was not long before the little hostelry was full to overflowing with
officers and men of every arm of the service. There was not a vacant table, and the bright
uniforms shone resplendent against the green background of leaves checkered with spots of sunshine.
Major Bouroche had just come in and taken a seat beside Rochas, when Jean presented himself
with an order.

"Lieutenant, the captain desires me to say that he wishes to see you at three o'clock on company
business."

Rochas signified by a nod of the head that he had heard, and Jean did not go away at once,
but stood smiling at Maurice, who was lighting a cigarette. Ever since the occurrence in the
railway car there had been a sort of tacit truce between the two men; they seemed to be reciprocally
studying each other, with an increasing interest and attraction. But just then Prosper came
back, a little out of temper.

"I mean to have something to eat unless my officer comes out of that shanty pretty quick. The
Emperor is just as likely as not to stay away until dark, confound it all."

"Tell me," said Maurice, his curiosity again getting the better of him, "isn't it possible
that the news you are bringing may be from Bazaine?"

"Perhaps so. There was a good deal of talk about him down there at Monthois."

At that moment there was a stir outside in the street, and Jean, who was standing by one of
the doors of the arbor, turned and said:

"The Emperor!"

Immediately everyone was on his feet. Along the broad, white road, with its rows of poplars
on either side, came a troop of cent-gardes, spick and span in their brilliant uniforms, their
cuirasses blazing in the sunlight, and immediately behind them rode the Emperor, accompanied
by his staff, in a wide open space, followed by a second troop of cent-gardes.

There was a general uncovering of heads, and here and there a hurrah was heard; and the Emperor
raised his head as he passed; his face looked drawn, the eyes were dim and watery. He had the
dazed appearance of one suddenly aroused from slumber, smiled faintly at sight of the cheerful
inn, and saluted. From behind them Maurice and Jean distinctly heard old Bouroche growl, having
first surveyed the sovereign with his practiced eye:

"There's no mistake about it, that man is in a bad way." Then he succinctly completed his diagnosis:
"His jig is up!"

Jean shook his head and thought in his limited, common sense way: "It is a confounded shame
to let a man like that have command of the army!" And ten minutes later, when Maurice, comforted
by his good breakfast, shook hands with Prosper and strolled away to smoke more cigarettes,
he carried with him the picture of the Emperor, seated on his easy-gaited horse, so pale, so
gentle, the man of thought, the dreamer, wanting in energy when the moment for action came.
He was reputed to be good-hearted, capable, swayed by generous and noble thoughts, a silent
man of strong and tenacious will; he was very brave, too, scorning danger with the scorn of
the fatalist for whom destiny has no fears; but in critical moments a fatal lethargy seemed
to overcome him; he appeared to become paralyzed in presence of results, and powerless thereafter
to struggle against Fortune should she prove adverse. And Maurice asked himself if his were
not a special physiological condition, aggravated by suffering; if the indecision and increasing
incapacity that the Emperor had displayed ever since the opening of the campaign were not to
be attributed to his manifest illness. That would explain everything: a minute bit of foreign
substance in a man's system, and empires totter.

The camp that evening was all astir with activity; officers were bustling about with orders
and arranging for the start the following morning at five o'clock. Maurice experienced a shock
of surprise and alarm to learn that once again all their plans were changed, that they were
not to fall back on Paris, but proceed to Verdun and effect a junction with Bazaine. There
was a report that dispatches had come in during the day from the marshal announcing that he
was retreating, and the young man's thoughts reverted to the officer of chasseurs and his rapid
ride from Monthois; perhaps he had been the bearer of a copy of the dispatch. So, then, the
opinions of the Empress-regent and the Council of Ministers had prevailed with the vacillating
MacMahon, in their dread to see the Emperor return to Paris and their inflexible determination
to push the army forward in one supreme attempt to save the dynasty; and the poor Emperor,
that wretched man for whom there was no place in all his vast empire, was to be bundled to
and fro among the baggage of his army like some worthless, worn-out piece of furniture, condemned
to the irony of dragging behind him in his suite his imperial household, cent-gardes, horses,
carriages, cooks, silver stew-pans and cases of champagne, trailing his flaunting mantle, embroidered
with the Napoleonic bees, through the blood and mire of the highways of his retreat.

At midnight Maurice was not asleep; he was feverishly wakeful, and his gloomy reflections kept
him tossing and tumbling on his pallet. He finally arose and went outside, where he found comfort
and refreshment in the cool night air. The sky was overspread with clouds, the darkness was
intense; along the front of the line the expiring watch-fires gleamed with a red and sullen
light at distant intervals, and in the deathlike, boding silence could be heard the long-drawn
breathing of the hundred thousand men who slumbered there. Then Maurice became more tranquil,
and there descended on him a sentiment of brotherhood, full of compassionate kindness for all
those slumbering fellow-creatures, of whom thousands would soon be sleeping the sleep of death.
Brave fellows! True, many of them were thieves and drunkards, but think of what they had suffered
and the excuse there was for them in the universal demoralization! The glorious veterans of
Solferino and Sebastopol were but a handful, incorporated in the ranks of the newly raised
troops, too few in number to make their example felt. The four corps that had been got together
and equipped so hurriedly, devoid of every element of cohesion, were the forlorn hope, the
expiatory band that their rulers were sending to the sacrifice in the endeavor to avert the
wrath of destiny. They would bear their cross to the bitter end, atoning with their life's
blood for the faults of others, glorious amid disaster and defeat.

And then it was that Maurice, there in the darkness that was instinct with life, became conscious
that a great duty lay before him. He ceased to beguile himself with the illusive prospect of
great victories to be gained; the march to Verdun was a march to death, and he so accepted
it, since it was their lot to die, with brave and cheerful resignation.

                                IV.

On Tuesday, the 23d of August, at six o'clock in the morning, camp was broken, and as a stream
that has momentarily expanded into a lake resumes its course again, the hundred and odd thousand
men of the army of Chalons put themselves in motion and soon were pouring onward in a resistless
torrent; and notwithstanding the rumors that had been current since the preceding day, it was
a great surprise to most to see that instead of continuing their retrograde movement they were
leaving Paris behind them and turning their faces toward the unknown regions of the East.

At five o'clock in the morning the 7th corps was still unsupplied with cartridges. For two
days the artillerymen had been working like beavers to unload the _materiel_, horses, and stores
that had been streaming from Metz into the overcrowded station, and it was only at the very
last moment that some cars of cartridges were discovered among the tangled trains, and that
a detail which included Jean among its numbers was enabled to bring back two hundred and forty
thousand on carts that they had hurriedly requisitioned. Jean distributed the regulation number,
one hundred cartridges to a man, among his squad, just as Gaude, the company bugler, sounded
the order to march.

The 106th was not to pass through Rheims, their orders being to turn the city and debouch into
the Chalons road farther on, but on this occasion there was the usual failure to regulate the
order and time of marching, so that, the four corps having commenced to move at the same moment,
they collided when they came out upon the roads that they were to traverse in common and the
result was inextricable confusion. Cavalry and artillery were constantly cutting in among the
infantry and bringing them to a halt; whole brigades were compelled to leave the road and stand
at ordered arms in the plowed fields for more than an hour, waiting until the way should be
cleared. And to make matters worse, they had hardly left the camp when a terrible storm broke
over them, the rain pelting down in torrents, drenching the men completely and adding intolerably
to the weight of knapsacks and great-coats. Just as the rain began to hold up, however, the
106th saw a chance to go forward, while some zouaves in an adjoining field, who were forced
to wait yet for a while, amused themselves by pelting one another with balls of moist earth,
and the consequent condition of their uniforms afforded them much merriment.

The sun suddenly came shining out again in the clear sky, the warm, bright sun of an August
morning, and with it came returning gayety; the men were steaming like a wash of linen hung
out to dry in the open air: the moisture evaporated from their clothing in little more time
than it takes to tell it, and when they were warm and dry again, like dogs who shake the water
from them when they emerge from a pond, they chaffed one another good-naturedly on their bedraggled
appearance and the splashes of mud on their red trousers. Wherever two roads intersected another
halt was necessitated; the last one was in a little village just beyond the walls of the city,
in front of a small saloon that seemed to be doing a thriving business. Thereon it occurred
to Maurice to treat the squad to a drink, by way of wishing them all good luck.

"Corporal, will you allow me--"

Jean, after hesitating a moment, accepted a "pony" of brandy for himself. Loubet and Chouteau
were of the party (the latter had been watchful and submissive since that day when the corporal
had evinced a disposition to use his heavy fists), and also Pache and Lapoulle, a couple of
very decent fellows when there was no one to set them a bad example.

"Your good health, corporal!" said Chouteau in a respectful, whining tone.

"Thank you; here's hoping that you may bring back your head and all your legs and arms!" Jean
politely replied, while the others laughed approvingly.

But the column was about to move; Captain Beaudoin came up with a scandalized look on his face
and a reproof at the tip of his tongue, while Lieutenant Rochas, more indulgent to the small
weaknesses of his men, turned his head so as not to see what was going on. And now they were
stepping out at a good round pace along the Chalons road, which stretched before them for many
a long league, bordered with trees on either side, undeviatingly straight, like a never-ending
ribbon unrolled between the fields of yellow stubble that were dotted here and there with tall
stacks and wooden windmills brandishing their lean arms. More to the north were rows of telegraph
poles, indicating the position of other roads, on which they could distinguish the black, crawling
lines of other marching regiments. In many places the troops had left the highway and were
moving in deep columns across the open plain. To the left and front a cavalry brigade was seen,
jogging along at an easy trot in a blaze of sunshine. The entire wide horizon, usually so silent
and deserted, was alive and populous with those streams of men, pressing onward, onward, in
long drawn, black array, like the innumerable throng of insects from some gigantic ant-hill.

About nine o'clock the regiment left the Chalons road and wheeled to the left into another
that led to Suippe, which, like the first, extended, straight as an arrow's flight, far as
the eye could see. The men marched at the route-step in two straggling files along either side
of the road, thus leaving the central space free for the officers, and Maurice could not help
noticing their anxious, care-worn air, in striking contrast with the jollity and good-humor
of the soldiers, who were happy as children to be on the move once more. As the squad was near
the head of the column he could even distinguish the Colonel, M. de Vineuil, in the distance,
and was impressed by the grave earnestness of his manner, and his tall, rigid form, swaying
in cadence to the motion of his charger. The band had been sent back to the rear, to keep company
with the regimental wagons; it played but once during that entire campaign. Then came the ambulances
and engineer's train attached to the division, and succeeding that the corps train, an interminable
procession of forage wagons, closed vans for stores, carts for baggage, and vehicles of every
known description, occupying a space of road nearly four miles in length, and which, at the
infrequent curves in the highway, they could see winding behind them like the tail of some
great serpent. And last of all, at the extreme rear of the column, came the herds, "rations
on the hoof," a surging, bleating, bellowing mass of sheep and oxen, urged on by blows and
raising clouds of dust, reminding one of the old warlike peoples of the East and their migrations.

Lapoulle meantime would every now and then give a hitch of his shoulders in an attempt to shift
the weight of his knapsack when it began to be too heavy. The others, alleging that he was
the strongest, were accustomed to make him carry the various utensils that were common to the
squad, including the big kettle and the water-pail; on this occasion they had even saddled
him with the company shovel, assuring him that it was a badge of honor. So far was he from
complaining that he was now laughing at a song with which Loubet, the tenor of the squad, was
trying to beguile the tedium of the way. Loubet had made himself quite famous by reason of
his knapsack, in which was to be found a little of everything: linen, an extra pair of shoes,
haberdashery, chocolate, brushes, a plate and cup, to say nothing of his regular rations of
biscuit and coffee, and although the all-devouring receptacle also contained his cartridges,
and his blankets were rolled on top of it, together with the shelter-tent and stakes, the load
nevertheless appeared light, such an excellent system he had of packing his trunk, as he himself
expressed it.

"It's a beastly country, all the same!" Chouteau kept repeating from time to time, casting
a look of intense disgust over the dreary plains of "lousy Champagne."

Broad expanses of chalky ground of a dirty white lay before and around them, and seemed to
have no end. Not a farmhouse to be seen anywhere, not a living being; nothing but flocks of
crows, forming small spots of blackness on the immensity of the gray waste. On the left, far
away in the distance, the low hills that bounded the horizon in that direction were crowned
by woods of somber pines, while on the right an unbroken wall of trees indicated the course
of the river Vesle. But over there behind the hills they had seen for the last hour a dense
smoke was rising, the heavy clouds of which obscured the sky and told of a dreadful conflagration
raging at no great distance.

"What is burning over there?" was the question that was on the lips of everyone.

The answer was quickly given and ran through the column from front to rear. The camp of Chalons
had been fired, it was said, by order of the Emperor, to keep the immense collection of stores
there from falling into the hands of the Prussians, and for the last two days it had been going
up in flame and smoke. The cavalry of the rear-guard had been instructed to apply the torch
to two immense warehouses, filled with tents, tent-poles, mattresses, clothing, shoes, blankets,
mess utensils, supplies of every kind sufficient for the equipment of a hundred thousand men.
Stacks of forage also had been lighted, and were blazing like huge beacon-fires, and an oppressive
silence settled down upon the army as it pursued its march across the wide, solitary plain
at sight of that dusky, eddying column that rose from behind the distant hills, filling the
heavens with desolation. All that was to be heard in the bright sunlight was the measured tramp
of many feet upon the hollow ground, while involuntarily the eyes of all were turned on that
livid cloud whose baleful shadows rested on their march for many a league.

Their spirits rose again when they made their midday halt in a field of stubble, where the
men could seat themselves on their unslung knapsacks and refresh themselves with a bite. The
large square biscuits could only be eaten by crumbling them in the soup, but the little round
ones were quite a delicacy, light and appetizing; the only trouble was that they left an intolerable
thirst behind them. Pache sang a hymn, being invited thereto, the squad joining in the chorus.
Jean smiled good-naturedly without attempting to check them in their amusement, while Maurice,
at sight of the universal cheerfulness and the good order with which their first day's march
was conducted, felt a revival of confidence. The remainder of the allotted task of the day
was performed with the same light-hearted alacrity, although the last five miles tried their
endurance. They had abandoned the high road, leaving the village of Prosnes to their right,
in order to avail themselves of a short cut across a sandy heath diversified by an occasional
thin pine wood, and the entire division, with its interminable train at its heels, turned and
twisted in and out among the trees, sinking ankle deep in the yielding sand at every step.
It seemed as if the cheerless waste would never end; all that they met was a flock of very
lean sheep, guarded by a big black dog.

It was about four o'clock when at last the 106th halted for the night at Dontrien, a small
village on the banks of the Suippe. The little stream winds among some pretty groves of trees;
the old church stands in the middle of the graveyard, which is shaded in its entire extent
by a magnificent chestnut. The regiment pitched its tents on the left bank, in a meadow that
sloped gently down to the margin of the river. The officers said that all the four corps would
bivouac that evening on the line of the Suippe between Auberive and Hentregiville, occupying
the intervening villages of Dontrien, Betheniville and Pont-Faverger, making a line of battle
nearly five leagues long.

Gaude immediately gave the call for "distribution," and Jean had to run for it, for the corporal
was steward-in-chief, and it behooved him to be on the lookout to protect his men's interests.
He had taken Lapoulle with him, and in a quarter of an hour they returned with some ribs of
beef and a bundle of firewood. In the short space of time succeeding their arrival three steers
of the herd that followed the column had been knocked in the head under a great oak-tree, skinned,
and cut up. Lapoulle had to return for bread, which the villagers of Dontrien had been baking
all that afternoon in their ovens. There was really no lack of anything on that first day,
setting aside wine and tobacco, with which the troops were to be obliged to dispense during
the remainder of the campaign.

Upon Jean's return he found Chouteau engaged in raising the tent, assisted by Pache; he looked
at them for a moment with the critical eye of an old soldier who had no great opinion of their
abilities.

"It will do very well if the weather is fine to-night," he said at last, "but if it should
come on to blow we would like enough wake up and find ourselves in the river. Let me show you."

And he was about to send Maurice with the large pail for water, but the young man had sat down
on the ground, taken off his shoe, and was examining his right foot.

"Hallo, there! what's the matter with you?"

"My shoe has chafed my foot and raised a blister. My other shoes were worn out, and when we
were at Rheims I bought these, like a big fool, because they were a good fit. I should have
selected gunboats."

Jean kneeled and took the foot in his hand, turning it over as carefully as if it had been
a little child's, with a disapproving shake of his head.

"You must be careful; it is no laughing matter, a thing like that. A soldier without the use
of his feet is of no good to himself or anyone else. When we were in Italy my captain used
always to say that it is the men's legs that win battles."

He bade Pache go for the water, no very hard task, as the river was but a few yards away, and
Loubet, having in the meantime dug a shallow trench and lit his fire, was enabled to commence
operations on his _pot-au-feu_, which he did by putting on the big kettle full of water and
plunging into it the meat that he had previously corded together with a bit of twine, _secundum
artem_. Then it was solid comfort for them to watch the boiling of the soup; the whole squad,
their chores done up and their day's labor ended, stretched themselves on the grass around
the fire in a family group, full of tender anxiety for the simmering meat, while Loubet occasionally
stirred the pot with a gravity fitted to the importance of his position. Like children and
savages, their sole instinct was to eat and sleep, careless of the morrow, while advancing
to face unknown risks and dangers.

But Maurice had unpacked his knapsack and come across a newspaper that he had bought at Rheims,
and Chouteau asked:

"Is there anything about the Prussians in it? Read us the news!"

They were a happy family under Jean's mild despotism. Maurice good-naturedly read such news
as he thought might interest them, while Pache, the seamstress of the company, mended his greatcoat
for him and Lapoulle cleaned his musket. The first item was a splendid victory won by Bazaine,
who had driven an entire Prussian corps into the quarries of Jaumont, and the trumped-up tale
was told with an abundance of dramatic detail, how men and horses went over the precipice and
were crushed on the rocks beneath out of all semblance of humanity, so that there was not one
whole corpse found for burial. Then there were minute details of the pitiable condition of
the German armies ever since they had invaded France: the ill-fed, poorly equipped soldiers
were actually falling from inanition and dying by the roadside of horrible diseases. Another
article told how the king of Prussia had the diarrhea, and how Bismarck had broken his leg
in jumping from the window of an inn where a party of zouaves had just missed capturing him.
Capital news! Lapoulle laughed over it as if he would split his sides, while Chouteau and the
others, without expressing the faintest doubt, chuckled at the idea that soon they would be
picking up Prussians as boys pick up sparrows in a field after a hail-storm. But they laughed
loudest at old Bismarck's accident; oh! the zouaves and the turcos, they were the boys for
one's money! It was said that the Germans were in an ecstasy of fear and rage, declaring that
it was unworthy of a nation that claimed to be civilized to employ such heathen savages in
its armies. Although they had been decimated at Froeschwiller, the foreign troops seemed to
have a good deal of life left in them.

It was just striking six from the steeple of the little church of Dontrien when Loubet shouted:

"Come to supper!"

The squad lost no time in seating themselves in a circle. At the very last moment Loubet had
succeeded in getting some vegetables from a peasant who lived hard by. That made the crowning
glory of the feast: a soup perfumed with carrots and onions, that went down the throat soft
as velvet--what could they have desired more? The spoons rattled merrily in the little wooden
bowls. Then it devolved on Jean, who always served the portions, to distribute the beef, and
it behooved him that day to do it with the strictest impartiality, for hungry eyes were watching
him and there would have been a growl had anyone received a larger piece than his neighbors.
They concluded by licking the porringers, and were smeared with soup up to their eyes.

"Ah, _nom de Dieu!_" Chouteau declared when he had finished, throwing himself flat on his back;
"I would rather take that than a beating, any day!"

Maurice, too, whose foot pained him less now that he could give it a little rest, was conscious
of that sensation of well-being that is the result of a full stomach. He was beginning to take
more kindly to his rough companions, and to bring himself down nearer to their level under
the pressure of the physical necessities of their life in common. That night he slept the same
deep sleep as did his five tent-mates; they all huddled close together, finding the sensation
of animal warmth not disagreeable in the heavy dew that fell. It is necessary to state that
Lapoulle, at the instigation of Loubet, had gone to a stack not far away and feloniously appropriated
a quantity of straw, in which our six gentlemen snored as if it had been a bed of down. And
from Auberive to Hentregiville, along the pleasant banks of the Suippe as it meandered sluggishly
between its willows, the fires of those hundred thousand sleeping men illuminated the starlit
night for fifteen miles, like a long array of twinkling stars.

At sunrise they made coffee, pulverizing the berries in a wooden bowl with a musket-butt, throwing
the powder into boiling water, and settling it with a drop of cold water. The luminary rose
that morning in a bank of purple and gold, affording a spectacle of royal magnificence, but
Maurice had no eye for such displays, and Jean, with the weather-wisdom of a peasant, cast
an anxious glance at the red disk, which presaged rain; and it was for that reason that, the
surplus of bread baked the day before having been distributed and the squad having received
three loaves, he reproved severely Loubet and Pache for making them fast on the outside of
their knapsacks; but the tents were folded and the knapsacks packed, and so no one paid any
attention to him. Six o'clock was sounding from all the bells of the village when the army
put itself in motion and stoutly resumed its advance in the bright hopefulness of the dawn
of the new day.

The 106th, in order to reach the road that leads from Rheims to Vouziers, struck into a cross-road,
and for more than an hour their way was an ascending one. Below them, toward the north, Betheniville
was visible among the trees, where the Emperor was reported to have slept, and when they reached
the Vouziers road the level country of the preceding day again presented itself to their gaze
and the lean fields of "lousy Champagne" stretched before them in wearisome monotony. They
now had the Arne, an insignificant stream, flowing on their left, while to the right the treeless,
naked country stretched far as the eye could see in an apparently interminable horizon. They
passed through a village or two: Saint-Clement, with its single winding street bordered by
a double row of houses, Saint-Pierre, a little town of miserly rich men who had barricaded
their doors and windows. The long halt occurred about ten o'clock, near another village, Saint-Etienne,
where the men were highly delighted to find tobacco once more. The 7th corps had been cut up
into several columns, and the 106th headed one of these columns, having behind it only a battalion
of chasseurs and the reserve artillery. Maurice turned his head at every bend in the road to
catch a glimpse of the long train that had so excited his interest the day before, but in vain;
the herds had gone off in some other direction, and all he could see was the guns, looming
inordinately large upon those level plains, like monster insects of somber mien.

After leaving Saint-Etienne, however, there was a change for the worse, and the road from bad
became abominable, rising by an easy ascent between great sterile fields in which the only
signs of vegetation were the everlasting pine woods with their dark verdure, forming a dismal
contrast with the gray-white soil. It was the most forlorn spot they had seen yet. The ill-paved
road, washed by the recent rains, was a lake of mud, of tenacious, slippery gray clay, which
held the men's feet like so much pitch. It was wearisome work; the troops were exhausted and
could not get forward, and as if things were not bad enough already, the rain suddenly began
to come down most violently. The guns were mired and had to be left in the road.

Chouteau, who had been given the squad's rice to carry, fatigued and exasperated with his heavy
load, watched for an opportunity when no one was looking and dropped the package. But Loubet
had seen him.

"See here, that's no way! you ought not to do that. The comrades will be hungry by and by."

"Let be!" replied Chouteau. "There is plenty of rice; they will give us more at the end of
the march."

And Loubet, who had the bacon, convinced by such cogent reasoning, dropped his load in turn.

Maurice was suffering more and more with his foot, of which the heel was badly inflamed. He
limped along in such a pitiable state that Jean's sympathy was aroused.

"Does it hurt? is it no better, eh?" And as the men were halted just then for a breathing spell,
he gave him a bit of good advice. "Take off your shoe and go barefoot; the cool earth will
ease the pain."

And in that way Maurice found that he could keep up with his comrades with some degree of comfort;
he experienced a sentiment of deep gratitude. It was a piece of great good luck that their
squad had a corporal like him, a man who had seen service and knew all the tricks of the trade:
he was an uncultivated peasant, of course, but a good fellow all the same.

It was late when they reached their place of bivouac at Contreuve, after marching a long time
on the Chalons and Vouziers road and descending by a steep path into the valley of the Semide,
up which they came through a stretch of narrow meadows. The landscape had undergone a change;
they were now in the Ardennes, and from the lofty hills above the village where the engineers
had staked off the ground for the 7th corps' camp, the valley of the Aisne was dimly visible
in the distance, veiled in the pale mists of the passing shower.

Six o'clock came and there had been no distribution of rations, whereon Jean, in order to keep
occupied, apprehensive also of the consequences that might result from the high wind that was
springing up, determined to attend in person to the setting up of the tent. He showed his men
how it should be done, selecting a bit of ground that sloped away a little to one side, setting
the pegs at the proper angle, and digging a little trench around the whole to carry off the
water. Maurice was excused from the usual nightly drudgery on account of his sore foot, and
was an interested witness of the intelligence and handiness of the big young fellow whose general
appearance was so stolid and ungainly. He was completely knocked up with fatigue, but the confidence
that they were now advancing with a definite end in view served to sustain him. They had had
a hard time of it since they left Rheims, making nearly forty miles in two days' marching;
if they could maintain the pace and if they kept straight on in the direction they were pursuing,
there could be no doubt that they would destroy the second German army and effect a junction
with Bazaine before the third, the Crown Prince of Prussia's, which was said to be at Vitry-le
Francois, could get up to Verdun.

"Oh, come now! I wonder if they are going to let us starve!" was Chouteau's remark when, at
seven o'clock, there was still no sign of rations.

By way of taking time by the forelock, Jean had instructed Loubet to light the fire and put
on the pot, and, as there was no issue of firewood, he had been compelled to be blind to the
slight irregularity of the proceeding when that individual remedied the omission by tearing
the palings from an adjacent fence. When he suggested knocking up a dish of bacon and rice,
however, the truth had to come out, and he was informed that the rice and bacon were lying
in the mud of the Saint-Etienne road. Chouteau lied with the greatest effrontery declaring
that the package must have slipped from his shoulders without his noticing it.

"You are a couple of pigs!" Jean shouted angrily, "to throw away good victuals, when there
are so many poor devils going with an empty stomach!"

It was the same with the three loaves that had been fastened outside the knapsacks; they had
not listened to his warning, and the consequence was that the rain had soaked the bread and
reduced it to paste.

"A pretty pickle we are in!" he continued. "We had food in plenty, and now here we are, without
a crumb! Ah! you are a pair of dirty pigs!"

At that moment the first sergeant's call was heard, and Sergeant Sapin, returning presently
with his usual doleful air, informed the men that it would be impossible to distribute rations
that evening, and that they would have to content themselves with what eatables they had on
their persons. It was reported that the trains had been delayed by the bad weather, and as
to the herds, they must have straggled off as a result of conflicting orders. Subsequently
it became known that on that day the 5th and 12th corps had got up to Rethel, where the headquarters
of the army were established, and the inhabitants of the neighboring villages, possessed with
a mad desire to see the Emperor, had inaugurated a hegira toward that town, taking with them
everything in the way of provisions; so that when the 7th corps came up they found themselves
in a land of nakedness: no bread, no meat, no people, even. To add to their distress a misconception
of orders had caused the supplies of the commissary department to be directed on Chene-Populeux.
This was a state of affairs that during the entire campaign formed the despair of the wretched
commissaries, who had to endure the abuse and execrations of the whole army, while their sole
fault lay in being punctual at rendezvous at which the troops failed to appear.

"It serves you right, you dirty pigs!" continued Jean in his wrath, "and you don't deserve
the trouble that I am going to have in finding you something to eat, for I suppose it is my
duty not to let you starve, all the same." And he started off to see what he could find, as
every good corporal does under such circumstances, taking with him Pache, who was a favorite
on account of his quiet manner, although he considered him rather too priest-ridden.

But Loubet's attention had just been attracted to a little farmhouse, one of the last dwellings
in Contreuve, some two or three hundred yards away, where there seemed to him to be promise
of good results. He called Chouteau and Lapoulle to him and said:

"Come along, and let's see what we can do. I've a notion there's grub to be had over that way."

So Maurice was left to keep up the fire and watch the kettle, in which the water was beginning
to boil. He had seated himself on his blanket and taken off his shoe in order to give his blister
a chance to heal. It amused him to look about the camp and watch the behavior of the different
squads now that there was to be no issue of rations; the deduction that he arrived at was that
some of them were in a chronic state of destitution, while others reveled in continual abundance,
and that these conditions were ascribable to the greater or less degree of tact and foresight
of the corporal and his men. Amid the confusion that reigned about the stacks and tents he
remarked some squads who had not been able even to start a fire, others of which the men had
abandoned hope and lain themselves resignedly down for the night, while others again were ravenously
devouring, no one knew what, something good, no doubt. Another thing that impressed him was
the good order that prevailed in the artillery, which had its camp above him, on the hillside.
The setting sun peeped out from a rift in the clouds and his rays were reflected from the burnished
guns, from which the men had cleansed the coat of mud that they had picked up along the road.

In the meantime General Bourgain-Desfeuilles, commanding the brigade, had found quarters suited
to his taste in the little farmhouse toward which the designs of Loubet and his companions
were directed. He had discovered something that had the semblance of a bed and was seated at
table with a roasted chicken and an omelette before him; consequently he was in the best of
humors, and as Colonel de Vineuil happened in just then on regimental business, had invited
him to dine. They were enjoying their repast, therefore, waited on by a tall, light-haired
individual who had been in the farmer's service only three days and claimed to be an Alsatian,
one of those who had been forced to leave their country after the disaster of Froeschwiller.
The general did not seem to think it necessary to use any restraint in presence of the man,
commenting freely on the movements of the army, and finally, forgetful of the fact that he
was not an inhabitant of the country, began to question him about localities and distances.
His questions displayed such utter ignorance of the country that the colonel, who had once
lived at Mezieres, was astounded; he gave such information as he had at command, which elicited
from the chief the exclamation:

"It is just like our idiotic government! How can they expect us to fight in a country of which
we know nothing?"

The colonel's face assumed a look of vague consternation. He knew that immediately upon the
declaration of war maps of Germany had been distributed among the officers, while it was quite
certain that not one of them had a map of France. He was amazed and confounded by what he had
seen and heard since the opening of the campaign. His unquestioned bravery was his distinctive
trait; he was a somewhat weak and not very brilliant commander, which caused him to be more
loved than respected in his regiment.

"It's too bad that a man can't eat his dinner in peace!" the general suddenly blurted out.
"What does all that uproar mean? Go and see what the matter is, you Alsatian fellow!"

But the farmer anticipated him by appearing at the door, sobbing and gesticulating like a crazy
man. They were robbing him, the zouaves and chasseurs were plundering his house. As he was
the only one in the village who had anything to sell he had foolishly allowed himself to be
persuaded to open shop. At first he had sold his eggs and chickens, his rabbits, and potatoes,
without exacting an extortionate profit, pocketing his money and delivering the merchandise;
then the customers had streamed in in a constantly increasing throng, jostling and worrying
the old man, finally crowding him aside and taking all he had without pretense of payment.
And thus it was throughout the war; if many peasants concealed their property and even denied
a drink of water to the thirsty soldier, it was because of their fear of the irresistible inroads
of that ocean of men, who swept everything clean before them, thrusting the wretched owners
from their houses and beggaring them.

"Eh! will you hold your tongue, old man!" shouted the general in disgust. "Those rascals ought
to be shot at the rate of a dozen a day. What is one to do?" And to avoid taking the measures
that the case demanded he gave orders to close the door, while the colonel explained to him
that there had been no issue of rations and the men were hungry.

While these things were going on within the house Loubet outside had discovered a field of
potatoes; he and Lapoulle scaled the fence and were digging the precious tubers with their
hands and stuffing their pockets with them when Chouteau, who in the pursuit of knowledge was
looking over a low wall, gave a shrill whistle that called them hurriedly to his side. They
uttered an exclamation of wonder and delight; there was a flock of geese, ten fat, splendid
geese, pompously waddling about a small yard. A council of war was held forthwith, and it was
decided that Lapoulle should storm the place and make prisoners of the garrison. The conflict
was a bloody one; the venerable gander on which the soldier laid his predaceous hands had nearly
deprived him of his nose with its bill, hard and sharp as a tailor's shears. Then he caught
it by the neck and tried to choke it, but the bird tore his trousers with its strong claws
and pummeled him about the body with its great wings. He finally ended the battle by braining
it with his fist, and it had not ceased to struggle when he leaped the wall, hotly pursued
by the remainder of the flock, pecking viciously at his legs.

When they got back to camp, with the unfortunate gander and the potatoes hidden in a bag, they
found that Jean and Pache had also been successful in their expedition, and had enriched the
common larder with four loaves of fresh bread and a cheese that they had purchased from a worthy
old woman.

"The water is boiling and we will make some coffee," said the corporal. "Here are bread and
cheese; it will be a regular feast!"

He could not help laughing, however, when he looked down and saw the goose lying at his feet.
He raised it, examining and hefting it with the judgment of an expert.

"Ah! upon my word, a fine bird! it must weigh twenty pounds."

"We were out walking and met the bird," Loubet explained in an unctuously sanctimonious voice,
"and it insisted on making our acquaintance."

Jean made no reply, but his manner showed that he wished to hear nothing more of the matter.
Men must live, and then why in the name of common sense should not those poor fellows, who
had almost forgotten how poultry tasted, have a treat once in a way!

Loubet had already kindled the fire into a roaring blaze; Pache and Lapoulle set to work to
pluck the goose; Chouteau, who had run off to the artillerymen and begged a bit of twine, came
back and stretched it between two bayonets; the bird was suspended in front of the hot fire
and Maurice was given a cleaning rod and enjoined to keep it turning. The big tin basin was
set beneath to catch the gravy. It was a triumph of culinary art; the whole regiment, attracted
by the savory odor, came and formed a circle about the fire and licked their chops. And what
a feast it was! roast goose, boiled potatoes, bread, cheese, and coffee! When Jean had dissected
the bird the squad applied itself vigorously to the task before it; there was no talk of portions,
every man ate as much as he was capable of holding. They even sent a plate full over to the
artillerymen who had furnished the cord.

The officers of the regiment that evening were a very hungry set of men, for owing to some
mistake the canteen wagon was among the missing, gone off to look after the corps train, maybe.
If the men were inconvenienced when there was no issue of ration they scarcely ever failed
to find something to eat in the end; they helped one another out; the men of the different
squads "chipped in" their resources, each contributing his mite, while the officer, with no
one to look to save himself, was in a fair way of starving as soon as he had not the canteen
to fall back on. So there was a sneer on Chouteau's face, buried in the carcass of the goose,
as he saw Captain Beaudoin go by with his prim, supercilious air, for he had heard that officer
summoning down imprecations on the driver of the missing wagon; and he gave him an evil look
out of the corner of his eye.

"Just look at him! See, his nose twitches like a rabbit's. He would give a dollar for the pope's
nose."

They all made merry at the expense of the captain, who was too callow and too harsh to be a
favorite with his men; they called him a _pete-sec_. He seemed on the point of taking the squad
in hand for the scandal they were creating with their goose dinner, but thought better of the
matter, ashamed, probably, to show his hunger, and walked off, holding his head very erect,
as if he had seen nothing.

As for Lieutenant Rochas, who was also conscious of a terribly empty sensation in his epigastric
region, he put on a brave face and laughed good-naturedly as he passed the thrice-lucky squad.
His men adored him, in the first place because he was at sword's points with the captain, that
little whipper-snapper from Saint-Cyr, and also because he had once carried a musket like themselves.
He was not always easy to get along with, however, and there were times when they would have
given a good deal could they have cuffed him for his brutality.

Jean glanced inquiringly at his comrades, and their mute reply being propitious, arose and
beckoned to Rochas to follow him behind the tent.

"See here, Lieutenant, I hope you won't be offended, but if it is agreeable to you--"

And he handed him half a loaf of bread and a wooden bowl in which there were a second joint
of the bird and six big mealy potatoes.

That night again the six men required no rocking; they digested their dinner while sleeping
the sleep of the just. They had reason to thank the corporal for the scientific way in which
he had set up their tent, for they were not even conscious of a small hurricane that blew up
about two o'clock, accompanied by a sharp down-pour of rain; some of the tents were blown down,
and the men, wakened out of their sound slumber, were drenched and had to scamper in the pitchy
darkness, while theirs stood firm and they were warm and dry, thanks to the ingenious device
of the trench.

Maurice awoke at daylight, and as they were not to march until eight o'clock it occurred to
him to walk out to the artillery camp on the hill and say how do you do to his cousin Honore.
His foot was less painful after his good night's rest. His wonder and admiration were again
excited by the neatness and perfect order that prevailed throughout the encampment, the six
guns of a battery aligned with mathematical precision and accompanied by their caissons, prolonges,
forage-wagons, and forges. A short way off, lined up to their rope, stood the horses, whinnying
impatiently and turning their muzzles to the rising sun. He had no difficulty in finding Honore's
tent, thanks to the regulation which assigns to the men of each piece a separate street, so
that a single glance at a camp suffices to show the number of guns.

When Maurice reached his destination the artillerymen were already stirring and about to drink
their coffee, and a quarrel had arisen between Adolphe, the forward driver, and Louis, the
gunner, his mate. For the entire three years that they had been "married," in accordance with
the custom which couples a driver with a gunner, they had lived happily together, with the
one exception of meal-times. Louis, an intelligent man and the better informed of the two,
did not grumble at the airs of superiority that are affected by every mounted over every unmounted
man: he pitched the tent, made the soup, and did the chores, while Adolphe groomed his horses
with the pride of a reigning potentate. When the former, a little black, lean man, afflicted
with an enormous appetite, rose in arms against the exactions of the latter, a big, burly fellow
with huge blonde mustaches, who insisted on being waited on like a lord, then the fun began.
The subject matter of the dispute on the present morning was that Louis, who had made the coffee,
accused Adolphe of having drunk it all. It required some diplomacy to reconcile them.

Not a morning passed that Honore failed to go and look after his piece, seeing to it that it
was carefully dried and cleansed from the night dew, as if it had been a favorite animal that
he was fearful might take cold, and there it was that Maurice found him, exercising his paternal
supervision in the crisp morning air.

"Ah, it's you! I knew that the 106th was somewhere in the vicinity; I got a letter from Remilly
yesterday and was intending to start out and hunt you up. Let's go and have a glass of white wine."

For the sake of privacy he conducted his cousin to the little farmhouse that the soldiers had
looted the day before, where the old peasant, undeterred by his losses and allured by the prospect
of turning an honest penny, had tapped a cask of wine and set up a kind of public bar. He had
extemporized a counter from a board rested on two empty barrels before the door of his house,
and over it he dealt out his stock in trade at four sous a glass, assisted by the strapping
young Alsatian whom he had taken into his service three days before.

As Honore was touching glasses with Maurice his eyes lighted on this man. He gazed at him a
moment as if stupefied, then let slip a terrible oath.

"_Tonnerre de Dieu!_ Goliah!"

And he darted forward and would have caught him by the throat, but the peasant, foreseeing
in his action a repetition of his yesterday's experience, jumped quickly within the house and
locked the door behind him. For a moment confusion reigned about the premises; soldiers came
rushing up to see what was going on, while the quartermaster-sergeant shouted at the top of
his voice:

"Open the door, open the door, you confounded idiot! It is a spy, I tell you, a Prussian spy!"

Maurice doubted no longer; there was no room for mistake now; the Alsatian was certainly the
man whom he had seen arrested at the camp of Mulhausen and released because there was not evidence
enough to hold him, and that man was Goliah, old Fouchard's quondam assistant on his farm at
Remilly. When finally the peasant opened his door the house was searched from top to bottom,
but to no purpose; the bird had flown, the gawky Alsatian, the tow-headed, simple-faced lout
whom General Bourgain-Desfeuilles had questioned the day before at dinner without learning
anything and before whom, in the innocence of his heart, he had disclosed things that would
have better been kept secret. It was evident enough that the scamp had made his escape by a
back window which was found open, but the hunt that was immediately started throughout the
village and its environs had no results; the fellow, big as he was, had vanished as utterly
as a smoke-wreath dissolves upon the air.

Maurice thought it best to take Honore away, lest in his distracted state he might reveal to
the spectators unpleasant family secrets which they had no concern to know.

"_Tonnerre de Dieu!_" he cried again, "it would have done me such good to strangle him!--The
letter that I was speaking of revived all my old hatred for him."

And the two of them sat down upon the ground against a stack of rye a little way from the house,
and he handed the letter to his cousin.

It was the old story: the course of Honore Fouchard's and Silvine Morange's love had not run
smooth. She, a pretty, meek-eyed, brown-haired girl, had in early childhood lost her mother,
an operative in one of the factories of Raucourt, and Doctor Dalichamp, her godfather, a worthy
man who was greatly addicted to adopting the wretched little beings whom he ushered into the
world, had conceived the idea of placing her in Father Fouchard's family as small maid of all
work. True it was that the old boor was a terrible skinflint and a harsh, stern taskmaster;
he had gone into the butchering business from sordid love of lucre, and his cart was to be
seen daily, rain or shine, on the roads of twenty communes; but if the child was willing to
work she would have a home and a protector, perhaps some small prospect in the future. At all
events she would be spared the contamination of the factory. And naturally enough it came to
pass that in old Fouchard's household the son and heir and the little maid of all work fell
in love with each other. Honore was then just turned sixteen and she was twelve, and when she
was sixteen and he twenty there was a drawing for the army; Honore, to his great delight, secured
a lucky number and determined to marry. Nothing had ever passed between them, thanks to the
unusual delicacy that was inherent in the lad's tranquil, thoughtful nature, more than an occasional
hug and a furtive kiss in the barn. But when he spoke of the marriage to his father, the old
man, who had the stubbornness of the mule, angrily told him that his son might kill him, but
never, never would he consent, and continued to keep the girl about the house, not worrying
about the matter, expecting it would soon blow over. For two years longer the young folks kept
on adoring and desiring each other, and never the least breath of scandal sullied their names.
Then one day there was a frightful quarrel between the two men, after which the young man,
feeling he could no longer endure his father's tyranny, enlisted and was packed off to Africa,
while the butcher still retained the servant-maid, because she was useful to him. Soon after
that a terrible thing happened: Silvine, who had sworn that she would be true to her lover
and await his return, was detected one day, two short weeks after his departure, in the company
of a laborer who had been working on the farm for some months past, that Goliah Steinberg,
the Prussian, as he was called; a tall, simple young fellow with short, light hair, wearing
a perpetual smile on his broad, pink face, who had made himself Honore's chum. Had Father Fouchard
traitorously incited the man to take advantage of the girl? or had Silvine, sick at heart and
prostrated by the sorrow of parting with her lover, yielded in a moment of unconsciousness?
She could not tell herself; was dazed, and saw herself driven by the necessity of her situation
to a marriage with Goliah. He, for his part, always with the everlasting smile on his face,
made no objection, only insisted on deferring the ceremony until the child should be born.
When that event occurred he suddenly disappeared; it was rumored, subsequently that he had
found work on another farm, over Beaumont way. These things had happened three years before
the breaking out of the war, and now everyone was convinced that that artless, simple Goliah,
who had such a way of ingratiating himself with the girls, was none else than one of those
Prussian spies who filled our eastern provinces. When Honore learned the tidings over in Africa
he was three months in hospital, as if the fierce sun of that country had smitten him on the
neck with one of his fiery javelins, and never thereafter did he apply for leave of absence
to return to his country for fear lest he might again set eyes on Silvine and her child.

The artilleryman's hands shook with agitation as Maurice perused the letter. It was from Silvine,
the first, the only one that she had ever written him. What had been her guiding impulse, that
silent, submissive woman, whose handsome black eyes at times manifested a startling fixedness
of purpose in the midst of her never-ending slavery? She simply said that she knew he was with
the army, and though she might never see him again, she could not endure the thought that he
might die and believe that she had ceased to love him. She loved him still, had never loved
another; and this she repeated again and again through four closely written pages, in words
of unvarying import, without the slightest word of excuse for herself, without even attempting
to explain what had happened. There was no mention of the child, nothing but an infinitely
mournful and tender farewell.

The letter produced a profound impression upon Maurice, to whom his cousin had once imparted
the whole story. He raised his eyes and saw that Honore was weeping; he embraced him like a
brother.

"My poor Honore."

But the sergeant quickly got the better of his emotion. He carefully restored the letter to
its place over his heart and rebuttoned his jacket.

"Yes, those are things that a man does not forget. Ah! the scoundrel, if I could but have laid
hands on him! But we shall see."

The bugles were sounding the signal to prepare for breaking camp, and each had to hurry away
to rejoin his command. The preparations for departure dragged, however, and the troops had
to stand waiting in heavy marching order until nearly nine o'clock. A feeling of hesitancy
seemed to have taken possession of their leaders; there was not the resolute alacrity of the
first two days, when the 7th corps had accomplished forty miles in two marches. Strange and
alarming news, moreover, had been circulating through the camp since morning, that the three
other corps were marching northward, the 1st at Juniville, the 5th and 12th at Rethel, and
this deviation from their route was accounted for on the ground of the necessities of the commissariat.
Montmedy had ceased to be their objective, then? why were they thus idling away their time
again? What was most alarming of all was that the Prussians could not now be far away, for
the officers had cautioned their men not to fall behind the column, as all stragglers were
liable to be picked up by the enemy's light cavalry. It was the 25th of August, and Maurice,
when he subsequently recalled to mind Goliah's disappearance, was certain that the man had
been instrumental in affording the German staff exact information as to the movements of the
army of Chalons, and thus producing the change of front of their third army. The succeeding
morning the Crown Prince of Prussia left Revigny and the great maneuver was initiated, that
gigantic movement by the flank, surrounding and enmeshing us by a series of forced marches
conducted in the most admirable order through Champagne and the Ardennes. While the French
were stumbling aimlessly about the country, oscillating uncertainly between one place and another,
the Prussians were making their twenty miles a day and more, gradually contracting their immense
circle of beaters upon the band of men whom they held within their toils, and driving their
prey onward toward the forests of the frontier.

A start was finally made, and the result of the day's movement showed that the army was pivoting
on its left; the 7th corps only traversed the two short leagues between Contreuve and Vouziers,
while the 5th and 12th corps did not stir from Rethel, and the 1st went no farther than Attigny.
Between Contreuve and the valley of the Aisne the country became level again and was more bare
than ever; as they drew near to Vouziers the road wound among desolate hills and naked gray
fields, without a tree, without a house, as gloomy and forbidding as a desert, and the day's
march, short as it was, was accomplished with such fatigue and distress that it seemed interminably
long. Soon after midday, however, the 1st and 3d divisions had passed through the city and
encamped in the meadows on the farther bank of the Aisne, while a brigade of the second, which
included the 106th, had remained upon the left bank, bivouacking among the waste lands of which
the low foot-hills overlooked the valley, observing from their position the Monthois road,
which skirts the stream and by which the enemy was expected to make his appearance.

And Maurice was dumfoundered to behold advancing along that Monthois road Margueritte's entire
division, the body of cavalry to which had been assigned the duty of supporting the 7th corps
and watching the left flank of the army. The report was that it was on its way to Chene-Populeux.
Why was the left wing, where alone they were threatened by the enemy, stripped in that manner?
What sense was there in summoning in upon the center, where they could be of no earthly use,
those two thousand horsemen, who should have been dispersed upon our flank, leagues away, as
videttes to observe the enemy? And what made matters worse was that they caused the greatest
confusion among the columns of the 7th corps, cutting in upon their line of march and producing
an inextricable jam of horses, guns, and men. A squadron of chasseurs d'Afrique were halted
for near two hours at the gate of Vouziers, and by the merest chance Maurice stumbled on Prosper,
who had ridden his horse down to the bank of a neighboring pond to let him drink, and the two
men were enabled to exchange a few words. The chasseur appeared stunned, dazed, knew nothing
and had seen nothing since they left Rheims; yes, though, he had: he had seen two uhlans more;
oh! but they were will o' the wisps, phantoms, they were, that appeared and vanished, and no
one could tell whence they came nor whither they went. Their fame had spread, and stories of
them were already rife throughout the country, such, for instance, as that of four uhlans galloping
into a town with drawn revolvers and taking possession of it, when the corps to which they
belonged was a dozen miles away. They were everywhere, preceding the columns like a buzzing,
stinging swarm of bees, a living curtain, behind which the infantry could mask their movements
and march and countermarch as securely as if they were at home upon parade. And Maurice's heart
sank in his bosom as he looked at the road, crowded with chasseurs and hussars which our leaders
put to such poor use.

"Well, then, _au revoir_," said he, shaking Prosper by the hand; "perhaps they will find something
for you to do down yonder, after all."

But the chasseur appeared disgusted with the task assigned him. He sadly stroked Poulet's neck
and answered:

"Ah, what's the use talking! they kill our horses and let us rot in idleness. It is sickening."

When Maurice took off his shoe that evening to have a look at his foot, which was aching and
throbbing feverishly, the skin came with it; the blood spurted forth and he uttered a cry of
pain. Jean was standing by, and exhibited much pity and concern.

"Look here, that is becoming serious; you are going to lie right down and not attempt to move.
That foot of yours must be attended to. Let me see it."

He knelt down, washed the sore with his own hands and bound it up with some clean linen that
he took from his knapsack. He displayed the gentleness of a woman and the deftness of a surgeon,
whose big fingers can be so pliant when necessity requires it.

A great wave of tenderness swept over Maurice, his eyes were dimmed with tears, the familiar
_thou_ rose from his heart to his lips with an irresistible impulse of affection, as if in
that peasant whom he once had hated and abhorred, whom only yesterday he had despised, he had
discovered a long lost brother.

"Thou art a good fellow, thou! Thanks, good friend."

And Jean, too, looking very happy, dropped into the second person singular, with his tranquil
smile.

"Now, my little one, wilt thou have a cigarette? I have some tobacco left."

                                 V.

On the morning of the following day, the 26th, Maurice arose with stiffened limbs and an aching
back, the result of his night under the tent. He was not accustomed yet to sleeping on the
bare ground; orders had been given before the men turned in that they were not to remove their
shoes, and during the night the sergeants had gone the rounds, feeling in the darkness to see
if all were properly shod and gaitered, so that his foot was much inflamed and very painful.
In addition to his other troubles he had imprudently stretched his legs outside the canvas
to relieve their cramped feeling and taken cold in them.

Jean said as soon as he set eyes on him:

"If we are to do any marching to-day, my lad, you had better see the surgeon and get him to
give you a place in one of the wagons."

But no one seemed to know what were the plans for the day, and the most conflicting reports
prevailed. It appeared for a moment as if they were about to resume their march; the tents
were struck and the entire corps took the road and passed through Vouziers, leaving on the
right bank of the Aisne only one brigade of the second division, apparently to continue the
observation of the Monthois road; but all at once, as soon as they had put the town behind
them and were on the left bank of the stream, they halted and stacked muskets in the fields
and meadows that skirt the Grand-Pre road on either hand, and the departure of the 4th hussars,
who just then moved off on that road at a sharp trot, afforded fresh food for conjecture.

"If we are to remain here I shall stay with you," declared Maurice, who was not attracted by
the prospect of riding in an ambulance.

It soon became known that they were to occupy their present camp until General Douay could
obtain definite information as to the movements of the enemy. The general had been harassed
by an intense and constantly increasing anxiety since the day before, when he had seen Margueritte's
division moving toward Chene, for he knew that his flank was uncovered, that there was not
a man to watch the passes of the Argonne, and that he was liable to be attacked at any moment.
Therefore he had sent out the 4th hussars to reconnoiter the country as far as the defiles
of Grand-Pre and Croix-aux-Bois, with strict orders not to return without intelligence.

There had been an issue of bread, meat, and forage the day before, thanks to the efficient
mayor of Vouziers, and about ten o'clock that morning permission had been granted the men to
make soup, in the fear that they might not soon again have so good an opportunity, when another
movement of troops, the departure of Bordas' brigade over the road taken by the hussars, set
all tongues wagging afresh. What! were they going to march again? were they not to be given
a chance to eat their breakfast in peace, now that the kettle was on the fire? But the officers
explained that Bordas' brigade had only been sent to occupy Buzancy, a few kilometers from
there. There were others, indeed, who asserted that the hussars had encountered a strong force
of the enemy's cavalry and that the brigade had been dispatched to help them out of their difficulty.

Maurice enjoyed a few hours of delicious repose. He had thrown himself on the ground in a field
half way up the hill where the regiment had halted, and in a drowsy state between sleeping
and waking was contemplating the verdant valley of the Aisne, the smiling meadows dotted with
clumps of trees, among which the little stream wound lazily. Before him and closing the valley
in that direction lay Vouziers, an amphitheater of roofs rising one above another and overtopped
by the church with its slender spire and dome-crowned tower. Below him, near the bridge, smoke
was curling upward from the tall chimneys of the tanneries, while farther away a great mill
displayed its flour-whitened buildings among the fresh verdure of the growths that lined the
waterside. The little town that lay there, bounding his horizon, hidden among the stately trees,
appeared to him to possess a gentle charm; it brought him memories of boyhood, of the journeys
that he had made to Vouziers in other days, when he had lived at Chene, the village where he
was born. For an hour he was oblivious of the outer world.

The soup had long since been made and eaten and everyone was waiting to see what would happen
next, when, about half-past two o'clock, the smoldering excitement began to gain strength,
and soon pervaded the entire camp. Hurried orders came to abandon the meadows, and the troops
ascended a line of hills between two villages, Chestres and Falaise, some two or three miles
apart, and took position there. Already the engineers were at work digging rifle-pits and throwing
up epaulments; while over to the left the artillery had occupied the summit of a rounded eminence.
The rumor spread that General Bordas had sent in a courier to announce that he had encountered
the enemy in force at Grand-Pre and had been compelled to fall back on Buzancy, which gave
cause to apprehend that he might soon be cut off from retreat on Vouziers. For these reasons,
the commander of the 7th corps, believing an attack to be imminent, had placed his men in position
to sustain the first onset until the remainder of the army should have time to come to his
assistance, and had started off one of his aides-de-camp with a letter to the marshal, apprising
him of the danger, and asking him for re-enforcements. Fearing for the safety of the subsistence
train, which had come up with the corps during the night and was again dragging its interminable
length in the rear, he summarily sent it to the right about and directed it to make the best
of its way to Chagny. Things were beginning to look like fight.

"So, it looks like business this time--eh, Lieutenant?" Maurice ventured to ask Rochas.

"Yes, thank goodness," replied the Lieutenant, his long arms going like windmills. "Wait a
little; you'll find it warm enough!"

The soldiers were all delighted; the animation in the camp was still more pronounced. A feverish
impatience had taken possession of the men, now that they were actually in line of battle between
Chestres and Falaise. At last they were to have a sight of those Prussians who, if the newspapers
were to be believed, were knocked up by their long marches, decimated by sickness, starving,
and in rags, and every man's heart beat high with the prospect of annihilating them at a single
blow.

"We are lucky to come across them again," said Jean. "They've been playing hide-and-seek about
long enough since they slipped through our fingers after their battle down yonder on the frontier.
But are these the same troops that whipped MacMahon, I wonder?"

Maurice could not answer his question with any degree of certainty. It seemed to him hardly
probable, in view of what he had read in the newspapers at Rheims, that the third army, commanded
by the Crown Prince of Prussia, could be at Vouziers, when, only two days before, it was just
on the point of going into camp at Vitry-le-Francois. There had been some talk of a fourth
army, under the Prince of Saxony, which was to operate on the line of the Meuse; this was doubtless
the one that was now before them, although their promptitude in occupying Grand-Pre was a matter
of surprise, considering the distances. But what put the finishing touch to the confusion of
his ideas was his stupefaction to hear General Bourgain-Desfeuilles ask a countryman if the
Meuse did not flow past Buzancy, and if the bridges there were strong. The general announced,
moreover, in the confidence of his sublime ignorance, that a column of one hundred thousand
men was on the way from Grand-Pre to attack them, while another, of sixty thousand, was coming
up by the way of Sainte-Menehould.

"How's your foot, Maurice?" asked Jean.

"It don't hurt now," the other laughingly replied. "If there is to be a fight, I think it will
be quite well."

It was true; his nervous excitement was so great that he was hardly conscious of the ground
on which he trod. To think that in the whole campaign he had not yet burned powder! He had
gone forth to the frontier, he had endured the agony of that terrible night of expectation
before Mulhausen, and had not seen a Prussian, had not fired a shot; then he had retreated
with the rest to Belfort, to Rheims, had now been marching five days trying to find the enemy,
and his useless _chassepot_ was as clean as the day it left the shop, without the least smell
of smoke on it. He felt an aching desire to discharge his piece once, if no more, to relieve
the tension of his nerves. Since the day, near six weeks ago, when he had enlisted in a fit
of enthusiasm, supposing that he would surely have to face the foe in a day or two, all that
he had done had been to tramp up and down the country on his poor, sore feet--the feet of a
man who had lived in luxury, far from the battle-field; and so, among all those impatient watchers,
there was none who watched more impatiently than he the Grand-Pre road, extending straight
away to a seemingly infinite distance between two rows of handsome trees. Beneath him was unrolled
the panorama of the valley; the Aisne was, like a silver ribbon, flowing between its willows
and poplars, and ever his gaze returned, solicited by an irresistible attraction, to that road
down yonder that stretched away, far as the eye could see, to the horizon.

About four o'clock the 4th hussars returned, having made a wide circuit in the country round
about, and stories, which grew as they were repeated, began to circulate of conflicts with
uhlans, tending to confirm the confident belief which everyone had that an attack was imminent.
Two hours later a courier came galloping in, breathless with terror, to announce that General
Bordas had positive information that the enemy were on the Vouziers road, and dared not leave
Grand-Pre. It was evident that that could not be true, since the courier had just passed over
the road unharmed, but no one could tell at what moment it might be the case, and General Dumont,
commanding the division, set out at once with his remaining brigade to bring off his other
brigade that was in difficulty. The sun went down behind Vouziers and the roofs of the town
were sharply profiled in black against a great red cloud. For a long time the brigade was visible
as it receded between the double row of trees, until finally it was swallowed up in the gathering
darkness.

Colonel de Vineuil came to look after his regiment's position for the night. He was surprised
not to find Captain Beaudoin at his post, and as that officer just then chanced to come in
from Vouziers, where he alleged in excuse for his absence that he had been breakfasting with
the Baronne de Ladicourt, he received a sharp reprimand, which he digested in silence, with
the rigid manner of a martinet conscious of being in the wrong.

"My children," said the Colonel, as he passed along the line of men, "we shall probably be
attacked to-night, or if not, then by day-break to-morrow morning at the latest. Be prepared,
and remember that the 106th has never retreated before the enemy."

The little speech was received with loud hurrahs; everyone, in the prevailing suspense and
discouragement, preferred to "take the wipe of the dish-clout" and have done with it. Rifles
were examined to see that they were in good order, belts were refilled with cartridges. As
they had eaten their soup that morning, the men were obliged to content themselves with biscuits
and coffee. An order was promulgated that there was to be no sleeping. The grand-guards were
out nearly a mile to the front, and a chain of sentinels at frequent intervals extended down
to the Aisne. The officers were seated in little groups about the camp-fires, and beside a
low wall at the left of the road the fitful blaze occasionally flared up and rescued from the
darkness the gold embroideries and bedizened uniforms of the Commander-in-Chief and his staff,
flitting to and fro like phantoms, watching the road and listening for the tramp of horses
in the mortal anxiety they were in as to the fate of the third division.

It was about one o'clock in the morning when it came Maurice's turn to take his post as sentry
at the edge of an orchard of plum-trees, between the road and the river. The night was black
as ink, and as soon as his comrades left him and he found himself alone in the deep silence
of the sleeping fields he was conscious of a sensation of fear creeping over him, a feeling
of abject terror such as he had never known before and which he trembled with rage and shame
at his inability to conquer. He turned his head to cheer himself by a sight of the camp-fires,
but they were hidden from him by a wood; there was naught behind him but an unfathomable sea
of blackness; all that he could discern was a few distant lights still dimly burning in Vouziers,
where the inhabitants, doubtless forewarned and trembling at the thought of the impending combat,
were keeping anxious vigil. His terror was increased, if that were possible, on bringing his
piece to his shoulder to find that he could not even distinguish the sights on it. Then commenced
a period of suspense that tried his nerves most cruelly; every faculty of his being was strained
and concentrated in the one sense of hearing; sounds so faint as to be imperceptible reverberated
in his ears like the crash of thunder; the plash of a distant waterfall, the rustling of a
leaf, the movement of an insect in the grass, were like the booming of artillery. Was that
the tramp of cavalry, the deep rumbling of gun-carriages driven at speed, that he heard down
there to the right? And there on his left, what was that? was it not the sound of stealthy
whispers, stifled voices, a party creeping up to surprise him under cover of the darkness?
Three times he was on the point of giving the alarm by firing his piece. The fear that he might
be mistaken and incur the ridicule of his comrades served to intensify his distress. He had
kneeled upon the ground, supporting his left shoulder against a tree; it seemed to him that
he had been occupying that position for hours, that they had forgotten him there, that the
army had moved away without him. Then suddenly, at once, his fear left him; upon the road,
that he knew was not two hundred yards away, he distinctly heard the cadenced tramp of marching
men. Immediately it flashed across his mind as a certainty that they were the troops from Grand-Pre,
whose coming had been awaited with such anxiety--General Dumont bringing in Bordas' brigade.
At that same moment the corporal of the guard came along with the relief; he had been on post
a little less than the customary hour.

He had been right; it was the 3d division returning to camp. Everyone felt a sensation of deep
relief. Increased precautions were taken, nevertheless, for what fresh intelligence they received
tended to confirm what they supposed they already knew of the enemy's approach. A few uhlans,
forbidding looking fellows in their long black cloaks, were brought in as prisoners, but they
were uncommunicative, and so daylight came at last, the pale, ghastly light of a rainy morning,
bringing with it no alleviation of their terrible suspense. No one had dared to close an eye
during that long night. About seven o'clock Lieutenant Rochas affirmed that MacMahon was coming
up with the whole army. The truth of the matter was that General Douay, in reply to his dispatch
of the preceding day announcing that a battle at Vouziers was inevitable, had received a letter
from the marshal enjoining him to hold the position until re-enforcements could reach him;
the forward movement had been arrested; the 1st corps was being directed on Terron, the 5th
on Buzancy, while the 12th was to remain at Chene and constitute our second line. Then the
suspense became more breathless still; it was to be no mere skirmish that the peaceful valley
of the Aisne was to witness that day, but a great battle, in which would participate the entire
army, that was even now turning its back upon the Meuse and marching southward; and there was
no making of soup, the men had to content themselves with coffee and hard-tack, for everyone
was saying, without troubling himself to ask why, that the "wipe of the dish-clout" was set
down for midday. An aide-de-camp had been dispatched to the marshal to urge him to hurry forward
their supports, as intelligence received from every quarter made it more and more certain that
the two Prussian armies were close at hand, and three hours later still another officer galloped
off like mad toward Chene, where general headquarters were located, with a request for instructions,
for consternation had risen to a higher pitch then ever with the receipt of fresh tidings from
the _maire_ of a country commune, who told of having seen a hundred thousand men at Grand-Pre,
while another hundred thousand were advancing by way of Buzancy.

Midday came, and not a sign of the Prussians. At one o'clock, at two, it was the same, and
a reaction of lassitude and doubt began to prevail among the troops. Derisive jeers were heard
at the expense of the generals: perhaps they had seen their shadow on the wall; they should
be presented with a pair of spectacles. A pretty set of humbugs they were, to have caused all
that trouble for nothing! A fellow who passed for a wit among his comrades shouted:

"It is like it was down there at Mulhausen, eh?"

The words recalled to Maurice's mind a flood of bitter memories. He thought of that idiotic
flight, that panic that had swept away the 7th corps when there was not a German visible, nor
within ten leagues of where they were, and now he had a distinct certainty that they were to
have a renewal of that experience. It was plain that if twenty-four hours had elapsed since
the skirmish at Grand-Pre and they had not been attacked, the reason was that the 4th hussars
had merely struck up against a reconnoitering body of cavalry; the main body of the Prussians
must be far away, probably a day's march or two. Then the thought suddenly struck him of the
time they had wasted, and it terrified him; in three days they had only accomplished the distance
from Contreuve to Vouziers, a scant two leagues. On the 25th the other corps, alleging scarcity
of supplies, had diverted their course to the north, while now, on the 27th, here they were
coming southward again to fight a battle with an invisible enemy. Bordas' brigade had followed
the 4th hussars into the abandoned passes of the Argonne, and was supposed to have got itself
into trouble; the division had gone to its assistance, and that had been succeeded by the corps,
and that by the entire army, and all those movements had amounted to nothing. Maurice trembled
as he reflected how pricelessly valuable was every hour, every minute, in that mad project
of joining forces with Bazaine, a project that could be carried to a successful issue only
by an officer of genius, with seasoned troops under him, who should press forward to his end
with the resistless energy of a whirlwind, crushing every obstacle that lay in his path.

"It is all up with us!" said he, as the whole truth flashed through his mind, to Jean, who
had given way to despair. Then as the corporal, failing to catch his meaning, looked at him
wonderingly, he went on in an undertone, for his friend's ear alone, to speak of their commanders:

"They mean well, but they have no sense, that's certain--and no luck! They know nothing; they
foresee nothing; they have neither plans nor ideas, nor happy intuitions. _Allons_! everything
is against us; it is all up!"

And by slow degrees that same feeling of discouragement that Maurice had arrived at by a process
of reasoning settled down upon the denser intellects of the troops who lay there inactive,
anxiously awaiting to see what the end would be. Distrust, as a result of their truer perception
of the position they were in, was obscurely burrowing in those darkened minds, and there was
no man so ignorant as not to feel a sense of injury at the ignorance and irresolution of their
leaders, although he might not have been able to express in distinct terms the causes of his
exasperation. In the name of Heaven, what were they doing there, since the Prussians had not
shown themselves? either let them fight and have it over with, or else go off to some place
where they could get some sleep; they had had enough of that kind of work. Since the departure
of the second aide-de-camp, who had been dispatched in quest of orders, this feeling of unrest
had been increasing momentarily; men collected in groups, talking loudly and discussing the
situation pro and con, and the general inquietude communicating itself to the officers, they
knew not what answer to make to those of their men who ventured to question them. They ought
to be marching, it would not answer to dawdle thus; and so, when it became known about five
o'clock that the aide-de-camp had returned and that they were to retreat, there was a sigh
of relief throughout the camp and every heart was lighter.

It seemed that the wiser counsel was to prevail, then, after all! The Emperor and MacMahon
had never looked with favor on the movement toward Montmedy, and now, alarmed to learn that
they were again out-marched and out-maneuvered, and that they were to have the army of the
Prince of Saxony as well as that of the Crown Prince to contend with, they had renounced the
hazardous scheme of uniting their forces with Bazaine, and would retreat through the northern
strongholds with a view to falling back ultimately on Paris. The 7th corps' destination would
be Chagny, by way of Chene, while the 5th corps would be directed on Poix, and the 1st and
12th on Vendresse. But why, since they were about to fall back, had they advanced to the line
of the Aisne? Why all that waste of time and labor, when it would have been so easy and so
rational to move straight from Rheims and occupy the strong positions in the valley of the
Marne? Was there no guiding mind, no military talent, no common sense? But there should be
no more questioning; all should be forgiven, in the universal joy at the adoption of that eminently
wise counsel, which was the only means at their command of extricating themselves from the
hornets' nest into which they had rushed so imprudently. All, officers and men, felt that they
would be the stronger for the retrograde movement, that under the walls of Paris they would
be invincible, and that there it was that the Prussians would sustain their inevitable defeat.
But Vouziers must be evacuated before daybreak, and they must be well on the road to Chene
before the enemy should learn of the movement, and forthwith the camp presented a scene of
the greatest animation: trumpets sounding, officers hastening to and fro with orders, while
the baggage and quartermaster's trains, in order not to encumber the rear-guard, were sent
forward in advance.

Maurice was delighted. As he was endeavoring to explain to Jean the rationale of the impending
movement, however, a cry of pain escaped him; his excitement had subsided, and he was again
conscious of his foot, aching and burning as if it had been a ball of red-hot metal.

"What's the matter? is it hurting you again?" the corporal asked sympathizingly. And with his
calm and sensible resourcefulness he said: "See here, little one, you told me yesterday that
you have acquaintances in the town, yonder. You ought to get permission from the major and
find some one to drive you over to Chene, where you could have a good night's rest in a comfortable
bed. We can pick you up as we go by to-morrow if you are fit to march. What do you say to that,
_hein_?"

In Falaise, the village near which the camp was pitched, Maurice had come across a small farmer,
an old friend of his father's, who was about to drive his daughter over to Chene to visit an
aunt in that town, and the horse was even then standing waiting, hitched to a light carriole.
The prospect was far from encouraging, however, when he broached the subject to Major Bouroche.

"I have a sore foot, monsieur the doctor--"

Bouroche, with a savage shake of his big head with its leonine mane, turned on him with a roar:

"I am not monsieur the doctor; who taught you manners?"

And when Maurice, taken all aback, made a stammering attempt to excuse himself, he continued:

"Address me as major, do you hear, you great oaf!"

He must have seen that he had not one of the common herd to deal with and felt a little ashamed
of himself; he carried it off with a display of more roughness.

"All a cock-and-bull story, that sore foot of yours!--Yes, yes; you may go. Go in a carriage,
go in a balloon, if you choose. We have too many of you malingerers in the army!"

When Jean assisted Maurice into the carriole the latter turned to thank him, whereon the two
men fell into each other's arms and embraced as if they were never to meet again. Who could
tell, amid the confusion and disorder of the retreat, with those bloody Prussians on their
track? Maurice could not tell how it was that there was already such a tender affection between
him and the young man, and twice he turned to wave him a farewell. As he left the camp they
were preparing to light great fires in order to mislead the enemy when they should steal away,
in deepest silence, before the dawn of day.

As they jogged along the farmer bewailed the terrible times through which they were passing.
He had lacked the courage to remain at Falaise, and already was regretting that he had left
it, declaring that if the Prussians burned his house it would ruin him. His daughter, a tall,
pale young woman, wept copiously. But Maurice was like a dead man for want of sleep, and had
no ears for the farmer's lamentations; he slumbered peacefully, soothed by the easy motion
of the vehicle, which the little horse trundled over the ground at such a good round pace that
it took them less than an hour and a half to accomplish the four leagues between Vouziers and
Chene. It was not quite seven o'clock and scarcely beginning to be dark when the young man
rubbed his eyes and alighted in a rather dazed condition on the public square, near the bridge
over the canal, in front of the modest house where he was born and had passed twenty years
of his life. He got down there in obedience to an involuntary impulse, although the house had
been sold eighteen months before to a veterinary surgeon, and in reply to the farmer's questions
said that he knew quite well where he was going, adding that he was a thousand times obliged
to him for his kindness.

He continued to stand stock-still, however, beside the well in the middle of the little triangular
_place_; he was as if stunned; his memory was a blank. Where had he intended to go? and suddenly
his wits returned to him and he remembered that it was to the notary's, whose house was next
door to his father's, and whose mother, Madame Desvallieres, an aged and most excellent lady,
had petted him when he was an urchin on account of their being neighbors. But he hardly recognized
Chene in the midst of the hurly-burly and confusion into which the little town, ordinarily
so dead, was thrown by the presence of an army corps encamped at its gates and filling its
quiet streets with officers, couriers, soldiers, and camp-followers and stragglers of every
description. The canal was there as of old, passing through the town from end to end and bisecting
the market-place in the center into two equal-sized triangles connected by a narrow stone bridge;
and there, on the other bank, was the old market with its moss-grown roofs, and the Rue Berond
leading away to the left and the Sedan road to the right, but filling the Rue de Vouziers in
front of him and extending as far as the Hotel de Ville was such a compact, swarming, buzzing
crowd that he was obliged to raise his eyes and take a look over the roof of the notary's house
at the slate-covered bell tower in order to assure himself that that was the quiet spot where
he had played hop-scotch when he was a youngster. There seemed to be an effort making to clear
the square; some men were roughly crowding back the throng of idlers and gazers, and looking
more closely he was surprised to see, parked like the guns of a battery, a collection of vans,
baggage-wagons, and carriages open and closed; a miscellaneous assortment of traps that he
had certainly set eyes on before.

It was daylight still; the sun had just sunk in the canal at the point where it vanished in
the horizon and the long, straight stretch of water was like a sea of blood, and Maurice was
trying to make up his mind what to do when a woman who stood near stared at him a moment and
then exclaimed:

"Why goodness gracious, is it possible! Are you the Levasseur boy?"

And thereon he recognized Madame Combette, the wife of the druggist, whose shop was on the
market-place. As he was trying to explain to her that he was going to ask good Madame Desvallieres
to give him a bed for the night she excitedly hurried him away.

"No, no; come to our house. I will tell you why--" When they were in the shop and she had cautiously
closed the door she continued: "You could not know, my dear boy, that the Emperor is at the
Desvallieres. His officers took possession of the house in his name and the family are not
any too well pleased with the great honor done them, I can tell you. To think that the poor
old mother, a woman more than seventy, was compelled to give up her room and go up and occupy
a servant's bed in the garret! Look, there, on the place. All that you see there is the Emperor's;
those are his trunks, don't you see!"

And then Maurice remembered; they were the imperial carriages and baggage-wagons, the entire
magnificent train that he had seen at Rheims.

"Ah! my dear boy, if you could but have seen the stuff they took from them, the silver plate,
and the bottles of wine, and the baskets of good things, and the beautiful linen, and everything!
I can't help wondering where they find room for such heaps of things, for the house is not
a large one. Look, look! see what a fire they have lighted in the kitchen!"

He looked over at the small white, two-storied house that stood at the corner of the market-place
and the Rue de Vouziers, a comfortable, unassuming house of bourgeois aspect; how well he remembered
it, inside and out, with its central hall and four rooms on each floor; why, it was as if he
had just left it! There were lights in the corner room on the first floor overlooking the square;
the apothecary's wife informed him that it was the bedroom of the Emperor. But the chief center
of activity seemed, as she had said, to be the kitchen, the window of which opened on the Rue
de Vouziers. In all their lives the good people of Chene had witnessed no such spectacle, and
the street before the house was filled with a gaping crowd, constantly coming and going, who
stared with all their eyes at the range on which was cooking the dinner of an Emperor. To obtain
a breath of air the cooks had thrown open the window to its full extent. They were three in
number, in jackets of resplendent whiteness, superintending the roasting of chickens impaled
on a huge spit, stirring the gravies and sauces in copper vessels that shone like gold. And
the oldest inhabitant, evoking in memory all the civic banquets that he had beheld at the Silver
Lion, could truthfully declare that never at any one time had he seen so much wood burning
and so much food cooking.

Combette, a bustling, wizened little man, came in from the street in a great state of excitement
from all that he had seen and heard. His position as deputy-mayor gave him facilities for knowing
what was going on. It was about half-past three o'clock when MacMahon had telegraphed Bazaine
that the Crown Prince of Prussia was approaching Chalons, thus necessitating the withdrawal
of the army to the places along the Belgian frontier, and further dispatches were also in preparation
for the Minister of War, advising him of the projected movement and explaining the terrible
dangers of their position. It was uncertain whether or not the dispatch for Bazaine would get
through, for communication with Metz had seemed to be interrupted for the past few days, but
the second dispatch was another and more serious matter; and lowering his voice almost to a
whisper the apothecary repeated the words that he had heard uttered by an officer of rank:
"If they get wind of this in Paris, our goose is cooked!" Everyone was aware of the unrelenting
persistency with which the Empress and the Council of Ministers urged the advance of the army.
Moreover, the confusion went on increasing from hour to hour, the most conflicting advices
were continually coming in as to the whereabouts of the German forces. Could it be possible
that the Crown Prince was at Chalons? What, then, were the troops that the 7th corps had encountered
among the passes of the Argonne?

"They have no information at staff headquarters," continued the little druggist, raising his
arms above his head with a despairing gesture. "Ah, what a mess we are in! But all will be
well if the army retreats to-morrow." Then, dropping public for private matters, the kind-hearted
man said: "Look here, my young friend, I am going to see what I can do for that foot of yours;
then we'll give you some dinner and put you to bed in my apprentice's little room, who has
cleared out."

But Maurice was tormented by such an itching desire for further intelligence that he could
neither eat nor sleep until he had carried into execution his original design of paying a visit
to his old friend, Madame Desvallieres, over the way. He was surprised that he was not halted
at the door, which, in the universal confusion, had been left wide open, without so much as
a sentry to guard it. People were going out and coming in incessantly, military men and officers
of the household, and the roar from the blazing kitchen seemed to rise and pervade the whole
house. There was no light in the passage and on the staircase, however, and he had to grope
his way up as best he might. On reaching the first floor he paused for a few seconds, his heart
beating violently, before the door of the apartment that he knew contained the Emperor, but
not a sound was to be heard in the room; the stillness that reigned there was as of death.
Mounting the last flight he presented himself at the door of the servant's room to which Madame
Desvallieres had been consigned; the old lady was at first terrified at sight of him. When
she recognized him presently she said:

"Ah, my poor child, what a sad meeting is this! I would cheerfully have surrendered my house
to the Emperor, but the people he has about him have no sense of decency. They lay hands on
everything, without so much as saying, 'By your leave,' and I am afraid they will burn the
house down with their great fires! He, poor man, looks like a corpse, and such sadness in his
face--"

And when the young man took leave of her with a few murmured words of comfort she went with
him to the door, and leaning over the banister: "Look!" she softly said, "you can see him from
where you are. Ah! we are all undone. Adieu, my child!"

Maurice remained planted like a statue on one of the steps of the dark staircase. Craning his
neck and directing his glance through the glazed fanlight over the door of the apartment, he
beheld a sight that was never to fade from his memory.

In the bare and cheerless room, the conventional bourgeois "parlor," was the Emperor, seated
at a table on which his plate was laid, lighted at either end by wax candles in great silver
candelabra. Silent in the background stood two aides-de-camp with folded arms. The wine in
the glass was untasted, the bread untouched, a breast of chicken was cooling on the plate.
The Emperor did not stir; he sat staring down at the cloth with those dim, lusterless, watery
eyes that the young man remembered to have seen before at Rheims; but he appeared more weary
than then, and when, evidently at the cost of a great effort, he had raised a couple of mouthfuls
to his lips, he impatiently pushed the remainder of the food from him with his hand. That was
his dinner. His pale face was blanched with an expression of suffering endured in silence.

As Maurice was passing the dining room on the floor beneath, the door was suddenly thrown open,
and through the glow of candles and the steam of smoking joints he caught a glimpse of a table
of equerries, chamberlains, and aides-de-camp, engaged in devouring the Emperor's game and
poultry and drinking his champagne, amid a great hubbub of conversation. Now that the marshal's
dispatch had been sent off, all these people were delighted to know that the retreat was assured.
In a week they would be at Paris and could sleep between clean sheets.

Then, for the first time, Maurice suddenly became conscious of the terrible fatigue that was
oppressing him like a physical burden; there was no longer room for doubt, the whole army was
about to fall back, and the best thing for him to do was to get some sleep while waiting for
the 7th corps to pass. He made his way back across the square to the house of his friend Combette,
where, like one in a dream, he ate some dinner, after which he was mistily conscious of someone
dressing his foot and then conducting him upstairs to a bedroom. And then all was blackness
and utter annihilation; he slept a dreamless, unstirring sleep. But after an uncertain length
of time--hours, days, centuries, he knew not--he gave a start and sat bolt upright in bed in
the surrounding darkness. Where was he? What was that continuous rolling sound, like the rattling
of thunder, that had aroused him from his slumber? His recollection suddenly returned to him;
he ran to the window to see what was going on. In the obscurity of the street beneath, where
the night was usually so peaceful, the artillery was passing, horses, men, and guns, in interminable
array, with a roar and clatter that made the lifeless houses quake and tremble. The abrupt
vision filled him with unreasoning alarm. What time might it be? The great bell in the Hotel
de Ville struck four. He was endeavoring to allay his uneasiness by assuring himself that it
was simply the initial movement in the retreat that had been ordered the day previous, when,
raising his eyes, he beheld a sight that gave him fresh cause for inquietude: there was a light
still in the corner window of the notary's house opposite, and the shadow of the Emperor, drawn
in dark profile on the curtain, appeared and disappeared at regularly spaced intervals.

Maurice hastily slipped on his trousers preparatory to going down to the street, but just then
Combette appeared at the door with a bed-candle in his hand, gesticulating wildly.

"I saw you from the square as I was coming home from the _Mairie_, and I came up to tell you
the news. They have been keeping me out of my bed all this time; would you believe it, for
more than two hours the mayor and I have been busy attending to fresh requisitions. Yes, everything
is upset again; there has been another change of plans. Ah! he knew what he was about, that
officer did, who wanted to keep the folks in Paris from getting wind of matters!"

He went on for a long time in broken, disjointed phrases, and when he had finished the young
man, speechless, brokenhearted, saw it all. About midnight the Emperor had received a dispatch
from the Minister of War in reply to the one that had been sent by the marshal. Its exact terms
were not known, but an aide-de-camp at the Hotel de Ville had stated openly that the Empress
and the Council declared there would be a revolution in Paris should the Emperor retrace his
steps and abandon Bazaine. The dispatch, which evinced the utmost ignorance as to the position
of the German armies and the resources of the army of Chalons, advised, or rather ordered,
an immediate forward movement, regardless of all considerations, in spite of everything, with
a heat and fury that seemed incredible.

"The Emperor sent for the marshal," added the apothecary, "and they were closeted together
for near an hour; of course I am not in position to say what passed between them, but I am
told by all the officers that there is to be no more retreating, and the advance to the Meuse
is to be resumed at once. We have been requisitioning all the ovens in the city for the 1st
corps, which will come up to-morrow morning and take the place of the 12th, whose artillery
you see at this moment starting for la Besace. The matter is decided for good this time; you
will smell powder before you are much older."

He ceased. He also was gazing at the lighted window over in the notary's house. Then he went
on in a low voice, as if talking to himself, with an expression on his face of reflective curiosity:

"I wonder what they had to say to each other? It strikes one as a rather peculiar proceeding,
all the same, to run away from a threatened danger at six in the evening, and at midnight,
when nothing has occurred to alter the situation, to rush headlong into the very self-same danger."

Below them in the street Maurice still heard the gun-carriages rumbling and rattling over the
stones of the little sleeping city, that ceaseless tramp of horse and man, that uninterrupted
tide of humanity, pouring onward toward the Meuse, toward the unknown, terrible fate that the
morrow had in store for them. And still upon the mean, cheap curtains of that bourgeois dwelling
he beheld the shadow of the Emperor passing and repassing at regular intervals, the restless
activity of the sick man, to whom his cares made sleep impossible, whose sole repose was motion,
in whose ears was ever ringing that tramp of horses and men whom he was suffering to be sent
forward to their death. A few brief hours, then, had sufficed; the slaughter was decided on;
it was to be. What, indeed, could they have found to say to each other, that Emperor and that
marshal, conscious, both of them, of the inevitable disaster that lay before them? Assured
as they were at night of defeat, from their knowledge of the wretched condition the army would
be in when the time should come for it to meet the enemy, how, knowing as they did that the
peril was hourly becoming greater, could they have changed their mind in the morning? Certain
it was that General de Palikao's plan of a swift, bold dash on Montmedy, which seemed hazardous
on the 23d and was, perhaps, still not impracticable on the 25th, if conducted with veteran
troops and a leader of ability, would on the 27th be an act of sheer madness amid the divided
counsels of the chiefs and the increasing demoralization of the troops. This they both well
knew; why, then, did they obey those merciless drivers who were flogging them onward in their
irresolution? why did they hearken to those furious passions that were spurring them forward?
The marshal's, it might be said, was the temperament of the soldier, whose duty is limited
to obedience to his instructions, great in its abnegation; while the Emperor, who had ceased
entirely to issue orders, was waiting on destiny. They were called on to surrender their lives
and the life of the army; they surrendered them. It was the accomplishment of a crime, the
black, abominable night that witnessed the murder of a nation, for thenceforth the army rested
in the shadow of death; a hundred thousand men and more were sent forward to inevitable destruction.

While pursuing this train of thought Maurice was watching the shadow that still kept appearing
and vanishing on the muslin of good Madame Desvallieres' curtain, as if it felt the lash of
the pitiless voice that came to it from Paris. Had the Empress that night desired the death
of the father in order that the son might reign? March! forward ever! with no look backward,
through mud, through rain, to bitter death, that the final game of the agonizing empire may
be played out, even to the last card. March! march! die a hero's death on the piled corpses
of your people, let the whole world gaze in awe-struck admiration, for the honor and glory
of your name! And doubtless the Emperor was marching to his death. Below, the fires in the
kitchen flamed and flashed no longer; equerries, aides-de-camp and chamberlains were slumbering,
the whole house was wrapped in darkness, while ever the lone shade went and came unceasingly,
accepting with resignation the sacrifice that was to be, amid the deafening uproar of the 12th
corps, that was defiling still through the black night.

Maurice suddenly reflected that, if the advance was to be resumed, the 7th corps would not
pass through Chene, and he beheld himself left behind, separated from his regiment, a deserter
from his post. His foot no longer pained him; his friend's dressing and a few hours of complete
rest had allayed the inflammation. Combette gave him a pair of easy shoes of his own that were
comfortable to his feet, and as soon as he had them on he wanted to be off, hoping that he
might yet be able to overtake the 106th somewhere on the road between Chene and Vouziers. The
apothecary labored vainly to dissuade him, and had almost made up his mind to put his horse
in the gig and drive him over in person, trusting to fortune to befriend him in finding the
regiment, when Fernand, the apprentice, appeared, alleging as an excuse for his absence that
he had been to see his sister. The youth was a tall, tallow-faced individual, who looked as
if he had not the spirit of a mouse; the horse was quickly hitched to the carriage and he drove
off with Maurice. It was not yet five o'clock; the rain was pouring in torrents from a sky
of inky blackness, and the dim carriage-lamps faintly illuminated the road and cast little
fitful gleams of light across the streaming fields on either side, over which came mysterious
sounds that made them pull up from time to time in the belief that the army was at hand.

Jean, meantime, down there before Vouziers, had not been slumbering. Maurice had explained
to him how the retreat was to be salvation to them all, and he was keeping watch, holding his
men together and waiting for the order to move, which might come at any minute. About two o'clock,
in the intense darkness that was dotted here and there by the red glow of the watch-fires,
a great trampling of horses resounded through the camp; it was the advance-guard of cavalry
moving off toward Balay and Quatre-Champs so as to observe the roads from Boult-aux-Bois and
Croix-aux-Bois; then an hour later the infantry and artillery also put themselves in motion,
abandoning at last the positions of Chestre and Falaise that they had defended so persistently
for two long days against an enemy who never showed himself. The sky had become overcast, the
darkness was profound, and one by one the regiments marched out in deepest silence, an array
of phantoms stealing away into the bosom of the night. Every heart beat joyfully, however,
as if they were escaping from some treacherous pitfall; already in imagination the troops beheld
themselves under the walls of Paris, where their revenge was awaiting them.

Jean looked out into the thick blackness. The road was bordered with trees on either hand and,
as far as he could see, appeared to lie between wide meadows. Presently the country became
rougher; there was a succession of sharp rises and descents, and just as they were entering
a village which he supposed to be Balay, two straggling rows of houses bordering the road,
the dense cloud that had obscured the heavens burst in a deluge of rain. The men had received
so many duckings within the past few days that they took this one without a murmur, bowing
their heads and plodding patiently onward; but when they had left Balay behind them and were
crossing a wide extent of level ground near Quatre-Champs a violent wind began to rise. Beyond
Quatre-Champs, when they had fought their way upward to the wide plateau that extends in a
dreary stretch of waste land as far as Noirval, the wind increased to a hurricane and the driving
rain stung their faces. There it was that the order, proceeding from the head of the column
and re-echoed down the line, brought the regiments one after another to a halt, and the entire
7th corps, thirty-odd thousand men, found itself once more reunited in the mud and rain of
the gray dawn. What was the matter? Why were they halted there? An uneasy feeling was already
beginning to pervade the ranks; it was asserted in some quarters that there had been a change
of orders. The men had been brought to ordered arms and forbidden to leave the ranks or sit
down. At times the wind swept over the elevated plateau with such violence that they had to
press closely to one another to keep from being carried off their feet. The rain blinded them
and trickled in ice-cold streams beneath their collars down their backs. And two hours passed,
a period of waiting that seemed as if it would never end, for what purpose no one could say,
in an agony of expectancy that chilled the hearts of all.

As the daylight increased Jean made an attempt to discern where they were. Someone had shown
him where the Chene road lay off to the northwest, passing over a hill beyond Quatre-Champs.
Why had they turned to the right instead of to the left? Another object of interest to him
was the general and his staff, who had established themselves at the Converserie, a farm on
the edge of the plateau. There seemed to be a heated discussion going on; officers were going
and coming and the conversation was carried on with much gesticulation. What could they be
waiting for? nothing was coming that way. The plateau formed a sort of amphitheater, broad
expanses of stubble that were commanded to the north and east by wooded heights; to the south
were thick woods, while to the west an opening afforded a glimpse of the valley of the Aisne
with the little white houses of Vouziers. Below the Converserie rose the slated steeple of
Quatre-Champs church, looming dimly through the furious storm, which seemed as if it would
sweep away bodily the few poor moss-grown cottages of the village. As Jean's glance wandered
down the ascending road he became conscious of a doctor's gig coming up at a sharp trot along
the stony road, that was now the bed of a rapid torrent.

It was Maurice, who, at a turn in the road, from the hill that lay beyond the valley, had finally
discerned the 7th corps. For two hours he had been wandering about the country, thanks to the
stupidity of a peasant who had misdirected him and the sullen ill-will of his driver, whom
fear of the Prussians had almost deprived of his wits. As soon as he reached the farmhouse
he leaped from the gig and had no further trouble in finding the regiment.

Jean addressed him in amazement:

"What, is it you? What is the meaning of this? I thought you were to wait until we came along."

Maurice's tone and manner told of his rage and sorrow.

"Ah, yes! we are no longer going in that direction; it is down yonder we are to go, to get
ourselves knocked in the head, all of us!"

"Very well," said the other presently, with a very white face. "We will die together, at all
events."

The two men met, as they had parted, with an embrace. In the drenching rain that still beat
down as pitilessly as ever, the humble private resumed his place in the ranks, while the corporal,
in his streaming garments, never murmured as he gave him the example of what a soldier should be.

And now the tidings became more definite and spread among the men; they were no longer retreating
on Paris; the advance to the Meuse was again the order of the day. An aide-de-camp had brought
to the 7th corps instructions from the marshal to go and encamp at Nonart; the 5th was to take
the direction of Beauclair, where it would be the right wing of the army, while the 1st was
to move up to Chene and relieve the 12th, then on the march to la Besace on the extreme left.
And the reason why more than thirty thousand men had been kept waiting there at ordered arms,
for nearly three hours in the midst of a blinding storm, was that General Douay, in the deplorable
confusion incident on this new change of front, was alarmed for the safety of the train that
had been sent forward the day before toward Chagny; the delay was necessary to give the several
divisions time to close up. In the confusion of all these conflicting movements it was said
that the 12th corps train had blocked the road at Chene, thus cutting off that of the 7th.
On the other hand, an important part of the _materiel_, all the forges of the artillery, had
mistaken their road and strayed off in the direction of Terron; they were now trying to find
their way back by the Vouziers road, where they were certain to fall into the hands of the
Germans. Never was there such utter confusion, never was anxiety so intense.

A feeling of bitterest discouragement took possession of the troops. Many of them in their
despair would have preferred to seat themselves on their knapsacks, in the midst of that sodden,
wind-swept plain, and wait for death to come to them. They reviled their leaders and loaded
them with insult: ah! famous leaders, they; brainless boobies, undoing at night what they had
done in the morning, idling and loafing when there was no enemy in sight, and taking to their
heels as soon as he showed his face! Each minute added to the demoralization that was already
rife, making of that army a rabble, without faith or hope, without discipline, a herd that
their chiefs were conducting to the shambles by ways of which they themselves were ignorant.
Down in the direction of Vouziers the sound of musketry was heard; shots were being exchanged
between the rear-guard of the 7th corps and the German skirmishers; and now every eye was turned
upon the valley of the Aisne, where volumes of dense black smoke were whirling upward toward
the sky from which the clouds had suddenly been swept away; they all knew it was the village
of Falaise burning, fired by the uhlans. Every man felt his blood boil in his veins; so the
Prussians were there at last; they had sat and waited two days for them to come up, and then
had turned and fled. The most ignorant among the men had felt their cheeks tingle for very
shame as, in their dull way, they recognized the idiocy that had prompted that enormous blunder,
that imbecile delay, that trap into which they had walked blindfolded; the light cavalry of
the IVth army feinting in front of Bordas' brigade and halting and neutralizing, one by one,
the several corps of the army of Chalons, solely to give the Crown Prince time to hasten up
with the IIId army. And now, thanks to the marshal's complete and astounding ignorance as to
the identity of the troops he had before him, the junction was accomplished, and the 5th and
7th corps were to be roughly handled, with the constant menace of disaster overshadowing them.

Maurice's eyes were bent on the horizon, where it was reddened with the flames of burning Falaise.
They had one consolation, however: the train that had been believed to be lost came crawling
along out of the Chene road. Without delay the 2d division put itself in motion and struck
out across the forest for Boult-aux-Bois; the 3d took post on the heights of Belleville to
the left in order to keep an eye to the communications, while the 1st remained at Quatre-Champs
to wait for the coming up of the train and guard its countless wagons. Just then the rain began
to come down again with increased violence, and as the 106th moved off the plateau, resuming
the march that should have never been, toward the Meuse, toward the unknown, Maurice thought
he beheld again his vision of the night: the shadow of the Emperor, incessantly appearing and
vanishing, so sad, so pitiful a sight, on the white curtain of good old Madame Desvallieres.
Ah! that doomed army, that army of despair, that was being driven forward to inevitable destruction
for the salvation of a dynasty! March, march, onward ever, with no look behind, through mud,
through rain, to the bitter end!

                                VI.

"Thunder!" Chouteau ejaculated the following morning when he awoke, chilled and with aching
bones, under the tent, "I wouldn't mind having a bouillon with plenty of meat in it."

At Boult-aux-Bois, where they were now encamped, the only ration issued to the men the night
before had been an extremely slender one of potatoes; the commissariat was daily more and more
distracted and disorganized by the everlasting marches and countermarches, never reaching the
designated points of rendezvous in time to meet the troops. As for the herds, no one had the
faintest idea where they might be upon the crowded roads, and famine was staring the army in
the face.

Loubet stretched himself and plaintively replied:

"Ah, _fichtre_, yes!--No more roast goose for us now."

The squad was out of sorts and sulky. Men couldn't be expected to be lively on an empty stomach.
And then there was the rain that poured down incessantly, and the mud in which they had to
make their beds.

Observing Pache make the sign of the cross after mumbling his morning prayer, Chouteau captiously
growled:

"Ask that good God of yours, if he is good for anything, to send us down a couple of sausages
and a mug of beer apiece."

"Ah, if we only had a good big loaf of bread!" sighed Lapoulle, whose ravenous appetite made
hunger a more grievous affliction to him than to the others.

But Lieutenant Rochas, passing by just then, made them be silent. It was scandalous, never
to think of anything but their stomachs! When _he_ was hungry he tightened up the buckle of
his trousers. Now that things were becoming decidedly squally and the popping of rifles was
to be heard occasionally in the distance, he had recovered all his old serene confidence: it
was all plain enough, now; the Prussians were there--well, all they had to do was, go out and
lick 'em. And he gave a significant shrug of the shoulders, standing behind Captain Beaudoin,
the _very_ young man, as he called him, with his pale face and pursed up lips, whom the loss
of his baggage had afflicted so grievously that he had even ceased to fume and scold. A man
might get along without eating, at a pinch, but that he could not change his linen was a circumstance
productive of sorrow and anger.

Maurice awoke to a sensation of despondency and physical discomfort. Thanks to his easy shoes
the inflammation in his foot had gone down, but the drenching he had received the day before,
from the effects of which his greatcoat seemed to weigh a ton, had left him with a distinct
and separate ache in every bone of his body. When he was sent to the spring to get water for
the coffee he took a survey of the plain on the edge of which Boult-aux-Bois is situated: forests
rise to the west and north, and there is a hill crowned by the hamlet of Belleville, while,
over to the east, Buzancy way, there is a broad, level expanse, stretching far as the eye can
see, with an occasional shallow depression concealing a small cluster of cottages. Was it from
that direction that they were to expect the enemy? As he was returning from the stream with
his bucket filled with water, the father of a family of wretched peasants hailed him from the
door of his hovel, and asked him if the soldiers were this time going to stay and defend them.
In the confusion of conflicting orders the 5th corps had already traversed the region no less
than three times. The sound of cannonading had reached them the day before from the direction
of Bar; the Prussians could not be more than a couple of leagues away. And when Maurice made
answer to the poor folks that doubtless the 7th corps would also be called away after a time,
their tears flowed afresh. Then they were to be abandoned to the enemy, and the soldiers had
not come there to fight, whom they saw constantly vanishing and reappearing, always on the run?

"Those who like theirs sweet," observed Loubet, as he poured the coffee, "have only to stick
their thumb in it and wait for it to melt."

Not a man of them smiled. It was too bad, all the same, to have to drink their coffee without
sugar; and then, too, if they only had some biscuit! Most of them had devoured what eatables
they had in their knapsacks, to the very last crumb, to while away their time of waiting, the
day before, on the plateau of Quatre-Champs. Among them, however, the members of the squad
managed to collect a dozen potatoes, which they shared equally.

Maurice, who began to feel a twinging sensation in his stomach, uttered a regretful cry:

"If I had known of this I would have bought some bread at Chene."

Jean listened in silence. He had had a dispute with Chouteau that morning, who, on being ordered
to go for firewood, had insolently refused, alleging that it was not his turn. Now that everything
was so rapidly going to the dogs, insubordination among the men had increased to such a point
that those in authority no longer ventured to reprimand them, and Jean, with his sober good
sense and pacific disposition, saw that if he would preserve his influence with his squad he
must keep the corporal in the background as far as possible. For this reason he was hail-fellow-well-met
with his men, who could not fail to see what a treasure they had in a man of his experience,
for if those committed to his care did not always have all they wanted to eat, they had, at
all events, not suffered from hunger, as had been the case with so many others. But he was
touched by the sight of Maurice's suffering. He saw that he was losing strength, and looked
at him anxiously, asking himself how that delicate young man would ever manage to sustain the
privations of that horrible campaign.

When Jean heard Maurice bewail the lack of bread he arose quietly, went to his knapsack, and,
returning, slipped a biscuit into the other's hand.

"Here! don't let the others see it; I have not enough to go round."

"But what will you do?" asked the young man, deeply affected.

"Oh, don't be alarmed about me--I have two left."

It was true; he had carefully put aside three biscuits, in case there should be a fight, knowing
that men are often hungry on the battlefield. And then, besides, he had just eaten a potato;
that would be sufficient for him. Perhaps something would turn up later on.

About ten o'clock the 7th corps made a fresh start. The marshal's first intention had been
to direct it by way of Buzancy upon Stenay, where it would have passed the Meuse, but the Prussians,
outmarching the army of Chalons, were already in Stenay, and were even reported to be at Buzancy.
Crowded back in this manner to the northward, the 7th corps had received orders to move to
la Besace, some twelve or fifteen miles from Boult-aux-Bois, whence, on the next day, they
would proceed to pass the Meuse at Mouzon. The start was made in a very sulky humor; the men,
with empty stomachs and bodies unrefreshed by repose, unnerved, mentally and physically, by
the experience of the past few days, vented their dissatisfaction by growling and grumbling,
while the officers, without a spark of their usual cheerful gayety, with a vague sense of impending
disaster awaiting them at the end of their march, taxed the dilatoriness of their chiefs, and
reproached them for not going to the assistance of the 5th corps at Buzancy, where the sound
of artillery-firing had been heard. That corps, too, was on the retreat, making its way toward
Nonart, while the 12th was even then leaving la Besace for Mouzon and the 1st was directing
its course toward Raucourt. It was like nothing so much as the passage of a drove of panic-stricken
cattle, with the dogs worrying them and snapping at their heels--a wild stampede toward the Meuse.

When, in the outstreaming torrent of the three divisions that striped the plain with columns
of marching men, the 106th left Boult-aux-Bois in the rear of the cavalry and artillery, the
sky was again overspread with a pall of dull leaden clouds that further lowered the spirits
of the soldiers. Its route was along the Buzancy highway, planted on either side with rows
of magnificent poplars. When they reached Germond, a village where there was a steaming manure-heap
before every one of the doors that lined the two sides of the straggling street, the sobbing
women came to their thresholds with their little children in their arms, and held them out
to the passing troops, as if begging the men to take them with them. There was not a mouthful
of bread to be had in all the hamlet, nor even a potato, After that, the regiment, instead
of keeping straight on toward Buzancy, turned to the left and made for Authe, and when the
men turned their eyes across the plain and beheld upon the hilltop Belleville, through which
they had passed the day before, the fact that they were retracing their steps was impressed
more vividly on their consciousness.

"Heavens and earth!" growled Chouteau, "do they take us for tops?"

And Loubet chimed in:

"Those cheap-John generals of ours are all at sea again! They must think that men's legs are
cheap."

The anger and disgust were general. It was not right to make men suffer like that, just for
the fun of walking them up and down the country. They were advancing in column across the naked
plain in two files occupying the sides of the road, leaving a free central space in which the
officers could move to and fro and keep an eye on their men, but it was not the same now as
it had been in Champagne after they left Rheims, a march of song and jollity, when they tramped
along gayly and the knapsack was like a feather to their shoulders, in the belief that soon
they would come up with the Prussians and give them a sound drubbing; now they were dragging
themselves wearily forward in angry silence, cursing the musket that galled their shoulder
and the equipments that seemed to weigh them to the ground, their faith in their leaders gone,
and possessed by such bitterness of despair that they only went forward as does a file of manacled
galley-slaves, in terror of the lash. The wretched army had begun to ascend its Calvary.

Maurice, however, within the last few minutes had made a discovery that interested him greatly.
To their left was a range of hills that rose one above another as they receded from the road,
and from the skirt of a little wood, far up on the mountain-side, he had seen a horseman emerge.
Then another appeared, and then still another. There they stood, all three of them, without
sign of life, apparently no larger than a man's hand and looking like delicately fashioned
toys. He thought they were probably part of a detachment of our hussars out on a reconnoissance,
when all at once he was surprised to behold little points of light flashing from their shoulders,
doubtless the reflection of the sunlight from epaulets of brass.

"Look there!" he said, nudging Jean, who was marching at his side. "Uhlans!"

The corporal stared with all his eyes. "They, uhlans!"

They were indeed uhlans, the first Prussians that the 106th had set eyes on. They had been
in the field nearly six weeks now, and in all that time not only had they never smelt powder,
but had never even seen an enemy. The news spread through the ranks, and every head was turned
to look at them. Not such bad-looking fellows, those uhlans, after all.

"One of them looks like a jolly little fat fellow," Loubet remarked.

But presently an entire squadron came out and showed itself on a plateau to the left of the
little wood, and at sight of the threatening demonstration the column halted. An officer came
riding up with orders, and the 106th moved off a little and took position on the bank of a
small stream behind a clump of trees. The artillery had come hurrying back from the front on
a gallop and taken possession of a low, rounded hill. For near two hours they remained there
thus in line of battle without the occurrence of anything further; the body of hostile cavalry
remained motionless in the distance, and finally, concluding that they were only wasting time
that was valuable, the officers set the column moving again.

"Ah well," Jean murmured regretfully, "we are not booked for it this time."

Maurice, too, had felt his finger-tips tingling with the desire to have just one shot. He kept
harping on the theme of the mistake they had made the day before in not going to the support
of the 5th corps. If the Prussians had not made their attack yet, it must be because their
infantry had not got up in sufficient strength, whence it was evident that their display of
cavalry in the distance was made with no other end than to harass us and check the advance
of our corps. We had again fallen into the trap set for us, and thenceforth the regiment was
constantly greeted with the sight of uhlans popping up on its left flank wherever the ground
was favorable for them, tracking it like sleuthhounds, disappearing behind a farmhouse only
to reappear at the corner of a wood.

It eventually produced a disheartening effect on the troops to see that cordon closing in on
them in the distance and enveloping them as in the meshes of some gigantic, invisible net.
Even Pache and Lapoulle had an opinion on the subject.

"It is beginning to be tiresome!" they said. "It would be a comfort to send them our compliments
in the shape of a musket-ball!"

But they kept toiling wearily onward on their tired feet, that seemed to them as if they were
of lead. In the distress and suffering of that day's march there was ever present to all the
undefined sensation of the proximity of the enemy, drawing in on them from every quarter, just
as we are conscious of the coming storm before we have seen a cloud on the horizon. Instructions
were given the rear-guard to use severe measures, if necessary, to keep the column well closed
up; but there was not much straggling, aware as everyone was that the Prussians were close
in our rear, and ready to snap up every unfortunate that they could lay hands on. Their infantry
was coming up with the rapidity of the whirlwind, making its twenty-five miles a day, while
the French regiments, in their demoralized condition, seemed in comparison to be marking time.

At Authe the weather cleared, and Maurice, taking his bearings by the position of the sun,
noticed that instead of bearing off toward Chene, which lay three good leagues from where they
were, they had turned and were moving directly eastward. It was two o'clock; the men, after
shivering in the rain for two days, were now suffering from the intense heat. The road ascended,
with long sweeping curves, through a region of utter desolation: not a house, not a living
being, the only relief to the dreariness of the waste lands an occasional little somber wood;
and the oppressive silence communicated itself to the men, who toiled onward with drooping
heads, bathed in perspiration. At last Saint-Pierremont appeared before them, a few empty houses
on a small elevation. They did not pass through the village. Maurice observed that here they
made a sudden wheel to the left, resuming their northern course, toward la Besace. He now understood
the route that had been adopted in their attempt to reach Mouzon ahead of the Prussians; but
would they succeed, with such weary, demoralized troops? At Saint-Pierremont the three uhlans
had shown themselves again, at a turn in the road leading to Buzancy, and just as the rear-guard
was leaving the village a battery was unmasked and a few shells came tumbling among them, without
doing any injury, however. No response was attempted, and the march was continued with constantly
increasing effort.

From Saint-Pierremont to la Besace the distance is three good leagues, and when Maurice imparted
that information to Jean the latter made a gesture of discouragement: the men would never be
able to accomplish it; they showed it by their shortness of breath, by their haggard faces.
The road continued to ascend, between gently sloping hills on either side that were gradually
drawing closer together. The condition of the men necessitated a halt, but the only effect
of their brief repose was to increase the stiffness of their benumbed limbs, and when the order
was given to march the state of affairs was worse than it had been before; the regiments made
no progress, men were everywhere falling in the ranks. Jean, noticing Maurice's pallid face
and glassy eyes, infringed on what was his usual custom and conversed, endeavoring by his volubility
to divert the other's attention and keep him awake as he moved automatically forward, unconscious
of his actions.

"Your sister lives in Sedan, you say; perhaps we shall be there before long."

"What, at Sedan? Never! You must be crazy; it don't lie in our way."

"Is your sister young?"

"Just my age; you know I told you we are twins."

"Is she like you?"

"Yes, she is fair-haired, too; and oh! such pretty curling hair! She is a mite of a woman,
with a little thin face, not one of your noisy, flashy hoydens, ah, no!--Dear Henriette!"

"You love her very dearly!"

"Yes, yes--"

There was silence between them after that, and Jean, glancing at Maurice, saw that his eyes
were closing and he was about to fall.

"Hallo there, old fellow! Come, confound it all, brace up! Let me take your gun a moment; that
will give you a chance to rest. They can't have the cruelty to make us march any further to-day!
we shall leave half our men by the roadside."

At that moment he caught sight of Osches lying straight ahead of them, its few poor hovels
climbing in straggling fashion up the hillside, and the yellow church, embowered in trees,
looking down on them from its perch upon the summit.

"There's where we shall rest, for certain."

He had guessed aright; General Douay saw the exhausted condition of the troops, and was convinced
that it would be useless to attempt to reach la Besace that day. What particularly influenced
his determination, however, was the arrival of the train, that ill-starred train that had been
trailing in his rear since they left Rheims, and of which the nine long miles of vehicles and
animals had so terribly impeded his movements. He had given instructions from Quatre-Champs
to direct it straight on Saint-Pierremont, and it was not until Osches that the teams came
up with the corps, in such a state of exhaustion that the horses refused to stir. It was now
five o'clock; the general, not liking the prospect of attempting the pass of Stonne at that
late hour, determined to take the responsibility of abridging the task assigned them by the
marshal. The corps was halted and proceeded to encamp; the train below in the meadows, guarded
by a division, while the artillery took position on the hills to the rear, and the brigade
detailed to act as rear-guard on the morrow rested on a height facing Saint-Pierremont. The
other division, which included Bourgain-Desfeuilles' brigade, bivouacked on a wide plateau,
bordered by an oak wood, behind the church. There was such confusion in locating the bodies
of troops that it was dark before the 106th could move into its position at the edge of the wood.

"_Zut_!" said Chouteau in a furious rage, "no eating for me; I want to sleep!"

And that was the cry of all; they were overcome with fatigue. Many of them lacked strength
and courage to erect their tents, but dropping where they stood, at once fell fast asleep on
the bare ground. In order to eat, moreover, rations would have been necessary, and the commissary
wagons, which were waiting for the 7th corps to come to them at la Besace, could not well be
at Osches at the same time. In the universal relaxation of order and system even the customary
corporal's call was omitted: it was everyone for himself. There were to be no more issues of
rations from that time forth; the soldiers were to subsist on the provisions they were supposed
to carry in their knapsacks, and that evening the sacks were empty; few indeed were those who
could muster a crust of bread or some crumbs of the abundance in which they had been living
at Vouziers of late. There was coffee, and those who were not too tired made and drank it without
sugar.

When Jean thought to make a division of his wealth by eating one of his biscuits himself and
giving the other to Maurice, he discovered that the latter was sound asleep. He thought at
first he would awake him, but changed his mind and stoically replaced the biscuits in his sack,
concealing them with as much caution as if they had been bags of gold; he could get along with
coffee, like the rest of the boys. He had insisted on having the tent put up, and they were
all stretched on the ground beneath its shelter when Loubet returned from a foraging expedition,
bringing in some carrots that he had found in a neighboring field. As there was no fire to
cook them by they munched them raw, but the vegetables only served to aggravate their hunger,
and they made Pache ill.

"No, no; let him sleep," said Jean to Chouteau, who was shaking Maurice to wake him and give
him his share.

"Ah," Lapoulle broke in, "we shall be at Angouleme to-morrow, and then we'll have some bread.
I had a cousin in the army once, who was stationed at Angouleme. Nice garrison, that."

They all looked surprised, and Chouteau exclaimed:

"Angouleme--what are you talking about! Just listen to the bloody fool, saying he is at Angouleme!"

It was impossible to extract any explanation from Lapoulle. He had insisted that morning that
the uhlans that they sighted were some of Bazaine's troops.

Then darkness descended on the camp, black as ink, silent as death. Notwithstanding the coolness
of the night air the men had not been permitted to make fires; the Prussians were known to
be only a few miles away, and it would not do to put them on the alert; orders even were transmitted
in a hushed voice. The officers had notified their men before retiring that the start would
be made at about four in the morning, in order that they might have all the rest possible,
and all had hastened to turn in and were sleeping greedily, forgetful of their troubles. Above
the scattered camps the deep respiration of all those slumbering crowds, rising upon the stillness
of the night, was like the long-drawn breathing of old Mother Earth.

Suddenly a shot rang out in the darkness and aroused the sleepers. It was about three o'clock,
and the obscurity was profound. Immediately everyone was on foot, the alarm spread through
the camp; it was supposed the Prussians were attacking. It was only Loubet who, unable to sleep
longer, had taken it in his head to make a foray into the oak-wood, which he thought gave promise
of rabbits: what a jolly good lark it would be if he could bring in a pair of nice rabbits
for the comrades' breakfast! But as he was looking about for a favorable place in which to
conceal himself, he heard the sound of voices and the snapping of dry branches under heavy
footsteps; men were coming toward him; he took alarm and discharged his piece, believing the
Prussians were at hand. Maurice, Jean, and others came running up in haste, when a hoarse voice
made itself heard:

"For God's sake, don't shoot!"

And there at the edge of the wood stood a tall, lanky man, whose thick, bristling beard they
could just distinguish in the darkness. He wore a gray blouse, confined at the waist by a red
belt, and carried a musket slung by a strap over his shoulder. He hurriedly explained that
he was French, a sergeant of francs-tireurs, and had come with two of his men from the wood
of Dieulet, bringing important information for the general.

"Hallo there, Cabasse! Ducat!" he shouted, turning his head, "hallo! you infernal poltroons,
come here!"

The men were evidently badly scared, but they came forward. Ducat, short and fat, with a pale
face and scanty hair; Cabasse short and lean, with a black face and a long nose not much thicker
than a knife-blade.

Meantime Maurice had stepped up and taken a closer look at the sergeant; he finally asked him:

"Tell me, are you not Guillaume Sambuc, of Remilly?"

And when the man hesitatingly answered in the affirmative Maurice recoiled a step or two, for
this Sambuc had the reputation of being a particularly hard case, the worthy son of a family
of woodcutters who had all gone to the bad, the drunken father being found one night lying
by the roadside with his throat cut, the mother and daughter, who lived by begging and stealing,
having disappeared, most likely, in the seclusion of some penitentiary. He, Guillaume, did
a little in the poaching and smuggling lines, and only one of that litter of wolves' whelps
had grown up to be an honest man, and that was Prosper, the hussar, who had gone to work on
a farm before he was conscripted, because he hated the life of the forest.

"I saw your brother at Vouziers," Maurice continued; "he is well."

Sambuc made no reply. To end the situation he said:

"Take me to the general. Tell him that the francs-tireurs of the wood of Dieulet have something
important to say to him."

On the way back to the camp Maurice reflected on those free companies that had excited such
great expectations at the time of their formation, and had since been the object of such bitter
denunciation throughout the country. Their professed purpose was to wage a sort of guerilla
warfare, lying in ambush behind hedges, harassing the enemy, picking off his sentinels, holding
the woods, from which not a Prussian was to emerge alive; while the truth of the matter was
that they had made themselves the terror of the peasantry, whom they failed utterly to protect
and whose fields they devastated. Every ne'er-do-well who hated the restraints of the regular
service made haste to join their ranks, well pleased with the chance that exempted him from
discipline and enabled him to lead the life of a tramp, tippling in pothouses and sleeping
by the roadside at his own sweet will. Some of the companies were recruited from the very worst
material imaginable.

"Hallo there, Cabasse! Ducat!" Sambuc was constantly repeating, turning to his henchmen at
every step he took, "Come along, will you, you snails!"

Maurice was as little charmed with the two men as with their leader. Cabasse, the little lean
fellow, was a native of Toulon, had served as waiter in a cafe at Marseilles, had failed at
Sedan as a broker in southern produce, and finally had brought up in a police-court, where
it came near going hard with him, in connection with a robbery of which the details were suppressed.
Ducat, the little fat man, quondam _huissier_ at Blainville, where he had been forced to sell
out his business on account of a malodorous woman scrape, had recently been brought face to
face with the court of assizes for an indiscretion of a similar nature at Raucourt, where he
was accountant in a factory. The latter quoted Latin in his conversation, while the other could
scarcely read, but the two were well mated, as unprepossessing a pair as one could expect to
meet in a summer's day.

The camp was already astir; Jean and Maurice took the francs-tireurs to Captain Beaudoin, who
conducted them to the quarters of Colonel Vineuil. The colonel attempted to question them,
but Sambuc, intrenching himself in his dignity, refused to speak to anyone except the general.
Now Bourgain-Desfeuilles had taken up his quarters that night with the cure of Osches, and
just then appeared, rubbing his eyes, in the doorway of the parsonage; he was in a horribly
bad humor at his slumbers having been thus prematurely cut short, and the prospect that he
saw before him of another day of famine and fatigue; hence his reception of the men who were
brought before him was not exactly lamblike. Who were they? Whence did they come? What did
they want? Ah, some of those francs-tireurs gentlemen--eh! Same thing as skulkers and riff-raff!

"General," Sambuc replied, without allowing himself to be disconcerted, "we and our comrades
are stationed in the woods of Dieulet--"

"The woods of Dieulet--where's that?"

"Between Stenay and Mouzon, General."

"What do I know of your Stenay and Mouzon? Do you expect me to be familiar with all these strange
names?"

The colonel was distressed by his chief's display of ignorance; he hastily interfered to remind
him that Stenay and Mouzon were on the Meuse, and that, as the Germans had occupied the former
of those towns, the army was about to attempt the passage of the river at the other, which
was situated more to the northward.

"So you see, General," Sambuc continued, "we've come to tell you that the woods of Dieulet
are alive with Prussians. There was an engagement yesterday as the 5th corps was leaving Bois-les-Dames,
somewhere about Nonart--"

"What, yesterday? There was fighting yesterday?"

"Yes, General, the 5th corps was engaged as it was falling back; it must have been at Beaumont
last night. So, while some of us hurried off to report to it the movements of the enemy, we
thought it best to come and let you know how matters stood, so that you might go to its assistance,
for it will certainly have sixty thousand men to deal with in the morning."

General Bourgain-Desfeuilles gave a contemptuous shrug of his shoulders.

"Sixty thousand men! Why the devil don't you call it a hundred thousand at once? You were dreaming,
young man; your fright has made you see double. It is impossible there should be sixty thousand
Germans so near us without our knowing it."

And so he went on. It was to no purpose that Sambuc appealed to Ducat and Cabasse to confirm
his statement.

"We saw the guns," the Provencal declared; "and those chaps must be crazy to take them through
the forest, where the rains of the past few days have left the roads in such a state that they
sink in the mud up to the hubs."

"They have someone to guide them, for certain," said the ex-bailiff.

Since leaving Vouziers the general had stoutly refused to attach any further credit to reports
of the junction of the two German armies which, as he said, they had been trying to stuff down
his throat. He did not even consider it worth his while to send the francs-tireurs before his
corps commander, to whom the partisans supposed, all along, that they were talking; if they
should attempt to listen to all the yarns that were brought them by tramps and peasants, they
would have their hands full and be driven from pillar to post without ever advancing a step.
He directed the three men to remain with the column, however, since they were acquainted with
the country.

"They are good fellows, all the same," Jean said to Maurice, as they were returning to fold
the tent, "to have tramped three leagues across lots to let us know."

The young man agreed with him and commended their action, knowing as he did the country, and
deeply alarmed to hear that the Prussians were in Dieulet forest and moving on Sommanthe and
Beaumont. He had flung himself down by the roadside, exhausted before the march had commenced,
with a sorrowing heart and an empty stomach, at the dawning of that day which he felt was to
be so disastrous for them all. Distressed to see him looking so pale, the corporal affectionately
asked him:

"Are you feeling so badly still? What is it? Does your foot pain you?"

Maurice shook his head. His foot had ceased to trouble him, thanks to the big shoes.

"Then you are hungry." And Jean, seeing that he did not answer, took from his knapsack one
of the two remaining biscuits, and with a falsehood for which he may be forgiven: "Here, take
it; I kept your share for you. I ate mine a while ago."

Day was breaking when the 7th corps marched out of Osches en route for Mouzon by way of la
Besace, where they should have bivouacked. The train, cause of so many woes, had been sent
on ahead, guarded by the first division, and if its own wagons, well horsed as for the most
part they were, got over the ground at a satisfactory pace, the requisitioned vehicles, most
of them empty, delayed the troops and produced sad confusion among the hills of the defile
of Stonne. After leaving the hamlet of la Berliere the road rises more sharply between wooded
hills on either side. Finally, about eight o'clock, the two remaining divisions got under way,
when Marshal MacMahon came galloping up, vexed to find there those troops that he supposed
had left la Besace that morning, with only a short march between them and Mouzon; his comment
to General Douay on the subject was expressed in warm language. It was determined that the
first division and the train should be allowed to proceed on their way to Mouzon, but that
the two other divisions, that they might not be further retarded by this cumbrous advance-guard,
should move by the way of Raucourt and Autrecourt so as to pass the Meuse at Villers. The movement
to the north was dictated by the marshal's intense anxiety to place the river between his army
and the enemy; cost what it might, they must be on the right bank that night. The rear-guard
had not yet left Osches when a Prussian battery, recommencing the performance of the previous
day, began to play on them from a distant eminence, over in the direction of Saint-Pierremont.
They made the mistake of firing a few shots in reply; then the last of the troops filed out
of the town.

Until nearly eleven o'clock the 106th slowly pursued its way along the road which zigzags through
the pass of Stonne between high hills. On the left hand the precipitous summits rear their
heads, devoid of vegetation, while to the right the gentler slopes are clad with woods down
to the roadside. The sun had come out again, and the heat was intense down in the inclosed
valley, where an oppressive solitude prevailed. After leaving la Berliere, which lies at the
foot of a lofty and desolate mountain surmounted by a Calvary, there is not a house to be seen,
not a human being, not an animal grazing in the meadows. And the men, the day before so faint
with hunger, so spent with fatigue, who since that time had had no food to restore, no slumber,
to speak of, to refresh them, were now dragging themselves listlessly along, disheartened,
filled with sullen anger.

Soon after that, just as the men had been halted for a short rest along the roadside, the roar
of artillery was heard away at their right; judging from the distinctness of the detonations
the firing could not be more than two leagues distant. Upon the troops, weary with waiting,
tired of retreating, the effect was magical; in the twinkling of an eye everyone was on his
feet, eager, in a quiver of excitement, no longer mindful of his hunger and fatigue: why did
they not advance? They preferred to fight, to die, rather than keep on flying thus, no one
knew why or whither.

General Bourgain-Desfeuilles, accompanied by Colonel de Vineuil, had climbed a hill on the
right to reconnoiter the country. They were visible up there in a little clearing between two
belts of wood, scanning the surrounding hills with their field-glasses, when all at once they
dispatched an aide-de-camp to the column, with instructions to send up to them the francs-tireurs
if they were still there. A few men, Jean and Maurice among them, accompanied the latter, in
case there should be need of messengers.

"A beastly country this, with its everlasting hills and woods!" the general shouted, as soon
as he caught sight of Sambuc. "You hear the music--where is it? where is the fighting going on?"

Sambuc, with Ducat and Cabasse close at his heels, listened a moment before he answered, casting
his eye over the wide horizon, and Maurice, standing beside him and gazing out over the panorama
of valley and forest that lay beneath him, was struck with admiration. It was like a boundless
sea, whose gigantic waves had been arrested by some mighty force. In the foreground the somber
verdure of the woods made splashes of sober color on the yellow of the fields, while in the
brilliant sunlight the distant hills were bathed in purplish vapors. And while nothing was
to be seen, not even the tiniest smoke-wreath floating on the cloudless sky, the cannon were
thundering away in the distance, like the muttering of a rising storm.

"Here is Sommanthe, to the right," Sambuc said at last, pointing to a high hill crowned by
a wood. "Yoncq lies off yonder to the left. The fighting is at Beaumont, General."

"Either at Varniforet or Beaumont," Ducat observed.

The general muttered below his breath: "Beaumont, Beaumont--a man can never tell where he is
in this d----d country." Then raising his voice: "And how far may this Beaumont be from here?"

"A little more than six miles, if you take the road from Chene to Stenay, which runs up the
valley yonder."

There was no cessation of the firing, which seemed to be advancing from west to east with a
continuous succession of reports like peals of thunder. Sambuc added:

"_Bigre_! it's getting warm. It is just what I expected; you know what I told you this morning,
General; it is certainly the batteries that we saw in the wood of Dieulet. By this time the
whole army that came up through Buzancy and Beauclair is at work mauling the 5th corps."

There was silence among them, while the battle raging in the distance growled more furiously
than ever, and Maurice had to set tight his teeth to keep himself from speaking his mind aloud.
Why did they not hasten whither the guns were calling them, without such waste of words? He
had never known what it was to be excited thus; every discharge found an echo in his bosom
and inspired him with a fierce longing to be present at the conflict, to put an end to it.
Were they to pass by that battle, so near almost that they could stretch forth their arm and
touch it with their hand, and never expend a cartridge? It must be to decide a wager that some
one had made, that since the beginning of the campaign they were dragged about the country
thus, always flying before the enemy! At Vouziers they had heard the musketry of the rear-guard,
at Osches the German guns had played a moment on their retreating backs; and now they were
to run for it again, they were not to be allowed to advance at double-quick to the succor of
comrades in distress! Maurice looked at Jean, who was also very pale, his eyes shining with
a bright, feverish light. Every heart leaped in every bosom at the loud summons of the artillery.

While they were waiting a general, attended by his staff, was seen ascending the narrow path
that wound up the hill. It was Douay, their corps-commander, who came hastening up, with anxiety
depicted on his countenance, and when he had questioned the francs-tireurs he gave utterance
to an exclamation of despair. But what could he have done, even had he learned their tidings
that morning? The marshal's orders were explicit: they must be across the Meuse that night,
cost what it might. And then again, how was he to collect his scattered troops, strung out
along the road to Raucourt, and direct then on Beaumont? Could they arrive in time to be of
use? The 5th corps must be in full retreat on Mouzon by that time, as was indicated by the
sound of the firing, which was receding more and more to the eastward, as a deadly hurricane
moves off after having accomplished its disastrous work. With a fierce gesture, expressive
of his sense of impotency, General Douay outstretched his arms toward the wide horizon of hill
and dale, of woods and fields, and the order went forth to proceed with the march to Raucourt.

Ah, what a march was that through that dismal pass of Stonne, with the lofty summits o'erhanging
them on either side, while through the woods on their right came the incessant volleying of
the artillery. Colonel de Vineuil rode at the head of his regiment, bracing himself firmly
in his saddle, his face set and very pale, his eyes winking like those of one trying not to
weep. Captain Beaudoin strode along in silence, gnawing his mustache, while Lieutenant Rochas
let slip an occasional imprecation, invoking ruin and destruction on himself and everyone besides.
Even the most cowardly among the men, those who had the least stomach for fighting, were shamed
and angered by their continuous retreat; they felt the bitter humiliation of turning their
backs while those beasts of Prussians were murdering their comrades over yonder.

After emerging from the pass the road, from a tortuous path among the hills, increased in width
and led through a broad stretch of level country, dotted here and there with small woods. The
106th was now a portion of the rear-guard, and at every moment since leaving Osches had been
expecting to feel the enemy's attack, for the Prussians were following the column step by step,
never letting it escape their vigilant eyes, waiting, doubtless, for a favorable opportunity
to fall on its rear. Their cavalry were on the alert to take advantage of any bit of ground
that promised them an opportunity of getting in on our flank; several squadrons of Prussian
Guards were seen advancing from behind a wood, but they gave up their purpose upon a demonstration
made by a regiment of our hussars, who came up at a gallop, sweeping the road. Thanks to the
breathing-spell afforded them by this circumstance the retreat went on in sufficiently good
order, and Raucourt was not far away, when a spectacle greeted their eyes that filled them
with consternation and completely demoralized the troops. Upon coming to a cross-road they
suddenly caught sight of a hurrying, straggling, flying throng, wounded officers, soldiers
without arms and without organization, runaway teams from the train, all--men and animals--mingled
in wildest confusion, wild with panic. It was the wreck of one of the brigades of the 1st division,
which had been sent that morning to escort the train to Mouzon; there had been an unfortunate
misconception of orders, and this brigade and a portion of the wagons had taken a wrong road
and reached Varniforet, near Beaumont, at the very time when the 5th corps was being driven
back in disorder. Taken unawares, overborne by the flank attack of an enemy superior in numbers,
they had fled; and bleeding, with haggard faces, crazed with fear, were now returning to spread
consternation among their comrades; it was as if they had been wafted thither on the breath
of the battle that had been raging incessantly since noon.

