Over the whole of the dry-farm territory of the United States similar conditions of drouth
occurred. After the harvest, however, every state reported that the crops were well up to the
average wherever correct methods of culture had been employed.

These well-authenticated records from true semi-arid districts, covering the two chief types
of winter and summer precipitation, prove that the year of drouth, or the driest year in a
twenty-year period, does not disturb agricultural conditions seriously in localities where
the average annual precipitation is not too low, and where proper cultural methods arc followed.
That dry-farming is a system of agricultural practice which requires the application of high
skill and intelligence is admitted; that it is precarious is denied. The year of drouth is
ordinarily the year in which the man failed to do properly his share of the work.

CHAPTER XVIII

THE PRESENT STATUS OF DRY-FARMING

It is difficult to obtain a correct view of the present status of dry-farming, first, because
dry-farm surveys are only beginning to be made and, secondly, because the area under dry-farm
cultivation is increasing daily by leaps and bounds. All arid and semiarid parts of the world
are reaching out after methods of soil culture whereby profitable crops may be produced without
irrigation, and the practice of dry-farming, according to modern methods, is now followed in
many diverse countries. The United States undoubtedly leads at present in the area actually
under dry-farming, but, in view of the immense dry-farm districts in other parts of the world,
it is doubtful if the United States will always maintain its supremacy in dry-farm acreage.
The leadership in the development of a science of dry-farming will probably remain with the
United States for years, since the numerous experiment stations established for the study of
the problems of farming without irrigation have their work well under way, while, with the
exception of one or two stations in Russia and Canada, no other countries have experiment stations
for the study of dry-farming in full operation. The reports of the Dry-farming Congress furnish
practically the only general information as to the status of dry-farming in the states and
territories of the United States and in the countries of the world.

California

In the state of California dry-farming has been firmly established for more than a generation.
The chief crop of the California dry-farms is wheat, though the other grains, root crops, and
vegetables are also grown without irrigation under a comparatively small rainfall. The chief
dry-farm areas are found in the Sacramento and the San Joaquin valleys. In the Sacramento Valley
the precipitation is fairly large, but in the San Joaquin Valley it is very small. Some of
the most successful dry-farms of California have produced well for a long succession of years
under a rainfall of ten inches and less. California offers a splendid example of the great
danger that besets all dry-farm sections. For a generation wheat has been produced on the fertile
Californian soils without manuring of any kind. As a consequence, the fertility of the soils
has been so far depleted that at present it is difficult to obtain paying crops without irrigation
on soils that formerly yielded bountifully. The living problem of the dry-farms in California
is the restoration of the fertility which has been removed from the soils by unwise cropping.
All other dry-farm districts should take to heart this lesson, for, though crops may be produced
on fertile soils for one, two, or even three generations without manuring, yet the time will
come when plant-food must be added to the soil in return for that which has been removed by
the crops. Meanwhile, California offers, also, an excellent example of the possibility of successful
dry-farming through long periods and under varying climatic conditions. In the Golden State
dry-farming is a fully established practice; it has long since passed the experimental stage.

Columbia River Basin

The Columbia River Basin includes the state of Washington, most of Oregon, the northern and
central part of Idaho, western Montana, and extends into British Columbia. It includes the
section often called the Inland Empire, which alone covers some one hundred and fifty thousand
square miles. The chief dry-farm crop of this region is wheat; in fact, western Washington
or the "Palouse country" is famous for its wheat-producing powers. The other grains, potatoes,
roots, and vegetables are also grown without irrigation. In the parts of this dry-farm district
where the rainfall is the highest, fruits of many kinds and of a high quality are grown without
irrigation. It is estimated that at least two million acres are being dry-farmed in this district.
Dry-farming is fully established in the Columbia River Basin. One farmer is reported to have
raised in one year on his own farm two hundred and fifty thousand bushels of wheat. In one
section of the district where the rainfall for the last few years has been only about ten or
eleven inches, wheat has been produced successfully. This corroborates the experience of California,
that wheat may really be grown in localities where the annual rainfall is not above ten inches.
The most modern methods of dry-farming are followed by the farmers of the Columbia River Basin,
but little attention has been given to soil-fertility, since soils that have been farmed for
a generation still appear to retain their high productive powers. Jailer, my brother Angelo
will not talk about, Claudio shall die tomorrow, it versorget with clergy, and with everything
in its preparation he has Nöthiger. If my pity him a bit might
help, it should not be Seyn.The Great Basin

The Great Basin includes Nevada, the western half of Utah, a small part of southern Oregon
and Idaho, and also a part of Southern California. It is a great interior basin with all its
rivers draining into salt lakes or dry sinks. In recent geological times the Great Basin was
filled with water, forming the great Lake Bonneville which drained into the Columbia River.
In fact, the Great Basin is made up of a series of great valleys, with very level floors, representing
the old lake bottom. On the bench lands are seen, in many places, the effects of the wave action
of the ancient lake. The chief dry-farm crop of this district is wheat, but the other grains,
including corn, are also produced successfully. Other crops have been tried with fair success,
but not on a commercial scale. Grapevines have been made to grow quite successfully without
irrigation on the bench lands. Several small orchards bearing luscious fruit are growing on
the deep soils of the Great Basin without the artificial application of water. Though the first
dry-farming by modern peoples was probably practiced in the Great Basin, yet the area at present
under cultivation is not large, possibly a little more than four hundred thousand acres.

