The captain had sent ashore the purser in the first boat, with orders to work his way to the
city as soon as possible, to report the loss of his vessel, and to bring back help.  I remained
on the wreck till among the last of the passengers, managing to get a can of crackers and some
sardines out of the submerged pantry, a thing the rest of the passengers did not have, and
then I went quietly ashore in one of the boats.  The passengers were all on the beach, under
a steep bluff; had built fires to dry their clothes, but had seen no human being, and had no
idea where they were.  Taking along with me a fellow-passenger, a young chap about eighteen
years old, I scrambled up the bluff, and walked back toward the hills, in hopes to get a good
view of some known object.  It was then the month of April, and the hills were covered with
the beautiful grasses and flowers of that season of the year.  We soon found horse paths and
tracks, and following them we came upon a drove of horses grazing at large, some of which had
saddle-marks.  At about two miles from the beach we found a corral; and thence, following one
of the strongest-marked paths, in about a mile more we descended into a valley, and, on turning
a sharp point, reached a board shanty, with a horse picketed near by.  Four men were inside
eating a meal.  I inquired if any of the Lewis's people had been there; they did not seem to
understand what I meant when I explained to them that about three miles from them, and beyond
the old corral, the steamer Lewis was wrecked, and her passengers were on the beach.  I inquired
where we were, and they answered, "At Baulinas Creek;" that they were employed at a saw-mill
just above, and were engaged in shipping lumber to San Francisco; that a schooner loaded with
lumber was then about two miles down the creek, waiting for the tide to get out, and doubtless
if we would walk down they would take us on board.

I wrote a few words back to the captain, telling him where he was, and that I would hurry to
the city to send him help.  My companion and I their went on down the creek, and soon descried
the schooner anchored out in the stream.  On being hailed, a small boat came in and took us
on board.  The "captain" willingly agreed for a small sum to carry us down to San Francisco;
and, as his whole crew consisted of a small boy about twelve years old, we helped him to get
up his anchor and pole the schooner down the creek and out over the bar on a high tide.  This
must have been about 2 P.M. Once over the bar, the sails were hoisted, and we glided along
rapidly with a strong, fair, northwest wind.  The fog had lifted, so we could see the shores
plainly, and the entrance to the bay.  In a couple of hours we were entering the bay, and running
"wing-and-wing." Outside the wind was simply the usual strong breeze; but, as it passes through
the head of the Golden Gate, it increases, and there, too, we met a strong ebb-tide.

The schooner was loaded with lumber, much of which was on deck, lashed down to ring bolts with
raw-hide thongs.  The captain was steering, and I was reclining on the lumber, looking at the
familiar shore, as we approached Fort Point, when I heard a sort of cry, and felt the schooner
going over.  As we got into the throat of the "Heads," the force of the wind, meeting a strong
ebb-tide, drove the nose of the schooner under water; she dove like a duck, went over on her
side, and began, to drift out with the tide.  I found myself in the water, mixed up with pieces
of plank and ropes; struck out, swam round to the stern, got on the keel, and clambered up
on the side.  Satisfied that she could not sink, by reason of her cargo, I was not in the least
alarmed, but thought two shipwrecks in one day not a good beginning for a new, peaceful career.
Nobody was drowned, however; the captain and crew were busy in securing such articles as were
liable to float off, and I looked out for some passing boat or vessel to pick us up.  We were
drifting steadily out to sea, while I was signaling to a boat about three miles off, toward
Saucelito, and saw her tack and stand toward us.  I was busy watching this sail-boat, when
I heard a Yankee's voice, close behind, saying, "This is a nice mess you've got yourselves
into," and looking about I saw a man in a small boat, who had seen us upset, and had rowed
out to us from a schooner anchored close under the fort.  Some explanations were made, and
when the sail-boat coming from Saucelito was near enough to be spoken to, and the captain had
engaged her to help his schooner, we bade him good by, and got the man in the small boat-to
carry us ashore, and land us at the foot of the bluff, just below the fort.  Once there, I
was at home, and we footed it up to the Presidio.  Of the sentinel I inquired who was in command
of the post, and was answered, "Major Merchant."  He was not then in, but his adjutant, Lieutenant
Gardner, was.  I sent my card to him; he came out, and was much surprised to find me covered
with sand, and dripping with water, a good specimen of a shipwrecked mariner.  A few words
of explanation sufficed; horses were provided, and we rode hastily into the city, reaching
the office of the Nicaragua Steamship Company (C. K. Garrison, agent) about dark, just as the
purser had arrived; by a totally different route.  It was too late to send relief that night,
but by daylight next morning two steamers were en route for and reached the place of wreck
in time to relieve the passengers and bring them, and most of the baggage. I lost my carpet-bag,
but saved my trunk.  The Lewis went to pieces the night after we got off, and, had there been
an average sea during the night of our shipwreck, none of us probably would have escaped. 
That evening in San Francisco I hunted up Major Turner, whom I found boarding, in company with
General E. A. Hitchcock, at a Mrs. Ross's, on Clay Street, near Powell.  I took quarters with
them, and began to make my studies, with a view to a decision whether it was best to undertake
this new and untried scheme of banking, or to return to New Orleans and hold on to what I then
had, a good army commission.

At the time of my arrival, San Francisco was an the top wave of speculation and prosperity.
Major Turner had rented at six hundred dollars a month the office formerly used and then owned
by Adams & Co., on the east side of Montgomery Street, between Sacramento and California Streets.
B. R. Nisbet was the active partner, and James Reilly the teller.  Already the bank of Lucas,
Turner & Co.  was established, and was engaged in selling bills of exchange, receiving deposits,
and loaning money at three per cent.  a month.

Page, Bacon & Co., and Adams & Co., were in full blast across the street, in Parrott's new
granite building, and other bankers were doing seemingly a prosperous business, among them
Wells, Fargo & Co.; Drexel, Sather & Church; Burgoyne & Co.; James King of Win.; Sanders &
Brenham; Davidson & Co.; Palmer, Cook & Co., and others. Turner and I had rooms at Mrs. Ross's,
and took our meals at restaurants down-town, mostly at a Frenchman's named Martin, on the southwest
corner of Montgomery and California Streets.  General Hitchcock, of the army, commanding the
Department of California, usually messed with us; also a Captain Mason, and Lieutenant Whiting,
of the Engineer Corps.  We soon secured a small share of business, and became satisfied there
was room for profit. Everybody seemed to be making money fast; the city was being rapidly extended
and improved; people paid their three per cent. a month interest without fail, and without
deeming it excessive. Turner, Nisbet, and I, daily discussed the prospects, and gradually settled
down to the conviction that with two hundred thousand dollars capital, and a credit of fifty
thousand dollars in New York, we could build up a business that would help the St. Louis house,
and at the same time pay expenses in California, with a reasonable profit.  Of course, Turner
never designed to remain long in California, and I consented to go back to St. Louis, confer
with Mr. Lucas and Captain Simonds, agree upon further details, and then return permanently.

I have no memoranda by me now by which to determine the fact, but think I returned to New York
in July, 1853, by the Nicaragua route, and thence to St. Louis by way of Lancaster, Ohio, where
my family still was.  Mr. Lucas promptly agreed to the terms proposed, and further consented,
on the expiration of the lease of the Adams & Co.  office, to erect a new banking-house in
San Francisco, to cost fifty thousand dollars.  I then returned to Lancaster, explained to
Mr. Ewing and Mrs. Sherman all the details of our agreement, and, meeting their approval, I
sent to the Adjutant-General of the army my letter of resignation, to take effect at the end
of the six months' leave, and the resignation was accepted, to take effect September 6, 1853.
Being then a citizen, I engaged a passage out to California by the Nicaragua route, in the
steamer leaving New York September 20th, for myself and family, and accordingly proceeded to
New York, where I had a conference with Mr. Meigs, cashier of the American Exchange Bank, and
with Messrs.  Wadsworth & Sheldon, bankers, who were our New York correspondents; and on the
20th embarked for San Juan del Norte, with the family, composed of Mrs. Sherman, Lizzie, then
less than a year old, and her nurse, Mary Lynch.  Our passage  down was uneventful, and, on
the boats up the Nicaragua River, pretty much the same as before.  On reaching Virgin Bay,
I engaged a native with three mules to carry us across to the Pacific, and as usual the trip
partook of the ludicrous --Mrs. Sherman mounted on a donkey about as large as a Newfoundland
dog; Mary Lynch on another, trying to carry Lizzie on a pillow before her, but her mule had
a fashion of lying down, which scared her, till I exchanged mules, and my California spurs
kept that mule on his legs.  I carried Lizzie some time till she was fast asleep, when I got
our native man to carry her awhile.  The child woke up, and, finding herself in the hands of
a dark-visaged man, she yelled most lustily till I got her away.  At the summit of the pass,
there was a clear-running brook, where we rested an hour, and bathed Lizzie in its sweet waters.
We then continued to the end of our journey, and, without going to the tavern at San Juan del
Sur, we passed directly to the vessel, then at anchor about two miles out. To reach her we
engaged a native boat, which had to be kept outside the surf.  Mrs. Sherman was first taken
in the arms of two stout natives; Mary Lynch, carrying Lizzie, was carried by two others; and
I followed, mounted on the back of a strapping fellow, while fifty or a hundred others were
running to and fro, cackling like geese.

Mary Lynch got scared at the surf, and began screaming like a fool, when Lizzie became convulsed
with fear, and one of the natives rushed to her, caught her out of Mary's arms, and carried
her swiftly to Mrs. Sherman, who, by that time, was in the boat, but Lizzie had fainted with
fear, and for a long time sobbed as though permanently injured.  For years she showed symptoms
that made us believe she had never entirely recovered from the effects of the scare.  In due
time we reached the steamer Sierra Nevada, and got a good state-room.  Our passage up the coast
was pleasant enough; we reached San Francisco; on the 15th of October, and took quarters at
an hotel on Stockton Street, near Broadway.

Major Turner remained till some time in November, when he also departed for the East, leaving
me and Nisbet to manage the bank.  I endeavored to make myself familiar with the business,
but of course Nisbet kept the books, and gave his personal attention to the loans, discounts,
and drafts, which yielded the profits.  I soon saw, however, that the three per cent. charged
as premium on bills of exchange was not all profit, but out of this had to come one and a fourth
to one and a half for freight, one and a third for insurance, with some indefinite promise
of a return premium; then, the, cost of blanks, boxing of the bullion, etc., etc.  Indeed,
I saw no margin for profit at all.  Nisbet, however, who had long been familiar with the business,
insisted there was a profit, in the fact that the gold-dust or bullion shipped was more valuable
than its cost to us.  We, of course, had to remit bullion to meet our bills on New York, and
bought crude gold-dust, or bars refined by Kellogg & Humbert or E. Justh & Co., for at that
time the United States Mint was not in operation.  But, as the reports of our shipments came
back from New York, I discovered that I was right, and Nisbet was wrong; and, although we could
not help selling our checks on New York and St. Louis at the same price as other bankers, I
discovered that, at all events, the exchange business in San Francisco was rather a losing
business than profitable.  The same as to loans.  We could loan, at three per cent. a month,
all our own money, say two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and a part of our deposit account.
This latter account in California was decidedly uncertain.  The balance due depositors would
run down to a mere nominal sum on steamer-days, which were the 1st and 15th of each month,
and then would increase till the next steamer-day, so that we could not make use of any reasonable
part of this balance for loans beyond the next steamer-day; or, in other words, we had an expensive
bank, with expensive clerks, and all the machinery for taking care of other people's money
for their benefit, without corresponding profit.  I also saw that loans were attended with
risk commensurate with the rate; nevertheless, I could not attempt to reform the rules and
customs established by others before me, and had to drift along with the rest toward that Niagara
that none foresaw at the time.

Shortly after arriving out in 1853, we looked around for a site for the new bank, and the only
place then available on Montgomery Street, the Wall Street of San Francisco, was a lot at the
corner of Jackson Street, facing Montgomery, with an alley on the north, belonging to James
Lick.  The ground was sixty by sixty-two feet, and I had to pay for it thirty-two thousand
dollars.  I then made a contract with the builders, Keyser, & Brown, to erect a three-story
brick building, with finished basement, for about fifty thousand dollars.  This made eighty-two
thousand instead of fifty thousand dollars, but I thought Mr. Lucas could stand it and would
approve, which he did, though it resulted in loss to him.  After the civil war, he told me
he had sold the building for forty thousand dollars, about half its cost, but luckily gold
was then at 250, so that he could use the forty thousand dollars gold as the equivalent of
one hundred thousand dollars currency.  The building was erected; I gave it my personal supervision,
and it was strongly and thoroughly built, for I saw it two years ago, when several earthquakes
had made no impression on it; still, the choice of site was unfortunate, for the city drifted
in the opposite direction, viz., toward Market Street.  I then thought that all the heavy business
would remain toward the foot of Broadway and Jackson Street, because there were the deepest
water and best wharves, but in this I made a mistake.  Nevertheless, in the spring of 1854,
the new bank was finished, and we removed to it, paying rents thereafter to our Mr. Lucas instead
of to Adams & Co.  A man named Wright, during the same season, built a still finer building
just across the street from us; Pioche, Bayerque & Co. were already established on another
corner of Jackson Street, and the new Metropolitan Theatre was in progress diagonally opposite
us. During the whole of 1854 our business steadily grew, our average deposits going up to half
a million, and our sales of exchange and consequent shipment of bullion averaging two hundred
thousand dollars per steamer.  I signed all bills of exchange, and insisted on Nisbet consulting
me on loans and discounts.  Spite of every caution, however, we lost occasionally by bad loans,
and worse by the steady depreciation of real estate.  The city of San Francisco was then extending
her streets, sewering them, and planking them, with three-inch lumber.  In payment for the
lumber and the work of contractors, the city authorities paid scrip in even sums of one hundred,
five hundred, one thousand, and five thousand dollars. These formed a favorite collateral for
loans at from fifty to sixty cents on the dollar, and no one doubted their ultimate value,
either by redemption or by being converted into city bonds. The notes also of H. Meiggs, Neeley
Thompson & Co., etc., lumber-dealers, were favorite notes, for they paid their interest promptly,
and lodged large margins of these street-improvement warrants as collateral.  At that time,
Meiggs was a prominent man, lived in style in a large house on Broadway, was a member of the
City Council, and owned large saw-mills up the coast about Mendocino.  In him Nisbet had unbounded
faith, but, for some reason, I feared or mistrusted him, and remember that I cautioned Nisbet
not to extend his credit, but to gradually contract his loans.  On looking over our bills receivable,
then about six hundred thousand dollars, I found Meiggs, as principal or indorser, owed us
about eighty thousand dollars--all, however, secured by city warrants; still, he kept bank
accounts elsewhere, and was generally a borrower.  I instructed Nisbet to insist on his reducing
his line as the notes matured, and, as he found it indelicate to speak to Meiggs, I instructed
him to refer him to me; accordingly, when, on the next steamer-day, Meiggs appealed at the
counter for a draft on Philadelphia, of about twenty thousand dollars, for which he offered
his note and collateral, he was referred to me, and I explained to him that our draft was the
same as money; that he could have it for cash, but that we were already in advance to him some
seventy-five or eighty thousand dollars, and that instead of increasing the amount I must insist
on its reduction.  He inquired if I mistrusted his ability, etc.  I explained, certainly not,
but that our duty was to assist those who did all their business with us, and, as our means
were necessarily limited, I must restrict him to some reasonable sum, say, twenty-five thousand
dollars.  Meiggs invited me to go with him to a rich mercantile house on Clay Street, whose
partners belonged in Hamburg, and there, in the presence of the principals of the house, he
demonstrated, as clearly as a proposition in mathematics, that his business at Mendocino was
based on calculations that could not fail.  The bill of exchange which he wanted, he said would
make the last payment on a propeller already built in Philadelphia, which would be sent to
San Francisco, to tow into and out of port the schooners and brigs that were bringing his lumber
down the coast. I admitted all he said, but renewed my determination to limit his credit to
twenty-five thousand dollars.  The Hamburg firm then agreed to accept for him the payment of
all his debt to us, except the twenty-five thousand dollars, payable in equal parts for the
next three steamer-days.  Accordingly, Meiggs went back with me to our bank, wrote his note
for twenty-five thousand dollars, and secured it by mortgage on real estate and city warrants,
and substituted the three acceptances of the Hamburg firm for the overplus.  I surrendered
to him all his former notes, except one for which he was indorser.  The three acceptances duly
matured and were paid; one morning Meiggs and family were missing, and it was discovered they
had embarked in a sailing-vessel for South America. This was the beginning of a series of failures
in San Francisco, that extended through the next two years.  As soon as it was known that Meiggs
had fled, the town was full of rumors, and everybody was running to and fro to secure his money.
His debts amounted to nearly a million dollars.  The Hamburg house which, had been humbugged,
were heavy losers and failed, I think.  I took possession of Meiggs's dwelling-house and other
property for which I held his mortgage, and in the city warrants thought I had an overplus;
but it transpired that Meiggs, being in the City Council, had issued various quantities of
street scrip, which was adjudged a forgery, though, beyond doubt, most of it, if not all, was
properly signed, but fraudulently issued.  On this city scrip our bank must have lost about
ten thousand dollars.  Meiggs subsequently turned up in Chili, where again he rose to wealth
and has paid much of his San Francisco debts, but none to us.  He is now in Peru, living like
a prince. With Meiggs fell all the lumber-dealers, and many persons dealing in city scrip.
Compared with others, our loss was a trifle.  In a short time things in San Francisco resumed
their wonted course, and we generally laughed at the escapade of Meiggs, and the cursing of
his deluded creditors.

Shortly after our arrival in San Francisco, I rented of a Mr. Marryat, son of the English Captain
Marryat, the author, a small frame-house on Stockton Street, near Green, buying of him his
furniture, and we removed to it about December 1,1853.  Close by, around on Green Street, a
man named Dickey was building two small brick-houses, on ground which he had leased of Nicholson.
I bought one of these houses, subject to the ground-rent, and moved into it as soon as finished.
Lieutenant T. H. Stevens, of the United States Navy, with his family, rented the other; we
lived in this house throughout the year 1854, and up to April 17, 1855.

CHAPTER V.

CALIFORNIA

1855-1857

During  the winter of 1854-'55, I received frequent intimations in my letters from the St.
Louis house, that the bank of Page, Bacon & Co.  was in trouble, growing out of their relations
to the Ohio & Mississippi Railroad, to the contractors for building which they had made large
advances, to secure which they had been compelled to take, as it were, an assignment of the
contract itself, and finally to assume all the liabilities of the contractors.  Then they had
to borrow money in New York, and raise other money from time to time, in the purchase of iron
and materials for the road, and to pay the hands.  The firm in St. Louis and that in San Francisco
were different, having different partners, and the St. Louis house naturally pressed the San
Francisco firm to ship largely of "gold-dust," which gave them a great name; also to keep as
large a balance as possible in New York to sustain their credit.  Mr. Page was a very wealthy
man, but his wealth consisted mostly of land and property in St. Louis.  He was an old man,
and a good one; had been a baker, and knew little of banking as a business.  This part of his
general business was managed exclusively by his son-in-law, Henry D. Bacon, who was young,
handsome, and generally popular. How he was drawn into that affair of the Ohio & Mississippi
road I have no means of knowing, except by hearsay.  Their business in New York was done through
the American Exchange Bank, and through Duncan, Sherman & Co.  As we were rival houses, the
St. Louis partners removed our account from the American Exchange Bank to the Metropolitan
Bank; and, as Wadsworth & Sheldon had failed, I was instructed to deal in time bills, and in
European exchange, with Schnchardt & Gebhard, bankers in Nassau Street.

In California the house of Page, Bacon & Co.  was composed of the same partners as in St. Louis,
with the addition of Henry Haight, Judge Chambers, and young Frank Page.  The latter had charge
of the "branch" in Sacramento.  Haight was the real head-man, but he was too fond of lager-beer
to be in trusted with so large a business. Beyond all comparison, Page, Bacon & Co.  were the
most prominent bankers in California in 1853-'55.  Though I had notice of danger in that quarter,
from our partners in St. Louis, nobody in California doubted their wealth and stability.  They
must have had, during that winter, an average deposit account of nearly two million dollars,
of which seven hundred thousand dollars was in "certificates of deposit," the most stable of
all accounts in a bank.  Thousands of miners invested their earnings in such certificates,
which they converted into drafts on New York, when they were ready to go home or wanted to
send their "pile" to their families.  Adams & Co. were next in order, because of their numerous
offices scattered throughout the mining country.  A gentleman named Haskell had been in charge
of Adams & Co. in San Francisco, but in the winter of 1854-'55 some changes were made, and
the banking department had been transferred to a magnificent office in Halleck's new Metropolitan
Block.  James King of Wm.  had discontinued business on his own account, and been employed
by Adams & Co. as their cashier and banker, and Isaiah C. Wood had succeeded Haskell in chief
control of the express department. Wells, Fargo & Co. were also bankers as well as expressmen,
and William J. Pardee was the resident partner.

