THE MIRACLE OF THE GREAT ST. NICOLAS

From "The Seven Wives Of Bluebeard & Other Marvellous Tales"

By Anatole France

Translated by D. B. Stewart

Edited By James Lewis May And Bernard Miall

John Lane Company MCMXX

ST. NICOLAS, Bishop of Myra in Lycia, lived in the time of Constantine the Great. The most
ancient and weighty of those authors who have mentioned him celebrate his virtues, his labours,
and his worth: they give abundant proofs of his sanctity; but none of them records the miracle
of the salting-tub. Nor is it mentioned in the Golden Legend. This silence is important: still
one does not willingly consent to throw doubt upon a fact so widely known, which is attested
by the ballad which all the world knows:

     "There were three little children
     In the fields they went to glean."

This famous text expressly states that a cruel pork-butcher put the innocents "like pigs into
the salting-vat." That is to say, he apparently preserved them, cut into pieces, in a bath
of brine. This is, to be sure, how pork is cured: but one is surprised to read further on that
the three little children remained seven years in pickle, whereas it is usual to begin withdrawing
the pieces of flesh from the tub, with a wooden fork, at the end of about six weeks. The text
is explicit: according to the elegy, it was seven years after the crime that St. Nicolas entered
the accursed hostelry. He asked for supper. The landlord offered him a piece of ham:

     "'Wilt eat of ham?   Tis dainty food.'
     'I'll have no ham: it is not good.
     'Wilt cat a piece of tender veal?
     'I will not make of that my meal.
     Young salted flesh I want, and that
     Has lain seven years within the vat.
     Wheras the butcher heard this said
     Out of the door full fast he fled."

The Man of God immediately resuscitated the tender victims by the laying of hands on the salting-tub.

Such is, in substance, the story of the old anonymous rhyme. It bears the inimitable stamp
of honesty and good faith. Scepticism seems ill-inspired when it attacks the most vital memories
of the popular mind. It is not without a lively satisfaction that I have found myself able
to reconcile the authority of the ballad with the silence of the ancient biographers of the
Lycian pontiff. I am happy to proclaim the result of my long meditations and scholastic researches.
The miracle of the salting-tub is true, in so far as essentials are concerned, but it was not
the blessed Bishop of Myra who performed it; it was another St. Nicolas, for there were two:
one, as we have already stated, Bishop of Myra in Lycia; the other more recent, Bishop of Trinqueballe
in Vervignole. For me was reserved the task of distinguishing between them. It was the Bishop
of Trinqueballe who rescued the three little boys from the salting-tub. I shall establish the
fact by authentic documents, and no one will have occasion to deplore the end of a legend.

I have been fortunate enough to recover the entire history of the Bishop Nicolas and the children
whom he resuscitated. I have fashioned it into in a narrative which will be read, I hope, with
both pleasure and profit.

CHAPTER I

NICOLAS, a scion of an illustrious family of Vervignole, showed marks of sanctity from his
earliest childhood, and at the age of fourteen vowed to consecrate himself to the Lord. Having
embraced the ecclesiastical profession, he was raised, while still young, by popular acclamation
and the wish of the Chapter, to the see of St. Cromadaire, the apostle of Vervignole, and first
Bishop of Trinqueballe. He exercised his pastoral ministry with piety, governed his clergy
with wisdom, taught the people, and feared not to remind the great of Justice and Moderation.
He was liberal, profuse in almsgiving, and set aside for the poor the greater part of his wealth.

His castle proudly lifted its crenelated walls and pepper-pot roofs from the summit of a hill
overlooking the town. He made of it a refuge where all who were pursued by the secular arm
might find a place of refuge. In the lower hall, the largest to be seen in all Vervignole,
the table laid for meals was so long that those who sat at one end saw it lose itself in the
distance in an indistinct point, and when the torches upon it were lighted it recalled the
tail of the comet which appeared in Vervignole to announce the death of King Comus. The holy
St. Nicolas sat at the upper end. There he entertained the principal folk of the town and of
the kingdom, and a multitude of clergy and laymen. But on his right there was always reserved
a seat for the poor man who might come begging for his bread at the door.

Children, particularly, aroused the solicitude of the good St. Nicolas. He delighted in their
innocence, and he felt for them with the heart of a father and the bowels of a mother. He had
the virtues and the morals of an apostle. Yearly, in the dress of a simple monk, with a white
staff in his hand, he would visit his flock, desirous of seeing everything with his own eyes;
and in order that no adversity or disorder should escape his notice he would traverse, accompanied
by a single priest, the wildest parts of his diocese, crossing, in winter, the flooded rivers,
climbing mountains, and plunging into the thick forests. One day, having ridden since dawn
upon his mule, in company with the Deacon Modernus, thorny thickets through which his mount
with difficulty forced a winding path. The Deacon Modernus followed him with much difficulty
on his mule, which carried the baggage.

Overcome with hunger and fatigue, the man of God said to Modernus:

"Let us halt here, my son, and if you still have a little bread and wine we will sup here,
for I feel that I hardly have the strength to proceed further, and you, although the younger,
must be nearly as tired as I."

"Monseigneur," answered Modernus, "there remains neither a drop of wine nor a crumb of bread;
for, by your orders, I gave all to some people on the road, who had less need of it than ourselves."

"Without a doubt," replied the Bishop, "had there been a few scraps left in your wallet we
should have eaten them with pleasure, for it is fitting that those who govern the Church should
be nourished on the leavings of the poor. But since you have nothing left it is because God
has desired it so, and He has surely desired it for our good and profit. It is possible that
He will for ever hide from us the reason of this favour: perhaps, on the other hand, He will
quickly make it manifest. Meanwhile, I think the only thing left for us is to push on until
we find some arbutus berries and blackberries for our own nourishment, and some grass for our
mules, and, being thus refreshed, to lie down upon a bed of leaves."

Until I was five years, I lived in the house of a lady, who seemed
moderately affluent, and it was called Dona Francisca.

I ruminate whether those ladies would be my real mother, but it treats me well and even with
care and gifts, was known or should know, judging by the confused I remember that I was
surprised. I was at home for favor. He was not married. Would often visit a handsome gentleman,
a friend of my father. My father would see me, sometimes alone, sometimes with the gentleman.
The lady died, and then my father took me to his house, and no longer trusted anyone. Within
months of being with my father, where I looked after an old maid, came from England the aya
that my father entrusted to me and who has been with me until a few days before my father and I
to viniésemos Villafría. Manolita Dona, that was the best girl in the world, and who loved
and admired doña Luz, very happy with the secrets that made her,
and very curious to know everything, listened without blinking,
sitting in front of her friend.

This went on: - My aya it was the duty personified, but as a duty, without heat, without enthusiasm
and without affection. I am almost to say that I never kissed, never made me a caress.
However, I soon learned she knew, and my father saw as an early
portent, as a wise pequeñuela.

The life of my father, but then I do not understand, I understand now that was disipadísima, and
any copy of it. Playing, courting, was away from home until three
or four o'clock.

I was their refuge, as a means of purification, as his holy comfort in moments of gloom and
sadness.

Called me to his room, and only me, I said tenderly, kissed me and cried at times. As I was
as a child, nor could I find out, or deal with him know the cause of their sorrows. Several
times I was also going to his room at that time was not alone, but with a beautiful and elegant
woman, but dressed in neglect, and she welcomed me in pretty and graceful, and I did cariños
thousand. - That woman is your mother - Doña Manolita interrupted.
- So what I would have thought - Doña Luz continued - if This woman
had always been the same, but several were.

All of the people are demure, was there with some mystery, and never saw the aya. For myself
when I was grandecita, when I turned nine years, my father never returned to teach at any of
those women who, by the impression I left, I found that had to be ladies and not vulgar people.
My father was a gallant gentleman and am very pleased with the ladies. So anything I inferred
from this, but later the inverosimilitud have inferred that I was
actually a daughter of Antonia Gutierrez, a seamstress.

Could my father have sought to legitimize the mother plate, without compromising any lady?
Even in my father's life, despite my young age, I thought some
time in this, but I never dared, nor indirectly, to ask anything
my father on the subject.

Swerving the conversation, if it rested on my real mother or alleged Antonia Gutierrez. After
his death, and after I met twenty years, I tried hard to give me some light between their
roles.
He made the sign of the Cross, whereupon the little
devil exploded with a horrible noise and a very bad smell, just like a chestnut thrown into
the fire without having had its skin split.

And an angel from Heaven appeared, resplendent in light and said to Nicolas:

"Nicolas, beloved of the Lord, you must know that three little children have been in that salting-tub
for seven years; Garum, the innkeeper, cut up these tender infants, and put them in salt and
pickle. Arise, Nicolas, and pray that they may come to life again. For, if you intercede for
them, O Pontiff, the Lord, who loves you, will restore them to life."

During this speech Modernus entered the room, but he did not see the angel, nor did he hear
him, for he was not sufficiently holy to be able to communicate with the heavenly spirits.

The angel further said:

"Nicolas, son of God, lay your hands on the salting-tub, and the three children will be resuscitated."

The blessed Nicolas, filled with horror, pity, zeal, and hope, gave thanks to God, and when
the innkeeper reappeared with a jug in either hand, the Saint said to him in a terrible voice:

"Garum, open the salting-tub!"

Whereupon, Garum, overcome by fear, dropped both his jugs.

And the saintly Bishop Nicolas stretched out his hands, and said:

"Children, arise!"

At these words, the lid of the salting-tub was lifted up, and three young boys emerged.

"Children," said the Bishop, "give thanks to God, who through me, has raised you from out the
salting-tub."

And turning towards the innkeeper, who was trembling in every limb, he said:

"Cruel man, recognize the three children whom you shamefully put to death. May you loathe your
crime, and repent, that God may pardon you!"

The innkeeper, filled with terror, fled into the storm, amidst the thunder and lightning.

CHAPTER II

ST. NICOLAS embraced the three children and gently questioned them about the miserable death
which they had suffered. They related that Garum, having approached them while they were gleaning
in the fields, had lured them into his inn, had made them drink wine, and had cut their throats
while they slept.

They still wore the rags in which they had been clothed on the day of their death, and they
retained, after their resurrection, a wild and timid air. The sturdiest of the three, Maxime,
was the son of a half-witted woman, who followed the soldiers to war, mounted on an ass. One
night he fell from the pannier in which she carried him, and was left abandoned by the roadside.
From that time forward he had lived solely by theft. The feeblest, Robin, could hardly recall
his parents, peasants in the highlands, who being too poor or too avaricious to support him
had deserted him in the forest. The third, Sulpice, knew nothing of his birth, but a priest
had taught him his alphabet. The storm had ceased; in the buoyant, limpid air the birds were
calling loudly to one another. The smiling earth was green. Modernus having fetched the mules,
Bishop Nicolas mounted his, and carried Maxime wrapped in his cloak: the deacon took Sulpice
and Robin upon his crupper, and they set off toward the city of Trinqueballe.

The road unfolded itself between fields of corn, vineyards, and meadows. As they went along
the great Saint Nicolas who already loved the children with all his heart, examined them on
subjects suitable to their age, and asked them easy questions such as: "How much is five times
five?" or "What is God?" He obtained no satisfactory answers. But, far from shaming them for
their ignorance, he thought only of gradually dissipating it by the application of the best
pedagogic methods.

"Modernus," he said, "we will teach them firstly the truths necessary for salvation, and secondly
the liberal arts, especially music, so that they may sing the praises of the Lord. It will
also be expedient to teach them rhetoric, philosophy, and the history of men, plants, and animals.
I desire that they shall study, in their habits and their structure, the animals, all of whose
organs, in their wonderful perfection, attest the glory of the Creator."

Scarcely had the venerable Pontiff concluded this speech when a peasant woman passed along
the road, dragging by the halter an old mare so heavily laden with branches cut with their
leaves on that her knees were trembling, and she stumbled at every step.

"Alas," sighed the great St. Nicolas, "here is a poor horse carrying more than its burden.
He has unfortunately fallen into the hands of unjust and hard-hearted masters. One should not
overload any creature, not even beasts of burden."

At these words the three boys burst out laughing. The Bishop having asked why they laughed
so loudly:

"Because----" said Robin.

"That is----" said Sulpice.

"We laughed," said Maxime, "because you mistook a mare for a horse. Can't you see the difference?
It is very plain to me. Don't you know anything about animals?"

"I think," said Modernus, "the first thing is to teach these children manners."

At every town, borough, village, hamlet or castle by which he passed, St. Nicolas showed the
people the children rescued from the salting-tub, and related the great miracle performed by
God, on his intercession; whereupon they were all very joyful, and blessed him. Informed by
messengers and travellers of so prodigious an occurrence, the entire population of Trinqueballe
came out to meet their pastor, unrolling precious carpets and scattering flowers in his path.
The citizens, their eyes wet with tears, gazed at the three victims who had escaped from the
salting-tub, and cried: "The Lord be praised!" But the poor children knew no better than to
laugh and stick out their tongues; this caused further wonder and compassion, as being a palpable
proof of their innocence and misfortune.

The saintly Bishop Nicolas had an orphan niece, Mirande by name, who had just reached her seventh
year, and was dearer to him than the light of his eyes. A worthy widow by name Basine was rearing
her in piety, good manners, and ignorance of evil. The three miraculously saved children were
confided to the care of this lady. She was not lacking in judgment. She quickly saw that Maxime
had courage, Robin prudence, and Sulpice the power of reflection. She devoted herself to confirming
these good qualities, which, by the corruption common to the whole human race, tended unceasingly
to become perverted and distorted; for Robin's cautiousness turned easily into hypocrisy, and
mostly hid a greedy covetousness; Maxime was subject to fits of rage, and Sulpice frequently
and obstinately expressed false ideas in very important matters. However, they were but mere
children who went bird's-nesting, stole the garden fruit, tied cooking-pots to dogs' tails,
put ink the holy water font, and cow-itch in Modernus' bed.

At night, wrapped in white sheets and walking on stilts, they would go into the gardens, and
frighten into a swoon the serving-maids belated in their lovers' arms. They would cover the
seat which Madame Basine was wont to use with bristling spikes, and when she sat down they
would delight in her sufferings, observing the confusion with which she openly applied a heedful
and comforting hand to the damaged spot, for she would not for all the world have been lacking
in modesty.

In spite of her age and virtues, this lady inspired them with neither love nor fear. Robin
called her an old goat, Maxime an old she-ass, and Sulpice, the ass of Balaam. They teased
little Mirande in all sorts of ways; they would dirty her pretty clothes by making her fall
face downward on the stones. Once they pushed her head right up to the neck into a barrel of
treacle. They taught her to sit astride railings, and to climb trees, contrary to the decorum
of her sex; they taught her words and manners that smacked of the inn and the salting-tub.
Following their example, she called Madame Bassne "an old goat," and even, taking the part
for the whole, "old goat's rump." But she remained completely innocent. The purity of her soul
was unchangeable.

"I am fortunate," said the holy Bishop Nicolas, "in that I rescued these children from the
salting-tub, to make them good Christians. They will become faithful servants of God, and their
merits will be accounted to me."

Now, by the third year after their resurrection, when they were already tall and well-made,
on a day of spring, as they were all playing in the field beside the river, Maxime in a moment
of facetiousness and natural high spirits, threw the Deacon Modernus into the water. Hanging
on to the branch of a willow-tree, Modernus called for help. Robin ran up, made as though to
draw him out by the hand, took off his ring, and fled.

Meanwhile, Sulpice, sitting motionless on the bank with his arms crossed, said:

"Modernus is making a bad end. I can see six devils, in the form of flittermice, ready to seize
his soul as it comes out of his mouth."

When this serious affair was reported to him by Madame Basine and Modernus, the holy Bishop
was much afflicted and fell a-sighing.

"These children," he said, "were reared in suffering, by unworthy parents. The excess of their
misfortunes has caused the deformity of their characters. We must redress their wrongs by enduring
patience, and persevering kindness."

"Monseigneur," answered Modernus, who was chattering with fever in his dressing-gown, and sneezing
under his nightcap, for his bath had given him a cold, "it is possible that their wickedness
is derived from the wickedness of their parents. But how do you explain, father, the fact that
neglect has produced in each of them different and, so to speak, contrary vices, and that the
desertion and destitution into which they were thrown before they were put in the salting-tub
has made one avaricious, a second violent, and the third a visionary? And in your place, my
Lord, I should feel most uneasy about the last."

"Each of these children," answered the Bishop, "has yielded in his weak spot. Ill-treatment
has deformed their souls in those portions that offered the least resistance. Let us straighten
them out with a thousand precautions, for fear of increasing the evil instead of diminishing
it. Mildness, clemency, and forbearance are the only means which should ever be employed for
the improvement of men, heretics of course excepted."

"No doubt, Monseigneur, no doubt," said Modernus, sneezing three times. "But you cannot have
a good education without chastisement, nor discipline without discipline. I know what I am
about. If you do not punish these three little ragamuffins, they will grow up worse than Herod.
I assure you I am right."

"Modernus could not be mistaken," said Madame Basine.

The Bishop did not answer. With the widow and the Deacon, he paced the length of a hawthorn
hedge, which breathed forth an agreeable fragrance of honey and bitter almonds. In a slight
hollow, where the soil received the water from a neighbouring spring, he stopped before a bush,
whose twisted, close-packed branches were covered with gleaming, clean-cut leaves and white
clusters of flowers.

"Look," he said, "at this leafy, fragrant shrub, this lovely may, this noble thorn-bush, so
strong and vigorous. Observe that it is in more abundant leaf, and more glorious with bloom,
than all the other thorns in the hedge. But notice also that the pale bark of its branches
bears only a few thorns, which are weak and soft and blunt. What is the reason of this? It
is because, growing in a rich, moist soil, quiet and secure in the wealth which sustains its
life, it has utilized all the juices of the earth to augment its power and its glory, and being
too strong to dream of arming against its feeble enemies, it has devoted itself entirely to
the joys of its magnificent and delicious fertility. Now come a few steps up this rising path,
and look at this other hawthorn, which having with difficulty issued from a dry, stony soil,
languishes, deficient in both wood and leaves, and has had no other thought during its hard
life than to defend itself against the innumerable enemies that threaten the weal. It is nothing
but a bundle of thorns. It has employed the little sap which it received in fashioning innumerable
spears, broad at the base, hard and sharp, which but ill restore confidence to its apprehensive
weakness. It has nothing left over for fruitful and fragrant blossom. My friends, we are like
the hawthorns. The care given to our childhood makes us better. Too harsh an up bringing hardens
us."

CHAPTER III

WHEN Maxime was approaching his seventeenth year he filled the holy Bishop Nicolas with grief
and the diocese with scandal by forming and training a company of rogues of his own age, with
a view to kidnapping the girls of a village called Grosses-Nates, situated at a distance of
four leagues from Trinqueballe. The expedition was marvellously successful. The ravishers entered
the village by night, clasping to their bosoms the dishevelled virgins, who vainly uplifted
to heaven their burning eyes and imploring hands. But when the fathers, brothers, and betrothed
of these ravished maidens sought them out, they refused to return to the place of their birth,
alleging that they felt too deeply shamed, and preferred to hide their dishonour in _the_ arms
that had caused it. Maxime, who, for his share, had taken the three most beautiful, was living
in their company in a little manor dependent upon the episcopal See. In the absence of their
ravisher, the Deacon Modernus arrived, by order of the Bishop, to knock at their door, answering
that he came to set them free. They refused to open; and when he represented to them the abomination
of their lives they dropped upon his head a crockful of dishwater, with the crock, by which
his skull was fractured.

Armed with a gentle severity, the holy Bishop reproached Maxime for this violence and disorder:

"Alas," he said, "did I draw you from out of the salting-box to the ruin of the virgins of
Vervignole?"

And he reproached him with the magnitude of his offence. But Maxime shrugged his shoulders,
and turned his back, without making any reply.

At that moment King Berlu, in the fourteenth year of his reign, was assembling a powerful army
to fight the Mambournians, the determined enemies of his kingdom, who, having entered Vervignole,
were ravaging and depopulating the richest provinces of that great country.

Maxime left Trinqueballe without saying goodbye to a soul. When he was some leagues distant
from the town, seeing in a field a mare of moderate quality, except that she was blind in one
eye and lame, he jumped on her back and galloped off. On the following morning, accidentally
meeting a farm lad who was taking a great plough horse to water, he immediately dismounted,
bestrode the great horse, and ordered the lad to mount the blind mare, and to follow him, saying
that he would take him for his squire should he prove satisfactory. Thus equipped Maxime presented
himself to King Berlu, who accepted his services. He became in a very short time one of Vervignole's
greatest captains.

Meanwhile, Sulpice was giving the holy Bishop cause for perhaps more cruel, and certainly more
momentous, uneasiness; for if Maxime sinned grievously, he sinned without malice, and offending
God without thought, and, so to speak, unknowingly. But Sulpice set himself to do evil with
a greater and more unusual malignity. Being destined from early youth for the Church he assiduously
studied letters, both sacred and profane; but his soul was a corrupted vessel, wherein Truth
was turned into Error. He sinned in spirit; he erred in matters of faith with surprising precocity.
At an age when people have as yet no ideas at all, he overflowed with wrong ones. A thought
occurred to him which was doubtless suggested by the devil. In a field belonging to the Bishop
he gathered a multitude of boys and girls of his own age and, climbing into a tree, he exhorted
them to leave their fathers and mothers to follow Jesus Christ, and to go in, parties through
the country-side, burning priories and presbyteries in order to lead the Church back into evangelical
poverty. This youthful mob, led away by emotion, followed the sinner along the roads of Vervignole,
singing canticles, burning barns, pillaging chapels, and devastating the ecclesiastical lands.
Many of these crazy creatures perished of fatigue, hunger, and cold, or were killed by villagers.
The episcopal palace re-echoed with the complaints of the priesthood and the lamentations of
mothers.

The pious Bishop Nicolas sent for the originator of these disorders. With extreme mildness,
and infinite sadness, he reproached him for having misused the Word for the misleading of souls,
and reminded him that God had not picked him out of the salting-tub in order that he should
attack the property of our Holy Mother, the Church.

"Consider, my son," he said, "the greatness of your offence. You appear before your pastor
charged with turmoil, sedition, and murder."

But young Sulpice, maintaining a horrid calm, answered with a voice full of assurance, that
he had not sinned, neither had he offended God; but, on the contrary, he had acted in accordance
with the bidding of Heaven, for the good of the Church. And he professed before the dismayed
Bishop the false doctrines of the Manicheans, the Arians, the Nestorians, the Sabellians, the
Vaudois, the Albigenses, and the Bégards. So eager was he to embrace these monstrous errors
that he did not see how they contradicted one another, and were mutually devoured in the bosom
that cherished and revived them.

The pious Bishop endeavoured to lead Sulpice back into the right path, but he failed to overcome
the unhappy lad's obstinacy.

Having dismissed him, he knelt and prayed.

"I thank thee, O Lord, for having sent me this young man, as a whetstone on which to sharpen
my patience and my charity."

While two of the children he had rescued from the salting-tub were causing him so much pain,
St. Nicolas was obtaining some consolation from the third. Robin showed himself neither violent
in his actions nor arrogant in his thoughts. He had not the sturdy, ruddy appearance of Maxime;
nor the grave, audacious manner of Sulpice. Small, thin, yellow, lined, and shrunken, of humble,
obsequious and reverential bearing, he devoted himself to assisting the Bishop and clergy,
helping the clerks to keep the accounts of the episcopal revenues, and making complicated calculations
with the assistance of balls threaded on rods; he even multiplied and divided numbers in his
head, without the use of slate or pencil, with a rapidity and accuracy that would have been
admired even in a past master of money and finance. For him it was a pleasure to keep the books
of the Deacon Modernus, who, growing old, used to muddle the figures and fall asleep at his
desk. To oblige the Bishop, and obtain money for him, he spared neither trouble nor fatigue.
From the Lombards, he learnt how to calculate both the simple and compound interest on a sum
of money for a day, week, month, or year; he feared not to visit the filthy Jews in the black
lanes of the Ghetto, in order to learn, by mingling with them, the standard of metals, the
price of precious stones, and the art of clipping coin. Ultimately, with a little store which
he had accumulated by marvellous industry in Vervignole, in Mondousiana, and even in Mambournia,
he attended the fairs, tournaments, pardons, and jubilees, to which people of all conditions
flocked from all parts of Christendom: peasants, burghers, clerics, and _seigneurs_; there
he changed their money, and every time he returned a little richer than he had departed. Robin
did not spend the money he had made, but brought it to the Bishop.

St. Nicolas was extremely hospitable, and very liberal in almsgiving. He spent all his property
and that of the Church in making gifts to pilgrims and assisting the unfortunate. Thus he continually
found himself short of money; and he was much obliged to Robin for the skill and energy with
which the young treasurer obtained the sums which he required. The condition of penury in which
the holy Bishop had placed himself owing to his magnificence and liberality was greatly aggravated
by the condition of the times. The war which was ravaging Vervignole also ruined the Church
in Trinqueballe. The soldiery who were fighting in the country-side about the town pillaged
the farms, levied contributions on the peasantry, drove out the religious orders, and burned
the castles and abbeys.

The clergy and the faithful could no longer contribute to the expenses of their creed, and
thousands of peasants, fleeing from the free-booters came daily to beg their bread at the door
of the episcopal palace. For their sakes, the good St. Nicolas felt the poverty which he had
never felt for his own. Fortunately, Robin was always ready to lend him money, which the holy
pontiff naturally agreed to return in more prosperous times.

Alas, the war was now raging throughout the kingdom, from north to south, from east to west,
attended by its two inseparable companions, famine and pestilence. The peasantry turned robbers,
and the monks followed the armies. Antonio. Gonsalo will not so easily reject leave. Sebastian.
Behold, he withdrew his Wiz, like a pocket watch, which he will propose Augenblik. Gonsalo.
Gracious Lord - Sebastian. Eins; zählet, Antonio - Gonsalo. If one of any of the annoyances
he aufstößt, wants to hang on, he will have nothing of it as - Sebastian. A Thaler. Gonsalo.
(Dolores), ** That in, you have spoken better than in their meaning had. Ed (-** The ligt
frosty fun in the similar sound of the words (dollar), and (dolour).)

Sebastian. And you did it wisely, when I believed you did. Gonsalo. Consequently, gracious
Lord - Antonio. Pfui how the man wasted his tongue! Alonso. I pray thee, sey quiet. Gonsalo. Well,
I'm done, but - Sebastian. Will he talk. Antonio. What we are betting on which of beyden, he or
Adrian will first begin to crow? Sebastian. The old cock. Antonio. The young. Sebastian.
Well, what we bet? Antonio. A laughter. Sebastian.

It remains darbey. Adrian. Although this seems deserted island -
Sebastian.

Ha, ha, ha - Sun, her Seyde paid. Adrian. Uninhabitable, and in the whole unzugangbar That
- Sebastian. How can they do - Adrian.

How can they do - Antonio. So he can not continue - Adrian. Not otherwise than by a subtle, gentle and
pleasant temperature Seyn. Antonio. (Temperantia) was a nice man. Sebastian. Yes, and subtle,
as he learned in a very kind of pointed out. Adrian.

The air blows us right here in lovely - Sebastian. So sweet, as if they had lung lazy. Antonio.
Or as if they were from a morass would parfümirt.

Gonsalo.

You'll find everything here, what a pleasant life. Antonio.
The length
of her eyelashes, which barred her blue eyes, and the childlike smallness of her mouth, gave
the impression that evil could never find means to enter into her. Her ears were so tiny, so
fine, so finished and so delicate, that the least modest of men could never have dared to breathe
into them any but the most innocent of speeches. In the whole of Ver-vigbole no virgin inspired
so much respect, and none had greater need to do so, for she was marvellously simple, credulous,
and defenceless.

The pious Bishop Nicolas, her uncle, cherished her more dearly every day, and was more deeply
attached to her than one should be to any of God's creatures. He loved her, undoubtedly, in
God; but he also loved her for herself; he took great delight in her, and he loved to love
her; it was his only weakness. The Saints themselves are not always able to cut through all
the ties of the flesh.

St. Nicolas loved his niece, with a pure love, but not without gratification of the senses.
On the day following that on which he had learned of Robin's bankruptcy, he went to see Mirande
in order to hold pious converse with her, as was his duty, for he stood in the place of a father
to her, and had taken charge of her education.

She lived in the upper town, near the Cathedral in a house called "The House of the Musicians,"
because there were to be seen on its front men and animals playing on divers instruments. There
were, notably, an ass playing a flute, and a philosopher, recognizable by his long beard and
ink-horn, clashing cymbals. Every one explained these figures according to his fancy. It was
the finest dwelling-house in the town.

The Bishop found his niece crouching on the floor, with dishevelled hair, her eyes glittering
with tears, by the side of an empty, open coffer, in a room full of confusion.

He inquired of her the reason of this affliction, and of the disorder that prevailed around
her. Turning upon him her despairing gaze, she told him with a thousand sighs that Robin, the
Robin who had escaped from the salting-tub, the darling Robin, having many a time told her
that if she ever wanted a dress, an ornament or a jewel, he would gladly lend her the money
wherewith to buy it, she had frequently had recourse to his kindness, which appeared inexhaustible;
but that very morning a Jew called Seligmann had come to her with four sheriff's officers,
had presented the notes, signed by herself, which she had given Robin, and as she had not the
money to pay them he had taken away all the clothes, head-dresses and jewels which she possessed.

"He has taken," she sobbed, "my bodices and petticoats of velvet, brocade and lace; my diamonds,
my emeralds, my sapphires, my jacinths, my amethysts, my rubies, my garnets, and my turquoises;
he has taken my great diamond cross, with angels' heads in enamel, my large necklace, consisting
of two table diamonds, three cabochons, and six knots each of four pearls; he has taken my
great collar of thirteen table diamonds, and twenty hanging pearls!"

And without saying more she wept bitterly into her handkerchief.

"My daughter," answered the saintly Bishop, "a Christian virgin is sufficiently adorned when
she wears modesty for a necklace, and chastity for a girdle. None the less, as the scion of
a most noble and most illustrious family it was right that you should wear diamonds and pearls.
Your jewels were the treasury of the poor, and I deplore the fact that they should have been
snatched from you."

He assured her that she would certainly recover them, either in this world or the next; he
said everything possible to assuage her regret, and soothe her sorrow, and he comforted her.
For she had a tender soul, which longed for consolation. But he himself left her full of affliction.

On the following day, as he was about to celebrate Mass in the cathedral, the holy Bishop saw
coming towards him, in the sacristy, the three Jews, Seligmann, Issachar, and Meyer, who, wearing
green hats and fillets upon their shoulders, very humbly presented him the notes which Robin
had made over to them. As the venerable pontiff could not pay diem, they called up twenty porters,
with baskets, sacks, picklocks, carts, cords, and ladders, and commenced to pick the locks
of the wardrobes, coffers, and tabernacles. The holy man cast on them a look which would have
destroyed three Christians. He threatened them with the penalties of sacrilege, both in this
world and the next, he pointed out that their mere presence in the house of the God, whom they
had crucified, called down the fire of heaven upon their heads. They listened with the calm
of people for whom anathema, reprobation, malediction, and execration were their daily bread.
He then prayed to them, besought them, and promised to pay as soon as he could, twofold, threefold,
tenfold, a hundredfold, the debt which they had acquired. They excused themselves politely
for being unable to postpone the little transaction. The Bishop threatened to sound the tocsin,
to rouse against them the people who would kill them like dogs for profaning, violating, and
stealing the miraculous images and holy relics. They smilingly pointed to the sheriff's officers,
who were guarding them. They were protected by King Berln, for they lent him money. At this
sight the holy Bishop, recognizing that resistance would be rebellion, and remembering Him
who replaced the ear of Malchus, remained inert and speechless, and bitter tears dropped from
his eyes. Seligmann, Issachar, and Meyer took away the golden shrines enriched with precious
stones, enamels and cabochons, the reliquaries in the form of chalices, lanterns, naves, and
towers, the portable altars of alabaster encased in gold and silver, the coffers enamelled
by the skilful craftsmen of Limoges and the Rhine, the altar-crosses, the Gospels bound in
carved ivory and antique cameos, the desks ornamented with festoons of trailing vines, the
consular registers, the pyxes, the candelabra and candlesticks, the lamp, of which they blew
out the sacred flame, and spilt the blessed oil on the tiles, the chandeliers like enormous
crowns, the duplets with beads of pearl and amber, the eucharistie doves, the ciboria, the
chalices, the patens, the kisses of peace, incense boxes and flagons, the innumerable ex-votos--hands,
arms, legs, eyes, mouths, and hearts, all of silver--the nose of King Sidoc, the breast of
Queen Blandine, and the head in solid gold of Saint Cromadaire, the first apostle of Vervignole,
and the blessed patron of Trinqueballe. They even carried off the miraculous image of St. Gibbosine,
whom the people of Vervignole had never invoked in vain in time of pestilence, famine, or war.
This very ancient and venerable image was made of leaves of beaten gold nailed upon a core
of cedar-wood, and was covered with precious stones of the bigness of ducks' eggs, which emitted
fiery rays of red, blue, yellow and violet and white. For the past three hundred years her
enamelled eyes, wide open in her golden face, had compelled such respect from the inhabitants
of Trinqueballe that they saw her in their dreams, splendid and terrible, threatening them
with the direst penalties if they failed to supply her with sufficient quantities of virgin-
wax and crown-pieces. St. Gibbosine groaned, trembled, and tottered on her pedestal, and allowed
herself to be carried away without resistance, out of the basilica to which, from time immemorial,
she had drawn innumerable pilgrims.

After the departure of these sacrilegious thieves the holy Bishop Nicolas ascended the steps
of the despoiled altar, and consecrated the blood of our Lord in an old silver chalice, of
German origin, thin and deeply dented. He prayed for the afflicted, and in particular for Robin,
whom, by the will of God, he had rescued from the salting-box.

CHAPTER V

SHORTLY after this, King Berlu defeated the Mambournians in a great battle. He was, at first,
unaware of the fact, for armed conflicts always present a great confusion, and during the last
two hundred years the Vervignolians had lost the habit of victory. But the precipitate and
disordered flight of the Mambournians informed him of his advantage. Instead of fighting a
rear-guard action he pursued the enemy, and regained half his kingdom. The victorious army
entered the city of Trinqueballe, all beflagged and beflowered in its honour, and in that illustrious
capital of Vervignole it committed a great number of rapes, thefts, murders, and other cruelties,
burnt several houses, sacked the churches, and took from the cathedral all that the Jews had
left there, which, truth to tell, was not much.

Maxime, who having become a knight and commander of eighty lances, had largely contributed
to the victory, was one of the first to enter the city, and repaired straightway to the House
of the Musicians, where dwelt the beautiful Mirande, whom he had not seen since his departure
for the war. He found her in her bower, plying her distaff, and fell upon her with such impetuosity
that the young lady lost her innocence without, so to speak, realizing that she had done so.
And when, having recovered from her surprise, she exclaimed: "Is it you, Seigneur Maxime? What
are you doing here?" and was preparing as in duty bound to resist her aggressor, he was quietly
walking down the street, readjusting his armour and ogling the girls.

Possibly she would have entirely overlooked this offence, had it not been that some time later
she found that she was about to become a mother. Captain Maxime was then fighting in Mambournia.
All the town knew her shame: she confided it to the great St. Nicolas, who, on learning this
astonishing news, lifted his eyes to heaven, and said:

"Lord, did you rescue this man from the salting-tub only as a ravening wolf to devour my sheep?
Your wisdom is adorable; but your ways are dark, and your designs mysterious."

And in that same year, on the Sunday of Mid-Lent, Sulpice threw himself at the feet of the
holy Bishop, saying:

"From my earliest youth, my keenest wish has been to consecrate myself to the Lord. (For
Absyrtus.) Let us flee, brother! Absyrtus. Fleeing? Fencing! Jason (andringenden the Argonauts).
If they resist, they skin!

(For Kolchern.) To the ground arms! Absyrtus. You own to the ground! Does your companion! Keep
them out! Medea. Brother! Do you have your promise? Absyrtus. I promised to fliehn so verzeihn
me the gods, Not me that's interrupting that I gave the word's! (To his). Weicht not! The
father is near, he will send us help! Jason (Mede seeing). Bist du's Medea? Unexpected happiness!
Come here! Medea (to Kolchern). Schützet me, Jason (which is him complaining Kolcher attacking).
Her! out of the way! Eu'r iron does not hold, picks up the flash beam. (The Kolcher be pushed
back, the Greeks pursue them.) Jason. The fliehn your. You are in my power! Medea. You lie!
In the gods of power, in my. Leaves me everything that I myself do not! (You snatches a fleeing
Kolcher weapons and urges leveled with their spear and shield on Jason failure.) Kill or
Die! Jason (by gently zurückweicht). Medea what are you doing? Medea (more urgently). Kill or die!
Jason (with a sword spread their Lanze zertrümmernd).

Enough of the game! (The Sword in the left hand, in which he holds the shield.) What now? Medea.
Unfaithful gods!

(The broken lance hinwerfend with the shield and pulling a dagger.) Still, I have weapons!
She might tell me
that the fly which has but now settled on the nose of the Deacon Modernus was a camel, and
I should incontinently, without dispute, contest, murmur, resistance, hesitation or doubt,
believe, declare, proclaim, and confess, under torture and unto death, that it was a camel
that settled on the nose of the Deacon Modernus. For the Church is the Fountain of Truth, and
I am nought by myself but a vile receptacle of Error."

"Take care, my father," said Modernus. "Sulpice is capable of overdoing submission to the Church
even to the point of Heresy. Do you not see that he submits with frenzy, in transports and
swooning? Is wallowing in submission a good way of submitting? He is annihilating himself;
he is committing suicide."

But the Bishop reprimanded his deacon for holding such ideas, which were contrary to charity,
and sent the postulant to the noviciate of the mendicant friars of Trinqueballe.

Alas, at the end of a year those priests, till then so quiet and humble, were torn by frightful
schisms, plunged into a thousand errors against the Catholic truth, their days filled with
disorder, and their souls with sedition! Sulpice inspired the brothers with this poison. He
sustained against his superiors that there was no longer any true Pope, since miracles no longer
accompanied the elections of the Sovereign Pontiffs; nor, rightly speaking, any Church, since
Christians had ceased to live the life of the apostles and the first of the faithful; that
there was no purgatory; that it was not necessary to confess to a priest if one confessed to
God; that men do wrong in making use of moneys of gold and silver, for they should share in
common the fruits of the earth. These abominable maxims, which he forcibly sustained, were
combated by some, and adopted by others, causing horrible scandals. A little later Sulpice
taught the doctrine of perfect purity, which nothing can soil, and the good brothers' monastery
became like a cage of monkeys. This pestilence did not remain confined within the walls of
a monastery. Sulpice went preaching through the city; his eloquence, the internal fire by which
he was consumed, the simplicity of his life, and his unshakable courage touched all hearts.

On hearing the voice of the reformer, the ancient city, evangelized by St. Cromadaire, and
enlightened by St. Gibbosine, fell into disorder and dissolution; every sort of extravagance
and impiety was committed there, by day and by night. In vain did the great St. Some) warriors
(in the background of the tent set up on the sides.) Jason (from outside). I want it! Aiete
(outside). Back! Jason. Do you's to defend? From the sword hand! Schwerte by the hand tell
me, That my jerks, I can not threaten sehn! I want it! Give room!
Aiete. Back Verwegner!

Gora (to Mede). He races the Cheeky! Jason (outside). Can you hear me Medea? Give me a sign
when you hear! Gora. You heard? Jason. Penetrates up to you my reputation, so give a sign.
As she
came nearer, she barked, sniffed, and licked the ground. Her fair head was covered with mud,
and her whole body was a mass of filth. In this unhappy creature the holy Bishop Nicolas recognized
his niece Mirande.

"What do you there, my daughter?" he cried. "Why are you naked, and wherefore do you walk on
your hands and knees? Have you no shame?"

"No, uncle, I am not ashamed," sweetly replied Mirande. "I should, on the contrary, be ashamed
of any other gesture, or method of progression. If one wishes to please God, it is thus that
one should behave. The holy Brother Sulpice taught me to conduct myself thus, in order to resemble
the beasts, who are nearer to God than is Man, in that they have not sinned. So long as I am
in the state in which you see me, there will be no danger of my sinning. I have come, uncle,
to beg you in all love and charity to do likewise; for unless you do you cannot be saved. Remove,
I beg, your clothes, and adopt the posture of the animals, in whom God joyfully sees His image
which has not been distorted by sin. I give you this advice by order of the holy brother Sulpice,
and consequently by order of God Himself, for the holy brother is in the Lord's secrets. Strip
yourself naked, uncle, and come with me, so that we may show ourselves to the people for their
edification."

"Can I believe my eyes and ears?" gasped the holy Bishop, whose voice was stifled by sobs.
"I had a niece blooming in beauty, virtue, and piety; the three children whom I rescued from
the salting-tub have reduced her to the miserable condition in which I now see her. The first
has despoiled her of all her property, an abundant source of alms, and the patrimony of the
poor; the second has robbed her of her honour, and the third has turned her into a heretic."

He threw himself on the flagstones, embracing his niece, begging her to renounce so evil a
way of life, and adjuring her to reclothe herself, and walk on her feet like a human being,
ransomed by the blood of Jesus Christ.

But she replied only by sharp yelps and lamentable shrieks.

Before long the town of Trinqueballe was filled with naked men and women, walking on all fours
and barking; they called themselves the Edenites, and their ambition was to lead back the world
to the times of perfect innocence, before the unfortunate creation of Adam and Eve.

The Reverend Father Gilles Caquerole, a Dominican, inquisitor of the faith in the city, university,
and ecclesiastical province of Trinqueballe, became uneasy concerning this novelty, and proceeded
to look into it minutely. In the most urgent fashion, by letters under his seal, he invited
the Bishop Nicolas, in co-operation with himself, to arrest, imprison, interrogate, and sentence
these enemies of God, and especially their principal leaders, the Franciscan monk, Sulpice,
and a dissolute woman named Mirande. The great St. Nicolas burned with an ardent zeal for the
unity of the Church and the destruction of heresy, but he dearly loved his niece. He hid her
in the episcopal palace, and refused to hand her over to the inquisitor Caquerole, who denounced
him to the Pope as an abettor of disorder and the propagator of a new and very detestable heresy.
The Pope enjoined Nicolas to no longer withhold the guilty one from her legitimate judges.
Nicolas eluded the injunction, protested his obedience, and did not obey. The Pope fulminated
against him in the Bull _Maleficus pastor_, in which the venerable pontiff was accused of being
a disobedient member of the Church, a heretic, or one smelling of heresy, a keeper of concubines,
a committer of incest, a corrupter of the people, an old woman and a meddling old fool, and
was passionately admonished.

In this way the Bishop did himself a great deal of harm without any benefit to his beloved
niece. King Berlu, having been threatened with excommunication if he did not lend his secular
arm to the Church in pursuit of the Edenites, sent some men-at-arms to the episcopal palace
of Trinqueballe.

Here, where everybody knows me, I am the lady Dona Luz, which still retains its Marquesita
manor, and has earned the esteem and respect, because no one ignores his life for twelve years.
For those worlds would I be a somewhat mysterious Doña Luz, who everyone imagined a thousand
horrors.

Begin by stating a fact, to invent and put on it and a half million lies. The truth is that I am the
daughter of a ruined marquis and skull, and one that Antonia Gutiérrez unmarried seamstress,
with whom my father had love.Nevertheless, heresy, fortified by persecution, and exulting in danger, now spread its ravages
over the whole of Vervignole. All over the kingdom there were seen in the fields thousands
of naked men and women, nibbling the grass, bleating, lowing, roaring, neighing, and contending
at night with sheep, cattle, and horses for the use of stable and manger. The inquisitor informed
the Holy Father of these horrible scandals, and warned him that so long as the Protector of
the Edenites, the odious Nicolas, remained seated on the throne of St. Cromadaire, the evil
could only continue to increase. Conformably with this advice the Pope hurled against the Bishop,
like a thunderbolt, the Bull _Deterrima quondam_, by which he deprived him of all his ecclesiastical
functions, and cut him off from the communion of the faithful.

CHAPTER VI

CRUSHED by the Vicar of Jesus Christ, steeped in bitterness, overwhelmed by affliction, the
holy Nicolas stepped down without regret from his illustrious seat, and departed, no more to
return thither, from the city of Trinqueballe, which for thirty years had witnessed his pontifical
virtues and apostolic labours. (On Jason invade.) Give me my daughter, my child entices! Medea
(between both throwing). Father, kill him not! I love him! Jason. He could snatch thee's and I
do not! Aiete. Shameless! You even admit it?There, in a region
where grow the larch, the arbutus, and the hazel, some hermits supported themselves on berries
and milk. This mountain is called that of the Saviour. It was here that St. Nicolas resolved
to take refuge, and, far from the world, to weep for his sins and those of man.

As he was climbing the mountain in search of some wild spot where he might establish his habitation,
having emerged above the clouds which are almost always gathered about the flanks of the peak,
he saw upon the threshold of a hut an old man sharing his bread with a tame hind. His hair
fell over his forehead, and nothing could be perceived of his face but the tip of his nose
and a long white beard.

The holy Nicolas greeted him with these words:

"Peace be with you, brother."

"It delights to dwell upon this mountain," answered the recluse.

"I also," replied the holy Nicolas, "have come hither to end, in calm, days which have been
disturbed by the tumult of the times and the malignity of men."

As he was speaking in this wise, the hermit gazed at him attentively.

"Are you not," he said at length, "the Bishop of Trinqueballe, that Nicolas whose work and
virtues are extolled by men?"

When, by a sign, the holy pontiff admitted that he was that man, the hermit threw himself at
his feet.

"Monseigneur, to you I owe the saving of my soul, if, as I hope, my soul is saved."

Nicolas raised him with kindness, and asked him:

"My brother, how have I had the happiness to work for your salvation?"

The two former servants are ready to keep both, but both came home with a lot since my birth,
and know nothing fixed. Juana came to serve me when I was ten years. Three years after Thomas
came to help my father's camera.
On seeing them emerge from the salting-tub I was frozen with terror;
owing to your exhortations my heart melted; I experienced a salutary repentance, and, fleeing
from men, I came to this mountain, where I consecrated my days to God. He bestowed His peace
upon me."

"What," cried the holy Bishop, "you are that cruel Garum, guilty of so heinous a crime! I praise
God that he has accorded you a peaceful heart, after the horrible murder of three children,
whom you put in the salting-tub like pigs; but as for me, alas! for having drawn them out of
it my life has been filled with tribulation, my soul steeped in bitterness, and my Bishopric
laid wholly desolate. I have been deposed, excommunicated by the common Father of the Faithful.
Why have I been so cruelly punished for what I did?"

"Let us worship God," said Garum, "and let us not ask His motives."

The great St. Nicolas, with his own hands, built a hut near that of Garum, and there, in prayer
and penitence, he ended his days.

