The science of languages, or comparative philology, is the chief instrument required in such
researches, and much light has been acquired in our days, which has led to surprising results,
at least within the sphere of the special races to which it has been applied. The names of
Kuhn, Weber, Sonne, Benfey, Grimm, Schwartz, Hanusch, Maury, Bréal, Pictet, l'Ascoli, De Gubernatis,
and many others, are well known for their marvellous discoveries in this new and arduous field.
During Rousseau's later years he was the victim of the delusion of persecution; and although
he was protected by a succession of good friends, he came to distrust and quarrel with each
in turn. He died at Ermenonville, near Paris, July 2, 1778, the most widely influential French
writer of his age.

The Savoyard Vicar and his "Profession of Faith" are introduced
into "Emile" not, according to the author, because he wishes to
exhibit his principles as those which should be taught, but to give
an example of the way in which religious matters should be discussed
with the young.

Nevertheless, it is universally recognized that these opinions are Rousseau's own, and represent
in short form his characteristic attitude toward religious belief. The Vicar himself is believed
to combine the traits of two Savoyard priests whom Rousseau knew in his youth. The more important
was the Abbe Gaime, whom he had known at Turin; the other, the
Abbe Gatier, who had taught him at Annecy.

QUESTION PROPOSED BY THE ACADEMY OF DIJON
What is the Origin of the Inequality among Mankind; and whether such Inequality is authorized
by the Law of Nature?

A DISCOURSE UPON THE ORIGIN AND THE FOUNDATION OF THE INEQUALITY AMONG MANKIND
'Tis of man I am to speak; and the very question, in answer to which I am to speak of him,
sufficiently informs me that I am going to speak to men; for to those alone, who are not
afraid of honouring truth, it belongs to propose discussions of this kind. I shall therefore
maintain with confidence the cause of mankind before the sages, who invite me to stand up
in its defence; and I shall think myself happy, if I can but behave in a manner not unworthy of my
subject and of my judges.

I conceive two species of inequality among men; one which I call natural, or physical inequality,
because it is established by nature, and consists in the difference
of age, health, bodily strength, and the qualities of the mind, or
of the soul; the other which may be termed moral, or political
inequality, because it depends on a kind of convention, and is
established, or at least authorized, by the common consent of
mankind.

This species of inequality consists in the different privileges, which some men enjoy, to
the prejudice of others, such as that of being richer, more honoured, more powerful, and
even that of exacting obedience from them.

It were absurd to ask, what is the cause of natural inequality, seeing the bare definition
of natural inequality answers the question: it would be more absurd
still to enquire, if there might not be some essential connection
between the two species of inequality, as it would be asking, in
other words, if those who command are necessarily better men than
those who obey; and if strength of body or of mind, wisdom or virtue
are always to be found in individuals, in the same proportion with
power, or riches: a question, fit perhaps to be discussed by slaves
in the hearing of their masters, but unbecoming free and reasonable
beings in quest of truth.

What therefore is precisely the subject of this discourse? It is to point out, in the progress
of things, that moment, when, right taking place of violence, nature became subject to law; to
display that chain of surprising events, in consequence of which the strong submitted to serve the
weak, and the people to purchase imaginary ease, at the expense of real happiness.

The philosophers, who have examined the foundations of society, have, every one of them,
perceived the necessity of tracing it back to a state of nature, but not one of them has ever
arrived there. Some of them have not scrupled to attribute to man in that state the ideas of
justice and injustice, without troubling their heads to prove, that he really must have had such
ideas, or even that such ideas were useful to him: others have
spoken of the natural right of every man to keep what belongs to
him, without letting us know what they meant by the word belong;
others, without further ceremony ascribing to the strongest an
authority over the weakest, have immediately struck out government,
without thinking of the time requisite for men to form any notion
of the things signified by the words authority and government.

All of them, in fine, constantly harping on wants, avidity, oppression, desires and pride, have
transferred to the state of nature ideas picked up in the bosom of society. In speaking of
savages they described citizens. Nay, few of our own writers seem to have so much as doubted,
that a state of nature did once actually exit; though it plainly appears by Sacred History,
that even the first man, immediately furnished as he was by God himself with both instructions
and precepts, never lived in that state, and that, if we give to
the books of Moses that credit which every Christian philosopher
ought to give to them, we must deny that, even before the deluge,
such a state ever existed among men, unless they fell into it by
some extraordinary event: a paradox very difficult to maintain, and
altogether impossible to prove.

Let us begin therefore, by laying aside facts, for they do not affect the question. The
researches, in which we may engage on this occasion, are not to be taken for historical
truths, but merely as hypothetical and conditional reasonings, fitter to illustrate the
nature of things, than to show their true origin, like those systems, which our naturalists daily
make of the formation of the world. Religion commands us to believe, that men, having been drawn
by God himself out of a state of nature, are unequal, because it is his pleasure they should
be so; but religion does not forbid us to draw conjectures solely from the nature of man,
considered in itself, and from that of the beings which surround him, concerning the fate of
mankind, had they been left to themselves. This is then the question I am to answer, the
question I propose to examine in the present discourse. As mankind in general have an interest
in my subject, I shall endeavour to use a language suitable to all nations; or rather,
forgetting the circumstances of time and place in order to think of nothing but the men I
speak to, I shall suppose myself in the Lyceum of Athens, repeating the lessons of my masters before
the Platos and the Xenocrates of that famous seat of philosophy
as my judges, and in presence of the whole human species as my
audience.

O man, whatever country you may belong to, whatever your opinions may be, attend to my words; you
shall hear your history such as I think I have read it, not in books composed by those like
you, for they are liars, but in the book of nature which never lies. All that I shall repeat after
her, must be true, without any intermixture of falsehood, but where I may happen, without
intending it, to introduce my own conceits. The times I am going to speak of are very remote. How
much you are changed from what you once were! 'Tis in a manner the life of your species that I am
going to write, from the qualities which you have received, and which your education and your
habits could deprave, but could not destroy. There is, I am sensible, an age at which every
individual of you would choose to stop; and you will look out for
the age at which, had you your wish, your species had stopped.

Uneasy at your present condition for reasons which threaten your unhappy posterity with still
greater uneasiness, you will perhaps wish it were in your power to go back; and this sentiment
ought to be considered, as the panegyric of your first parents, the condemnation of your
contemporaries, and a source of terror to all those who may have
the misfortune of succeeding you.

DISCOURSE FIRST PART
However important it may be, in order to form a proper judgment of the natural state of man,
to consider him from his origin, and to examine him, as it were, in the first embryo of the
species; I shall not attempt to trace his organization through its successive approaches to
perfection: I shall not stop to examine in the animal system what he might have been in the
beginning, to become at last what he actually is; I shall not inquire whether, as Aristotle
thinks, his neglected nails were no better at first than crooked talons; whether his whole
body was not, bear-like, thick covered with rough hair; and whether, walking upon all-fours,
his eyes, directed to the earth, and confined to a horizon of a few paces extent, did not at once
point out the nature and limits of his ideas. I could only form vague, and almost imaginary,
conjectures on this subject. Comparative anatomy has not as yet been sufficiently improved;
neither have the observations of natural philosophy been sufficiently
ascertained, to establish upon such foundations the basis of a solid
system.

For this reason, without having recourse to the supernatural informations with which we have
been favoured on this head, or paying any attention to the changes, that must have happened
in the conformation of the interior and exterior parts of man's body, in proportion as he
applied his members to new purposes, and took to new aliments, I shall suppose his conformation
to have always been, what we now behold it; that he always walked
on two feet, made the same use of his hands that we do of ours,
extended his looks over the whole face of nature, and measured with
his eyes the vast extent of the heavens.

If I strip this being, thus constituted, of all the supernatural gifts which he may have
received, and of all the artificial faculties, which we could not have acquired but by slow
degrees; if I consider him, in a word, such as he must have issued from the hands of nature;
I see an animal less strong than some, and less active than others, but, upon the whole, the
most advantageously organized of any; I see him satisfying the calls of hunger under the first
oak, and those of thirst at the first rivulet; I see him laying himself down to sleep at the
foot of the same tree that afforded him his meal; and behold, this done, all his wants are
completely supplied.

The earth left to its own natural fertility and covered with immense woods, that no hatchet
ever disfigured, offers at every step food and shelter to every species of animals. Men,
dispersed among them, observe and imitate their industry, and thus rise to the instinct of
beasts; with this advantage, that, whereas every species of beasts is confined to one
peculiar instinct, man, who perhaps has not any that particularly belongs to him, appropriates
to himself those of all other animals, and lives equally upon most of the different aliments, which
they only divide among themselves; a circumstance which qualifies him to find his subsistence,
with more ease than any of them.

Men, accustomed from their infancy to the inclemency of the weather, and to the rigour of the
different seasons; inured to fatigue, and obliged to defend, naked and without arms, their life
and their prey against the other wild inhabitants of the forest, or at least to avoid their
fury by flight, acquire a robust and almost unalterable habit of body; the children, bringing
with them into the world the excellent constitution of their parents, and strengthening it by
the same exercises that first produced it, attain by this means
all the vigour that the human frame is capable of.

Nature treats them exactly in the same manner that Sparta treated the children of her citizens;
those who come well formed into the world she renders strong and robust, and destroys all
the rest; differing in this respect from our societies, in which the state, by permitting children
to become burdensome to their parents, murders them all without
distinction, even in the wombs of their mothers.

The body being the only instrument that savage man is acquainted with, he employs it to
different uses, of which ours, for want of practice, are incapable; and we may thank our
industry for the loss of that strength and agility, which necessity obliges him to acquire.
Had he a hatchet, would his hand so easily snap off from an oak so stout a branch? Had he a
sling, would it dart a stone to so great a distance? Had he a ladder, would he run so nimbly up a
tree? Had he a horse, would he with such swiftness shoot along the plain? Give civilized man
but time to gather about him all his machines, and no doubt he will be an overmatch for the
savage: but if you have a mind to see a contest still more unequal, place them naked and
unarmed one opposite to the other; and you will soon discover the
advantage there is in perpetually having all our forces at our
disposal, in being constantly prepared against all events, and in
always carrying ourselves, as it were, whole and entire about us.

Hobbes would have it that man is naturally void of fear, and always intent upon attacking
and fighting. An illustrious philosopher thinks on the contrary, and Cumberland and Puffendorff
likewise affirm it, that nothing is more fearful than man in a state of nature, that he is
always in a tremble, and ready to fly at the first motion he perceives, at the first noise that
strikes his ears. This, indeed, may be very true in regard to objects with which he is not acquainted;
and I make no doubt of his being terrified at every new sight that presents itself, as often
as he cannot distinguish the physical good and evil which he may expect from it, nor compare
his forces with the dangers he has to encounter; circumstances that seldom occur in a state
of nature, where all things proceed in so uniform a manner, and
the face of the earth is not liable to those sudden and continual
changes occasioned in it by the passions and inconstancies of
collected bodies.

But savage man living among other animals without any society or fixed habitation, and finding
himself early under a necessity of measuring his strength with theirs, soon makes a comparison
between both, and finding that he surpasses them more in address, than they surpass him in
strength, he learns not to be any longer in dread of them.
Turn out a bear or a wolf against a sturdy, active, resolute savage, (and this they all are,) provided
with stones and a good stick; and you will soon find that the
danger is at least equal on both sides, and that after several
trials of this kind, wild beasts, who are not fond of attacking
each other, will not be very fond of attacking man, whom they have
found every whit as wild as themselves.

As to animals who have really more strength than man has address, he is, in regard to them, what
other weaker species are, who find means to subsist notwithstanding; he has even this great
advantage over such weaker species, that being equally fleet with them, and finding on every tree
an almost inviolable asylum, he is always at liberty to take it or leave it, as he likes
best, and of course to fight or to fly, whichever is most agreeable
to him.

To this we may add that no animal naturally makes war upon man, except in the case of self-defence
or extreme hunger; nor ever expresses against him any of these violent antipathies, which
seem to indicate that some particular species are intended by nature for the food of others.

I hold the complete identity between man and animals to be established by the
adequate consideration of the faculties, the psychical elements of consciousness and intelligence,
and the mode of their spontaneous exercise; and I believe the superiority of man to consist
not so much in new faculties as in the reflex effect upon themselves of those he possesses
in common with the animals. The old adage confirms this theory: _Homo duplex_.

No one now doubts that animals feel, hear, remember, and the like, while man is able to exercise
his will, to feel, to remember, deliberately to consider all his actions and functions, because
he not only possesses the direct and spontaneous intuition with respect to himself and things
in general which he has in common with animals, but he has an intuitive knowledge of that intuition
itself, and in this way he multiplies within himself the exercise of his whole psychical life.
The inequality between the people and the chiefs increase so fast as to be soon felt by the
private members, and appears among them in a thousand shapes according to their passions,
their talents, and the circumstances of affairs. The magistrate can not usurp any illegal
power without making himself creatures, with whom he must divide it. Besides, the citizens of a
free state suffer themselves to be oppressed merely in proportion as, hurried on by a blind
ambition, and looking rather below than above them, they come to love authority more than
independence. When they submit to fetters, 'tis only to be the
better able to fetter others in their turn.

It is no easy matter to make him obey, who does not wish to command; and the most refined policy
would find it impossible to subdue those men, who only desire to be independent; but
inequality easily gains ground among base and ambitious souls, ever ready to run the risks of
fortune, and almost indifferent whether they command or obey, as she proves either favourable
or adverse to them. Thus then there must have been a time, when the eyes of the people were bewitched
to such a degree, that their rulers needed only to have said to the most pitiful wretch, "Be great
you and all your posterity," to make him immediately appear great in the eyes of every one
as well as in his own; and his descendants took still more upon them, in proportion to their removes
from him:
the more distant and uncertain the cause, the greater the effect; the longer line of drones a
family produced, the more illustrious it was reckoned.

Were this a proper place to enter into details, I could easily explain in what manner inequalities
in point of credit and authority become unavoidable among private persons the moment that, united
into one body, they are obliged to compare themselves one with
another, and to note the differences which they find in the continual
use every man must make of his neighbour.

These differences are of several kinds; but riches, nobility or rank, power and personal
merit, being in general the principal distinctions, by which men in society measure each
other, I could prove that the harmony or conflict between these different forces is the
surest indication of the good or bad original constitution of any state: I could make it appear
that, as among these four kinds of inequality, personal qualities are the source of all the rest,
riches is that in which they ultimately terminate, because, being
the most immediately useful to the prosperity of individuals, and
the most easy to communicate, they are made use of to purchase every
other distinction.contemplation learn us nothing on that rear, but what experience perfectly corroborate. Savage
homo and civilised male equal so much at base in attractor of attitude and infatuation, that what
represent the supreme sadness of the one would trim the same to desperation. The first suspire for
nothing but bedrest and liberty; he desires only to unrecorded, and to be exempt from labour;
nay, the ataraxy of the most corroborate Stoic falls long of his consummate unconcern for every same
goal. On the contrary, the citizen always in gesture, is perpetually sudate and toiling, and
racking his noddle to insight out occupations noneffervescent more laborious: He continues
a plodder to his last minute; nay, he lawcourt change to be able
to populate, or abdicate life to get permanence.

He cringes to men in quality whom he detest, and to rich babu whom he contemn; he sticks at nothing to
have the honor of serve them; he is not ashamed to value himself on his own imperfection and
the security they yield him; and proud of his catena, he speaks with dislike of those who have not the
standing of being the spouse of his subjugation. What a spectacle must the painless and envied
labours of an European minister of province word in the eyes of a Caribbean! How many cruel
change would not this indolent savage choose to such a horrid life, which very rarely is not
even sweetened by the pleasance of doing bad? But to seat the drift of so many cares, his cognition
should first have append some significance to these words ability and reputation; he should
be apprised that there are workforce who see as something the looks of the part of world, who
ignore how to be happy and satisfied with themselves on the testimonial of others sooner than
upon their own. In fact, the existent derivation of all those quality, is that the savage
lives within himself, whereas the national, invariably beside
himself, cognize merely how to populate in the idea of others;
insomuch that it is, if I may state thus, merely from their decision
that he deduce the knowing of his own state.

It is strange to my message to display how this aloneness breed thus much emotionlessness for good
and good, notwithstanding thus many and such fine context of quality; how everything, actuality
decreased to appearances, becomes mere creation and mummery; honour, friendship, virtue,
and frequently vice itself, which we at last larn the secret to boast of; how, in little,
ever inquiring of others what we are, and never dare to inquiring ourselves on so delicate
a attractor, in the inside of so much belief, humaneness, and courtesy, and thus many sublime
aphorism, we have nothing to show for ourselves but a deceitful and frivolous outside, honour without
virtue, explanation without content, and feeling without sadness. It is sufficient that I have
proved that this is not the original status of man, and that it
is simply the soul of civilization, and the inequality which society
breed, that thus happening and transform all our artificial direction

.
On the sea
shore line and the hook earth, required extraordinary in exertions, and became fishermen the
and ichthyophagous. Bad harvests in which long and severe winters, and scorching summers which
parched up all the fruits, and the banks of, invented the of the
of industry.says that,, burthen
to all those who are worthy to live could have to subject their dependants to the same
ignominy,. and renounce, in the those, who case as we can reassign our property one These to
another by contracts and conventions, we may likewise divest former ourselves of our in, support for
which it is not indebted to their favour of men I only what were not afraid thus to degrade
themselves, name of their, and without which life itself must appear a.
