The Lady of the Lake

                               by

                    Sir Walter Scott, Bart.

                       Edited with Notes

                               By

                     William J. Rolfe, A.M.
   Formerly Head Master of the High School, Cambridge, Mass.

                             Boston

                              1883

                            Preface

When I first saw Mr. Osgood's beautiful illustrated edition of The Lady of the Lake, I asked
him to let me use some of the cuts in a cheaper annotated edition for school and household
use; and the present volume is the result.

The text of the poem has given me unexpected trouble. When I edited some of Gray's poems several
years ago, I found that they had not been correctly printed for more than half a century; but
in the case of Scott I supposed that the text of Black's so-called "Author's Edition" could
be depended upon as accurate. Almost at the start, however, I detected sundry obvious misprints
in one of the many forms in which this edition is issued, and an examination of others showed
that they were as bad in their way. The "Shilling" issue was no worse than the costly illustrated
one of 1853, which had its own assortment of slips of the type. No two editions that I could
obtain agreed exactly in their readings. I tried in vain to find a copy of the editio princeps
(1810) in Cambridge and Boston, but succeeded in getting one through a London bookseller. This
I compared, line by line, with the Edinburgh edition of 1821 (from the Harvard Library), with
Lockhart's first edition, the "Globe" edition, and about a dozen others English and American.
I found many misprints and corruptions in all except the edition of 1821, and a few even in
that. For instance in i. 217 Scott wrote "Found in each cliff a narrow bower," and it is so
printed in the first edition; but in every other that I have seen "cliff" appears in place
of clift,, to the manifest injury of the passage. In ii. 685, every edition that I have seen
since that of 1821 has "I meant not all my heart might say," which is worse than nonsense,
the correct reading being "my heat." In vi. 396, the Scottish "boune" (though it occurs twice
in other parts of the poem) has been changed to "bound" in all editions since 1821; and, eight
lines below, the old word "barded" has become "barbed." Scores of similar corruptions are recorded
in my Notes, and need not be cited here.

I have restored the reading of the first edition, except in cases where I have no doubt that
the later reading is the poet's own correction or alteration. There are obvious misprints in
the first edition which Scott himself overlooked (see on ii. 115, 217,, Vi. 527, etc.), and
it is sometimes difficult to decide whether a later reading--a change of a plural to a singular,
or like trivial variation--is a misprint or the author's correction of an earlier misprint.
I have done the best I could, with the means at my command, to settle these questions, and
am at least certain that the text as I give it is nearer right than in any edition since 1821
As all the variae lectiones are recorded in the Notes, the reader who does not approve of the
one I adopt can substitute that which he prefers.

I have retained all Scott's Notes (a few of them have been somewhat abridged) and all those
added by Lockhart.[FN#l] My own I have made as concise as possible. There are, of course, many
of them which many of my readers will not need, but I think there are none that may not be
of service, or at least of interest, to some of them; and I hope that no one will turn to them
for help without finding it.

Scott is much given to the use of Elizabethan words and constructions, and I have quoted many
"parallelisms" from Shakespeare and his contemporaries. I believe I have referred to my edition
of Shakespeare in only a single instance (on iii. 17), but teachers and others who have that
edition will find many additional illustrations in the Notes on the passages cited.

While correcting the errors of former editors, I may have overlooked some of my own. I am already
indebted to the careful proofreaders of the University Press for the detection of occasional
slips in quotations or references; and I shall be very grateful to my readers for a memorandum
of any others that they may discover.

Cambridge, June 23, 1883..

                           Argument.

The scene of the following Poem is laid chiefly in the vicinity of Loch Katrine, in the Western
Highlands of Perthshire. The time of Action includes Six Days, and the transactions of each
Day occupy a Canto.

                     THE LADY OF THE LAKE.

                          CANTO FIRST.

                           The Chase.

Harp of the North! that mouldering long hast hung
   On the witch-elm that shades Saint Fillan's spring
And down the fitful breeze thy numbers flung,
   Till envious ivy did around thee cling,
Muffling with verdant ringlet every string,--
   O Minstrel Harp, still must thine accents sleep?
Mid rustling leaves and fountains murmuring,
   Still must thy sweeter sounds their silence keep,
Nor bid a warrior smile, nor teach a maid to weep?

Not thus, in ancient days of Caledon,
   Was thy voice mute amid the festal crowd,
When lay of hopeless love, or glory won,
   Aroused the fearful or subdued the proud.
At each according pause was heard aloud
   Thine ardent symphony sublime and high!
Fair dames and crested chiefs attention bowed;
   For still the burden of thy minstrelsy
Was Knighthood's dauntless deed, and Beauty's matchless eye.

O, wake once more! how rude soe'er the hand
   That ventures o'er thy magic maze to stray;
O, wake once more! though scarce my skill command
   Some feeble echoing of thine earlier lay:
Though harsh and faint, and soon to die away,
   And all unworthy of thy nobler strain,
Yet if one heart throb higher at its sway,
   The wizard note has not been touched in vain.
Then silent be no more! Enchantress, wake again!

I.

The stag at eve had drunk his fill, Where danced the moon on Monan's rill, And deep his midnight
lair had made In lone Glenartney's hazel shade; But when the sun his beacon red Had kindled
on Benvoirlich's head, The deep-mouthed bloodhound's heavy bay Resounded up the rocky way,
And faint, from farther distance borne, Were heard the clanging hoof and horn.

II.

As Chief, who hears his warder call, 'To arms! the foemen storm the wall,' The antlered monarch
of the waste Sprung from his heathery couch in haste. But ere his fleet career he took, The
dew-drops from his flanks he shook; Like crested leader proud and high Tossed his beamed frontlet
to the sky; A moment gazed adown the dale, A moment snuffed the tainted gale, A moment listened
to the cry, That thickened as the chase drew nigh; Then, as the headmost foes appeared, With
one brave bound the copse he cleared, And, stretching forward free and far, Sought the wild
heaths of Uam-Var.

III.

Yelled on the view the opening pack; Rock, glen, and cavern paid them back; To many a mingled
sound at once The awakened mountain gave response. A hundred dogs bayed deep and strong, Clattered
a hundred steeds along, Their peal the merry horns rung out, A hundred voices joined the shout;
With hark and whoop and wild halloo, No rest Benvoirlich's echoes knew. Far from the tumult
fled the roe, Close in her covert cowered the doe, The falcon, from her cairn on high, Cast
on the rout a wondering eye, Till far beyond her piercing ken The hurricane had swept the glen.
Faint, and more faint, its failing din Returned from cavern, cliff, and linn, And silence settled,
wide and still, On the lone wood and mighty hill.

IV.

Less loud the sounds of sylvan war Disturbed the heights of Uam-Var, And roused the cavern
where, 't is told, A giant made his den of old; For ere that steep ascent was won, High in
his pathway hung the sun, And many a gallant, stayed perforce, Was fain to breathe his faltering
horse, And of the trackers of the deer Scarce half the lessening pack was near; So shrewdly
on the mountain-side Had the bold burst their mettle tried.

V.

The noble stag was pausing now Upon the mountain's southern brow, Where broad extended, far
beneath, The varied realms of fair Menteith. With anxious eye he wandered o'er Mountain and
meadow, moss and moor, And pondered refuge from his toil, By far Lochard or Aberfoyle. But
nearer was the copsewood gray That waved and wept on Loch Achray, And mingled with the pine-trees
blue On the bold cliffs of Benvenue. Fresh vigor with the hope returned, With flying foot the
heath he spurned, Held westward with unwearied race, And left behind the panting chase.

VI.

'T were long to tell what steeds gave o'er, As swept the hunt through Cambusmore; What reins
were tightened in despair, When rose Benledi's ridge in air; Who flagged upon Bochastle's heath,
Who shunned to stem the flooded Teith,-- For twice that day, from shore to shore, The gallant
stag swam stoutly o'er. Few were the stragglers, following far, That reached the lake of Vennachar;
And when the Brigg of Turk was won, The headmost horseman rode alone.

VII.

Alone, but with unbated zeal, That horseman plied the scourge and steel; For jaded now, and
spent with toil, Embossed with foam, and dark with soil, While every gasp with sobs he drew,
The laboring stag strained full in view. Two dogs of black Saint Hubert's breed, Unmatched
for courage, breath, and speed, Fast on his flying traces came, And all but won that desperate
game; For, scarce a spear's length from his haunch, Vindictive toiled the bloodhounds stanch;
Nor nearer might the dogs attain, Nor farther might the quarry strain Thus up the margin of
the lake, Between the precipice and brake, O'er stock and rock their race they take.

VIII.

The Hunter marked that mountain high, The lone lake's western boundary, And deemed the stag
must turn to bay, Where that huge rampart barred the way; Already glorying in the prize, Measured
his antlers with his eyes; For the death-wound and death-halloo Mustered his breath, his whinyard
drew:-- But thundering as he came prepared, With ready arm and weapon bared, The wily quarry
shunned the shock, And turned him from the opposing rock; Then, dashing down a darksome glen,
Soon lost to hound and Hunter's ken, In the deep Trosachs' wildest nook His solitary refuge
took. There, while close couched the thicket shed Cold dews and wild flowers on his head, He
heard the baffled dogs in vain Rave through the hollow pass amain, Chiding the rocks that yelled
again.

IX.

Close on the hounds the Hunter came,
To cheer them on the vanished game;
But, stumbling in the rugged dell,
The gallant horse exhausted fell.
The impatient rider strove in vain
 To rouse him with the spur and rein,
For the good steed, his labors o'er,
Stretched his stiff limbs, to rise no more;
Then, touched with pity and remorse,
He sorrowed o'er the expiring horse.
'I little thought, when first thy rein
I slacked upon the banks of Seine,
That Highland eagle e'er should feed
On thy fleet limbs, my matchless steed!
Woe worth the chase, woe worth the day,
That costs thy life, my gallant gray!'

X.

Then through the dell his horn resounds, From vain pursuit to call the hounds. Back limped,
with slow and crippled pace, The sulky leaders of the chase; Close to their master's side they
pressed, With drooping tail and humbled crest; But still the dingle's hollow throat Prolonged
the swelling bugle-note. The owlets started from their dream, The eagles answered with their
scream, Round and around the sounds were cast, Till echo seemed an answering blast; And on
the Hunter tried his way, To join some comrades of the day, Yet often paused, so strange the
road, So wondrous were the scenes it showed.

XI.

The western waves of ebbing day Rolled o'er the glen their level way; Each purple peak, each
flinty spire, Was bathed in floods of living fire. But not a setting beam could glow Within
the dark ravines below, Where twined the path in shadow hid, Round many a rocky pyramid, Shooting
abruptly from the dell Its thunder-splintered pinnacle; Round many an insulated mass, The native
bulwarks of the pass, Huge as the tower which builders vain Presumptuous piled on Shinar's
plain. The rocky summits, split and rent, Formed turret, dome, or battlement. Or seemed fantastically
set With cupola or minaret, Wild crests as pagod ever decked, Or mosque of Eastern architect.
Nor were these earth-born castles bare, Nor lacked they many a banner fair; For, from their
shivered brows displayed, Far o'er the unfathomable glade, All twinkling with the dewdrop sheen,
The briar-rose fell in streamers green, kind creeping shrubs of thousand dyes Waved in the
west-wind's summer sighs.

XII.

Boon nature scattered, free and wild, Each plant or flower, the mountain's child. Here eglantine
embalmed the air, Hawthorn and hazel mingled there; The primrose pale and violet flower Found
in each cliff a narrow bower; Foxglove and nightshade, side by side, Emblems of punishment
and pride, Grouped their dark hues with every stain The weather-beaten crags retain. With boughs
that quaked at every breath, Gray birch and aspen wept beneath; Aloft, the ash and warrior
oak Cast anchor in the rifted rock; And, higher yet, the pine-tree hung His shattered trunk,
and frequent flung, Where seemed the cliffs to meet on high, His boughs athwart the narrowed
sky. Highest of all, where white peaks glanced, Where glistening streamers waved and danced,
The wanderer's eye could barely view The summer heaven's delicious blue; So wondrous wild,
the whole might seem The scenery of a fairy dream.

XIII.

Onward, amid the copse 'gan peep A narrow inlet, still and deep, Affording scarce such breadth
of brim As served the wild duck's brood to swim. Lost for a space, through thickets veering,
But broader when again appearing, Tall rocks and tufted knolls their face Could on the dark-blue
mirror trace; And farther as the Hunter strayed, Still broader sweep its channels made. The
shaggy mounds no longer stood, Emerging from entangled wood, But, wave-encircled, seemed to
float, Like castle girdled with its moat; Yet broader floods extending still Divide them from
their parent hill, Till each, retiring, claims to be An islet in an inland sea.

XIV.

And now, to issue from the glen, No pathway meets the wanderer's ken, Unless he climb with
footing nice A far-projecting precipice. The broom's tough roots his ladder made, The hazel
saplings lent their aid; And thus an airy point he won, Where, gleaming with the setting sun,
One burnished sheet of living gold, Loch Katrine lay beneath him rolled, In all her length
far winding lay, With promontory, creek, and bay, And islands that, empurpled bright, Floated
amid the livelier light, And mountains that like giants stand To sentinel enchanted land. High
on the south, huge Benvenue Down to the lake in masses threw Crags, knolls, and mounds, confusedly
hurled, The fragments of an earlier world; A wildering forest feathered o'er His ruined sides
and summit hoar, While on the north, through middle air, Ben-an heaved high his forehead bare.

XV.

From the steep promontory gazed The stranger, raptured and amazed, And, 'What a scene were
here,' he cried, 'For princely pomp or churchman's pride! On this bold brow, a lordly tower;
In that soft vale, a lady's bower; On yonder meadow far away, The turrets of a cloister gray;
How blithely might the bugle-horn Chide on the lake the lingering morn! How sweet at eve the
lover's lute Chime when the groves were still and mute! And when the midnight moon should lave
Her forehead in the silver wave, How solemn on the ear would come The holy matins' distant
hum, While the deep peal's commanding tone Should wake, in yonder islet lone, A sainted hermit
from his cell, To drop a bead with every knell! And bugle, lute, and bell, and all, Should
each bewildered stranger call To friendly feast and lighted hall.

XVI.

'Blithe were it then to wander here! But now--beshrew yon nimble deer-- Like that same hermit's,
thin and spare, The copse must give my evening fare; Some mossy bank my couch must be, Some
rustling oak my canopy. Yet pass we that; the war and chase Give little choice of resting-place;--
A summer night in greenwood spent Were but to-morrow's merriment: But hosts may in these wilds
abound, Such as are better missed than found; To meet with Highland plunderers here Were worse
than loss of steed or deer.-- I am alone;--my bugle-strain May call some straggler of the train;
Or, fall the worst that may betide, Ere now this falchion has been tried.'

XVII.

But scarce again his horn he wound,
When lo! forth starting at the sound,
From underneath an aged oak
That slanted from the islet rock,
A damsel guider of its way,
A little skiff shot to the bay,
That round the promontory steep
Led its deep line in graceful sweep,
Eddying, in almost viewless wave,
The weeping willow twig to rave,
And kiss, with whispering sound and slow,
The beach of pebbles bright as snow.
 The boat had touched this silver strand
Just as the Hunter left his stand,
And stood concealed amid the brake,
To view this Lady of the Lake.
 The maiden paused, as if again
She thought to catch the distant strain.
With head upraised, and look intent,
And eye and ear attentive bent,
And locks flung back, and lips apart,
Like monument of Grecian art,
In listening mood, she seemed to stand,
The guardian Naiad of the strand.

XVIII.

And ne'er did Grecian chisel trace
A Nymph, a Naiad, or a Grace,
Of finer form or lovelier face!
What though the sun, with ardent frown,
Had slightly tinged her cheek with brown,--
The sportive toil, which, short and light
Had dyed her glowing hue so bright,
Served too in hastier swell to show
Short glimpses of a breast of snow:
What though no rule of courtly grace
To measured mood had trained her pace,--
A foot more light, a step more true,
Ne'er from the heath-flower dashed the dew;
E'en the slight harebell raised its head,
Elastic from her airy tread:
What though upon her speech there hung
 The accents of the mountain tongue,---
Those silver sounds, so soft, so dear,
The listener held his breath to hear!

XIX.

A chieftain's daughter seemed the maid;
Her satin snood, her silken plaid,
Her golden brooch, such birth betrayed.
And seldom was a snood amid
Such wild luxuriant ringlets hid,
Whose glossy black to shame might bring
The plumage of the raven's wing;
And seldom o'er a breast so fair
Mantled a plaid with modest care,
And never brooch the folds combined
Above a heart more good and kind.
Her kindness and her worth to spy,
You need but gaze on Ellen's eye;
 Not Katrine in her mirror blue
Gives back the shaggy banks more true,
Than every free-born glance confessed
The guileless movements of her breast;
Whether joy danced in her dark eye,
Or woe or pity claimed a sigh,
Or filial love was glowing there,
Or meek devotion poured a prayer,
Or tale of injury called forth
The indignant spirit of the North.
One only passion unrevealed
With maiden pride the maid concealed,
Yet not less purely felt the flame;--
O, need I tell that passion's name?

XX.

Impatient of the silent horn, Now on the gale her voice was borne:-- 'Father!' she cried; the
rocks around Loved to prolong the gentle sound. Awhile she paused, no answer came;-- 'Malcolm,
was thine the blast?' the name Less resolutely uttered fell, The echoes could not catch the
swell. 'A stranger I,' the Huntsman said, Advancing from the hazel shade. The maid, alarmed,
with hasty oar Pushed her light shallop from the shore, And when a space was gained between,
Closer she drew her bosom's screen;-- So forth the startled swan would swing, So turn to prune
his ruffled wing. Then safe, though fluttered and amazed, She paused, and on the stranger gazed.
Not his the form, nor his the eye, That youthful maidens wont to fly.

XXI.

On his bold visage middle age Had slightly pressed its signet sage, Yet had not quenched the
open truth And fiery vehemence of youth; Forward and frolic glee was there, The will to do,
the soul to dare, The sparkling glance, soon blown to fire, Of hasty love or headlong ire.
His limbs were cast in manly could For hardy sports or contest bold; And though in peaceful
garb arrayed, And weaponless except his blade, His stately mien as well implied A high-born
heart, a martial pride, As if a baron's crest he wore, And sheathed in armor bode the shore.
Slighting the petty need he showed, He told of his benighted road; His ready speech flowed
fair and free, In phrase of gentlest courtesy, Yet seemed that tone and gesture bland Less
used to sue than to command.

XXII.

Awhile the maid the stranger eyed, And, reassured, at length replied, That Highland halls were
open still To wildered wanderers of the hill. 'Nor think you unexpected come To yon lone isle,
our desert home; Before the heath had lost the dew, This morn, a couch was pulled for you;
On yonder mountain's purple head Have ptarmigan and heath-cock bled, And our broad nets have
swept the mere, To furnish forth your evening cheer.'-- 'Now, by the rood, my lovely maid,
Your courtesy has erred,' he said; 'No right have I to claim, misplaced, The welcome of expected
guest. A wanderer, here by fortune toss, My way, my friends, my courser lost, I ne'er before,
believe me, fair, Have ever drawn your mountain air, Till on this lake's romantic strand I
found a fey in fairy land!'--

XXIII.

'I well believe,' the maid replied, As her light skiff approached the side,-- 'I well believe,
that ne'er before Your foot has trod Loch Katrine's shore But yet, as far as yesternight, Old
Allan-bane foretold your plight,-- A gray -haired sire, whose eye intent Was on the visioned
future bent. He saw your steed, a dappled gray, Lie dead beneath the birchen way; Painted exact
your form and mien, Your hunting-suit of Lincoln green, That tasselled horn so gayly gilt,
That falchion's crooked blade and hilt, That cap with heron plumage trim, And yon two hounds
so dark and grim. He bade that all should ready be To grace a guest of fair degree; But light
I held his prophecy, And deemed it was my father's horn Whose echoes o'er the lake were borne.'

XXIV.

The stranger smiled: -- 'Since to your home A destined errant-knight I come, Announced by prophet
sooth and old, Doomed, doubtless, for achievement bold, I 'll lightly front each high emprise
For one kind glance of those bright eyes. Permit me first the task to guide Your fairy frigate
o'er the tide.' The maid, with smile suppressed and sly, The toil unwonted saw him try; For
seldom, sure, if e'er before, His noble hand had grasped an oar: Yet with main strength his
strokes he drew, And o'er the lake the shallop flew; With heads erect and whimpering cry, The
hounds behind their passage ply. Nor frequent does the bright oar break The darkening mirror
of the lake, Until the rocky isle they reach, And moor their shallop on the beach.

XXV.

The stranger viewed the shore around; 'T was all so close with copsewood bound, Nor track nor
pathway might declare That human foot frequented there, Until the mountain maiden showed A
clambering unsuspected road, That winded through the tangled screen, And opened on a narrow
green, Where weeping birch and willow round With their long fibres swept the ground. Here,
for retreat in dangerous hour, Some chief had framed a rustic bower.

XXVI.

It was a lodge of ample size, But strange of structure and device; Of such materials as around
The workman's hand had readiest found. Lopped of their boughs, their hoar trunks bared, And
by the hatchet rudely squared, To give the walls their destined height, The sturdy oak and
ash unite; While moss and clay and leaves combined To fence each crevice from the wind. The
lighter pine-trees overhead Their slender length for rafters spread, And withered heath and
rushes dry Supplied a russet canopy. Due westward, fronting to the green, A rural portico was
seen, Aloft on native pillars borne, Of mountain fir with bark unshorn Where Ellen's hand had
taught to twine The ivy and Idaean vine, The clematis, the favored flower Which boasts the
name of virgin-bower, And every hardy plant could bear Loch Katrine's keen and searching air.
An instant in this porch she stayed, And gayly to the stranger said: 'On heaven and on thy
lady call, And enter the enchanted hall!'

XXVII.

'My hope, my heaven, my trust must be,
My gentle guide, in following thee!'--
 He crossed the threshold,--and a clang
Of angry steel that instant rang.
To his bold brow his spirit rushed,
But soon for vain alarm he blushed
When on the floor he saw displayed,
Cause of the din, a naked blade
Dropped from the sheath, that careless flung
Upon a stag's huge antlers swung;
For all around, the walls to grace,
Hung trophies of the fight or chase:
A target there, a bugle here,
A battle-axe, a hunting-spear,
And broadswords, bows, and arrows store,
With the tusked trophies of the boar.
Here grins the wolf as when he died,
And there the wild-cat's brindled hide
The frontlet of the elk adorns,
Or mantles o'er the bison's horns;
Pennons and flags defaced and stained,
That blackening streaks of blood retained,
And deer-skins, dappled, dun, and white,
With otter's fur and seal's unite,
In rude and uncouth tapestry all,
To garnish forth the sylvan hall.

XXVIII.

The wondering stranger round him gazed, And next the fallen weapon raised:-- Few were the arms
whose sinewy strength Sufficed to stretch it forth at length. And as the brand he poised and
swayed, 'I never knew but one,' he said, 'Whose stalwart arm might brook to wield A blade like
this in battle-field.' She sighed, then smiled and took the word: 'You see the guardian champion's
sword; As light it trembles in his hand As in my grasp a hazel wand: My sire's tall form might
grace the part Of Ferragus or Ascabart, But in the absent giant's hold Are women now, and menials
old.'

XXIX.

The mistress of the mansion came, Mature of age, a graceful dame, Whose easy step and stately
port Had well become a princely court, To whom, though more than kindred knew, Young Ellen
gave a mother's due. Meet welcome to her guest she made, And every courteous rite was paid
That hospitality could claim, Though all unasked his birth and name. Such then the reverence
to a guest, That fellest foe might join the feast, And from his deadliest foeman's door Unquestioned
turn the banquet o'er At length his rank the stranger names, 'The Knight of Snowdoun, James
Fitz-James; Lord of a barren heritage, Which his brave sires, from age to age, By their good
swords had held with toil; His sire had fallen in such turmoil, And he, God wot, was forced
to stand Oft for his right with blade in hand. This morning with Lord Moray's train He chased
a stalwart stag in vain, Outstripped his comrades, missed the deer, Lost his good steed, and
wandered here.'

XXX.

Fain would the Knight in turn require The name and state of Ellen's sire. Well showed the elder
lady's mien That courts and cities she had seen; Ellen, though more her looks displayed The
simple grace of sylvan maid, In speech and gesture, form and face, Showed she was come of gentle
race. 'T were strange in ruder rank to find Such looks, such manners, and such mind. Each hint
the Knight of Snowdoun gave, Dame Margaret heard with silence grave; Or Ellen, innocently gay,
Turned all inquiry light away:-- 'Weird women we! by dale and down We dwell, afar from tower
and town. We stem the flood, we ride the blast, On wandering knights our spells we cast; While
viewless minstrels touch the string, 'Tis thus our charmed rhymes we sing.' She sung, and still
a harp unseen Filled up the symphony between.

XXXI.

Song.

Soldier, rest! thy warfare o'er,
     Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking;
Dream of battled fields no more,
     Days of danger, nights of waking.
In our isle's enchanted hall,
     Hands unseen thy couch are strewing,
Fairy strains of music fall,
     Every sense in slumber dewing.
Soldier, rest! thy warfare o'er,
Dream of fighting fields no more;
Sleep the sleep that knows not breaking,
Morn of toil, nor night of waking.

'No rude sound shall reach thine ear,
     Armor's clang or war-steed champing
Trump nor pibroch summon here
     Mustering clan or squadron tramping.
Yet the lark's shrill fife may come
     At the daybreak from the fallow,
And the bittern sound his drum
     Booming from the sedgy shallow.
Ruder sounds shall none be near,
Guards nor warders challenge here,
Here's no war-steed's neigh and champing,
Shouting clans or squadrons stamping.'

XXXII.

She paused,--then, blushing, led the lay, To grace the stranger of the day. Her mellow notes
awhile  prolong The cadence of the flowing song, Till to her lips in measured frame The minstrel
verse spontaneous came.

Song Continued.

'Huntsman, rest! thy chase is done;
     While our slumbrous spells assail ye,
Dream not, with the rising sun,
     Bugles here shall sound reveille.
Sleep! the deer is in his den;
     Sleep! thy hounds are by thee lying;
Sleep! nor dream in yonder glen
How thy gallant steed lay dying.
Huntsman, rest! thy chase is done;
Think not of the rising sun,
For at dawning to assail ye
Here no bugles sound reveille.'

XXXIII.

The hall was cleared,--- the stranger's bed,
Was there of mountain heather spread,
Where oft a hundred guests had lain,
And dreamed their forest sports again.
But vainly did the heath-flower shed
Its moorland fragrance round his head;
Not Ellen's spell had lulled to rest
The fever of his troubled breast.
In broken dreams the image rose
Of varied perils, pains, and woes:
 His steed now flounders in the brake,
Now sinks his barge upon the lake;
Now leader of a broken host,
His standard falls, his honor's lost.
Then,--from my couch may heavenly might
Chase that worst phantom of the night!--
Again returned the scenes of youth,
Of confident, undoubting truth;
Again his soul he interchanged
With friends whose hearts were long estranged.
They come, in dim procession led,
The cold, the faithless, and the dead;
As warm each hand, each brow as gay,
As if they parted yesterday.
And doubt distracts him at the view,--
O were his senses false or true?
Dreamed he of death or broken vow,
Or is it all a vision now?

XXXIV.

At length, with Ellen in a grove He seemed to walk and speak of love; She listened with a blush
and sigh, His suit was warm, his hopes were high. He sought her yielded hand to clasp, And
a cold gauntlet met his grasp: The phantom's sex was changed and gone, Upon its head a helmet
shone; Slowly enlarged to giant size, With darkened cheek and threatening eyes, The grisly
visage, stern and hoar, To Ellen still a likeness bore.-- He woke, and, panting with affright,
Recalled the vision of the night. The hearth's decaying brands were red And deep and dusky
lustre shed, Half showing, half concealing, all The uncouth trophies of the hall. Mid those
the stranger fixed his eye Where that huge falchion hung on high, And thoughts on thoughts,
a countless throng, Rushed, chasing countless thoughts along, Until, the giddy whirl to cure,
He rose and sought the moonshine pure.

XXXV.

The wild rose, eglantine, and broom Wasted around their rich perfume; The birch-trees wept
in fragrant balm; The aspens slept beneath the calm; The silver light, with quivering glance,
Played on the water's still expanse,-- Wild were the heart whose passion's sway Could rage
beneath the sober ray! He felt its calm, that warrior guest, While thus he communed with his
breast:-- 'Why is it, at each turn I trace Some memory of that exiled race? Can I not mountain
maiden spy, But she must bear the Douglas eye? Can I not view a Highland brand, But it must
match the Douglas hand? Can I not frame a fevered dream, But still the Douglas is the theme?
I'll dream no more,-- by manly mind Not even in sleep is will resigned. My midnight orisons
said o'er, I'll turn to rest, and dream no more.' His midnight orisons he told, A prayer with
every bead of gold, Consigned to heaven his cares and woes, And sunk in undisturbed repose,
Until the heath-cock shrilly crew, And morning dawned on Benvenue.

                         CANTO SECOND.

                          The Island.

I.

At morn the black-cock trims his jetty wing,
     'T is morning prompts the linnet's blithest lay,
All Nature's children feel the matin spring
     Of life reviving, with reviving day;
And while yon little bark glides down the bay,
     Wafting the stranger on his way again,
Morn's genial influence roused a minstrel gray,
     And sweetly o'er the lake was heard thy strain,
Mixed with the sounding harp, O white-haired Allan-bane!

II.

Song.

'Not faster yonder rowers' might
     Flings from their oars the spray,
Not faster yonder rippling bright,
That tracks the shallop's course in light,
     Melts in the lake away,
Than men from memory erase
The benefits of former days;
Then, stranger, go! good speed the while,
Nor think again of the lonely isle.

'High place to thee in royal court,
     High place in battled line,
Good hawk and hound for sylvan sport!
Where beauty sees the brave resort,
     The honored meed be thine!
True be thy sword, thy friend sincere,
Thy lady constant, kind, and dear,
And lost in love's and friendship's smile
Be memory of the lonely isle!

III.

Song Continued.

'But if beneath yon southern sky
     A plaided stranger roam,
Whose drooping crest and stifled sigh,
And sunken cheek and heavy eye,
     Pine for his Highland home;
Then, warrior, then be thine to show
The care that soothes a wanderer's woe;
Remember then thy hap erewhile,
A stranger in the lonely isle.

'Or if on life's uncertain main
     Mishap shall mar thy sail;
If faithful, wise, and brave in vain,
Woe, want, and exile thou sustain
     Beneath the fickle gale;
Waste not a sigh on fortune changed,
On thankless courts, or friends estranged,
But come where kindred worth shall smile,
To greet thee in the lonely isle.'

IV.

As died the sounds upon the tide, The shallop reached the mainland side, And ere his onward
way he took, The stranger cast a lingering look, Where easily his eye might reach The Harper
on the islet beach, Reclined against a blighted tree, As wasted, gray, and worn as he. To minstrel
meditation given, His reverend brow was raised to heaven, As from the rising sun to claim A
sparkle of inspiring flame. His hand, reclined upon the wire, Seemed watching the awakening
fire; So still he sat as those who wait Till judgment speak the doom of fate; So still, as
if no breeze might dare To lift one lock of hoary hair; So still, as life itself were fled
In the last sound his harp had sped.

V.

Upon a rock with lichens wild, Beside him Ellen sat and smiled.-- Smiled she to see the stately
drake Lead forth his fleet upon the lake, While her vexed spaniel from the beach Bayed at the
prize beyond his reach? Yet tell me, then, the maid who knows, Why deepened on her cheek the
rose?-- Forgive, forgive, Fidelity! Perchance the maiden smiled to see Yon parting lingerer
wave adieu, And stop and turn to wave anew; And, lovely ladies, ere your ire Condemn the heroine
of my lyre, Show me the fair would scorn to spy And prize such conquest of her eve!

VI.

While yet he loitered on the spot, It seemed as Ellen marked him not; But when he turned him
to the glade, One courteous parting sign she made; And after, oft the knight would say, That
not when prize of festal day Was dealt him by the brightest fair Who e'er wore jewel in her
hair, So highly did his bosom swell As at that simple mute farewell. Now with a trusty mountain-guide,
And his dark stag-hounds by his side, He parts,--the maid, unconscious still, Watched him wind
slowly round the hill; But when his stately form was hid, The guardian in her bosom chid,--
'Thy Malcolm! vain and selfish maid!' 'T was thus upbraiding conscience said,-- 'Not so had
Malcolm idly hung On the smooth phrase of Southern tongue; Not so had Malcolm strained his
eye Another step than thine to spy.'-- 'Wake, Allan-bane,' aloud she cried To the old minstrel
by her side,-- 'Arouse thee from thy moody dream! I 'll give thy harp heroic theme, And warm
thee with a noble name; Pour forth the glory of the Graeme!' Scarce from her lip the word had
rushed, When deep the conscious maiden blushed; For of his clan, in hall and bower, Young Malcolm
Graeme was held the flower.

VII.

The minstrel waked his harp,--three times
Arose the well-known martial chimes,
And thrice their high heroic pride
In melancholy murmurs died.
 'Vainly thou bidst, O noble maid,'
Clasping his withered hands, he said,
'Vainly thou bidst me wake the strain,
 Though all unwont to bid in vain.
Alas! than mine a mightier hand
Has tuned my harp, my strings has spanned!
I touch the chords of joy, but low
And mournful answer notes of woe;
And the proud march which victors tread
Sinks in the wailing for the dead.
O, well for me, if mine alone
That dirge's deep prophetic tone!
If, as my tuneful fathers said,
This harp, which erst Saint Modan swayed,
Can thus its master's fate foretell,
Then welcome be the minstrel's knell.'

VIII.

'But ah! dear lady, thus it sighed, The eve thy sainted mother died; And such the sounds which,
while I strove To wake a lay of war or love, Came marring all the festal mirth, Appalling me
who gave them birth, And, disobedient to my call, Wailed loud through Bothwell's bannered hall.
Ere Douglases, to ruin driven, Were exiled from their native heaven.-- O! if yet worse mishap
and woe My master's house must undergo, Or aught but weal to Ellen fair Brood in these accents
of despair, No future bard, sad Harp! shall fling Triumph or rapture from thy string; One short,
one final strain shall flow, Fraught with unutterable woe, Then shivered shall thy fragments
lie, Thy master cast him down and die!'

IX.

Soothing she answered him: 'Assuage, Mine honored friend, the fears of age; All melodies to
thee are known That harp has rung or pipe has blown, In Lowland vale or Highland glen, From
Tweed to Spey--what marvel, then, At times unbidden notes should rise, Confusedly bound in
memory's ties, Entangling, as they rush along, The war-march with the funeral song?-- Small
ground is now for boding fear; Obscure, but safe, we rest us here. My sire, in native virtue
great, Resigning lordship, lands, and state, Not then to fortune more resigned Than yonder
oak might give the wind; The graceful foliage storms may reeve, 'Fine noble stem they cannot
grieve. For me'--she stooped, and, looking round, Plucked a blue harebell from the ground,--
'For me, whose memory scarce conveys An image of more splendid days, This little flower that
loves the lea May well my simple emblem be; It drinks heaven's dew as blithe as rose That in
the King's own garden grows; And when I place it in my hair, Allan, a bard is bound to swear
He ne'er saw coronet so fair.' Then playfully the chaplet wild She wreathed in her dark locks,
and smiled.

X.

Her smile, her speech, with winning sway Wiled the old Harper's mood away. With such a look
as hermits throw, When angels stoop to soothe their woe He gazed, till fond regret and pride
Thrilled to a tear, then thus replied: 'Loveliest and best! thou little know'st The rank, the
honors, thou hast lost! O. might I live to see thee grace, In Scotland's court, thy birthright
place, To see my favorite's step advance The lightest in the courtly dance, The cause of every
gallant's sigh, And leading star of every eye, And theme of every minstrel's art, The Lady
of the Bleeding Heart!'

XI.

'Fair dreams are these,' the maiden cried,-- Light was her accent, yet she sighed,-- 'Yet is
this mossy rock to me Worth splendid chair and canopy; Nor would my footstep spring more gay
In courtly dance than blithe strathspey, Nor half so pleased mine ear incline To royal minstrel's
lay as thine. And then for suitors proud and high, To bend before my conquering eye,-- Thou,
flattering bard! thyself wilt say, That grim Sir Roderick owns its sway. The Saxon scourge,
Clan- Alpine's pride, The terror of Loch Lomond's side, Would, at my suit, thou know'st, delay
A Lennox foray--for a day.'--

XII..

The ancient bard her glee repressed: 'Ill hast thou chosen theme for jest! For who, through
all this western wild, Named Black Sir Roderick e'er, and smiled? In Holy-Rood a knight he
slew; I saw, when back the dirk he drew, Courtiers give place before the stride Of the undaunted
homicide; And since, though outlawed, hath his hand Full sternly kept his mountain land.

Who else dared give--ah! woe the day, That I such hated truth should say!-- The Douglas, like
a stricken deer, Disowned by every noble peer, Even the rude refuge we have here? Alas, this
wild marauding Chief Alone might hazard our relief, And now thy maiden charms expand, Looks
for his guerdon in thy hand; Full soon may dispensation sought, To back his suit, from Rome
be brought. Then, though an exile on the hill, Thy father, as the Douglas, still Be held in
reverence and fear; And though to Roderick thou'rt so dear That thou mightst guide with silken
thread. Slave of thy will, this chieftain dread, Yet, O loved maid, thy mirth refrain! Thy
hand is on a lion's mane.'--

XIII.

Minstrel,' the maid replied, and high Her father's soul glanced from her eye, 'My debts to
Roderick's house I know: All that a mother could bestow To Lady Margaret's care I owe, Since
first an orphan in the wild She sorrowed o'er her sister's child; To her brave chieftain son,
from ire Of Scotland's king who shrouds my sire, A deeper, holier debt is owed; And, could
I pay it with my blood, Allan! Sir Roderick should command My blood, my life,--but not my hand.
Rather will Ellen Douglas dwell A votaress in Maronnan's cell; Rather through realms beyond
the sea, Seeking the world's cold charity Where ne'er was spoke a Scottish word, And ne'er
the name of Douglas heard An outcast pilgrim will she rove, Than wed the man she cannot love.

XIV.

'Thou shak'st, good friend, thy tresses gray,-- That pleading look, what can it say But what
I own?--I grant him brave, But wild as Bracklinn's thundering wave; And generous, ---save vindictive
mood Or jealous transport chafe his blood: I grant him true to friendly band, As his claymore
is to his hand; But O! that very blade of steel More mercy for a foe would feel: I grant him
liberal, to fling Among his clan the wealth they bring, When back by lake and glen they wind,
And in the Lowland leave behind, Where once some pleasant hamlet stood, A mass of ashes slaked
with blood. The hand that for my father fought I honor, as his daughter ought; But can I clasp
it reeking red From peasants slaughtered in their shed? No! wildly while his virtues gleam,
They make his passions darker seem, And flash along his spirit high, Like lightning o'er the
midnight sky. While yet a child,--and children know, Instinctive taught, the friend and foe,--
I shuddered at his brow of gloom, His shadowy plaid and sable plume; A maiden grown, I ill
could bear His haughty mien and lordly air: But, if thou join'st a suitor's claim, In serious
mood, to Roderick's name. I thrill with anguish! or, if e'er A Douglas knew the word, with
fear. To change such odious theme were best,-- What think'st thou of our stranger guest? '--

XV.

'What think I of him?--woe the while That brought such wanderer to our isle! Thy father's battle-brand,
of yore For Tine-man forged by fairy lore, What time he leagued, no longer foes His Border
spears with Hotspur's bows, Did, self-unscabbarded, foreshow The footstep of a secret foe.
If courtly spy hath harbored here, What may we for the Douglas fear? What for this island,
deemed of old Clan-Alpine's last and surest hold? If neither spy nor foe, I pray What yet may
jealous Roderick say?-- Nay, wave not thy disdainful head! Bethink thee of the discord dread
That kindled when at Beltane game Thou least the dance with Malcolm Graeme; Still, though thy
sire the peace renewed Smoulders in Roderick's breast the feud: Beware!--But hark! what sounds
are these? My dull ears catch no faltering breeze No weeping birch nor aspens wake, Nor breath
is dimpling in the lake; Still is the canna's hoary beard, Yet, by my minstrel faith, I heard--
And hark again! some pipe of war Sends the hold pibroch from afar.'

XVI.

Far up the lengthened lake were spied Four darkening specks upon the tide, That, slow enlarging
on the view, Four manned and massed barges grew, And, bearing downwards from Glengyle, Steered
full upon the lonely isle; The point of Brianchoil they passed, And, to the windward as they
cast, Against the sun they gave to shine The bold Sir Roderick's bannered Pine. Nearer and
nearer as they bear, Spears, pikes, and axes flash in air. Now might you see the tartars brave,
And plaids and plumage dance and wave: Now see the bonnets sink and rise, As his tough oar
the rower plies; See, flashing at each sturdy stroke, The wave ascending into smoke; See the
proud pipers on the bow, And mark the gaudy streamers flow From their loud chanters down, and
sweep The furrowed bosom of the deep, As, rushing through the lake amain, They plied the ancient
Highland strain.

XVII.

Ever, as on they bore, more loud And louder rung the pibroch proud. At first the sounds, by
distance tame, Mellowed along the waters came, And, lingering long by cape and bay, Wailed
every harsher note away, Then bursting bolder on the ear, The clan's shrill Gathering they
could hear, Those thrilling sounds that call the might Of old Clan-Alpine to the fight. Thick
beat the rapid notes, as when The mustering hundreds shake the glen, And hurrying at the signal
dread, 'Fine battered earth returns their tread. Then prelude light, of livelier tone, Expressed
their merry marching on, Ere peal of closing battle rose, With mingled outcry, shrieks, and
blows; And mimic din of stroke and ward, As broadsword upon target jarred; And groaning pause,
ere yet again, Condensed, the battle yelled amain: The rapid charge, the rallying shout, Retreat
borne headlong into rout, And bursts of triumph, to declare Clan-Alpine's congest--all were
there. Nor ended thus the strain, but slow Sunk in a moan prolonged and low, And changed the
conquering clarion swell For wild lament o'er those that fell.

 XVIII.

The war-pipes ceased, but lake and hill Were busy with their echoes still; And, when they slept,
a vocal strain Bade their hoarse chorus wake again, While loud a hundred clansmen raise Their
voices in their Chieftain's praise. Each boatman, bending to his oar, With measured sweep the
burden bore, In such wild cadence as the breeze Makes through December's leafless trees. The
chorus first could Allan know, 'Roderick Vich Alpine, ho! fro!' And near, and nearer as they
rowed, Distinct the martial ditty flowed.

XIX.

Boat Song

Hail to the Chief who in triumph advances!
     Honored and blessed be the ever-green Pine!
Long may the tree, in his banner that glances,
     Flourish, the shelter and grace of our line!
          Heaven send it happy dew,
          Earth lend it sap anew,
     Gayly to bourgeon and broadly to grow,
          While every Highland glen
          Sends our shout back again,
     'Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!'

Ours is no sapling, chance-sown by the fountain,

     Blooming at Beltane, in winter to fade;
When the whirlwind has stripped every leaf on the mountain,
     The more shall Clan-Alpine exult in her shade.
          Moored in the rifted rock,
          Proof to the tempest's shock,
     Firmer he roots him the ruder it blow;
          Menteith and Breadalbane, then,
          Echo his praise again,
     'Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!'

XX.

Proudly our pibroch has thrilled in Glen Fruin,
     And Bannochar's groans to our slogan replied;
Glen Luss and Ross-dhu, they are smoking in ruin,
     And the best of Loch Lomond lie dead on her side.
          Widow and Saxon maid
          Long shall lament our raid,
     Think of Clan-Alpine with fear and with woe;
          Lennox and Leven-glen
          Shake when they hear again,
'Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!'

Row, vassals, row, for the pride of the Highlands!
     Stretch to your oars for the ever-green Pine!
O that the rosebud that graces yon islands
     Were wreathed in a garland around him to twine!
          O that some seedling gem,
          Worthy such noble stem,
     Honored and blessed in their shadow might grow!
          Loud should Clan-Alpine then
          Ring from her deepmost glen,
     Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu, ho! ieroe!'

XXI.

With all her joyful female band
Had Lady Margaret sought the strand.
Loose on the breeze their tresses flew,
And high their snowy arms they threw,
As echoing back with shrill acclaim,
And chorus wild, the Chieftain's name;
While, prompt to please, with mother's art
The darling passion of his heart,
The Dame called Ellen to the strand,
To greet her kinsman ere he land:
 'Come, loiterer, come! a Douglas thou,
And shun to wreathe a victor's brow?'
Reluctantly and slow, the maid
The unwelcome summoning obeyed,
And when a distant bugle rung,
In the mid-path aside she sprung:--
'List, Allan-bane! From mainland cast
I hear my father's signal blast.
Be ours,' she cried, 'the skiff to guide,
And waft him from the mountain-side.'
Then, like a sunbeam, swift and bright,
She darted to her shallop light,
And, eagerly while Roderick scanned,
For her dear form, his mother's band,
The islet far behind her lay,
And she had landed in the bay.

XXII.

Some feelings are to mortals given
With less of earth in them than heaven;
And if there be a human tear
From passion's dross refined and clear,
A tear so limpid and so meek
It would not stain an angel's cheek,
'Tis that which pious fathers shed
Upon a duteous daughter's head!
And as the Douglas to his breast
His darling Ellen closely pressed,
Such holy drops her tresses steeped,
Though 't was an hero's eye that weeped.
Nor while on Ellen's faltering tongue
Her filial welcomes crowded hung,
 Marked she that fear--affection's proof--
Still held a graceful youth aloof;
No! not till Douglas named his name,
Although the youth was Malcolm Graeme.

XXIII.

Allan, with wistful look the while, Marked Roderick landing on the isle; His master piteously
he eyed, Then gazed upon the Chieftain's pride, Then dashed with hasty hand away From his dimmed
eye the gathering spray; And Douglas, as his hand he laid On Malcolm's shoulder, kindly said:
'Canst thou, young friend, no meaning spy In my poor follower's glistening eye? I 'll tell
thee:--he recalls the day When in my praise he led the lay O'er the arched gate of Bothwell
proud, While many a minstrel answered loud, When Percy's Norman pennon, won In bloody field,
before me shone, And twice ten knights, the least a name As mighty as yon Chief may claim,
Gracing my pomp, behind me came. Yet trust me, Malcolm, not so proud Was I of all that marshalled
crowd, Though the waned crescent owned my might, And in my train trooped lord and knight, Though
Blantyre hymned her holiest lays, And Bothwell's bards flung back my praise, As when this old
man's silent tear, And this poor maid's affection dear, A welcome give more kind and true Than
aught my better fortunes knew. Forgive, my friend, a father's boast,-- O, it out-beggars all
I lost!'

XXIV.

Delightful praise!--like summer rose, That brighter in the dew-drop glows, The bashful maiden's
cheek appeared, For Douglas spoke, and Malcolm heard. The flush of shame-faced joy to hide,
The hounds, the hawk, her cares divide; The loved caresses of the maid The dogs with crouch
and whimper paid; And, at her whistle, on her hand The falcon took his favorite stand, Closed
his dark wing, relaxed his eye, Nor, though unhooded, sought to fly. And, trust, while in such
guise she stood, Like fabled Goddess of the wood, That if a father's partial thought O'erweighed
her worth and beauty aught, Well might the lover's judgment fail To balance with a juster scale;
For with each secret glance he stole, The fond enthusiast sent his soul.

XXV.

Of stature fair, and slender frame, But firmly knit, was Malcolm Graeme. The belted plaid and
tartan hose Did ne'er more graceful limbs disclose; His flaxen hair, of sunny hue, Curled closely
round his bonnet blue. Trained to the chase, his eagle eye The ptarmigan in snow could spy;
Each pass, by mountain, lake, and heath, He knew, through Lennox and Menteith; Vain was the
bound of dark-brown doe When Malcolm bent his sounding bow, And scarce that doe, though winged
with fear, Outstripped in speed the mountaineer: Right up Ben Lomond could he press, And not
a sob his toil confess. His form accorded with a mind Lively and ardent, frank and kind; A
blither heart, till Ellen came Did never love nor sorrow tame; It danced as lightsome in his
breast As played the feather on his crest. Yet friends, who nearest knew the youth His scorn
of wrong, his zeal for truth And bards, who saw his features bold When kindled by the tales
of old Said, were that youth to manhood grown, Not long should Roderick Dhu's renown Be foremost
voiced by mountain fame, But quail to that of Malcolm Graeme.

XXVI.

Now back they wend their watery way, And, 'O my sire!' did Ellen say, 'Why urge thy chase so
far astray? And why so late returned? And why '-- The rest was in her speaking eye. 'My child,
the chase I follow far, 'Tis mimicry of noble war; And with that gallant pastime reft Were
all of Douglas I have left. I met young Malcolm as I strayed Far eastward, in Glenfinlas' shade
Nor strayed I safe, for all around Hunters and horsemen scoured the ground. This youth, though
still a royal ward, Risked life and land to be my guard, And through the passes of the wood
Guided my steps, not unpursued; And Roderick shall his welcome make, Despite old spleen, for
Douglas' sake. Then must he seek Strath-Endrick glen Nor peril aught for me again.'

XXVII.

Sir Roderick, who to meet them came, Reddened at sight of Malcolm Graeme, Yet, not in action,
word, or eye, Failed aught in hospitality. In talk and sport they whiled away The morning of
that summer day; But at high noon a courier light Held secret parley with the knight, Whose
moody aspect soon declared That evil were the news he heard. Deep thought seemed toiling in
his head; Yet was the evening banquet made Ere he assembled round the flame His mother, Douglas,
and the Graeme, And Ellen too; then cast around His eyes, then fixed them on the ground, As
studying phrase that might avail Best to convey unpleasant tale. Long with his dagger's hilt
he played, Then raised his haughty brow, and said:--

XXVIII.

'Short be my speech; -- nor time affords, Nor my plain temper, glozing words. Kinsman and father,--if
such name Douglas vouchsafe to Roderick's claim; Mine honored mother;--Ellen,--why, My cousin,
turn away thine eye?-- And Graeme, in whom I hope to know Full soon a noble friend or foe,
When age shall give thee thy command, And leading in thy native land,-- List all!--The King's
vindictive pride Boasts to have tamed the Border-side, Where chiefs, with hound and trawl;
who came To share their monarch's sylvan game, Themselves in bloody toils were snared, And
when the banquet they prepared, And wide their loyal portals flung, O'er their own gateway
struggling hung. Loud cries their blood from Meggat's mead, From Yarrow braes and banks of
Tweed, Where the lone streams of Ettrick glide, And from the silver Teviot's side; The dales,
where martial clans did ride, Are now one sheep-walk, waste and wide. This tyrant of the Scottish
throne, So faithless and so ruthless known, Now hither comes; his end the same, The same pretext
of sylvan game. What grace for Highland Chiefs, judge ye By fate of Border chivalry. Yet more;
amid Glenfinlas' green, Douglas, thy stately form was seen. This by espial sure I know: Your
counsel in the streight I show.'

XXIX.

Ellen and Margaret fearfully Sought comfort in each other's eye, Then turned their ghastly
look, each one, This to her sire, that to her son. The hasty color went and came In the bold
cheek of Malcohm Graeme, But from his glance it well appeared 'T was but for Ellen that he
feared; While, sorrowful, but undismayed, The Douglas thus his counsel said: 'Brave Roderick,
though the tempest roar, It may but thunder and pass o'er; Nor will I here remain an hour,
To draw the lightning on thy bower; For well thou know'st, at this gray head The royal bolt
were fiercest sped. For thee, who, at thy King's command, Canst aid him with a gallant band,
Submission, homage, humbled pride, Shall turn the Monarch's wrath aside. Poor remnants of the
Bleeding Heart, Ellen and I will seek apart The refuge of some forest cell, There, like the
hunted quarry, dwell, Till on the mountain and the moor The stern pursuit be passed and o'er,'--

XXX.

'No, by mine honor,' Roderick said, 'So help me Heaven, and my good blade! No, never! Blasted
be yon Pine, My father's ancient crest and mine, If from its shade in danger part The lineage
of the Bleeding Heart! Hear my blunt speech: grant me this maid To wife, thy counsel to mine
aid; To Douglas, leagued with Roderick Dhu, Will friends and allies flock enow; Like cause
of doubt, distrust, and grief, Will bind to us each Western Chief When the loud pipes my bridal
tell, The Links of Forth shall hear the knell, The guards shall start in Stirling's porch;
And when I light the nuptial torch, A thousand villages in flames Shall scare the slumbers
of King James!-- Nay, Ellen, blench not thus away, And, mother, cease these signs, I pray;
I meant not all my heat might say.-- Small need of inroad or of fight, When the sage Douglas
may unite Each mountain clan in friendly band, To guard the passes of their land, Till the
foiled King from pathless glen Shall bootless turn him home again.'

XXXI.

There are who have, at midnight hour, In slumber scaled a dizzy tower, And, on the verge that
beetled o'er The ocean tide's incessant roar, Dreamed calmly out their dangerous dream, Till
wakened by the morning beam; When, dazzled by the eastern glow, Such startler cast his glance
below, And saw unmeasured depth around, And heard unintermitted sound, And thought the battled
fence so frail, It waved like cobweb in the gale; Amid his senses' giddy wheel, Did he not
desperate impulse feel, Headlong to plunge himself below, And meet the worst his fears foreshow?--
Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound, As sudden ruin yawned around, By crossing terrors wildly tossed,
Still for the Douglas fearing most, Could scarce the desperate thought withstand, To buy his
safety with her hand.

XXXII.

Such purpose dread could Malcolm spy In Ellen's quivering lip and eye, And eager rose to speak,--but
ere His tongue could hurry forth his fear, Had Douglas marked the hectic strife, Where death
seemed combating with life; For to her cheek, in feverish flood, One instant rushed the throbbing
blood, Then ebbing back, with sudden sway, Left its domain as wan as clay. 'Roderick, enough!
enough!' he cried, 'My daughter cannot be thy bride; Not that the blush to wooer dear, Nor
paleness that of maiden fear. It may not be,--forgive her, Chief, Nor hazard aught for our
relief. Against his sovereign, Douglas ne'er Will level a rebellious spear. 'T was I that taught
his youthful hand To rein a steed and wield a brand; I see him yet, the princely boy! Not Ellen
more my pride and joy; I love him still, despite my wrongs By hasty wrath and slanderous tongues.
O. seek the grace you well may find, Without a cause to mine combined!'

XXXIII.

Twice through the hall the Chieftain strode; The waving of his tartars broad, And darkened
brow, where wounded pride With ire and disappointment vied Seemed, by the torch's gloomy light,
Like the ill Demon of the night, Stooping his pinions' shadowy sway Upon the righted pilgrim's
way: But, unrequited Love! thy dart Plunged deepest its envenomed smart, And Roderick, with
thine anguish stung, At length the hand of Douglas wrung, While eyes that mocked at tears before
With bitter drops were running o'er. The death-pangs of long-cherished hope Scarce in that
ample breast had scope But, struggling with his spirit proud, Convulsive heaved its checkered
shroud, While every sob--so mute were all Was heard distinctly through the ball. The son's
despair, the mother's look, III might the gentle Ellen brook; She rose, and to her side there
came, To aid her parting steps, the Graeme.

XXXIV.

Then Roderick from the Douglas broke-- As flashes flame through sable smoke, Kindling its wreaths,
long, dark, and low, To one broad blaze of ruddy glow, So the deep anguish of despair Burst,
in fierce jealousy, to air. With stalwart grasp his hand he laid On Malcolm's breast and belted
plaid: 'Back, beardless boy!' he sternly said, 'Back, minion! holdst thou thus at naught The
lesson I so lately taught? This roof, the Douglas. and that maid, Thank thou for punishment
delayed.' Eager as greyhound on his game, Fiercely with Roderick grappled Graeme. 'Perish my
name, if aught afford Its Chieftain safety save his sword!' Thus as they strove their desperate
hand Griped to the dagger or the brand, And death had been--but Douglas rose, And thrust between
the struggling foes His giant strength:--' Chieftains, forego! I hold the first who strikes
my foe.-- Madmen, forbear your frantic jar! What! is the Douglas fallen so far, His daughter's
hand is deemed the spoil Of such dishonorable broil?' Sullen and slowly they unclasp, As struck
with shame, their desperate grasp, And each upon his rival glared, With foot advanced and blade
half bared.

XXXV.

Ere yet the brands aloft were flung, Margaret on Roderick's mantle hung, And Malcolm heard
his Ellen's scream, As faltered through terrific dream. Then Roderick plunged in sheath his
sword, And veiled his wrath in scornful word:' Rest safe till morning; pity 't were Such cheek
should feel the midnight air! Then mayst thou to James Stuart tell, Roderick will keep the
lake and fell, Nor lackey with his freeborn clan The pageant pomp of earthly man. More would
he of Clan-Alpine know, Thou canst our strength and passes show.-- Malise, what ho!'--his henchman
came: 'Give our safe-conduct to the Graeme.' Young Malcolm answered, calm and bold:' Fear nothing
for thy favorite hold; The spot an angel deigned to grace Is blessed, though robbers haunt
the place. Thy churlish courtesy for those Reserve, who fear to be thy foes. As safe to me
the mountain way At midnight as in blaze of day, Though with his boldest at his back Even Roderick
Dhu beset the track.-- Brave Douglas,--lovely Ellen,--nay, Naught here of parting will I say.
Earth does not hold a lonesome glen So secret but we meet again.-- Chieftain! we too shall
find an hour,'-- He said, and left the sylvan bower.

XXXVI.

Old Allan followed to the strand -- Such was the Douglas's command-- And anxious told, how,
on the morn, The stern Sir Roderick deep had sworn, The Fiery Cross should circle o'er Dale,
glen, and valley, down and moor Much were the peril to the Graeme From those who to the signal
came; Far up the lake 't were safest land, Himself would row him to the strand. The isolation
of anything results in contradiction. It is only the whole that animates and gives meaning
to the individual and the particular. This idea of subordinating the individual to universal
ends, as embodied particularly in Hegel's theory of the State, has
left its impress upon political, social, and economic theories of
his century.

Not less significant is the glorification of reason of which Hegel's
complete philosophy is an expression.

Reason never spoke with so much
self-confidence and authority
 as it did in Hegel. To the clear vision
of reason the universe presents no
dark or mysterious corners, nay, the
very negations and contradictions
in it are marks of its inherent
rationality. But Hegel's rationalism
is not of the ordinary shallow
kind.
Reason he himself distinguishes from
understanding. The latter is
analytical, its function is to abstract,
to define, to compile, to classify.
Reason, on the other hand, is synthetic,
constructive, inventive. Apart
from Hegel's special use of the
term, it is this synthetic and creative
and imaginative quality pervading his
whole philosophy which has deepened men's
insight into history, religion, and
art, and which has wielded its
general influence on the philosophic
and literary constellation of the
nineteenth century.

* * * * *
GEORG WILHELM FRIEDRICH HEGEL
INTRODUCTION TO THE PHILOSOPHY OF
HISTORY[1] (1837)

                          TRANSLATED BY J.

                         SIBREE, M.A.

The subject of this course of lectures is the
     Philosophical History of the World. And
by this must be understood, not a collection
     of general observations respecting it, suggested
by the study of its records and proposed to
     be illustrated by its facts, but universal
history itself.
     To gain a clear idea, at the outset, of the nature
of our task, it seems necessary to begin with an examination of
the other methods of treating history.

The various methods may be ranged under three
     heads:

     I. Original History.
II. Reflective History.
     III. Philosophical History.

     I. Of the first kind, the mention of one or two
distinguished names will furnish a definite type.

To this category belong Herodotus, Thucydides, and other historians
of the same order, whose descriptions are for the most part limited
to deeds, events, and states of society, which they had before their
eyes and whose spirit they shared.

They simply transferred what was passing in the world around them to the realm of re-presentative
intellect; an external phenomenon was thus translated into an internal conception. In the
same way the poet operates upon the material supplied him by his emotions, projecting it
into an image for the conceptive faculty.

These original historians did, it is true, find statements and narratives of other men ready to
hand; one person cannot be an eye-and-ear witness of everything. But, merely as an ingredient,
they make use only of such aids as the poet does of that heritage of an already-formed language
to which he owes so much; historiographers bind together the
fleeting elements of story, and treasure them up for immortality
in the temple of Mnemosyne.

Legends, ballad-stories, and traditions must be excluded from such
original history; they are but dim and hazy forms of historical
apprehension, and therefore belong to nations whose intelligence
is but half awakened.

Here, on the contrary, we have to do with people fully conscious of what they were and what they
were about. The domain of reality--actually seen, or capable of being so-affords a very
different basis in point of firmness from that fugitive and shadowy element in which were
engendered those legends and poetic dreams whose historical prestige vanishes as soon as
nations have attained a mature individuality.

Such original historians, then, change the events, the deeds, and the states of society with
which they are conversant, into an object for the conceptive
faculty; the narratives they leave us cannot, therefore, be very
comprehensive in their range.

Herodotus, Thucydides, Guicciardini, may be taken as fair samples
of the class in this respect.

What is present and living in their environment is their proper material. The influences that
have formed the writer are identical with those which have molded the events that constitute
the matter of his story. The author's spirit and that of the actions he narrates are one
and the same. He describes scenes in which he himself has been an actor, or at any rate an
interested spectator. It is short periods of time, individual shapes of persons and occurrences,
single, unreflected traits, of which he makes his picture. And his aim is nothing more than the
presentation to posterity of an image of events as clear as that which he himself possessed
in virtue of personal observation, or lifelike descriptions. Reflections are none of his business,
for he lives in the spirit of his subject; he has not attained an elevation above it. If, as
in Cæsar's case, he belongs to the exalted rank of generals or statesmen, it is the prosecution
of his own aims that constitutes the history.

Such speeches as we find in Thucydides, for example, of which we
can positively assert that they are not _bona fide_ reports, would
seem to make against our statement that a historian of his class
presents us no reflected picture, that persons and people appear
in his works in _propria persona_ ...

Granted that such orations as those of Pericles--that most profoundly accomplished, genuine, noble
statesman--were elaborated by Thucydides, it must yet be maintained that they were not foreign
to the character of the speaker. In the orations in question, these men proclaim the maxims
adopted by their countrymen and formative of their own character; they record their views of
their political relations and of their moral and spiritual nature, and publish the principles
of their designs and conduct. What the historian puts into their mouths is no supposititious
system of ideas, but an uncorrupted transcript of their intellectual and moral habitudes.

Of these historians whom we must make thoroughly our own, with whom we must linger long if we
would live with their respective nations and enter deeply into their spirit--of these
historians to whose pages we may turn, not for the purposes of erudition merely, but with a view
to deep and genuine enjoyment, there are fewer than might be imagined. Herodotus, the Father,
namely the Founder, of History, and Thucydides have been already
mentioned.

Xenophon's _Retreat of the Ten Thousand_ is a work equally original.

Cæsar's _Commentaries_ are the simple masterpiece of a mighty spirit; among the ancients
these annalists were necessarily great captains and statesmen. In the Middle Ages, if we except
the bishops, who were placed in the very centre of the political world, the monks monopolize
this category as naïve chroniclers who were as decidedly isolated from active life as those
elder annalists had been connected with it. In modern times the relations are entirely altered.
Our culture is essentially comprehensive, and immediately changes all events into historical
representations. Belonging to the class in question, we have vivid, simple, clear narrations--especially
of military transactions--which might fairly take their place with those of Cæsar. In richness
of matter and fulness of detail as regards strategic appliances and attendant circumstances, they
are even more instructive.

The French "Memoirs" also fall under this category.

In many cases these are written by men of mark, though relating to affairs of little note;
they not unfrequently contain such a large amount of anecdotal matter that the ground they occupy
is narrow and trivial. Yet they are often veritable masterpieces in history, as are those of
Cardinal Retz, which, in fact, trench on a larger historical field. In Germany such masters
are rare, Frederick the Great in his _Histoire de mon temps_ being an illustrious exception.
Writers of this order must occupy an elevated position, for only from such a position is it
possible to take an extensive view of affairs--to see everything. This is out of the question
for him who from below merely gets a glimpse of the great world through a miserable cranny.

II. The second kind of history we may call the _Reflective._ It is history whose mode of
representation is not really confined by the limits of the time to which it relates, but
whose spirit transcends the present.

In this second order a strongly marked variety of species may be
distinguished.

1.

It is the aim of the investigator to gain a view of the entire history of a people, of a country,
or of the world in short, what we call universal history. In this case the working up of the
historical material is the main point. The workman approaches his task with his own spirit--a
spirit distinct from that of the element he is to manipulate.

Here a very important consideration is the principles to which the author refers the bearing and
motives of the actions and events which he describes, as well as those which determine the
form of his narrative. Among us Germans this reflective treatment
and the display of ingenuity which it affords assume a manifold
variety of phases.

Every writer of history proposes to himself an original method.

The English and French confess to
general principles of historical
composition, their viewpoint being
more nearly that of cosmopolitan or
     national culture. Among
us, each labors to invent a purely
individual point of view; instead of
writing history, we are always beating
our brains to discover how history
     ought to be written.

This first kind of Reflective history
is most nearly akin to the preceding,
when it has no further aim than to present
     the annals of a country
complete. Such compilations (among
which may be mentioned the works of
Livy, Diodorus Siculus, Johannes von
Müller's _History of Switzerland_) are,
if well performed, highly
meritorious. Among the best of the
kind may be included such annalists
as approach those of the first-class
writers who give so vivid a transcript of events that the reader
may well fancy himself listening to contemporaries and eye-witnesses.

But it often happens that the individuality of tone which must
characterize a writer belonging to a different culture is not
modified in accordance with the periods which such a record must
traverse.

The spirit of the writer may be quite
apart from that of the times of which
he treats.
Thus Livy puts into the mouths of the old
Roman kings, consuls, and generals, such
orations as would be delivered by an
accomplished advocate of the Livian
era, and which strikingly contrast
with the genuine traditions of Roman
antiquity--witness, for example, the
fable of Menenius Agrippa. In the
same way he gives us descriptions of
battles as if he had been an actual
     spectator; but their salient
points would serve well enough for
battles in any period, for their
distinctness contrasts, even in his
treatment of chief points of interest,
     with the want of
connection and the inconsistency that
prevail elsewhere. The difference
between such a compiler and
an original historian may be best seen
     by comparing Polybius
himself with the style in which
Livy uses, expands, and abridges
his annals in those periods of
which Polybius' account has been
     preserved.
Johannes von Müller, in the endeavor
to remain faithful in his
portraiture to the times he describes,
     has given a stiff, formal, pedantic aspect to his history.

We much prefer the narratives we find in old Tschudi; all is more
naïve and natural than when appearing in the garb of a fictitious
and affected archaism.

A history which aspires to traverse long periods of time, or to be universal, must indeed forego
the attempt to give individual representations of the past as it actually existed. It must
foreshorten its pictures by abstractions, and this includes not merely the omission of events and
deeds, but whatever is involved in the fact that Thought is, after all, the most trenchant
epitomist. A battle, a great victory, a siege no longer maintains its original proportions,
but is put off with a mere allusion. When Livy, for instance, tells us of the war with the
Volsci, we sometimes have the brief announcement: "This year war was carried on with the Volsci."

2. A second species of Reflective history is what we may call the pragmatical. When we have
to deal with the past and occupy ourselves with a remote world, a present rises into being
for the mind--produced by its own activity, as the reward of its
labor.

The occurrences are, indeed, various; but the idea which pervades
them-their deeper import and connection--is one.

This takes the occurrence out of the category of the past and makes it virtually present.
Pragmatical (didactic) reflections, though in their nature decidedly abstract, are truly and
indefeasibly of the present, and quicken the annals of the dead past with the life of today.
Whether, indeed, such reflections are truly interesting and enlivening depends on the writer's
own spirit. Moral reflections must here be specially noticed--the moral teaching expected from
history; the latter has not infrequently been treated with a direct view to the former. It may
be allowed that examples of virtue elevate the soul and are
applicable in the moral instruction of children for impressing
excellence upon their minds.

But the destinies of people and states, their interests, relations,
and the complicated tissue of their affairs, present quite another
field.

Rulers, statesmen, nations, are wont to be emphatically commended to the teaching which experience
offers in history; yet what experience and history teach is this-that peoples and governments
have never learned anything from history, nor have they acted on principles deduced from
it.
Each period is involved in such peculiar circumstances, exhibits a condition of things so
strictly idiosyncratic, that its conduct must be regulated by considerations connected with
itself, and itself alone. Amid the pressure of great events a general principle gives no
help.

Fleet foot on the correi,
     Sage counsel in cumber,
Red hand in the foray,
     How sound is thy slumber!
Like the dew on the mountain,
     Like the foam on the river,
Like the bubble on the fountain,
     Thou art gone, and forever!

XVII.

See Stumah, who, the bier beside His master's corpse with wonder eyed, Poor Stumah! whom his
least halloo Could send like lightning o'er the dew, Bristles his crest, and points his ears,
As if some stranger step he hears. 'T is not a mourner's muffled tread, Who comes to sorrow
o'er the dead, But headlong haste or deadly fear Urge the precipitate career. All stand aghast:--unheeding
all, The henchman bursts into the hall; Before the dead man's bier he stood, Held forth the
Cross besmeared with blood; 'The muster-place is Lanrick mead; Speed forth the signal! clansmen,
speed!'

XVIII,

Angus, the heir of Duncan's line,
Sprung forth and seized the fatal sign.
In haste the stripling to his side
 His father's dirk and broadsword tied;
But when he saw his mother's eye
Watch him in speechless agony,
Back to her opened arms he flew
Pressed on her lips a fond adieu,--
'Alas' she sobbed,--'and yet be gone,
And speed thee forth, like Duncan's son!'
One look he cast upon the bier,
Dashed from his eye the gathering tear,
Breathed deep to clear his laboring breast,
And tossed aloft his bonnet crest,
Then, like the high-bred colt when, freed,
First he essays his fire and speed,
He vanished, and o'er moor and moss
Sped forward with the Fiery Cross.
Suspended was the widow's tear
While yet his footsteps she could hear;
And when she marked the henchman's eye
Wet with unwonted sympathy,
'Kinsman,' she said, 'his race is run
That should have sped thine errand on.
The oak teas fallen?--the sapling bough Is all
Duncraggan's shelter now
Yet trust I well, his duty done,
The orphan's God will guard my son.--
And you, in many a danger true
At Duncan's hest your blades that drew,
To arms, and guard that orphan's head!
Let babes and women wail the dead.'
Then weapon-clang and martial call
Resounded through the funeral hall,
While from the walls the attendant band
Snatched sword and targe with hurried hand;
And short and flitting energy
Glanced from the mourner's sunken eye,
As if the sounds to warrior dear
Might rouse her Duncan from his bier.
But faded soon that borrowed force;
Grief claimed his right, and tears their course.

XIX.

Benledi saw the Cross of Fire, It glanced like lightning up Strath-Ire. O'er dale and hill
the summons flew, Nor rest nor pause young Angus knew; The tear that gathered in his eye He
deft the mountain-breeze to dry; Until, where Teith's young waters roll Betwixt him and a wooded
knoll That graced the sable strath with green, The chapel of Saint Bride was seen. Swoln was
the stream, remote the bridge, But Angus paused not on the edge; Though the clerk waves danced
dizzily, Though reeled his sympathetic eye, He dashed amid the torrent's roar: His right hand
high the crosslet bore, His left the pole-axe grasped, to guide And stay his footing in the
tide. He stumbled twice,--the foam splashed high, With hoarser swell the stream raced by; And
had he fallen,--forever there, Farewell Duncraggan's orphan heir! But still, as if in parting
life, Firmer he grasped the Cross of strife, Until the opposing bank he gained, And up the
chapel pathway strained. A blithesome rout that morning-tide Had sought the chapel of Saint
Bride. Her troth Tombea's Mary gave To Norman, heir of Armandave, And, issuing from the Gothic
arch, The bridal now resumed their march. In rude but glad procession came Bonneted sire and
coif-clad dame; And plaided youth, with jest and jeer Which snooded maiden would not hear:
And children, that, unwitting why, Lent the gay shout their shrilly cry; And minstrels, that
in measures vied Before the young and bonny bride, Whose downcast eye and cheek disclose The
tear and blush of morning rose. With virgin step and bashful hand She held the kerchief's snowy
band. The gallant bridegroom by her side Beheld his prize with victor's pride. And the glad
mother in her ear Was closely whispering word of cheer.

XXI.

Who meets them at the churchyard gate? The messenger of fear and fate! Haste in his hurried
accent lies, And grief is swimming in his eyes. All dripping from the recent flood, Panting
and travel-soiled he stood, The fatal sign of fire and sword Held forth, and spoke the appointed
word: 'The muster-place is Lanrick mead; Speed forth the signal! Norman, speed!' And must he
change so soon the hand Just linked to his by holy band, For the fell Cross of blood and brand?
And must the day so blithe that rose, And promised rapture in the close, Before its setting
hour, divide The bridegroom from the plighted bride? O fatal doom'--it must! it must! Clan-Alpine's
cause, her Chieftain's trust, Her summons dread, brook no delay; Stretch to the race,--away! away!

XXII.

Yet slow he laid his plaid aside, And lingering eyed his lovely bride, Until he saw the starting
tear Speak woe he might not stop to cheer: Then, trusting not a second look, In haste he sped
hind up the brook, Nor backward glanced till on the heath Where Lubnaig's lake supplies the
Teith,-- What in the racer's bosom stirred? The sickening pang of hope deferred, And memory
with a torturing train Of all his morning visions vain. Mingled with love's impatience, came
The manly thirst for martial fame; The stormy joy of mountaineers Ere yet they rush upon the
spears; And zeal for Clan and Chieftain burning, And hope, from well-fought field returning,
With war's red honors on his crest, To clasp his Mary to his breast. Stung by such thoughts,
o'er bank and brae, Like fire from flint he glanced away, While high resolve and feeling strong
Burst into voluntary song.

XXIII.

Song.

The heath this night must be my bed,
The bracken curtain for my head,
My lullaby the warder's tread,
     Far, far, from love and thee, Mary;
To-morrow eve, more stilly laid,
My couch may be my bloody plaid,
My vesper song thy wail, sweet maid!
     It will not waken me, Mary!

I may not, dare not, fancy now
The grief that clouds thy lovely brow,
I dare not think upon thy vow,
     And all it promised me, Mary.
No fond regret must Norman know;
When bursts Clan-Alpine on the foe,
His heart must be like bended bow,
     His foot like arrow free, Mary.

A time will come with feeling fraught,
For, if I fall in battle fought,
Thy hapless lover's dying thought
     Shall be a thought on thee, Mary.
And if returned from conquered foes,
How blithely will the evening close,
How sweet the linnet sing repose,
     To my young bride and me, Mary!

XXIV.

Not faster o'er thy heathery braes Balquidder, speeds the midnight blaze, Rushing in conflagration
strong Thy deep ravines and dells along, Wrapping thy cliffs in purple glow, And reddening
the dark lakes below; Nor faster speeds it, nor so far, As o'er thy heaths the voice of war.
The signal roused to martial coil The sullen margin of Loch Voil, Waked still Loch Doine, and
to the source Alarmed, Balvaig, thy swampy course; Thence southward turned its rapid road Adown
Strath-Gartney's valley broad Till rose in arms each man might claim A portion in Clan-Alpine's
name, From the gray sire, whose trembling hand Could hardly buckle on his brand, To the raw
boy, whose shaft and bow Were yet scarce terror to the crow. Each valley, each sequestered
glen, Mustered its little horde of men That met as torrents from the height In Highland dales
their streams unite Still gathering, as they pour along, A voice more loud, a tide more strong,
Till at the rendezvous they stood By hundreds prompt for blows and blood, Each trained to arms
since life began, Owning no tie but to his clan, No oath but by his chieftain's hand, No law
but Roderick Dhu's command.

XXV.

That summer morn had Roderick Dhu Surveyed the skirts of Benvenue, And sent his scouts o'er
hill and heath, To view the frontiers of Menteith. All backward came with news of truce; Still
lay each martial Graeme and Bruce, In Rednock courts no horsemen wait, No banner waved on Cardross
gate, On Duchray's towers no beacon shone, Nor scared the herons from Loch Con; All seemed
at peace.--Now wot ye wily The Chieftain with such anxious eye, Ere to the muster he repair,
This western frontier scanned with care?-- In Benvenue's most darksome cleft, A fair though
cruel pledge was left; For Douglas, to his promise true, That morning from the isle withdrew,
And in a deep sequestered dell Had sought a low and lonely cell. By many a bard in Celtic tongue
Has Coir-nan-Uriskin been sung A softer name the Saxons gave, And called the grot the Goblin Cave.

XXVI.

It was a wild and strange retreat, As e'er was trod by outlaw's feet. The dell, upon the mountain's
crest, Yawned like a gash on warrior's breast; Its trench had stayed full many a rock, Hurled
by primeval earthquake shock From Benvenue's gray summit wild, And here, in random ruin piled,
They frowned incumbent o'er the spot And formed the rugged sylvan "rot. The oak and birch with
mingled shade At noontide there a twilight made, Unless when short and sudden shone Some straggling
beam on cliff or stone, With such a glimpse as prophet's eye Gains on thy depth, Futurity.
No murmur waked the solemn still, Save tinkling of a fountain rill; But when the wind chafed
with the lake, A sullen sound would upward break, With dashing hollow voice, that spoke The
incessant war of wave and rock. Suspended cliffs with hideous sway Seemed nodding o'er the
cavern gray. From such a den the wolf had sprung, In such the wild-cat leaves her young; Yet
Douglas and his daughter fair Sought for a space their safety there. Gray Superstition's whisper
dread Debarred the spot to vulgar tread; For there, she said, did fays resort, And satyrs hold
their sylvan court, By moonlight tread their mystic maze, And blast the rash beholder's gaze.

XXVII.

Now eve, with western shadows long, Floated on Katrine bright and strong, When Roderick with
a chosen few Repassed the heights of Benvenue. Above the Goblin Cave they go, Through the wild
pass of Beal-nam-bo; The prompt retainers speed before, To launch the shallop from the shore,
For 'cross Loch Katrine lies his way To view the passes of Achray, And place his clansmen in
array. Yet lags the Chief in musing mind, Unwonted sight, his men behind. A single page, to
bear his sword, Alone attended on his lord; The rest their way through thickets break, And
soon await him by the lake. It was a fair and gallant sight To view them from the neighboring
height, By the low-levelled sunbeam's light! For strength and stature, from the clan Each warrior
was a chosen man, As even afar might well be seen, By their proud step and martial mien. heir
feathers dance, their tartars float, Their targets gleam, as by the boat A wild and warlike
group they stand, That well became such mountain-strand.

XXVI

Their Chief with step reluctant still Was lingering on the craggy hill, Hard by where turned
apart the road To Douglas's obscure abode. It was but with that dawning morn That Roderick
Dhu had proudly sworn To drown his love in war's wild roar, Nor think of Ellen Douglas more;
But he who stems a stream with sand, And fetters flame with flaxen band, Has yet a harder task
to prove,-- By firm resolve to conquer love! Eve finds the Chief, like restless ghost, Still
hovering near his treasure lost; For though his haughty heart deny A parting meeting to his
eye Still fondly strains his anxious ear The accents of her voice to hear, And inly did he
curse the breeze That waked to sound the rustling trees. But hark! what mingles in the strain?
It is the harp of Allan-bane, That wakes its measure slow and high, Attuned to sacred minstrelsy.
What melting voice attends the strings? 'Tis Ellen, or an angel, sings.

XXIX.

Hymn to the Virgin.

Ave. Maria! maiden mild!
     Listen to a maiden's prayer!
Thou canst hear though from the wild,
     Thou canst save amid despair.
Safe may we sleep beneath thy care,
     Though banished, outcast, and reviled--
Maiden! hear a maiden's prayer;
     Mother, hear a suppliant child!
                                         Ave Maria!

Ave Maria! undefiled!
     The flinty couch we now must share
Shall seem with down of eider piled,
     If thy protection hover there.
The murky cavern's heavy air
     Shall breathe of balm if thou hast smiled;
Then, Maiden! hear a maiden's prayer,
     Mother, list a suppliant child!
                                         Ave Maria!

Ave. Maria! stainless styled!
     Foul demons of the earth and air,
From this their wonted haunt exiled,
     Shall flee before thy presence fair.
We bow us to our lot of care,
     Beneath thy guidance reconciled:
Hear for a maid a maiden's prayer,
     And for a father hear a child!
                                         Ave Maria!

XXX.

Died on the harp the closing hymn,-- Unmoved in attitude and limb, As listening still, Clan-Alpine's
lord Stood leaning on his heavy sword, Until the page with humble sign Twice pointed to the
sun's decline. Then while his plaid he round him cast, 'It is the last time--'tis the last,'
He muttered thrice,--'the last time e'er That angel-voice shall Roderick hear'' It was a goading
thought,--his stride Hied hastier down the mountain-side; Sullen he flung him in the boat An
instant 'cross the lake it shot. They landed in that silvery bay, And eastward held their hasty
way Till, with the latest beams of light, The band arrived on Lanrick height' Where mustered
in the vale below Clan-Alpine's men in martial show.

XXXI.

A various scene the clansmen made: Some sat, some stood, some slowly strayer): But most, with
mantles folded round, Were couched to rest upon the ground, Scarce to be known by curious eye
From the deep heather where they lie, So well was matched the tartan screen With heath-bell
dark and brackens green; Unless where, here and there, a blade Or lance's point a glimmer made,
Like glow-worm twinkling through the shade. But when, advancing through the gloom, They saw
the Chieftain's eagle plume, Their shout of welcome, shrill and wide, Shook the steep mountain's
steady side. Thrice it arose, and lake and fell Three times returned the martial yell; It died
upon Bochastle's plain, And Silence claimed her evening reign.

                         CANTO FOURTH.

                         The Prophecy.

I.

The rose is fairest when 't is budding new,
   And hope is brightest when it dawns from fears;
The rose is sweetest washed with morning dew
   And love is loveliest when embalmed in tears.
O wilding rose, whom fancy thus endears,
   I bid your blossoms in my bonnet wave,
Emblem of hope and love through future years!'
   Thus spoke young Norman, heir of Armandave,
What time the sun arose on Vennachar's broad wave.

II.

Such fond conceit, half said, half sung, Love prompted to the bridegroom's tongue. All while
he stripped the wild-rose spray, His axe and bow beside him lay, For on a pass 'twixt lake
and wood A wakeful sentinel he stood. Hark!--on the rock a footstep rung, And instant to his
arms he sprung. 'Stand, or thou diest!--What, Malise?--soon Art thou returned from Braes of
Doune. By thy keen step and glance I know, Thou bring'st us tidings of the foe.'-- For while
the Fiery Cross tried on, On distant scout had Malise gone.-- 'Where sleeps the Chief?' the
henchman said. 'Apart, in yonder misty glade; To his lone couch I'll be your guide.'-- Then
called a slumberer by his side, And stirred him with his slackened bow,-- 'Up, up, Glentarkin!
rouse thee, ho! We seek the Chieftain; on the track Keep eagle watch till I come back.'

III.

Together up the pass they sped: 'What of the foeman?' Norman said.-- 'Varying reports from
near and far; This certain,--that a band of war Has for two days been ready boune, At prompt
command to march from Doune; King James the while, with princely powers, Holds revelry in Stirling
towers. Soon will this dark and gathering cloud Speak on our glens in thunder loud. Inured
to bide such bitter bout, The warrior's plaid may bear it out; But, Norman, how wilt thou provide
A shelter for thy bonny bride?''-- 'What! know ye not that Roderick's care To the lone isle
hath caused repair Each maid and matron of the clan, And every child and aged man Unfit for
arms; and given his charge, Nor skiff nor shallop, boat nor barge, Upon these lakes shall float
at large, But all beside the islet moor, That such dear pledge may rest secure?'--

IV.

' 'T is well advised,--the Chieftain's plan Bespeaks the father of his clan. But wherefore
sleeps Sir Roderick Dhu Apart from all his followers true?' 'It is because last evening-tide
Brian an augury hath tried, Of that dread kind which must not be Unless in dread extremity,
The Taghairm called; by which, afar, Our sires foresaw the events of war. Duncraggan's milk-white
bull they slew,'--

Malise.

'Ah! well the gallant brute I knew! The choicest of the prey we had When swept our merrymen
Gallangad. His hide was snow, his horns were dark, His red eye glowed like fiery spark; So
fierce, so tameless, and so fleet, Sore did he cumber our retreat, And kept our stoutest kerns
in awe, Even at the pass of Beal 'maha. But steep and flinty was the road, And sharp the hurrying
pikeman's goad, And when we came to Dennan's Row A child might scathless stroke his brow.'

V.

Norman.

'That bull was slain; his reeking hide They stretched the cataract beside, Whose waters their
wild tumult toss Adown the black and craggy boss Of that huge cliff whose ample verge Tradition
calls the Hero's Targe. Couched on a shelf beneath its brink, Close where the thundering torrents
sink, Rocking beneath their headlong sway, And drizzled by the ceaseless spray, Midst groan
of rock and roar of stream, The wizard waits prophetic dream. Nor distant rests the Chief;--but
hush! See, gliding slow through mist and bush, The hermit gains yon rock, and stands To gaze
upon our slumbering bands. Seems he not, Malise, dike a ghost, That hovers o'er a slaughtered
host? Or raven on the blasted oak, That, watching while the deer is broke, His morsel claims
with sullen croak?'

Malise.

'Peace! peace! to other than to me Thy words were evil augury; But still I hold Sir Roderick's
blade Clan-Alpine's omen and her aid, Not aught that, gleaned from heaven or hell, Yon fiend-begotten
Monk can tell. The Chieftain joins him, see--and now Together they descend the brow.'

VI.

And, as they came, with Alpine's Lord The Hermit Monk held solemn word:--. 'Roderick! it is
a fearful strife, For man endowed with mortal life Whose shroud of sentient clay can still
Feel feverish pang and fainting chill, Whose eye can stare in stony trance Whose hair can rouse
like warrior's lance, 'Tis hard for such to view, unfurled, The curtain of the future world.
Yet, witness every quaking limb, My sunken pulse, mine eyeballs dim, My soul with harrowing
anguish torn, This for my Chieftain have I borne!-- The shapes that sought my fearful couch
A human tongue may ne'er avouch; No mortal man--save he, who, bred Between the living and the
dead, Is gifted beyond nature's law Had e'er survived to say he saw. At length the fateful
answer came In characters of living flame! Not spoke in word, nor blazed in scroll, But borne
and branded on my soul:-- WHICH SPILLS THE FOREMOST FOEMAN'S LIFE, THAT PARTY CONQUERS IN THE
STRIFE.'

VII.

'Thanks, Brian, for thy zeal and care! Good is thine augury, and fair. Clan-Alpine ne'er in
battle stood But first our broadswords tasted blood. A surer victim still I know, Self-offered
to the auspicious blow: A spy has sought my land this morn,-- No eve shall witness his return!
My followers guard each pass's mouth, To east, to westward, and to south; Red Murdoch, bribed
to be his guide, Has charge to lead his steps aside, Till in deep path or dingle brown He light
on those shall bring him clown. But see, who comes his news to show! Malise! what tidings of
the foe?'

VIII.

'At Doune, o'er many a spear and glaive Two Barons proud their banners wave. I saw the Moray's
silver star, And marked the sable pale of Mar.' 'By Alpine's soul, high tidings those! I love
to hear of worthy foes. When move they on?' 'To-morrow's noon Will see them here for battle
boune.' 'Then shall it see a meeting stern! But, for the place,--say, couldst thou learn Nought
of the friendly clans of Earn? Strengthened by them, we well might bide The battle on Benledi's
side. Thou couldst not?--well! Clan-Alpine's men Shall man the Trosachs' shaggy glen; Within
Loch Katrine's gorge we'll fight, All in our maids' and matrons' sight, Each for his hearth
and household fire, Father for child, and son for sire Lover for maid beloved!--But why Is
it the breeze affects mine eye? Or dost thou come, ill-omened tear! A messenger of doubt or
fear? No! sooner may the Saxon lance Unfix Benledi from his stance, Than doubt or terror can
pierce through The unyielding heart of Roderick Dhu! 'tis stubborn as his trusty targe. Each
to his post!--all know their charge.' The pibroch sounds, the bands advance, The broadswords
gleam, the banners dance' Obedient to the Chieftain's glance.-- I turn me from the martial
roar And seek Coir-Uriskin once more.

IX.

Where is the Douglas?--he is gone; And Ellen sits on the gray stone Fast by the cave, and makes
her moan, While vainly Allan's words of cheer Are poured on her unheeding ear. 'He will return--dear
lady, trust!-- With joy return;--he will--he must. Well was it time to seek afar Some refuge
from impending war, When e'en Clan-Alpine's rugged swarm Are cowed by the approaching storm.
I saw their boats with many a light, Floating the livelong yesternight, Shifting like flashes
darted forth By the red streamers of the north; I marked at morn how close they ride, Thick
moored by the lone islet's side, Like wild ducks couching in the fen When stoops the hawk upon
the glen. Since this rude race dare not abide The peril on the mainland side, Shall not thy
noble father's care Some safe retreat for thee prepare?'

X.

Ellen.

'No, Allan, no ' Pretext so kind My wakeful terrors could not blind. When in such tender tone,
yet grave, Douglas a parting blessing gave, The tear that glistened in his eye Drowned not
his purpose fixed and high. My soul, though feminine and weak, Can image his; e'en as the lake,
Itself disturbed by slightest stroke. Reflects the invulnerable rock. He hears report of battle
rife, He deems himself the cause of strife. I saw him redden when the theme Turned, Allan,
on thine idle dream Of Malcolm Graeme in fetters bound, Which I, thou saidst, about him wound.
Think'st thou he bowed thine omen aught? O no' 't was apprehensive thought For the kind youth,--
for Roderick too-- Let me be just--that friend so true; In danger both, and in our cause! Minstrel,
the Douglas dare not pause. Why else that solemn warning given, 'If not on earth, we meet in
heaven!' Why else, to Cambus-kenneth's fane, If eve return him not again, Am I to hie and make
me known? Alas! he goes to Scotland's throne, Buys his friends' safety with his own; He goes
to do--what I had done, Had Douglas' daughter been his son!'

XI.

'Nay, lovely Ellen!--dearest, nay! If aught should his return delay, He only named yon holy
fane As fitting place to meet again. Be sure he's safe; and for the Graeme,-- Heaven's blessing
on his gallant name!-- My visioned sight may yet prove true, Nor bode of ill to him or you.
When did my gifted dream beguile? Think of the stranger at the isle, And think upon the harpings
slow That presaged this approaching woe! Sooth was my prophecy of fear; Believe it when it
augurs cheer. Would we had left this dismal spot! Ill luck still haunts a fairy spot! Of such
a wondrous tale I know-- Dear lady, change that look of woe, My harp was wont thy grief to cheer.'

Ellen.

'Well, be it as thou wilt; I hear, But cannot stop the bursting tear.' The Minstrel tried his
simple art, Rut distant far was Ellen's heart.

XII.

Ballad.

Alice Brand.

Merry it is in the good greenwood,
     When the mavis and merle are singing,
When the deer sweeps by, and the hounds are in cry,
     And the hunter's horn is ringing.

'O Alice Brand, my native land
     Is lost for love of you;
And we must hold by wood and word,
     As outlaws wont to do.

'O Alice, 't was all for thy locks so bright,
     And 't was all for thine eyes so blue,
That on the night of our luckless flight
     Thy brother bold I slew.

'Now must I teach to hew the beech
     The hand that held the glaive,
For leaves to spread our lowly bed,
     And stakes to fence our cave.

'And for vest of pall, thy fingers small,
     That wont on harp to stray,
A cloak must shear from the slaughtered deer,
     To keep the cold away.'

'O Richard! if my brother died,
     'T was but a fatal chance;
For darkling was the battle tried,
     And fortune sped the lance.

'If pall and vair no more I wear,
     Nor thou the crimson sheen
As warm, we'll say, is the russet gray,
     As gay the forest-green.

'And, Richard, if our lot be hard,
     And lost thy native land,
Still Alice has her own Richard,
     And he his Alice Brand.'

XIII.

Ballad Continued.

'tis merry, 'tis merry, in good greenwood;
     So blithe Lady Alice is singing;
On the beech's pride, and oak's brown side,
     Lord Richard's axe is ringing.

Up spoke the moody Elfin King,
     Who woned within the hill,--
Like wind in the porch of a ruined church,
     His voice was ghostly shrill.

'Why sounds yon stroke on beech and oak,
     Our moonlight circle's screen?
Or who comes here to chase the deer,
     Beloved of our Elfin Queen?
Or who may dare on wold to wear
     The fairies' fatal green?

'Up, Urgan, up! to yon mortal hie,
     For thou wert christened man;
For cross or sign thou wilt not fly,
     For muttered word or ban.

'Lay on him the curse of the withered heart,
     The curse of the sleepless eye;
Till he wish and pray that his life would part,
     Nor yet find leave to die.'

XIV.

Ballad Continued.

'Tis merry, 'tis merry, in good greenwood,
     Though the birds have stilled their singing;
The evening blaze cloth Alice raise,
     And Richard is fagots bringing.

Up Urgan starts, that hideous dwarf,
     Before Lord Richard stands,
And, as he crossed and blessed himself,
     'I fear not sign,' quoth the grisly elf,
          'That is made with bloody hands.'

But out then spoke she, Alice Brand,
     That woman void of fear,--
'And if there 's blood upon his hand,
     'Tis but the blood of deer.'

'Now loud thou liest, thou bold of mood!
     It cleaves unto his hand,
The stain of thine own kindly blood,
     The blood of Ethert Brand.'

Then forward stepped she, Alice Brand,
     And made the holy sign,--
'And if there's blood on Richard's hand,
     A spotless hand is mine.

'And I conjure thee, demon elf,
     By Him whom demons fear,
To show us whence thou art thyself,
     And what thine errand here?'

XV.

Ballad Continued.

"Tis merry, 'tis merry, in Fairy-land,
     When fairy birds are singing,
When the court cloth ride by their monarch's side,
     With bit and bridle ringing:

'And gayly shines the Fairy-land--
     But all is glistening show,
Like the idle gleam that December's beam
     Can dart on ice and snow.

'And fading, like that varied gleam,
     Is our inconstant shape,
Who now like knight and lady seem,
     And now like dwarf and ape.

'It was between the night and day,
     When the Fairy King has power,
That I sunk down in a sinful fray,
And 'twixt life and death was snatched away
     To the joyless Elfin bower.

'But wist I of a woman bold,
     Who thrice my brow durst sign,
I might regain my mortal mould,
     As fair a form as thine.'

She crossed him once--she crossed him twice--
     That lady was so brave;
The fouler grew his goblin hue,
     The darker grew the cave.

She crossed him thrice, that lady bold;
     He rose beneath her hand
The fairest knight on Scottish mould,
     Her brother, Ethert Brand!

Merry it is in good greenwood,
     When the mavis and merle are singing,
But merrier were they in Dunfermline gray,
     When all the bells were ringing.

XVI.

Just as the minstrel sounds were stayed, A stranger climbed the steepy glade; His martial step,
his stately mien, His hunting-suit of Lincoln green, His eagle glance, remembrance claims--
'Tis Snowdoun's Knight, 'tis James Fitz-James. Ellen beheld as in a dream, Then, starting,
scarce suppressed a scream: 'O stranger! in such hour of fear What evil hap has brought thee
here?' 'An evil hap how can it be That bids me look again on thee? By promise bound, my former
guide Met me betimes this morning-tide, And marshalled over bank and bourne The happy path
of my return.' 'The happy path!--what! said he naught Of war, of battle to be fought, Of guarded
pass?' 'No, by my faith! Nor saw I aught could augur scathe.' 'O haste thee, Allan, to the
kern: Yonder his tartars I discern; Learn thou his purpose, and conjure That he will guide
the stranger sure!-- What prompted thee, unhappy man? The meanest serf in Roderick's clan Had
not been bribed, by love or fear, Unknown to him to guide thee here.'

XVII.

'Sweet Ellen, dear my life must be, Since it is worthy care from thee; et life I hold but idle
breath When love or honor's weighed with death. Then let me profit by my chance, And speak
my purpose bold at once. I come to bear thee from a wild Where ne'er before such blossom smiled,
By this soft hand to lead thee far From frantic scenes of feud and war. Near Bochastle my horses
wait; They bear us soon to Stirling gate. I'll place thee in a lovely bower, I'll guard thee
like a tender flower--' 'O hush, Sir Knight! 't were female art, To say I do not read thy heart;
Too much, before, my selfish ear Was idly soothed my praise to hear. That fatal bait hath lured
thee back, In deathful hour, o'er dangerous track; And how, O how, can I atone The wreck my
vanity brought on!-- One way remains--I'll tell him all-- Yes! struggling bosom, forth it shall!
Thou, whose light folly bears the blame, Buy thine own pardon with thy shame! But first--my
father is a man Outlawed and exiled, under ban; The price of blood is on his head, With me
't were infamy to wed. Still wouldst thou speak?--then hear the truth! Fitz- James, there is
a noble youth-- If yet he is!--exposed for me And mine to dread extremity-- Thou hast the secret
of my bears; Forgive, be generous, and depart!'

XVIII.

Fitz-James knew every wily train A lady's fickle heart to gain, But here he knew and felt them
vain. There shot no glance from Ellen's eye, To give her steadfast speech the lie; In maiden
confidence she stood, Though mantled in her cheek the blood And told her love with such a sigh
Of deep and hopeless agony, As death had sealed her Malcolm's doom And she sat sorrowing on
his tomb. Hope vanished from Fitz-James's eye, But not with hope fled sympathy. He proffered
to attend her side, As brother would a sister guide. 'O little know'st thou Roderick's heart!
Safer for both we go apart. O haste thee, and from Allan learn If thou mayst trust yon wily
kern.' With hand upon his forehead laid, The conflict of his mind to shade, A parting step
or two he made; Then, as some thought had crossed his brain He paused, and turned, and came again.

XIX.

'Hear, lady, yet a parting word!-- It chanced in fight that my poor sword Preserved the life
of Scotland's lord. This ring the grateful Monarch gave, And bade, when I had boon to crave,
To bring it back, and boldly claim The recompense that I would name. Ellen, I am no courtly
lord, But one who lives by lance and sword, Whose castle is his helm and shield, His lordship
the embattled field. What from a prince can I demand, Who neither reck of state nor land? Ellen,
thy hand--the ring is thine; Each guard and usher knows the sign. Seek thou the King without
delay; This signet shall secure thy way: And claim thy suit, whate'er it be, As ransom of his
pledge to me.' He placed the golden circlet on, Paused--kissed her hand--and then was gone.
The aged Minstrel stood aghast, So hastily Fitz-James shot past. He joined his guide, and wending
down The ridges of the mountain brown, Across the stream they took their way That joins Loch
Katrine to Achray.

XX

All in the Trosachs' glen was still, Noontide was sleeping on the hill: Sudden his guide whooped
loud and high-- 'Murdoch! was that a signal cry?'-- He stammered forth, 'I shout to scare Yon
raven from his dainty fare.' He looked--he knew the raven's prey, His own brave steed: 'Ah!
gallant gray! For thee--for me, perchance--'t were well We ne'er had seen the Trosachs' dell.--
Murdoch, move first---but silently; Whistle or whoop, and thou shalt die!' Jealous and sullen
on they fared, Each silent, each upon his guard.

XXI.

Now wound the path its dizzy ledge Around a precipice's edge, When lo! a wasted female form,
Blighted by wrath of sun and storm, In tattered weeds and wild array, Stood on a cliff beside
the way, And glancing round her restless eye, Upon the wood, the rock, the sky, Seemed naught
to mark, yet all to spy. Her brow was wreathed with gaudy broom; With gesture wild she waved
a plume Of feathers, which the eagles fling To crag and cliff from dusky wing; Such spoils
her desperate step had sought, Where scarce was footing for the goat. The tartan plaid she
first descried, And shrieked till all the rocks replied; As loud she laughed when near they
drew, For then the Lowland garb she knew; And then her hands she wildly wrung, And then she
wept, and then she sung-- She sung!--the voice, in better time, Perchance to harp or lute might
chime; And now, though strained and roughened, still Rung wildly sweet to dale and hill.

XXII.

Song.

They bid me sleep, they bid me pray,
     They say my brain is warped and wrung--
I cannot sleep on Highland brae,
     I cannot pray in Highland tongue.
But were I now where Allan glides,
Or heard my native Devan's tides,
So sweetly would I rest, and pray
That Heaven would close my wintry day!

'Twas thus my hair they bade me braid,
     They made me to the church repair;
It was my bridal morn they said,
     And my true love would meet me there.
But woe betide the cruel guile
That drowned in blood the morning smile!
And woe betide the fairy dream!
I only waked to sob and scream.

XXIII.

'Who is this maid? what means her lay? She hovers o'er the hollow way, And flutters wide her
mantle gray, As the lone heron spreads his wing, By twilight, o'er a haunted spring.' ''Tis
Blanche of Devan,' Murdoch said, 'A crazed and captive Lowland maid, Ta'en on the morn she
was a bride, When Roderick forayed Devan-side. The gay bridegroom resistance made, And felt
our Chief's unconquered blade. I marvel she is now at large, But oft she 'scapes from Maudlin's
charge.-- Hence, brain-sick fool!'--He raised his bow:-- 'Now, if thou strik'st her but one
blow, I'll pitch thee from the cliff as far As ever peasant pitched a bar!' 'Thanks, champion,
thanks' the Maniac cried, And pressed her to Fitz-James's side. 'See the gray pennons I prepare,
To seek my true love through the air! I will not lend that savage groom, To break his fall,
one downy plume! No!--deep amid disjointed stones, The wolves shall batten on his bones, And
then shall his detested plaid, By bush and brier in mid-air stayed, Wave forth a banner fail
and free, Meet signal for their revelry.'

XXIV

'Hush thee, poor maiden, and be still!' 'O! thou look'st kindly, and I will. Mine eye has dried
and wasted been, But still it loves the Lincoln green; And, though mine ear is all unstrung,
Still, still it loves the Lowland tongue.

'For O my sweet William was forester true,
     He stole poor Blanche's heart away!
His coat it was all of the greenwood hue,
     And so blithely he trilled the Lowland lay!

'It was not that I meant to tell . . . But thou art wise and guessest well.' Then, in a low
and broken tone, And hurried note, the song went on. Still on the Clansman fearfully She fixed
her apprehensive eye, Then turned it on the Knight, and then Her look glanced wildly o'er the glen.

XXV.

'The toils are pitched, and the stakes are set,--
     Ever sing merrily, merrily;
The bows they bend, and the knives they whet,
     Hunters live so cheerily.

It was a stag, a stag of ten,
     Bearing its branches sturdily;
He came stately down the glen,--
     Ever sing hardily, hardily.

'It was there he met with a wounded doe,
     She was bleeding deathfully;
She warned him of the toils below,
     O. so faithfully, faithfully!

'He had an eye, and he could heed,--
     Ever sing warily, warily;
He had a foot, and he could speed,--
     Hunters watch so narrowly.'

XXVI.

Fitz-James's mind was passion-tossed, When Ellen's hints and fears were lost; But Murdoch's
shout suspicion wrought, And Blanche's song conviction brought. Not like a stag that spies
the snare, But lion of the hunt aware, He waved at once his blade on high, 'Disclose thy treachery,
or die!' Forth at hell speed the Clansman flew, But in his race his bow he drew. The shaft
just grazed Fitz-James's crest, And thrilled in Blanche's faded breast.-- Murdoch of Alpine!
prove thy speed, For ne'er had Alpine's son such need; With heart of fire, and foot of wind,
The fierce avenger is behind! Fate judges of the rapid strife-- The forfeit death--the prize
is life; Thy kindred ambush lies before, Close couched upon the heathery moor; Them couldst
thou reach!--it may not be Thine ambushed kin thou ne'er shalt see, The fiery Saxon gains on
thee!-- Resistless speeds the deadly thrust, As lightning strikes the pine to dust; With foot
and hand Fitz-James must strain Ere he can win his blade again. Bent o'er the fallen with falcon
eye, He grimly smiled to see him die, Then slower wended back his way, Where the poor maiden
bleeding lay.

XXVII.

She sat beneath the birchen tree, Her elbow resting on her knee; She had withdrawn the fatal
shaft, And gazed on it, and feebly laughed; Her wreath of broom and feathers gray, Daggled
with blood, beside her lay. The Knight to stanch the life-stream tried,-- 'Stranger, it is
in vain!' she cried. 'This hour of death has given me more Of reason's power than years before;
For, as these ebbing veins decay, My frenzied visions fade away. A helpless injured wretch
I die, And something tells me in thine eye That thou wert mine avenger born. Seest thou this
tress?--O. still I 've worn This little tress of yellow hair, Through danger, frenzy, and despair!
It once was bright and clear as thine, But blood and tears have dimmed its shine. I will not
tell thee when 't was shred, Nor from what guiltless victim's head,-- My brain would turn!--but
it shall wave Like plumage on thy helmet brave, Till sun and wind shall bleach the stain, And
thou wilt bring it me again. I waver still. --O God! more bright Let reason beam her parting
light!-- O. by thy knighthood's honored sign, And for thy life preserved by mine, When thou
shalt see a darksome man, Who boasts him Chief of Alpine's Clan, With tartars broad and shadowy
plume, And hand of blood, and brow of gloom Be thy heart bold, thy weapon strong, And wreak
poor Blanche of Devan's wrong!-- They watch for thee by pass and fell . . . Avoid the path
. . . O God! . . . farewell.'

XXVIII.

A kindly heart had brave Fitz-James; Fast poured his eyes at pity's claims; And now, with mingled
grief and ire, He saw the murdered maid expire. 'God, in my need, be my relief, As I wreak
this on yonder Chief!' A lock from Blanche's tresses fair He blended with her bridegroom's
hair; The mingled braid in blood he dyed, And placed it on his bonnet-side: 'By Him whose word
is truth, I swear, No other favour will I wear, Till this sad token I imbrue In the best blood
of Roderick Dhu!-- But hark! what means yon faint halloo? The chase is up,--but they shall
know, The stag at bay 's a dangerous foe.' Barred from the known but guarded way, Through copse
and cliffs Fitz-James must stray, And oft must change his desperate track, By stream and precipice
turned back. Heartless, fatigued, and faint, at length, From lack of food and loss of strength
He couched him in a thicket hoar And thought his toils and perils o'er:-- 'Of all my rash adventures
past, This frantic feat must prove the last! Who e'er so mad but might have guessed That all
this Highland hornet's nest Would muster up in swarms so soon As e'er they heard of bands at
Doune?-- Like bloodhounds now they search me out,-- Hark, to the whistle and the shout!-- If
farther through the wilds I go, I only fall upon the foe: I'll couch me here till evening gray,
Then darkling try my dangerous way.'

XXIX.

The shades of eve come slowly down, The woods are wrapt in deeper brown, The owl awakens from
her dell, The fox is heard upon the fell; Enough remains of glimmering light To guide the wanderer's
steps aright, Yet not enough from far to show His figure to the watchful foe. With cautious
step and ear awake, He climbs the crag and threads the brake; And not the summer solstice there
Tempered the midnight mountain air, But every breeze that swept the wold Benumbed his drenched
limbs with cold. In dread, in danger, and alone, Famished and chilled, through ways unknown,
Tangled and steep, he journeyed on; Till, as a rock's huge point he turned, A watch-fire close
before him burned.

XXX.

Beside its embers red and clear Basked in his plaid a mountaineer; And up he sprung with sword
in hand,-- 'Thy name and purpose! Saxon, stand!' 'A stranger.' 'What cost thou require?' 'Rest
and a guide, and food and fire My life's beset, my path is lost, The gale has chilled my limbs
with frost.' 'Art thou a friend to Roderick?' 'No.' 'Thou dar'st not call thyself a foe?' 'I
dare! to him and all the band He brings to aid his murderous hand.' 'Bold words!--but, though
the beast of game The privilege of chase may claim, Though space and law the stag we lend Ere
hound we slip or bow we bend Who ever recked, where, how, or when, The prowling fox was trapped
or slain? Thus treacherous scouts,--yet sure they lie Who say thou cam'st a secret spy!'--
'They do, by heaven!--come Roderick Dhu And of his clan the boldest two And let me but till
morning rest, I write the falsehood on their crest.' If by the blaze I mark aright Thou bear'st
the belt and spur of Knight.' 'Then by these tokens mayst thou know Each proud oppressor's
mortal foe.' 'Enough, enough; sit down and share A soldier's couch, a soldier's fare.'

XXXI..

He gave him of his Highland cheer, The hardened flesh of mountain deer; Dry fuel on the fire
he laid, And bade the Saxon share his plaid. He tended him like welcome guest, Then thus his
further speech addressed:-- 'Stranger, I am to Roderick Dhu A clansman born, a kinsman true;
Each word against his honour spoke Demands of me avenging stroke; Yet more,--upon thy fate,
'tis said, A mighty augury is laid. It rests with me to wind my horn,-- Thou art with numbers
overborne; It rests with me, here, brand to brand, Worn as thou art, to bid thee stand: But,
not for clan, nor kindred's cause, Will I depart from honour's laws; To assail a wearied man
were shame, And stranger is a holy name; Guidance and rest, and food and fire, In vain he never
must require. Then rest thee here till dawn of day; Myself will guide thee on the way, O'er
stock and stone, through watch and ward, Till past Clan- Alpine's outmost guard, As far as
Coilantogle's ford; From thence thy warrant is thy sword.' 'I take thy courtesy, by heaven,
As freely as 'tis nobly given!' Well, rest thee; for the bittern's cry Sings us the lake's
wild lullaby.' With that he shook the gathered heath, And spread his plaid upon the wreath;
And the brave foemen, side by side, Lay peaceful down like brothers tried, And slept until
the dawning beam Purpled the mountain and the stream.

                          CANTO FIFTH.

                          The Combat.

I.

Fair as the earliest beam of eastern light,
     When first, by the bewildered pilgrim spied,
It smiles upon the dreary brow of night
     And silvers o'er the torrent's foaming tide
And lights the fearful path on mountain-side,--
     Fair as that beam, although the fairest far,
Giving to horror grace, to danger pride,
     Shine martial Faith, and Courtesy's bright star
Through all the wreckful storms that cloud the brow of War.

II.

That early beam, so fair and sheen, Was twinkling through the hazel screen When, rousing at
its glimmer red, The warriors left their lowly bed, Looked out upon the dappled sky, Muttered
their soldier matins try, And then awaked their fire, to steal, As short and rude, their soldier
meal. That o'er, the Gael around him threw His graceful plaid of varied hue, And, true to promise,
led the way, By thicket green and mountain gray. A wildering path!--they winded now Along the
precipice's brow, Commanding the rich scenes beneath, The windings of the Forth and Teith,
And all the vales between that lie. Till Stirling's turrets melt in sky; Then, sunk in copse,
their farthest glance Gained not the length of horseman's lance. 'Twas oft so steep, the foot
was as fain Assistance from the hand to gain; So tangled oft that, bursting through, Each hawthorn
shed her showers of dew,-- That diamond dew, so pure and clear, It rivals all but Beauty's tear!

III.

At length they came where, stern and steep, The hill sinks down upon the deep. Here Vennachar
in silver flows, There, ridge on ridge, Benledi rose; Ever the hollow path twined on, Beneath
steep hank and threatening stone; A hundred men might hold the post With hardihood against
a host. The rugged mountain's scanty cloak Was dwarfish shrubs of birch and oak With shingles
bare, and cliffs between And patches bright of bracken green, And heather black, that waved
so high, It held the copse in rivalry. But where the lake slept deep and still Dank osiers
fringed the swamp and hill; And oft both path and hill were torn Where wintry torrent down
had borne And heaped upon the cumbered land Its wreck of gravel, rocks, and sand. So toilsome
was the road to trace The guide, abating of his pace, Led slowly through the pass's jaws And
asked Fitz-James by what strange cause He sought these wilds, traversed by few Without a pass
from Roderick Dhu.

IV.

'Brave Gael, my pass, in danger tried Hangs in my belt and by my side Yet, sooth to tell,'
the Saxon said, 'I dreamt not now to claim its aid. When here, but three days since, I came
Bewildered in pursuit of game, All seemed as peaceful and as still As the mist slumbering on
yon hill; Thy dangerous Chief was then afar, Nor soon expected back from war. Thus said, at
least, my mountain-guide, Though deep perchance the villain lied.' 'Yet why a second venture
try?' 'A warrior thou, and ask me why!-- Moves our free course by such fixed cause As gives
the poor mechanic laws? Enough, I sought to drive away The lazy hours of peaceful day; Slight
cause will then suffice to guide A Knight's free footsteps far and wide,-- A falcon flown,
a greyhound strayed, The merry glance of mountain maid; Or, if a path be dangerous known, The
danger's self is lure alone.'

V.

'Thy secret keep, I urge thee not;-- Yet, ere again ye sought this spot, Say, heard ye naught
of Lowland war, Against Clan-Alpine, raised by Mar?' 'No, by my word;--of bands prepared To
guard King James's sports I heard; Nor doubt I aught, but, when they hear This muster of the
mountaineer, Their pennons will abroad be flung, Which else in Doune had peaceful hung.' 'Free
be they flung! for we were loath Their silken folds should feast the moth. Free be they flung!--as
free shall wave Clan-Alpine's pine in banner brave. But, stranger, peaceful since you came,
Bewildered in the mountain-game, Whence the bold boast by which you show Vich-Alpine's vowed
and mortal foe?' 'Warrior, but yester-morn I knew Naught of thy Chieftain, Roderick Dhu, Save
as an outlawed desperate man, The chief of a rebellious clan, Who, in the Regent's court and
sight, With ruffian dagger stabbed a knight; Yet this alone might from his part Sever each
true and loyal heart.'

VI.

Wrathful at such arraignment foul, Dark lowered the clansman's sable scowl. A space he paused,
then sternly said, 'And heardst thou why he drew his blade? Heardst thou that shameful word
and blow Brought Roderick's vengeance on his foe? What recked the Chieftain if he stood On
Highland heath or Holy-Rood? He rights such wrong where it is given, If it were in the court
of heaven.' 'Still was it outrage;--yet, 'tis true, Not then claimed sovereignty his due; While
Albany with feeble hand Held borrowed truncheon of command, The young King, mewed in Stirling
tower, Was stranger to respect and power. But then, thy Chieftain's robber life!-- Winning
mean prey by causeless strife, Wrenching from ruined Lowland swain His herds and harvest reared
in vain,-- Methinks a soul like thine should scorn The spoils from such foul foray borne.'

VII.

The Gael beheld him grim the while, And answered with disdainful smile: 'Saxon, from yonder
mountain high, I marked thee send delighted eye Far to the south and east, where lay, Extended
in succession gay, Deep waving fields and pastures green, With gentle slopes and groves between:--
These fertile plains, that softened vale, Were once the birthright of the Gael; The stranger
came with iron hand, And from our fathers reft the land. Where dwell we now?  See, rudely swell
Crag over crag, and fell o'er fell. Ask we this savage hill we tread For fattened steer or
household bread, Ask we for flocks these shingles dry, And well the mountain might reply,--
"To you, as to your sires of yore, Belong the target and claymore! I give you shelter in my
breast, Your own good blades must win the rest." Pent in this fortress of the North, Think'st
thou we will not sally forth, To spoil the spoiler as we may, And from the robber rend the
prey? Ay, by my soul!--While on yon plain The Saxon rears one shock of grain, While of ten
thousand herds there strays But one along yon river's maze,-- The Gael, of plain and river
heir, Shall with strong hand redeem his share. Where live the mountain Chiefs who hold That
plundering Lowland field and fold Is aught but retribution true? Seek other cause 'gainst Roderick
Dhu.'

VIII.

Answered Fitz-James: 'And, if I sought, Think'st thou no other could be brought? What deem
ye of my path waylaid? My life given o'er to ambuscade?' 'As of a meed to rashness due: Hadst
thou sent warning fair and true,-- I seek my hound or falcon strayed, I seek, good faith, a
Highland maid,-- Free hadst thou been to come and go; But secret path marks secret foe. Nor
yet for this, even as a spy, Hadst thou, unheard, been doomed to die, Save to fulfil an augury.'
'Well, let it pass; nor will I now Fresh cause of enmity avow To chafe thy mood and cloud thy
brow. Enough, I am by promise tied To match me with this man of pride: Twice have I sought
Clan-Alpine's glen In peace; but when I come again, I come with banner, brand, and bow, As
leader seeks his mortal foe. For love-lore swain in lady's bower Ne'er panted for the appointed
hour As I, until before me stand This rebel Chieftain and his band!'

IX.

'Have then thy wish!'--He whistled shrill And he was answered from the hill; Wild as the scream
of the curlew, From crag to crag the signal flew. Instant, through copse and heath, arose Bonnets
and spears and bended bows On right, on left, above, below, Sprung up at once the lurking foe;
From shingles gray their lances start, The bracken bush sends forth the dart, The rushes and
the willow-wand Are bristling into axe and brand, And every tuft of broom gives life 'To plaided
warrior armed for strife. That whistle garrisoned the glen At once with full five hundred men,
As if the yawning hill to heaven A subterranean host had given. Watching their leader's beck
and will, All silent there they stood and still. Like the loose crags whose threatening mass
Lay tottering o'er the hollow pass, As if an infant's touch could urge Their headlong passage
down the verge, With step and weapon forward flung, Upon the mountain-side they hung. The Mountaineer
cast glance of pride Along Benledi's living side, Then fixed his eye and sable brow Full on
Fitz-James: 'How say'st thou now? These are Clan-Alpine's warriors true; And, Saxon,--I am
Roderick Dhu!'

X.

Fitz-James was brave:--though to his heart The life-blood thrilled with sudden start, He manned
himself with dauntless air, Returned the Chief his haughty stare, His back against a rock he
bore, And firmly placed his foot before:-- 'Come one, come all! this rock shall fly From its
firm base as soon as I.' Sir Roderick marked,--and in his eyes Respect was mingled with surprise,
And the stern joy which warriors feel In foeman worthy of their steel. Short space he stood--then
waved his hand: Down sunk the disappearing band; Each warrior vanished where he stood, In broom
or bracken, heath or wood; Sunk brand and spear and bended bow, In osiers pale and copses low;
It seemed as if their mother Earth Had swallowed up her warlike birth. The wind's last breath
had tossed in air Pennon and plaid and plumage fair,-- The next but swept a lone hill-side
Where heath and fern were waving wide: The sun's last glance was glinted back From spear and
glaive, from targe and jack,-- The next, all unreflected, shone On bracken green and cold gray
stone.

XI.

Fitz-James looked round,--yet scarce believed The witness that his sight received; Such apparition
well might seem Delusion of a dreadful dream. Sir Roderick in suspense he eyed, And to his
look the Chief replied: 'Fear naught--nay, that I need not say But--doubt not aught from mine
array. Thou art my guest;--I pledged my word As far as Coilantogle ford: Nor would I call a
clansman's brand For aid against one valiant hand, Though on our strife lay every vale Rent
by the Saxon from the Gael. So move we on;--I only meant To show the reed on which you leant,
Deeming this path you might pursue Without a pass from Roderick Dhu.' They moved;--I said Fitz-James
was brave As ever knight that belted glaive, Yet dare not say that now his blood Kept on its
wont and tempered flood, As, following Roderick's stride, he drew That seeming lonesome pathway
through, Which yet by fearful proof was rife With lances, that, to take his life, Waited but
signal from a guide, So late dishonored and defied. Ever, by stealth, his eye sought round
The vanished guardians of the ground, And stir'd from copse and heather deep Fancy saw spear
and broadsword peep, And in the plover's shrilly strain The signal whistle heard again. Nor
breathed he free till far behind The pass was left; for then they wind Along a wide and level
green, Where neither tree nor tuft was seen, Nor rush nor bush of broom was near, To hide a
bonnet or a spear.

XII.

The Chief in silence strode before, And reached that torrent's sounding shore, Which, daughter
of three mighty lakes, From Vennachar in silver breaks, Sweeps through the plain, and ceaseless
mines On Bochastle the mouldering lines, Where Rome, the Empress of the world, Of yore her
eagle wings unfurled. And here his course the Chieftain stayed, Threw down his target and his
plaid, And to the Lowland warrior said: 'Bold Saxon! to his promise just, Vich-Alpine has discharged
his trust. This murderous Chief, this ruthless man, This head of a rebellious clan, Hath led
thee safe, through watch and ward, Far past Clan-Alpine's outmost guard. Now, man to man, and
steel to steel, A Chieftain's vengeance thou shalt feel. See, here all vantageless I stand,
Armed like thyself with single brand; For this is Coilantogle ford, And thou must keep thee
with thy sword.'

XIII.

The Saxon paused: 'I ne'er delayed, When foeman bade me draw my blade; Nay more, brave Chief,
I vowed thy death; Yet sure thy fair and generous faith, And my deep debt for life preserved,
A better meed have well deserved: Can naught but blood our feud atone? Are there no means?'--'
No, stranger, none! And hear,--to fire thy flagging zeal,-- The Saxon cause rests on thy steel;
For thus spoke Fate by prophet bred Between the living and the dead:" Who spills the foremost
foeman's life, His party conquers in the strife."' 'Then, by my word,' the Saxon said, "The
riddle is already read. Seek yonder brake beneath the cliff,-- There lies Red Murdoch, stark
and stiff. Thus Fate hath solved her prophecy; Then yield to Fate, and not to me. To James
at Stirling let us go, When, if thou wilt be still his foe, Or if the King shall not agree
To grant thee grace and favor free, I plight mine honor, oath, and word That, to thy native
strengths restored, With each advantage shalt thou stand That aids thee now to guard thy land.'

XIV.

Dark lightning flashed from Roderick's eye: 'Soars thy presumption, then, so high, Because
a wretched kern ye slew, Homage to name to Roderick Dhu? He yields not, he, to man nor Fate!
Thou add'st but fuel to my hate;-- My clansman's blood demands revenge. Not yet prepared?--By
heaven, I change My thought, and hold thy valor light As that of some vain carpet knight, Who
ill deserved my courteous care, And whose best boast is but to wear A braid of his fair lady's
hair.' 'I thank thee, Roderick, for the word! It nerves my heart, it steels my sword; For I
have sworn this braid to stain In the best blood that warms thy vein. Now, truce, farewell!
and, rush, begone!-- Yet think not that by thee alone, Proud Chief! can courtesy be shown;
Though not from copse, or heath, or cairn, Start at my whistle clansmen stern, Of this small
horn one feeble blast Would fearful odds against thee cast. But fear not -- doubt not--which
thou wilt-- We try this quarrel hilt to hilt.' Then each at once his falchion drew, Each on
the ground his scabbard threw Each looked to sun and stream and plain As what they ne'er might
see again; Then foot and point and eye opposed, In dubious strife they darkly closed.

XV.

Ill fared it then with Roderick Dhu, That on the field his targe he threw, Whose brazen studs
and tough bull-hide Had death so often dashed aside; For, trained abroad his arms to wield
Fitz-James's blade was sword and shield. He practised every pass and ward, To thrust, to strike,
to feint, to guard; While less expert, though stronger far, The Gael maintained unequal war.
Three times in closing strife they stood And thrice the Saxon blade drank blood; No stinted
draught, no scanty tide, The gushing flood the tartars dyed. Fierce Roderick felt the fatal
drain, And showered his blows like wintry rain; And, as firm rock or castle-roof Against the
winter shower is proof, The foe, invulnerable still, Foiled his wild rage by steady skill;
Till, at advantage ta'en, his brand Forced Roderick's weapon from his hand, And backward borne
upon the lea, Brought the proud Chieftain to his knee.

XVI.

Now yield thee, or by Him who made The world, thy heart's blood dyes my blade!; 'Thy threats,
thy mercy, I defy! Let recreant yield, who fears to die.' Like adder darting from his coil,
Like wolf that dashes through the toil, Like mountain-cat who guards her young, Full at Fitz-James's
throat he sprung; Received, but recked not of a wound, And locked his arms his foeman round.
Now, gallant Saxon, hold thine own! No maiden's hand is round thee thrown! That desperate grasp
thy frame might feel Through bars of brass and triple steel! They tug, they strain! down, down
they go, The Gael above, Fitz-James below. The Chieftain's gripe his throat compressed, His
knee was planted on his breast; His clotted locks he backward threw, Across his brow his hand
he drew, From blood and mist to clear his sight, Then gleamed aloft his dagger bright! But
hate and fury ill supplied The stream of life's exhausted tide, And all too late the advantage
came, To turn the odds of deadly game; For, while the dagger gleamed on high, Reeled soul and
sense, reeled brain and eye. Down came the blow! but in the heath The erring blade found bloodless
sheath. The struggling foe may now unclasp The fainting Chief's relaxing grasp; Unwounded from
the dreadful close, But breathless all, Fitz-James arose.

XVII.

He faltered thanks to Heaven for life, Redeemed, unhoped, from desperate strife; Next on his
foe his look he cast, Whose every gasp appeared his last In Roderick's gore he dipped the braid,--
'Poor Blanche! thy wrongs are dearly paid; Yet with thy foe must die, or live, The praise that
faith and valor give.' With that he blew a bugle note, Undid the collar from his throat, Unbonneted,
and by the wave Sat down his brow and hands to rave. Then faint afar are heard the feet Of
rushing steeds in gallop fleet; The sounds increase, and now are seen Four mounted squires
in Lincoln green; Two who bear lance, and two who lead By loosened rein a saddled steed; Each
onward held his headlong course, And by Fitz-James reined up his horse,-- With wonder viewed
the bloody spot,-- 'Exclaim not, gallants ' question not.-- You, Herbert and Luffness, alight
And bind the wounds of yonder knight; Let the gray palfrey bear his weight, We destined for
a fairer freight, And bring him on to Stirling straight; I will before at better speed, To
seek fresh horse and fitting weed. The sun rides high;--I must be boune To see the archer-game
at noon; But lightly Bayard clears the lea.-- De Vaux and Herries. follow me.

XVIII.

'Stand, Bayard, stand!'--the steed obeyed, With arching neck and bended head, And glancing
eye and quivering ear, As if he loved his lord to hear. No foot Fitz-James in stirrup stayed,
No grasp upon the saddle laid, But wreathed his left hand in the mane, And lightly bounded
from the plain, Turned on the horse his armed heel, And stirred his courage with the steel.
Bounded the fiery steed in air, The rider sat erect and fair, Then like a bolt from steel crossbow
Forth launched, along the plain they go. They dashed that rapid torrent through, And up Carhonie's
hill they flew; Still at the gallop pricked the Knight, His merrymen followed as they might.
Along thy banks, swift Teith! they ride, And in the race they mock thy tide; Torry and Lendrick
now are past, And Deanstown lies behind them cast; They rise, the bannered towers of Doune,
They sink in distant woodland soon; Blair-Drummond sees the hoofs strike fire, They sweep like
breeze through Ochtertyre; They mark just glance and disappear The lofty brow of ancient Kier;
They bathe their coursers' sweltering sides Dark Forth! amid thy sluggish tides, And on the
opposing shore take ground With plash, with scramble, and with bound. Right-hand they leave
thy cliffs, Craig-Forth! And soon the bulwark of the North, Gray Stirling, with her towers
and town, Upon their fleet career looked clown.

XIX.

As up the flinty path they strained, Sudden his steed the leader reined; A signal to his squire
he flung, Who instant to his stirrup sprung:-- 'Seest thou, De Vaux, yon woodsman gray, Who
townward holds the rocky way, Of stature tall and poor array? Mark'st thou the firm, yet active
stride, With which he scales the mountain-side? Know'st thou from whence he comes, or whom?'
'No, by my word;--a burly groom He seems, who in the field or chase A baron's train would nobly
grace--' 'Out, out, De Vaux! can fear supply, And jealousy, no sharper eye? Afar, ere to the
hill he drew, That stately form and step I knew; Like form in Scotland is not seen, Treads
not such step on Scottish green. 'Tis James of Douglas, by Saint Serle! The uncle of the banished
Earl. Away, away, to court, to show The near approach of dreaded foe: The King must stand upon
his guard; Douglas and he must meet prepared.' Then right-hand wheeled their steeds, and straight
They won the Castle's postern gate.

XX.

The Douglas, who had bent his way From Cambus-kenneth's abbey gray, Now, as he climbed the
rocky shelf, Held sad communion with himself:-- 'Yes! all is true my fears could frame; A prisoner
lies the noble Graeme, And fiery Roderick soon will feel The vengeance of the royal steel.
I, only I, can ward their fate,-- God grant the ransom come not late! The Abbess hath her promise
given, My child shall be the bride of Heaven;-- Be pardoned one repining tear! For He who gave
her knows how dear, How excellent!--but that is by, And now my business is--to die.-- Ye towers!
within whose circuit dread A Douglas by his sovereign bled; And thou, O sad and fatal mound!
That oft hast heard the death-axe sound. As on the noblest of the land Fell the stern headsmen's
bloody hand,-- The dungeon, block, and nameless tomb Prepare--for Douglas seeks his doom! But
hark! what blithe and jolly peal Makes the Franciscan steeple reel? And see! upon the crowded
street, In motley groups what masquers meet! Banner and pageant, pipe and drum, And merry morrice-dancers
come. I guess, by all this quaint array, The burghers hold their sports to-day. James will
be there; he loves such show, Where the good yeoman bends his bow, And the tough wrestler foils
his foe, As well as where, in proud career, The high-born filter shivers spear. I'll follow
to the Castle-park, And play my prize;--King James shall mark If age has tamed these sinews
stark, Whose force so oft in happier days His boyish wonder loved to praise.'

XXI.

The Castle gates were open flung, The quivering drawbridge rocked and rung, And echoed loud
the flinty street Beneath the coursers' clattering feet, As slowly down the steep descent Fair
Scotland's King and nobles went, While all along the crowded way Was jubilee and loud huzza.
And ever James was bending low To his white jennet's saddle-bow, Doffing his cap to city dame,
Who smiled and blushed for pride and shame. And well the simperer might be vain,-- He chose
the fairest of the train. Gravely he greets each city sire, Commends each pageant's quaint
attire, Gives to the dancers thanks aloud, And smiles and nods upon the crowd, Who rend the
heavens with their acclaims,-- 'Long live the Commons' King, King James!' Behind the King thronged
peer and knight, And noble dame and damsel bright, Whose fiery steeds ill brooked the stay
Of the steep street and crowded way. But in the train you might discern Dark lowering brow
and visage stern; There nobles mourned their pride restrained, And the mean burgher's joys
disdained; And chiefs, who, hostage for the* clan, Were each from home a banished man, There
thought upon their own gray tower, Their waving woods, their feudal power, And deemed themselves
a shameful part Of pageant which they cursed in heart.

XXII.

Now, in the Castle-park, drew out Their checkered bands the joyous rout. There morricers, with
bell at heel And blade in hand, their mazes wheel; But chief, beside the butts, there stand
Bold Robin Hood and all his band,-- Friar Tuck with quarterstaff and cowl, Old Scathelocke
with his surly scowl, Maid Marian, fair as ivory bone, Scarlet, and Mutch, and Little John;
Their bugles challenge all that will, In archery to prove their skill. The Douglas bent a bow
of might,-- His first shaft centred in the white, And when in turn he shot again, His second
split the first in twain. From the King's hand must Douglas take A silver dart, the archers'
stake; Fondly he watched, with watery eye, Some answering glance of sympathy,-- No kind emotion
made reply! Indifferent as to archer wight, The monarch gave the arrow bright.

XXIII.

Now, clear the ring! for, hand to hand, The manly wrestlers take their stand. Two o'er the
rest superior rose, And proud demanded mightier foes,-- Nor called in vain, for Douglas came.--
For life is Hugh of Larbert lame; Scarce better John of Alloa's fare, Whom senseless home his
comrades bare. Prize of the wrestling match, the King To Douglas gave a golden ring, While
coldly glanced his eye of blue, As frozen drop of wintry dew. Douglas would speak, but in his
breast His struggling soul his words suppressed; Indignant then he turned him where Their arms
the brawny yeomen bare, To hurl the massive bar in air. When each his utmost strength had shown,
The Douglas rent an earth-fast stone From its deep bed, then heaved it high, And sent the fragment
through the sky A rood beyond the farthest mark; And still in Stirling's royal park, The gray-haired
sires, who know the past, To strangers point the Douglas cast, And moralize on the decay Of
Scottish strength in modern day.

XXIV.

The vale with loud applauses rang, The Ladies' Rock sent back the clang. The King, with look
unmoved, bestowed A purse well filled with pieces broad. Indignant smiled the Douglas proud,
And threw the gold among the crowd, Who now with anxious wonder scan, And sharper glance, the
dark gray man; Till whispers rose among the throng, That heart so free, and hand so strong,
Must to the Douglas blood belong. The old men marked and shook the head, To see his hair with
silver spread, And winked aside, and told each son Of feats upon the English done, Ere Douglas
of the stalwart hand Was exiled from his native land. The women praised his stately form, Though
wrecked by many a winter's storm; The youth with awe and wonder saw His strength surpassing
Nature's law. Thus judged, as is their wont, the crowd Till murmurs rose to clamours loud.
But not a glance from that proud ring Of peers who circled round the King With Douglas held
communion kind, Or called the banished man to mind; No, not from those who at the chase Once
held his side the honoured place, Begirt his board, and in the field Found safety underneath
his shield; For he whom royal eyes disown, When was his form to courtiers known!

XXV.

The Monarch saw the gambols flag And bade let loose a gallant stag, Whose pride, the holiday
to crown, Two favorite greyhounds should pull down, That venison free and Bourdeaux wine Might
serve the archery to dine. But Lufra,--whom from Douglas' side Nor bribe nor threat could e'er
divide, The fleetest hound in all the North,-- Brave Lufra saw, and darted forth. She left
the royal hounds midway, And dashing on the antlered prey, Sunk her sharp muzzle in his flank,
And deep the flowing life-blood drank. The King's stout huntsman saw the sport By strange intruder
broken short, Came up, and with his leash unbound In anger struck the noble hound. The Douglas
had endured, that morn, The King's cold look, the nobles' scorn, And last, and worst to spirit
proud, Had borne the pity of the crowd; But Lufra had been fondly bred, To share his board,
to watch his bed, And oft would Ellen Lufra's neck In maiden glee with garlands deck; They
were such playmates that with name Of Lufra Ellen's image came. His stifled wrath is brimming
high, In darkened brow and flashing eye; As waves before the bark divide, The crowd gave way
before his stride; Needs but a buffet and no more, The groom lies senseless in his gore. Such
blow no other hand could deal, Though gauntleted in glove of steel.

XXVI.

Then clamored loud the royal train, And brandished swords and staves amain, But stern the Baron's
warning: 'Back! Back, on your lives, ye menial pack! Beware the Douglas.--Yes! behold, King
James! The Douglas, doomed of old, And vainly sought for near and far, A victim to atone the
war, A willing victim, now attends, Nor craves thy grace but for his friends.--' 'Thus is my
clemency repaid? Presumptuous Lord!' the Monarch said: 'Of thy misproud ambitious clan, Thou,
James of Bothwell, wert the man, The only man, in whom a foe My woman-mercy would not know;
But shall a Monarch's presence brook Injurious blow and haughty look?-- What ho! the Captain
of our Guard! Give the offender fitting ward.-- Break off the sports!'--for tumult rose, And
yeomen 'gan to bend their bows, 'Break off the sports!' he said and frowned, 'And bid our horsemen
clear the ground.'

XXVII.

Then uproar wild and misarray Marred the fair form of festal day. The horsemen pricked among
the crowd, Repelled by threats and insult loud; To earth are borne the old and weak, The timorous
fly, the women shriek; With flint, with shaft, with staff, with bar, The hardier urge tumultuous
war. At once round Douglas darkly sweep The royal spears in circle deep, And slowly scale the
pathway steep, While on the rear in thunder pour The rabble with disordered roar With grief
the noble Douglas saw The Commons rise against the law, And to the leading soldier said: 'Sir
John of Hyndford, 'twas my blade That knighthood on thy shoulder laid; For that good deed permit
me then A word with these misguided men.--

XXVIII,

'Hear, gentle friends, ere yet for me Ye break the bands of fealty. My life, my honour, and
my cause, I tender free to Scotland's laws. Are these so weak as must require 'Fine aid of
your misguided ire? Or if I suffer causeless wrong, Is then my selfish rage so strong, My sense
of public weal so low, That, for mean vengeance on a foe, Those cords of love I should unbind
Which knit my country and my kind? O no! Believe, in yonder tower It will not soothe my captive
hour, To know those spears our foes should dread For me in kindred gore are red: 'To know,
in fruitless brawl begun, For me that mother wails her son, For me that widow's mate expires,
For me that orphans weep their sires, That patriots mourn insulted laws, And curse the Douglas
for the cause. O let your patience ward such ill, And keep your right to love me still I'

XXIX.

The crowd's wild fury sunk again In tears, as tempests melt in rain. With lifted hands and
eyes, they prayed For blessings on his generous head Who for his country felt alone, And prized
her blood beyond his own. Old men upon the verge of life Blessed him who stayed the civil strife;
And mothers held their babes on high, The self-devoted Chief to spy, Triumphant over wrongs
and ire, To whom the prattlers owed a sire. Even the rough soldier's heart was moved; As if
behind some bier beloved, With trailing arms and drooping head, The Douglas up the hill he
led, And at the Castle's battled verge, With sighs resigned his honoured charge.

XXX.

The offended Monarch rode apart, With bitter thought and swelling heart, And would not now
vouchsafe again Through Stirling streets to lead his train. 'O Lennox, who would wish to rule
This changeling crowd, this common fool? Hear'st thou,' he said, 'the loud acclaim With which
they shout the Douglas name? With like acclaim the vulgar throat Strained for King James their
morning note; With like acclaim they hailed the day When first I broke the Douglas sway; And
like acclaim would Douglas greet If he could hurl me from my seat. Who o'er the herd would
wish to reign, Fantastic, fickle, fierce, and vain? Vain as the leaf upon the stream, And fickle
as a changeful dream; Fantastic as a woman's mood, And fierce as Frenzy's fevered blood. Thou
many-headed monster-thing, O who would wish to be thy king?--

XXXI..

'But soft! what messenger of speed Spurs hitherward his panting steed? I guess his cognizance
afar-- What from our cousin, John of Mar?' 'He prays, my liege, your sports keep bound Within
the safe and guarded ground; For some foul purpose yet unknown,-- Most sure for evil to the
throne,-- The outlawed Chieftain, Roderick Dhu, Has summoned his rebellious crew; 'Tis said,
in James of Bothwell's aid These loose banditti stand arrayed. The Earl of Mar this morn from
Doune To break their muster marched, and soon Your Grace will hear of battle fought; But earnestly
the Earl besought, Till for such danger he provide, With scanty train you will not ride.'

XXXII.

'Thou warn'st me I have done amiss,-- I should have earlier looked to this; I lost it in this
bustling day.-- Retrace with speed thy former way; Spare not for spoiling of thy steed, The
best of mine shall be thy meed. Say to our faithful Lord of Mar, We do forbid the intended
war; Roderick this morn in single fight Was made our prisoner by a knight, And Douglas hath
himself and cause Submitted to our kingdom's laws. The tidings of their leaders lost Will soon
dissolve the mountain host, Nor would we that the vulgar feel, For their Chief's crimes, avenging
steel. Bear Mar our message, Braco, fly!' He turned his steed,--'My liege, I hie, Yet ere I
cross this lily lawn I fear the broadswords will be drawn.' The turf the flying courser spurned,
And to his towers the King returned.

XXXIII.

Ill with King James's mood that day Suited gay feast and minstrel lay; Soon were dismissed
the courtly throng, And soon cut short the festal song. Nor less upon the saddened town The
evening sunk in sorrow down. The burghers spoke of civil jar, Of rumoured feuds and mountain
war, Of Moray, Mar, and Roderick Dhu, All up in arms;--the Douglas too, They mourned him pent
within the hold, 'Where stout Earl William was of old.'-- And there his word the speaker stayed,
And finger on his lip he laid, Or pointed to his dagger blade. But jaded horsemen from the
west At evening to the Castle pressed, And busy talkers said they bore Tidings of fight on
Katrine's shore; At noon the deadly fray begun, And lasted till the set of sun. Thus giddy
rumor shook the town, Till closed the Night her pennons brown.

                          CANTO SIXTH.

                        The Guard-room.

I.

The sun, awakening, through the smoky air
    Of the dark city casts a sullen glance,
Rousing each caitiff to his task of care,
    Of sinful man the sad inheritance;
Summoning revellers from the lagging dance,
    Scaring the prowling robber to his den;
Gilding on battled tower the warder's lance,
    And warning student pale to leave his pen,
And yield his drowsy eyes to the kind nurse of men.

What various scenes, and O, what scenes of woe,
    Are witnessed by that red and struggling beam!
The fevered patient, from his pallet low,
    Through crowded hospital beholds it stream;
The ruined maiden trembles at its gleam,
    The debtor wakes to thought of gyve and jail,
'The love-lore wretch starts from tormenting dream:
    The wakeful mother, by the glimmering pale,
Trims her sick infant's couch, and soothes his feeble wail.

II.

At dawn the towers of Stirling rang With soldier-step and weapon-clang, While drums with rolling
note foretell Relief to weary sentinel. Through narrow loop and casement barred, The sunbeams
sought the Court of Guard, And, struggling with the smoky air, Deadened the torches' yellow
glare. In comfortless alliance shone The lights through arch of blackened stone, And showed
wild shapes in garb of war, Faces deformed with beard and scar, All haggard from the midnight
watch, And fevered with the stern debauch; For the oak table's massive board, Flooded with
wine, with fragments stored, And beakers drained, and cups o'erthrown, Showed in what sport
the night had flown. Some, weary, snored on floor and bench; Some labored still their thirst
to quench; Some, chilled with watching, spread their hands O'er the huge chimney's dying brands,
While round them, or beside them flung, At every step their harness rung.

III.

These drew not for their fields the sword, Like tenants of a feudal lord, Nor owned the patriarchal
claim Of Chieftain in their leader's name; Adventurers they, from far who roved, To live by
battle which they loved. There the Italian's clouded face, The swarthy Spaniard's there you
trace; The mountain-loving Switzer there More freely breathed in mountain-air; The Fleming
there despised the soil That paid so ill the labourer's toil; Their rolls showed French and
German name; And merry England's exiles came, To share, with ill-concealed disdain, Of Scotland's
pay the scanty gain. All brave in arms, well trained to wield The heavy halberd, brand, and
shield; In camps licentious, wild, and bold; In pillage fierce and uncontrolled; And now, by
holytide and feast, From rules of discipline released.

IV.

'They held debate of bloody fray, Fought 'twixt Loch Katrine and Achray. Fierce was their speech,
and mid their words 'Their hands oft grappled to their swords; Nor sunk their tone to spare
the ear Of wounded comrades groaning near, Whose mangled limbs and bodies gored Bore token
of the mountain sword, Though, neighbouring to the Court of Guard, Their prayers and feverish
wails were heard,-- Sad burden to the ruffian joke, And savage oath by fury spoke!-- At length
up started John of Brent, A yeoman from the banks of Trent; A stranger to respect or fear,
In peace a chaser of the deer, In host a hardy mutineer, But still the boldest of the crew
When deed of danger was to do. He grieved that day their games cut short, And marred the dicer's
brawling sport, And shouted loud, 'Renew the bowl! And, while a merry catch I troll, Let each
the buxom chorus bear, Like brethren of the brand and spear.'

V.

Soldier's Song.

Our vicar still preaches that Peter and Poule Laid a swinging long curse on the bonny brown
bowl, That there 's wrath and despair in the jolly black-jack, And the seven deadly sins in
a flagon of sack; Yet whoop, Barnaby! off with thy liquor, Drink upsees out, and a fig for
the vicar!

Our vicar he calls it damnation to sip The ripe ruddy dew of a woman's dear lip, Says that
Beelzebub lurks in her kerchief so sly, And Apollyon shoots darts from her merry black eye;
Yet whoop, Jack! kiss Gillian the quicker, Till she bloom like a rose, and a fig for the vicar!

Our vicar thus preaches,--and why should he not? For the dues of his cure are the placket and
pot; And 'tis right of his office poor laymen to lurch Who infringe the domains of our good
Mother Church. Yet whoop, bully-boys! off with your liquor, Sweet Marjorie 's the word and
a fig for the vicar!

VI.

The warder's challenge, heard without, Stayed in mid-roar the merry shout. A soldier to the
portal went,-- 'Here is old Bertram, sirs, of Ghent; And--beat for jubilee the drum!-- A maid
and minstrel with him come.' Bertram, a Fleming, gray and scarred, Was entering now the Court
of Guard, A harper with him, and, in plaid All muffled close, a mountain maid, Who backward
shrunk to 'scape the view Of the loose scene and boisterous crew. 'What news?' they roared:--'
I only know, From noon till eve we fought with foe, As wild and as untamable As the rude mountains
where they dwell; On both sides store of blood is lost, Nor much success can either boast.'--
'But whence thy captives, friend? such spoil As theirs must needs reward thy toil. Old cost
thou wax, and wars grow sharp; Thou now hast glee-maiden and harp! Get thee an ape, and trudge
the land, The leader of a juggler band.'

VII.

'No, comrade;--no such fortune mine. After the fight these sought our line, That aged harper
and the girl, And, having audience of the Earl, Mar bade I should purvey them steed, And bring
them hitherward with speed. Forbear your mirth and rude alarm, For none shall do them shame
or harm.-- 'Hear ye his boast?' cried John of Brent, Ever to strife and jangling bent; 'Shall
he strike doe beside our lodge, And yet the jealous niggard grudge To pay the forester his
fee? I'll have my share howe'er it be, Despite of Moray, Mar, or thee.' Bertram his forward
step withstood; And, burning in his vengeful mood, Old Allan, though unfit for strife, Laid
hand upon his dagger-knife; But Ellen boldly stepped between, And dropped at once the tartan
screen:-- So, from his morning cloud, appears The sun of May through summer tears. The savage
soldiery, amazed, As on descended angel gazed; Even hardy Brent, abashed and tamed, Stood half
admiring, half ashamed.

VIII.

Boldly she spoke: 'Soldiers, attend! My father was the soldier's friend, Cheered him in camps,
in marches led, And with him in the battle bled. Not from the valiant or the strong Should
exile's daughter suffer wrong.' Answered De Brent, most forward still In every feat or good
or ill: 'I shame me of the part I played; And thou an outlaw's child, poor maid! An outlaw
I by forest laws, And merry Needwood knows the cause. Poor Rose,--if Rose be living now,'--
He wiped his iron eye and brow,-- 'Must bear such age, I think, as thou.-- Hear ye, my mates!
I go to call The Captain of our watch to hall: There lies my halberd on the floor; And he that
steps my halberd o'er, To do the maid injurious part, My shaft shall quiver in his heart! Beware
loose speech, or jesting rough; Ye all know John de Brent. Enough.'

IX.

Their Captain came, a gallant young,-- Of Tullibardine's house he sprung,-- Nor wore he yet
the spurs of knight; Gay was his mien, his humor light And, though by courtesy controlled,
Forward his speech, his bearing bold. The high-born maiden ill could brook The scanning of
his curious look And dauntless eye:--and yet, in sooth Young Lewis was a generous youth; But
Ellen's lovely face and mien Ill suited to the garb and scene, Might lightly bear construction
strange, And give loose fancy scope to range. 'Welcome to Stirling towers, fair maid! Come
ye to seek a champion's aid, On palfrey white, with harper hoar, Like errant damosel of yore?
Does thy high quest a knight require, Or may the venture suit a squire?' Her dark eye flashed;--she
paused and sighed:-- 'O what have I to do with pride!-- Through scenes of sorrow, shame, and
strife, A suppliant for a father's life, I crave an audience of the King. Behold, to back my
suit, a ring, The royal pledge of grateful claims, Given by the Monarch to Fitz-James.'

X.

The signet-ring young Lewis took With deep respect and altered look, And said: 'This ring our
duties own; And pardon, if to worth unknown, In semblance mean obscurely veiled, Lady, in aught
my folly failed. Soon as the day flings wide his gates, The King shall know what suitor waits.
Please you meanwhile in fitting bower Repose you till his waking hour. Female attendance shall
obey Your hest, for service or array. Permit I marshal you the way.' But, ere she followed,
with the grace And open bounty of her race, She bade her slender purse be shared Among the
soldiers of the guard. The rest with thanks their guerdon took, But Brent, with shy and awkward
look, On the reluctant maiden's hold Forced bluntly back the proffered gold:-- 'Forgive a haughty
English heart, And O, forget its ruder part!

The vacant purse shall be my share, Which in my barrel-cap I'll bear, Perchance, in jeopardy
of war, Where gayer crests may keep afar.' With thanks--'twas all she could--the maid His rugged
courtesy repaid.

XI.

When Ellen forth with Lewis went, Allan made suit to John of Brent:-- 'My lady safe, O let
your grace Give me to see my master's face! His minstrel I,--to share his doom Bound from the
cradle to the tomb. Tenth in descent, since first my sires Waked for his noble house their
Iyres, Nor one of all the race was known But prized its weal above their own. With the Chief's
birth begins our care; Our harp must soothe the infant heir, Teach the youth tales of fight,
and grace His earliest feat of field or chase; In peace, in war, our rank we keep, We cheer
his board, we soothe his sleep, Nor leave him till we pour our verse-- A doleful tribute!--o'er
his hearse. Then let me share his captive lot; It is my right,--deny it not!' 'Little we reck,'
said John of Brent, 'We Southern men, of long descent; Nor wot we how a name--a word-- Makes
clansmen vassals to a lord: Yet kind my noble landlord's part,-- God bless the house of Beaudesert!
And, but I loved to drive the deer More than to guide the labouring steer, I had not dwelt
an outcast here. Come, good old Minstrel, follow me; Thy Lord and Chieftain shalt thou see.'

XII.

Then, from a rusted iron hook, A bunch of ponderous keys he took, Lighted a torch, and Allan
led Through grated arch and passage dread. Portals they passed, where, deep within, Spoke prisoner's
moan and fetters' din; Through rugged vaults, where, loosely stored, Lay wheel, and axe, and
headsmen's sword, And many a hideous engine grim, For wrenching joint and crushing limb, By
artists formed who deemed it shame And sin to give their work a name. They halted at a Iow-browed
porch, And Brent to Allan gave the torch, While bolt and chain he backward rolled, And made
the bar unhasp its hold. They entered:--'twas a prison-room Of stern security and gloom, Yet
not a dungeon; for the day Through lofty gratings found its way, And rude and antique garniture
Decked the sad walls and oaken floor, Such as the rugged days of old Deemed fit for captive
noble's hold. 'Here,' said De Brent, 'thou mayst remain Till the Leech visit him again. Strict
is his charge, the,warders tell, To tend the noble prisoner well.' Retiring then the bolt he
drew, And the lock's murmurs growled anew. Roused at the sound, from lowly bed A captive feebly
raised his head. The wondering Minstrel looked, and knew-- Not his dear lord, but Roderick
Dhu! For, come from where Clan-Alpine fought, They, erring, deemed the Chief he sought.

XIII.

As the tall ship, whose lofty prore Shall never stem the billows more, Deserted by her gallant
band, Amid the breakers lies astrand,-- So on his couch lay Roderick Dhu! And oft his fevered
limbs he threw In toss abrupt, as when her sides Lie rocking in the advancing tides, That shake
her frame with ceaseless beat, Yet cannot heave her from her seat;-- O, how unlike her course
at sea! Or his free step on hill and lea!-- Soon as the Minstrel he could scan,-- 'What of
thy lady?--of my clan?-- My mother?--Douglas?--tell me all! Have they been ruined in my fall?
Ah, yes! or wherefore art thou here? Yet speak,--speak boldly,--do not fear.'-- For Allan,
who his mood well knew, Was choked with grief and terror too.-- 'Who fought?--who fled?--Old
man, be brief;-- Some might,--for they had lost their Chief. Who basely live?--who bravely
died?' 'O, calm thee, Chief!' the Minstrel cried, 'Ellen is safe!' 'For that thank Heaven!'
'And hopes are for the Douglas given;-- The Lady Margaret, too, is well; And, for thy clan,--on
field or fell, Has never harp of minstrel told Of combat fought so true and bold. Thy stately
Pine is yet unbent, Though many a goodly bough is rent.'

XIV.

The Chieftain reared his form on high, And fever's fire was in his eye; But ghastly, pale,
and livid streaks Checkered his swarthy brow and cheeks. 'Hark, Minstrel! I have heard thee
play, With measure bold on festal day, In yon lone isle,--again where ne'er Shall harper play
or warrior hear!-- That stirring air that peals on high, O'er Dermid's race our victory.--
Strike it!--and then,--for well thou canst,-- Free from thy minstrel-spirit glanced, Fling
me the picture of the fight, When met my clan the Saxon might. I'll listen, till my fancy hears
The clang of swords' the crash of spears! These grates, these walls, shall vanish then For
the fair field of fighting men, And my free spirit burst away, As if it soared from battle
fray.' The trembling Bard with awe obeyed,-- Slow on the harp his hand he laid; But soon remembrance
of the sight He witnessed from the mountain's height, With what old Bertram told at night,
Awakened the full power of song, And bore him in career along;-- As shallop launched on river's
tide, 'That slow and fearful leaves the side, But, when it feels the middle stream, Drives
downward swift as lightning's beam.

XV.

Battle of Beal' An Duine.

'The Minstrel came once more to view
The eastern ridge of Benvenue,
For ere he parted he would say
Farewell to lovely loch Achray
Where shall he find, in foreign land,
So lone a lake, so sweet a strand!--
There is no breeze upon the fern,
     No ripple on the lake,
Upon her eyry nods the erne,
     The deer has sought the brake;
The small birds will not sing aloud,
     The springing trout lies still,
So darkly glooms yon thunder-cloud,
That swathes, as with a purple shroud,
     Benledi's distant hill.
Is it the thunder's solemn sound
     That mutters deep and dread,
Or echoes from the groaning ground
     The warrior's measured tread?
Is it the lightning's quivering glance
     That on the thicket streams,
Or do they flash on spear and lance
     The sun's retiring beams?--
I see the dagger-crest of Mar,
I see the Moray's silver star,
Wave o'er the cloud of Saxon war,
That up the lake comes winding far!

     To hero boune for battle-strife,
          Or bard of martial lay,
     'Twere worth ten years of peaceful life,
          One glance at their array!

XVI.

'Their light-armed archers far and near
     Surveyed the tangled ground,
Their centre ranks, with pike and spear,
     A twilight forest frowned,
Their barded horsemen in the rear
     The stern battalia crowned.
No cymbal clashed, no clarion rang,
     Still were the pipe and drum;
Save heavy tread, and armor's clang,
     The sullen march was dumb.
There breathed no wind their crests to shake,
     Or wave their flags abroad;
Scarce the frail aspen seemed to quake
     That shadowed o'er their road.
Their vaward scouts no tidings bring,
     Can rouse no lurking foe,
Nor spy a trace of living thing,
     Save when they stirred the roe;
The host moves like a deep-sea wave,
Where rise no rocks its pride to brave
     High-swelling, dark, and slow.
The lake is passed, and now they gain
A narrow and a broken plain,
Before the Trosachs' rugged jaws;
And here the horse and spearmen pause
While, to explore the dangerous glen
Dive through the pass the archer-men.

XVII.

'At once there rose so wild a yell
Within that dark and narrow dell,
As all the fiends from heaven that fell
Had pealed the banner-cry of hell!
     Forth from the pass in tumult driven,
     Like chaff before the wind of heaven,
          The archery appear:
     For life! for life! their flight they ply--
     And shriek, and shout, and battle-cry,
     And plaids and bonnets waving high,
     And broadswords flashing to the sky,
          Are maddening in the rear.
     Onward they drive in dreadful race,
          Pursuers and pursued;
     Before that tide of flight and chase,
     How shall it keep its rooted place,
          The spearmen's twilight wood?-- "
     "Down, down," cried Mar, "your lances down'
          Bear back both friend and foe! "--
     Like reeds before the tempest's frown,
     That serried grove of lances brown
          At once lay levelled low;
     And closely shouldering side to side,
     The bristling ranks the onset bide.-- "
     "We'll quell the savage mountaineer,
          As their Tinchel cows the game!
     They come as fleet as forest deer,
          We'll drive them back as tame."

XVIII.

'Bearing before them in their course
The relics of the archer force,
Like wave with crest of sparkling foam,
Right onward did Clan-Alpine come.
     Above the tide, each broadsword bright
     Was brandishing like beam of light,
          Each targe was dark below;
     And with the ocean's mighty swing,
     When heaving to the tempest's wing,
          They hurled them on the foe.
I heard the lance's shivering crash,
As when the whirlwind rends the ash;
I heard the broadsword's deadly clang,
As if a hundred anvils rang!
But Moray wheeled his rearward rank
Of horsemen on Clan-Alpine's flank,--
          "My banner-man, advance!
     I see," he cried, "their column shake.
     Now, gallants! for your ladies' sake,
          Upon them with the lance!"--
The horsemen dashed among the rout,
     As deer break through the broom;

Their steeds are stout, their swords are out,
     They soon make lightsome room.
Clan-Alpine's best are backward borne--
     Where, where was Roderick then!
One blast upon his bugle-horn
     Were worth a thousand men.
And refluent through the pass of fear
     The battle's tide was poured;
Vanished the Saxon's struggling spear,
     Vanished the mountain-sword.
As Bracklinn's chasm, so black and steep,
     Receives her roaring linn
As the dark caverns of the deep
     Suck the wild whirlpool in,
So did the deep and darksome pass
Devour the battle's mingled mass;
None linger now upon the plain
Save those who ne'er shall fight again.

XIX.

'Now westward rolls the battle's din,
That deep and doubling pass within.--
Minstrel, away! the work of fate
Is bearing on; its issue wait,
Where the rude Trosachs' dread defile
Opens on Katrine's lake and isle.
Gray Benvenue I soon repassed,
Loch Katrine lay beneath me cast.
     The sun is set;--the clouds are met,
          The lowering scowl of heaven
     An inky hue of livid blue
          To the deep lake has given;
Strange gusts of wind from mountain glen
Swept o'er the lake, then sunk again.
I heeded not the eddying surge,
Mine eye but saw the Trosachs' gorge,
Mine ear but heard that sullen sound,
Which like an earthquake shook the ground,
And spoke the stern and desperate strife
That parts not but with parting life,
Seeming, to minstrel ear, to toll
The dirge of many a passing soul.
     Nearer it comes--the dim-wood glen
     The martial flood disgorged again,
          But not in mingled tide;
     The plaided warriors of the North
     High on the mountain thunder forth
          And overhang its side,
     While by the lake below appears
     The darkening cloud of Saxon spears.
     At weary bay each shattered band,
     Eying their foemen, sternly stand;
     Their banners stream like tattered sail,
     That flings its fragments to the gale,
     And broken arms and disarray
     Marked the fell havoc of the day.

XX.

'Viewing the mountain's ridge askance,
The Saxons stood in sullen trance,
Till Moray pointed with his lance,
     And cried: "Behold yon isle!--
See! none are left to guard its strand
But women weak, that wring the hand:
'Tis there of yore the robber band
     Their booty wont to pile;--
My purse, with bonnet-pieces store,
To him will swim a bow-shot o'er,
And loose a shallop from the shore.
Lightly we'll tame the war-wolf then,
Lords of his mate, and brood, and den."
Forth from the ranks a spearman sprung,
On earth his casque and corselet rung,
     He plunged him in the wave:--
All saw the deed,--the purpose knew,
And to their clamors Benvenue
     A mingled echo gave;
The Saxons shout, their mate to cheer,
The helpless females scream for fear
And yells for rage the mountaineer.
'T was then, as by the outcry riven,
Poured down at once the lowering heaven:
A whirlwind swept Loch Katrine's breast,
Her billows reared their snowy crest.
Well for the swimmer swelled they high,
To mar the Highland marksman's eye;
For round him showered, mid rain and hail,
The vengeful arrows of the Gael.
In vain.--He nears the isle--and lo!
His hand is on a shallop's bow.
Just then a flash of lightning came,
It tinged the waves and strand with flame;
I marked Duncraggan's widowed dame,
Behind an oak I saw her stand,
A naked dirk gleamed in her hand:--
It darkened,--but amid the moan
Of waves I heard a dying groan;--
Another flash!--the spearman floats
A weltering corse beside the boats,
And the stern matron o'er him stood,
Her hand and dagger streaming blood.

XXI.

"'Revenge! revenge!" the Saxons cried, The Gaels' exulting shout replied. Despite the elemental
rage, Again they hurried to engage; But, ere they closed in desperate fight, Bloody with spurring
came a knight, Sprung from his horse, and from a crag Waved 'twixt the hosts a milk-white flag.
Clarion and trumpet by his side Rung forth a truce-note high and wide, While, in the Monarch's
name, afar A herald's voice forbade the war, For Bothwell's lord and Roderick bold Were both,
he said, in captive hold.'-- But here the lay made sudden stand, The harp escaped the Minstrel's
hand! Oft had he stolen a glance, to spy How Roderick brooked his minstrelsy: At first, the
Chieftain, to the chime, With lifted hand kept feeble time; That motion ceased,--yet feeling
strong Varied his look as changed the song; At length, no more his deafened ear The minstrel
melody can hear; His face grows sharp,--his hands are clenched' As if some pang his heart-strings
wrenched; Set are his teeth, his fading eye Is sternly fixed on vacancy; Thus, motionless and
moanless, drew His parting breath stout Roderick Dhu!-- Old Allan-bane looked on aghast, While
grim and still his spirit passed; But when he saw that life was fled, He poured his wailing
o'er the dead.

XXII.

Lament.

'And art thou cold and lowly laid, Thy foeman's dread, thy people's aid, Breadalbane's boast,
Clan-Alpine's shade! For thee shall none a requiem say?-- For thee, who loved the minstrel's
lay, For thee, of Bothwell's house the stay, The shelter of her exiled line, E'en in this prison-house
of thine, I'll wail for Alpine's honored Pine!

'What groans shall yonder valleys fill! What shrieks of grief shall rend yon hill! What tears
of burning rage shall thrill, When mourns thy tribe thy battles done, Thy fall before the race
was won, Thy sword ungirt ere set of sun! There breathes not clansman of thy line, But would
have given his life for thine. O, woe for Alpine's honoured Pine!

'Sad was thy lot on mortal stage!-- The captive thrush may brook the cage, The prisoned eagle
dies for rage. Brave spirit, do Dot scorn my strain! And, when its notes awake again, Even
she, so long beloved in vain, Shall with my harp her voice combine, And mix her woe and tears
with mine, To wail Clan-Alpine's honoured Pine.'

XXIII.

Ellen the while, with bursting heart, Remained in lordly bower apart, Where played, with many-coloured
gleams, Through storied pane the rising beams. In vain on gilded roof they fall, And lightened
up a tapestried wall, And for her use a menial train A rich collation spread in vain. The banquet
proud, the chamber gay, Scarce drew one curious glance astray; Or if she looked, 't was but
to say, With better omen dawned the day In that lone isle, where waved on high The dun-deer's
hide for canopy; Where oft her noble father shared The simple meal her care prepared, While
Lufra, crouching by her side, Her station claimed with jealous pride, And Douglas, bent on
woodland game, Spoke of the chase to Malcolm Graeme, Whose answer, oft at random made, The
wandering of his thoughts betrayed. Those who such simple joys have known Are taught to prize
them when they 're gone. But sudden, see, she lifts her head; The window seeks with cautious
tread. What distant music has the power To win her in this woful hour? 'T was from a turret
that o'erhung Her latticed bower, the strain was sung.

XXIV.

Lay of the Imprisoned Huntsman.

'My hawk is tired of perch and hood, My idle greyhound loathes his food, My horse is weary
of his stall, And I am sick of captive thrall. I wish I were as I have been, Hunting the hart
in forest green, With bended bow and bloodhound free, For that's the life is meet for me.

I hate to learn the ebb of time From yon dull steeple's drowsy chime, Or mark it as the sunbeams
crawl, Inch after inch, along the wall. The lark was wont my matins ring, The sable rook my
vespers sing; These towers, although a king's they be, Have not a hall of joy for me.

No more at dawning morn I rise, And sun myself in Ellen's eyes, Drive the fleet deer the forest
through, And homeward wend with evening dew; A blithesome welcome blithely meet, And lay my
trophies at her feet, While fled the eve on wing of glee,-- That life is lost to love and me!'

XXV.

The heart-sick lay was hardly said, The listener had not turned her head, It trickled still,
the starting tear, When light a footstep struck her ear, And Snowdoun's graceful Knight was
near. She turned the hastier, lest again The prisoner should renew his strain. 'O welcome,
brave Fitz-James!' she said; 'How may an almost orphan maid Pay the deep debt--' 'O say not
so! To me no gratitude you owe. Not mine, alas! the boon to give, And bid thy noble father
live; I can but be thy guide, sweet maid, With Scotland's King thy suit to aid. No tyrant he,
though ire and pride May lay his better mood aside. Come, Ellen, come! 'tis more than time,
He holds his court at morning prime.' With heating heart, and bosom wrung, As to a brother's
arm she clung. Gently he dried the falling tear, And gently whispered hope and cheer; Her faltering
steps half led, half stayed, Through gallery fair and high arcade, Till at his touch its wings
of pride A portal arch unfolded wide.

XXVI.

Within 't was brilliant all and light, A thronging scene of figures bright; It glowed on Ellen's
dazzled sight, As when the setting sun has given Ten thousand hues to summer even, And from
their tissue fancy frames Aerial knights and fairy dames. Still by Fitz-James her footing staid;
A few faint steps she forward made, Then slow her drooping head she raised, And fearful round
the presence gazed; For him she sought who owned this state, The dreaded Prince whose will
was fate!-- She gazed on many a princely port Might well have ruled a royal court; On many
a splendid garb she gazed,-- Then turned bewildered and amazed, For all stood bare; and in
the room Fitz-James alone wore cap and plume. To him each lady's look was lent, On him each
courtier's eye was bent; Midst furs and silks and jewels sheen, He stood, in simple Lincoln
green, The centre of the glittering ring,-- And Snowdoun's Knight is Scotland's King!

XXVII.

As wreath of snow on mountain-breast Slides from the rock that gave it rest, Poor Ellen glided
from her stay, And at the Monarch's feet she lay; No word her choking voice commands,-- She
showed the ring,--she clasped her hands. O, not a moment could he brook, The generous Prince,
that suppliant look! Gently he raised her,--and, the while, Checked with a glance the circle's
smile; Graceful, but grave, her brow he kissed, And bade her terrors be dismissed:-- 'Yes,
fair; the wandering poor Fitz-James The fealty of Scotland claims. To him thy woes, thy wishes,
bring; He will redeem his signet ring. Ask naught for Douglas;--yester even, His Prince and
he have much forgiven; Wrong hath he had from slanderous tongue, I, from his rebel kinsmen,
wrong. We would not, to the vulgar crowd, Yield what they craved with clamor loud; Calmly we
heard and judged his cause, Our council aided and our laws. I stanched thy father's death-feud
stern With stout De Vaux and gray Glencairn; And Bothwell's Lord henceforth we own The friend
and bulwark of our throne.-- But, lovely infidel, how now? What clouds thy misbelieving brow?
Lord James of Douglas, lend thine aid; Thou must confirm this doubting maid.'

XXVIII.

Then forth the noble Douglas sprung, And on his neck his daughter hung. The Monarch drank,
that happy hour, The sweetest, holiest draught of Power,-- When it can say with godlike voice,
Arise, sad Virtue, and rejoice! Yet would not James the general eye On nature's raptures long
should pry; He stepped between--' Nay, Douglas, nay, Steal not my proselyte away! The riddle
'tis my right to read, That brought this happy chance to speed. Yes, Ellen, when disguised
I stray In life's more low but happier way, 'Tis under name which veils my power Nor falsely
veils,--for Stirling's tower Of yore the name of Snowdoun claims, And Normans call me James
Fitz-James. Thus watch I o'er insulted laws, Thus learn to right the injured cause.' Then,
in a tone apart and low,-- 'Ah, little traitress! none must know What idle dream, what lighter
thought What vanity full dearly bought, Joined to thine eye's dark witchcraft, drew My spell-bound
steps to Benvenue In dangerous hour, and all but gave Thy Monarch's life to mountain glaive!'
Aloud he spoke: 'Thou still cost hold That little talisman of gold, Pledge of my faith, Fitz-James's
ring,-- What seeks fair Ellen of the King?'

XXIX.

Full well the conscious maiden guessed He probed the weakness of her breast; But with that
consciousness there came A lightening of her fears for Graeme, And more she deemed the Monarch's
ire Kindled 'gainst him who for her sire Rebellious broadsword boldly drew; And, to her generous
feeling true, She craved the grace of Roderick Dhu. 'Forbear thy suit;--the King of kings Alone
can stay life's parting wings. I know his heart, I know his hand, Have shared his cheer, and
proved his brand; My fairest earldom would I give To bid Clan- Alpine's Chieftain live!-- Hast
thou no other boon to crave? No other captive friend to save?' Blushing, she turned her from
the King, And to the Douglas gave the ring, As if she wished her sire to speak The suit that
stained her glowing cheek. 'Nay, then, my pledge has lost its force, And stubborn justice holds
her course. Malcolm, come forth!'--and, at the word, Down kneeled the Graeme to Scotland's
Lord. 'For thee, rash youth, no suppliant sues, From thee may Vengeance claim her dues, Who,
nurtured underneath our smile, Hast paid our care by treacherous wile, And sought amid thy
faithful clan A refuge for an outlawed man, Dishonoring thus thy loyal name.-- Fetters and
warder for the Graeme!' His chain of gold the King unstrung, The links o'er Malcolm's neck
he flung, Then gently drew the glittering band, And laid the clasp on Ellen's hand.

Harp of the North, farewell! The hills grow dark,
     On purple peaks a deeper shade descending;
In twilight copse the glow-worm lights her spark,
     The deer, half seen, are to the covert wending.
Resume thy wizard elm! the fountain lending,
     And the wild breeze, thy wilder minstrelsy;
Thy numbers sweet with nature's vespers blending,
     With distant echo from the fold and lea,
And herd-boy's evening pipe, and hum of housing bee.

Yet, once again, farewell, thou Minstrel Harp!
     Yet, once again, forgive my feeble sway,
And little reck I of the censure sharp
     May idly cavil at an idle lay.
Much have I owed thy strains on life's long way,
     Through secret woes the world has never known,
When on the weary night dawned wearier day,
     And bitterer was the grief devoured alone.--
That I o'erlive such woes, Enchantress! is thine own.

Hark! as my lingering footsteps slow retire,
     Some Spirit of the Air has waked thy string!
'Tis now a seraph bold, with touch of fire,
     'Tis now the brush of Fairy's frolic wing.
Receding now, the dying numbers ring
     Fainter and fainter down the rugged dell;
And now the mountain breezes scarcely bring
     A wandering witch-note of the distant spell--
And now, 'tis silent all!--Enchantress, fare thee well!

Abbreviations Used In The Notes.

Cf. (confer), compare. F.Q., Spenser's Faerie Queene. Fol., following. Id. (idem), the same.
Lockhart, J. G. Lockhart's edition of Scott's poems (various issues). P.L., Milton's Paradise
Lost. Taylor, R. W. Taylor's edition of The Lady of the Lake (London, 1875). Wb., Webster's
Dictionary (revised quarto edition of 1879). Worc., Worcester's Dictionary (quarto edition).
The abbreviations of the names of Shakespeare's plays will be readily understood.  The line-numbers
are those of the "Globe" edition.

The references to Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel are to canto and line; those to Marmion
and other poems to canto and stanza.

                             NOTES.

Introduction.

The Lady of the Lake was first published in 1810, when Scott was thirty-nine, and it was dedicated
to "the most noble John James, Marquis of Abercorn."  Eight thousand copies were sold between
June 2d and September 22d, 1810, and repeated editions were subsequently called for.  In 1830,
the following "Introduction" was prefixed to the poem by the author:--

After the success of Marmion, I felt inclined to exclaim with Ulysses in the Odyssey:

   <Greek Letters>       Odys. X. 5.

   "One venturous game my hand has won to-day--
     Another, gallants, yet remains to play."

The ancient manners, the habits and customs of the aboriginal race by whom the Highlands of
Scotland were inhabited, had always appeared to me peculiarly adapted to poetry.  The change
in their manners, too, had taken place almost within my own time, or at least I had learned
many particulars concerning the ancient state of the Highlands from the old men of the last
generation.  I had always thought the old Scottish Gael highly adapted for poetical composition.
The feuds and political dissensions which, half a century earlier, would have rendered the
richer and wealthier part of the kingdom indisposed to countenance a poem, the scene of which
was laid in the Highlands, were now sunk in the generous compassion which the English, more
than any other nation, feel for the misfortunes of an honourable foe.  The Poems of Ossian
had by their popularity sufficiently shown that, if writings on Highland subjects were qualified
to interest the reader, mere national prejudices were, in the present day, very unlikely to
interfere with their success.

I had also read a great deal, seen much, and heard more, of that romantic country where I was
in the habit of spending some time every autumn; and the scenery of Lock Katrine was connected
with the recollection of many a dear friend and merry expedition of former days.  This poem,
the action of which lay among scenes so beautiful and so deeply imprinted on my recollections,
was a labour of love, and it was no less so to recall the manners and incidents introduced.
The frequent custom of James IV., and particularly of James V., to walk through their kingdom
in disguise, afforded me the hint of an incident which never fails to be interesting if managed
with the slightest address or dexterity.

I may now confess, however, that the employment, though attended with great pleasure, was not
without its doubts and anxieties. A lady, to whom I was nearly related, and with whom I lived,
during her whole life, on the most brotherly terms of affection, was residing with me at the
time when the work was in progress, and used to ask me, what I could possibly do to rise so
early in the morning (that happening to be the most convenient to me for composition).  At
last I told her the subject of my meditations; and I can never forget the anxiety and affection
expressed in her reply.  "Do not be so rash," she said, "my dearest cousin.[FN#2] You are already
popular,--more so, perhaps, than you yourself will believe, or than even I, or other partial
friends, can fairly allow to your merit.  You stand high,--do not rashly attempt to climb higher,
and incur the risk of a fall; for, depend upon it, a favourite will not be permitted even to
stumble with impunity." I replied to this affectionate expostulation in the words of Montrose,--

   "'He either fears his fate too much,
        Or his deserts are small,
      Who dares not put it to the touch
        To gain or lose it all.'

"If I fail," I said, for the dialogue is strong in my recollection, "it is a sign that I ought
never to have succeeded, and I will write prose for life: you shall see no change in my temper,
nor will I eat a single meal the worse.  But if I succeed,

   'Up with the bonnie blue bonnet,
       The dirk, and the feather, and a'!'"

Afterwards I showed my affectionate and anxious critic the first canto of the poem, which reconciled
her to my imprudence. Nevertheless, although I answered thus confidently, with the obstinacy
often said to be proper to those who bear my surname, I acknowledge that my confidence was
considerably shaken by the warning of her excellent taste and unbiased friendship.  Nor was
I much comforted by her retraction of the unfavourable judgment, when I recollected how likely
a natural partiality was to effect that change of opinion.  In such cases, affection rises
like a light on the canvas, improves any favourable tints which it formerly exhibited, and
throws its defects into the shade.

I remember that about the same time a friend started in to "heeze up my hope," like the "sportsman
with his cutty gun," in the old song. He was bred a farmer, but a man of powerful understanding,
natural good taste, and warm poetical feeling, perfectly competent to supply the wants of an
imperfect or irregular education.  He was a passionate admirer of field-sports, which we often
pursued together.

As this friend happened to dine with me at Ashestiel one day, I took the opportunity of reading
to him the first canto of The Lady of the Lake, in order to ascertain the effect the poem was
likely to produce upon a person who was but too favourable a representative of readers at large.
It is of course to be supposed that I determined rather to guide my opinion by what my friend
might appear to feel, than by what he might think fit to say.  His reception of my recitation,
or prelection, was rather singular.  He placed his hand across his brow, and listened with
great attention through the whole account of the stag-hunt, till the dogs threw themselves
into the lake to follow their master, who embarks with Ellen Douglas. He then started up with
a sudden exclamation, struck his hand on the table, and declared, in a voice of censure calculated
for the occasion, that the dogs must have been totally ruined by being permitted to take the
water after such a severe chase.  I own I was much encouraged by the species of revery which
had possessed so zealous a follower of the sports of the ancient Nimrod, who had been completely
surprised out of all doubts of the reality of the tale. Another of his remarks gave me less
pleasure.  He detected the identity of the King with the wandering knight, Fitz-James, when
he winds his bugle to summon his attendants.  He was probably thinking of the lively, but somewhat
licentious, old ballad, in which the denouement of a royal intrigue takes place as follows:

   "He took a bugle frae his side,
       He blew both loud and shrill,
     And four and twenty belted knights
       Came skipping over the hill;
     Then he took out a little knife,
       Let a' his duddies fa',
     And he was the brawest gentleman
       That was amang them a'.
           And we'll go no more a roving," etc.

This discovery, as Mr. Pepys says of the rent in his camlet cloak, was but a trifle, yet it
troubled me; and I was at a good deal of pains to efface any marks by which I thought my secret
could be traced before the conclusion, when I relied on it with the same hope of producing
effect, with which the Irish post-boy is said to reserve a "trot for the avenue."

I took uncommon pains to verify the accuracy of the local circumstances of this story.  I recollect,
in particular, that to ascertain whether I was telling a probable tale, I went into Perthshire,
to see whether King James could actually have ridden from the banks of Loch Vennachar to Stirling
Castle within the time supposed in the poem, and had the pleasure to satisfy myself that it
was quite practicable.

After a considerable delay, The Lady of the Lake appeared in June, 1810; and its success was
certainly so extraordinary as to induce me for the moment to conclude that I had at last fixed
a nail in the proverbially inconstant wheel of Fortune, whose stability in behalf of an individual
who had so boldly courted her favours for three successive times had not as yet been shaken.
I had attained, perhaps, that degree of reputation at which prudence, or certainly timidity,
would have made a halt, and discontinued efforts by which I was far more likely to diminish
my fame than to increase it.  But, as the celebrated John Wilkes is said to have explained
to his late Majesty, that he himself, amid his full tide of popularity, was never a Wilkite,
so I can, with honest truth, exculpate myself from having been at any time a partisan of my
own poetry, even when it was in the highest fashion with the million.  It must not be supposed
that I was either so ungrateful, or so superabundantly candid, as to despise or scorn the value
of those whose voice had elevated me so much higher than my own opinion told me I deserved.
I felt, on the contrary, the more grateful to the public, as receiving that from partiality
to me, which I could not have claimed from merit; and I endeavoured to deserve the partiality,
by continuing such exertions as I was capable of for their amusement.

It may be that I did not, in this continued course of scribbling, consult either the interest
of the public or my own.  But the former had effectual means of defending themselves, and could,
by their coldness, sufficiently check any approach to intrusion; and for myself, I had now
for several years dedicated my hours so much to literary labour that I should have felt difficulty
in employing myself otherwise; and so, like Dogberry, I generously bestowed all my tediousness
on the public, comforting myself with the reflection that, if posterity should think me undeserving
of the favour with which I was regarded by my contemporaries, "they could not but say I had
the crown," and had enjoyed for a time that popularity which is so much coveted.

I conceived, however, that I held the distinguished situation I had obtained, however unworthily,
rather like the champion of pugilism,[FN#3] on the condition of being always ready to show
proofs of my skill, than in the manner of the champion of chivalry, who performs his duties
only on rare and solemn occasions.  I was in any case conscious that I could not long hold
a situation which the caprice, rather than the judgment, of the public, had bestowed upon me,
and preferred being deprived of my precedence by some more worthy rival, to sinking into contempt
for my indolence, and losing my reputation by what Scottish lawyers call the negative prescription.
Accordingly, those who choose to look at the Introduction to Rokeby, will be able to trace
the steps by which I declined as a poet to figure as a novelist; as the ballad says, Queen
Eleanor sunk at Charing Cross to rise again at Queenhithe.

It only remains for me to say that, during my short pre-eminence of popularity, I faithfully
observed the rules of moderation which I had resolved to follow before I began my course as
a man of letters. If a man is determined to make a noise in the world, he is as sure to encounter
abuse and ridicule, as he who gallops furiously through a village must reckon on being followed
by the curs in full cry. Experienced persons know that in stretching to flog the latter, the
rider is very apt to catch a bad fall; nor is an attempt to chastise a malignant critic attended
with less danger to the author. On this principle, I let parody, burlesque, and squibs find
their own level; and while the latter hissed most fiercely, I was cautious never to catch them
up, as schoolboys do, to throw them back against the naughty boy who fired them off, wisely
remembering that they are in such cases apt to explode in the handling.  Let me add, that my
reign[FN#4] (since Byron has so called it) was marked by some instances of good- nature as
well as patience.  I never refused a literary person of merit such services in smoothing his
way to the public as were in my power; and I had the advantage, rather an uncommon one with
our irritable race, to enjoy general favour without incurring permanent ill-will, so far as
is known to me, among any of my contemporaries.

   W.S.
   Abbotsford, April, 1830.

Our limits do not permit us to add any extended selections from the many critical notices of
the poem.  The verdict of Jeffrey, in the Edinburgh Review, on its first appearance, has been
generally endorsed:--

"Upon the whole, we are inclined to think more highly of The Lady of the Lake than of either
of its author's former publications [the Lay and Marmion].  We are more sure, however, that
it has fewer faults than that it has greater beauties; and as its beauties bear a strong resemblance
to those with which the public has been already made familiar in these celebrated works, we
should not be surprised if its popularity were less splendid and remarkable.  For our own parts,
however, we are of opinion that it will be oftener read hereafter than either of them; and
that, if it had appeared first in the series, their reception would have been less favourable
than that which it has experienced.  It is more polished in its diction, and more regular in
its versification; the story is constructed with infinitely more skill and address; there is
a greater proportion of pleasing and tender passages, with much less antiquarian detail; and,
upon the whole, a larger variety of characters, more artfully and judiciously contrasted. 
There is nothing so fine, perhaps, as the battle in Marmion, or so picturesque as some of the
scattered sketches in the Lay; but there is a richness and a spirit in the whole piece which
does not pervade either of those poems, --a profusion of incident and a shifting brilliancy
of colouring that reminds us of the witchery of Ariosto, and a constant elasticity and occasional
energy which seem to belong more peculiarly to the author now before us."

Canto First.

Each canto is introduced by one or more Spenserian stanzas,[FN#5] forming a kind of prelude
to it.  Those prefixed to the first canto serve as an introduction to the whole poem, which
is "inspired by the spirit of the old Scottish minstrelsy."

2.  Witch-elm.  The broad-leaved or wych elm (Ulmus montana), indigenous to Scotland.  Forked
branches of the tree were used in the olden time as divining-rods, and riding switches from
it were supposed to insure good luck on a journey.  In the closing stanzas of the poem (vi.
846) it is called the "wizard elm." Tennyson (In Memoriam, 89) refers to

   "Witch-elms that counterchange the floor
       Of this flat lawn with dusk and bright."

Saint Fillan was a Scotch abbot of the seventh century who became famous as a saint.  He had
two springs, which appear to be confounded by some editors of the poem.  One was at the eastern
end of Loch Earn, where the pretty modern village of St. Fillans now stands, under the shadow
of Dun Fillan, or St. Fillan's Hills, six hundred feet high, on the top of which the saint
used to say his prayers, as the marks of his knees in the rock still testify to the credulous.
The other spring is at another village called St. Fillans, nearly thirty miles to the westward,
just outside the limits of our map, on the road to Tyndrum.  In this Holy Pool, as it is called,
insane folk were dipped with certain ceremonies, and then left bound all night in the open
air.  If they were found loose the next morning, they were supposed to have been cured. This
treatment was practised as late as 1790, according to Pennant, who adds that the patients were
generally found in the morning relieved of their troubles--by death. Another writer, in 1843,
says that the pool is still visited, not by people of the vicinity, who have no faith in its
virtue, but by those from distant places. Scott alludes to this spring in Marmion, i. 29:

   "Thence to Saint Fillan's blessed well,
     Whose springs can frenzied dreams dispel,
       And the crazed brain restore."

3.  And down the fitful breeze, etc.  The original MS. reads:

   "And on the fitful breeze thy numbers flung,
     Till envious ivy, with her verdant ring,
     Mantled and muffled each melodious string,--
     O Wizard Harp, still must thine accents sleep?"

10.  Caledon.  Caledonia, the Roman name of Scotland.

14.  Each according pause.  That is, each pause in the singing. In Marmion, ii. 11, according
is used of music that fills the intervals of other music:

   "Soon as they neared his turrets strong,
     The maidens raised Saint Hilda's song,
     And with the sea-wave and the wind
     Their voices, sweetly shrill, combined,
       And made harmonious close;
     Then, answering from the sandy shore,
     Half-drowned amid the breakers' roar,
       According chorus rose."

The MS. reads here:

   "At each according pause thou spokest aloud
     Thine ardent sympathy sublime and high."

28.  The stag at eve had drunk his fill.  The metre of the poem proper is iambic, that is,
with the accent on the even syllables, and octosyllabic, or eight syllables to the line.

29.  Monan's rill.  St. Monan was a Scotch martyr of the fourth century.  We can find no mention
of any rill named for him.

31.  Glenartney.  A valley to the north-east of Callander, with Benvoirlich (which rises to
the height of 3180 feet) on the north, and Uam-Var (see 53 below) on the south, separating
it from the valley of the Teith.  It takes its name from the Artney, the stream flowing through it.

32.  His beacon red.  The figure is an appropriate one in describing this region, where fires
on the hill-tops were so often used as signals in the olden time.  Cf. the Lay, iii. 379:

    "And soon a score of fires, I ween,
     From height, and hill, and cliff, were seen,
     Each with warlike tidings fraught;
     Each from each the signal caught," etc.

34.  Deep-mouthed.  Cf. Shakespeare, 1 Hen. VI. ii. 4. 12: "Between two dogs, which hath the
deeper mouth;" and T. of S. ind. 1. 18: "the deep-mouthed brach" (that is, hound).

The MS. reads:

   "The bloodhound's notes of heavy bass
     Resounded hoarsely up the pass."

35.  Resounded ... rocky.  The poet often avails himself of "apt alliteration's artful aid,"
as here, and in the next two lines; most frequently in pairs of words.

38.  As Chief, etc.  Note here, as often, the simile put BEFORE that which it illustrates,--an
effective rhetorical, though not the logical, arrangement.

45.  Beamed frontlet.  Antlered forehead.

46.  Adown.  An instance of a purely poetical word, not admissible in prose.

49.  Chase.  Here put for those engaged in the chase; as in 101 and 171, below.  One of its
regular meanings is the OBJECT of the chase, or the animal pursued.

53.  Uam-Var.  "Ua-Var, as the name is pronounced, or more properly Uaigh-mor, is a mountain
to the north-east of the village of Callander, in Menteith, deriving its name, which signifies
the great den, or cavern, from a sort of retreat among the rocks on the south side, said, by
tradition, to have been the abode of a giant. In latter times, it was the refuge of robbers
and banditti, who have been only extirpated within these forty or fifty years. Strictly speaking,
this stronghold is not a cave, as the name would imply, but a sort of small enclosure, or recess,
surrounded with large rocks and open above head.  It may have been originally designed as a
toil for deer, who might get in from the outside, but would find it difficult to return.  This
opinion prevails among the old sportsmen and deer-stalkers in the neighborhood" (Scott).

54.  Yelled.  Note the emphatic force of the inversion, as in 59 below.  Cf. 38 above.

Opening.  That is, barking on view or scent of the game; a hunting term.  Cf. Shakespeare,
M. W. iv. 2. 209: "If I bark out thus upon no trail never trust me when I open again."

The description of the echo which follows is very spirited.

66.  Cairn.  Literally, a heap of stones; here put poetically for the rocky point which the
falcon takes as a look-out.

69.  Hurricane.  A metaphor for the wild rush of the hunt.

71.  Linn.  Literally, a deep pool; but often = cataract, as in Bracklinn, ii. 270 below (cf.
vi. 488), and sometimes = precipice.

73.  On the lone wood.  Note the musical variation in the measure here; the 1st, 3d, and 4th
syllables being accented instead of the 2d and 4th.  It is occasionally introduced into iambic
metre with admirable effect.  Cf. 85 and 97 below.

76.  The cavern, etc.  See on 53 above.

80.  Perforce.  A poetical word.  See on 46 above.

84.  Shrewdly.  Severely, keenly; a sense now obsolete.  Shrewd originally meant evil, mischievous.
Cf. Shakespeare, A. Y. L. v. 4. 179, where it is said that those

   "That have endur'd shrewd days and nights with us
     Shall share the good of our returned fortune."

In Chaucer (Tale of Melibocus) we find, "The prophete saith: Flee shrewdnesse, and do goodnesse"
(referring to Ps. xxxiv. 14).

89.  Menteith.  The district in the southwestern part of Perthshire, watered by the Teith.

91.  Mountain and meadow, etc.  See on 35 above.  Moss is used in the North-of-England sense
of a boggy or peaty district, like the famous Chat Moss between Liverpool and Manchester.

93.  Lochard.  Loch Ard is a beautiful lakelet, about five miles south of Loch Katrine.  On
its eastern side is the scene of Helen Macgregor's skirmish with the King's troops in Rob Roy;
and near its head, on the northern side, is a waterfall, which is the original of Flora MacIvor's
favorite retreat in Waverley. Aberfoyle is a village about a mile and a half to the east of
the lake.

95.  Loch Achray.  A lake between Loch Katrine and Loch Vennachar, lying just beyond the pass
of the Trosachs.

97.  Benvenue.  A mountain, 2386 feet in height, on the southern side of Loch Katrine.

98.  With the hope.  The MS. has "with the THOUGHT," and "flying HOOF" in the next line.

102.  'Twere.  It would be.  Cf. Shakespeare, Macb. ii. 2. 73: "To know my deed, 't were best
not know myself."

103.  An example of this kind of work is his picture called "Free from Care." A bright-faced
boot-black stands leaning against a wall, with one thumb thrust in his trousers pocket, and
a general air of having thrown aside business responsibility for
a good time.

Equally "free from care," and happy in this privilege, is the boy, seated on a box, blowing
soap-bubbles.

His simple delight in this innocent pastime, and the almost dreamy look with which he watches
the fairy bubble, show a hitherto unsuspected vein of poetry in
the street-boy nature.

The boot-black appears ordinarily in the most prosaic light, as a practical individual, whose
chief concern is the struggle for daily bread. But this is only half the truth. Under his rough
exterior he hides a heart keenly responsive to beauty.

His youthful imagination is, in Lowell's happy phrase, a veritable Aladdin's lamp, with which
he transforms the meagreness of his surroundings into the splendid luxuries of a castle in
Spain.

V.

CHILD-ANGELS.

He shall give his angels charge over thee, To keep thee in all thy
ways.

   They shall bear thee up in their hands, Lest
     thou dash thy foot against a stone.
     PSALM XCI.

CHAPTER V.

CHILD-ANGELS.

To represent the perfect innocence and purity of an angel, a being whose native atmosphere is
the very presence of God, a creature not subject to the limitations
of physical laws, ever speeding on divine errands from heaven to
earth and back again to heaven, nothing could be more natural than
that art should use the face and form of innocent human childhood.

      Child-angels were first
    seen in art during the Italian Renaissance, and formed a conspicuous
feature in the religious paintings of the period.

One of the most interesting and beautiful forms in which they appear is as a great host, or
"glory," filling the background of a composition.

From the announcement of the Saviour's birth to the Galilean shepherds, to the vision of Saint
John on the Isle of Patmos, we find various allusions in the New Testament to the presence of angel
companies in the affairs of human life.

It was therefore entirely legitimate and appropriate to introduce a visible embodiment of
the heavenly hosts into the many sacred scenes portrayed in art,
whether these were representations of the actual incidents of Bible
history, or the imaginative embodiments of religious ideals.

    The Sistine Madonna suggests itself at once
     as a most beautiful illustration. The entire
     canvas is studded with tiny child faces, delicately outlined,--a
veritable cloud of witnesses, dissolving into the golden glory with
which they are surrounded.

What a contrast is the exquisite spirituality of this conception
to Perugino's angel glories, where baby faces, each with six many-hued
wings are ranged at regular intervals throughout the composition!

   A less notable example of Raphael's
     unique treatment of the angel host is in his Vision of Ezekiel, a
small painting of earlier date than the Sistine Madonna.

Here the idea is manifestly drawn from the prophet's description
of his vision of the four living creatures in a great amber wheel,
which was "full of eyes."

Turning from Raphael's clouds of dimly suggested cherub faces to those representations of the
angel throngs in which the child forms are more distinctly delineated, we find that the great
masters have made use of the myriad figures to express a corresponding
variety in mood and character.

    Thus, when the emotions of the principal personage
     in a composition are too complex to be adequately expressed on a
single countenance, the angel faces surrounding may each, in turn,
convey some one of the many aspects of thought or feeling which go
to make up the entire conception.

The Crucifixion[16] is a striking instance of the mingling, of
contrasted emotions,--bodily suffering and spiritual victory, worldly
defeat and heavenly triumph,--all of which cannot be depicted on
the face of the Christ, but which a throng of attendant cherubs may
fully interpret.

The same principle is illustrated in the many scenes of which the Madonna is the central figure,
as the Immaculate Conception, the Assumption, and the Coronation.

[Illustration: FRAGMENT FROM THE ASSUMPTION.--TITIAN.]
Of such paintings, Titian's Assumption is the most splendid example.

   The ascending, Virgin is surrounded by a wreath of
    child-angels, of surpassing grace and beauty. It is of
       these that Mrs.

Jameson has written, in her incomparable way, that they are "mind and music and love, kneaded,
as it were, into form and color." From a compositional point of view they serve an important purpose
in directing the attention of the spectator to the principal figure of the picture. All the
gracefully intertwined limbs of the angelic host--outstretched arms and floating figures,--form
the radii of a great semicircle centering in the beautiful Madonna.

If Titian's child-angels stand for the highest attainment in the idealization of child beauty,
those of Rubens, on the other hand, are the most human and lovable ever conceived in art. Their
lovely baby forms cluster in countless numbers about the glorified Virgin, joyously bearing
palm and wreath in token of her triumph.

The name of Murillo also occupies the first rank in the delineation of companies of
child-angels.
Called in turn the Titian and the Rubens of Spain, he is like his Venetian and Flemish prototypes
in his intense sympathy for childhood. His angels have not that transcendent superiority to mortals
which distinguishes Titian's, nor are they the dimpled bits of pink-and-white babyhood characteristic
of Rubens. They belong somewhere between the two extremes, and are remarkable for their
innocence and purity of expression. As the Immaculate Conception was Murillo's favorite
subject, it is here that we see his child-angels at their best. He has also introduced them into
the Holy Family of Seville, as well as into that most wonderful painting of the Christ-child
Appearing to Saint Anthony of Padua.

A beautiful method of introducing child-angels into religious
pictures, differing widely from the treatment of angel hosts, is
to represent one[17] or two, sometimes three, in attendance upon
the Madonna and Babe, or the Christ.

    This is especially appropriate where
     the subject is treated devotionally,
       and the central figure is elevated on a throne or pedestal, with
the angels at the foot.

Among the Florentine artists, the two friends Raphael and Bartolommeo, as well as their
contemporary, Andrea del Sarto, furnish many examples of these
angel attendants.

With Andrea del Sarto, as was characteristic, they are bewitching winged boys; while with
Bartolommeo and Raphael they partake of a more delicate spirituality, which marks them as
truly celestial.

The Madonna of the Harpies, which is considered the masterpiece of Andrea del Sarto, contains
two charming cherubs, which may be taken as excellent types of the
artist's rendering of these subjects.

The Two Angels, from his great painting of the Four Saints, are
somewhat above his average plane.

These lovely and graceful figures originally stood in the centre of a large composition, but
were at a later date removed from the canvas to make a separate picture. Their real significance
is to show forth the beauty of a saintly life.

       Each carries a
    scroll, and one points upward.

In the work of Bartolommeo the finest cherubs are those of his Throne Madonna, the Madonna
Enthroned, and the Risen Christ.

                            All three
    show the same masterly hand, and express a similar conception of
the office filled by the angels.

In every case one is looking up with a rapt expression of joy, while
the other is more contemplative, drooping the head as if in
reflection.

The contrast suggests the distinction of early theology between the seraphim and cherubim,
the former being, according to etymological significance, the spirits who love and adore, and
the latter, those who know and worship.

This distinction was scrupulously adhered to in early art by representing the seraphim as
red, and the cherubim as blue.

                                  Although later artists
    no longer observed any discrimination between
    two classes of celestial beings, it may be that the difference
between Bartolommeo's two angels is due to the influence of this
idea.

Be this as it may, the fact remains that the opposition between
them in face and attitude is exactly appropriate to symbolize one
as love and the other as reflection.

This is very marked in Raphael's work, as may be seen in his Madonna
del Baldacchino, a painting whose style of composition is strikingly
like that of Bartolommeo.

    Of the two singing angels at the
     foot of the Madonna's throne, one studies eagerly the meaning of
his music, while the other sings with the happy unconsciousness of
a bird.

Comparing with this Raphael's grandest achievement, the Sistine
Madonna, we find the same _motif_ carried to its highest realization.

The two beautiful cherubs who lean upon the parapet at the bottom of the picture are perfect
impersonations of the serene content and the thoughtful deliberation with which varying types
of Christian believers have received the great fact of the Incarnation.

The Venetian painters delighted to put musical instruments into the hands of their child-angels,
representing them as choristers, hymning the praises of the infant Saviour. Of these, many
notable examples were produced in the _botteghe_ of the two rival artist families, the
Bellini and the Vivarini.

Jacopo Bellini and his two sons, Gentile and Giovanni, were the real founders of the Venetian
school, and the work of Giovanni became an ideal standard, which
his contemporaries essayed to follow.

Luigi Vivarini was so successful as his imitator that his paintings
are often incorrectly assigned to the greater artist.

[Illustration: PIPING ANGEL.--BELLINI.]

The Frari Madonna, however, is an undoubted Bellini, and here the
Venetian conception of the child-angel is seen in its loveliest
aspects.

Two eager little choristers stand on the lower steps of the Madonna's
throne, "exquisite courtiers of the Infant King," as Mrs.

Oliphant gracefully calls them. One, myrtle-crowned, is blowing on a pipe, while the other bends
gravely over a large lute.

The Madonna of the Church of the Redentore[18] shows another pair
of angel musicians, sitting on a low wall in the foreground, one
at the head and the other at the feet of the sleeping Babe.

Both are playing on lutes, and the serious, absorbed air with which
they fulfil their task is delightful to see.

    With lifted face and faraway eyes, they seem to
     be listening to a heavenly chorus, of which
     their own melody is an echo.

Any mention of the Venetian type of angels would be incomplete without adding the names of
Palma Vecchio and Carpaccio to the list of those who most delicately
interpreted the subject.

    Examples of their work are scattered over
     Northern Italy, but none perhaps are more representative than
Carpaccio's Presentation, in the Academy at Venice, and Palma's
altar-piece at Zerman.

[Illustration: ANGEL FROM PAINTING IN CHURCH OF REDENTORE.--VIVARINI.]
The child-angel as a playmate and companion of the Christ-child is
a conception which has not infrequently been represented in art
with great appropriateness.

Both Van Dyck and Lucas Cranach have given us the Repose in Egypt,
enlivened by the presence of a company of frolicsome cherubs sporting
about the Divine Babe.

Rubens painted a lovely group of the Infant Jesus and Saint John, seated on the ground, playing
with their celestial little visitors. A Holy Family, by Ippolito Andreasi, represents angel
children gathering and bringing grapes to the Saviour.

With a small circle of Florentine artists, led by Botticelli, and
including Filippo Lippi and Filippino Lippi, a unique class of
child-angels is in great favor.

These are children of a larger growth and maturer appearance than
the infantine cherubs of contemporary artists, and might properly
be called angel-youths.

In the best examples their expression is an admirable mingling of
strength and purity.

    As attendants to the Christ-child, they
     serve in various capacities with loving and reverent grace.

In Botticelli's famous "round Madonna" of the Uffizi, one holds the
ink vessel into which the Virgin dips her pen as she writes the
Magnificat, two others hold a starry crown over her head, and two
more complete the group, as companions of the Saviour.

In the Holy Family, by the same artist, only two angels are introduced, one of whom leans over a
balustrade, with a beautiful lily-stalk in his hand, in token of the Virgin's purity.

Filippo Lippi's charming rendering of angel-youths is best seen in
the picture which represents the Christ-child borne by two attendant
cherubs in exemplification of the psalmist's words, "They shall
bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a
stone."

The Madonna stands before the Divine Babe, with hands clasped in adoration, a lovely impersonation of
the Madre Pia.

[Illustration: ANGEL FROM VISION OF MADONNA APPEARING TO SAINT
BERNARD.

--FILIPPINO LIPPI.]

The Madre Pia is also the subject of one of Filippino Lippi's most
exquisite angel pictures.

The Infant Saviour lies on the ground, in a garden, while his mother kneels to adore him.
Angel-youths surround him, kneeling, and one stands showering
rose-petals down upon him.

The masterpiece of Filippino Lippi is the Vision of Saint Bernard, in the Badia at Florence,
and here again angel-youths are introduced with charming effect.

Two are in the rear, with hands clasped in adoration; two are beside
the Virgin, bearing the weight of her mantle, and raising their
earnest young faces with sweet reverence.

    One of these faces is presented in
     profile, and has a delicately cut, pure outline, of rare gentleness
and beauty.

The artist's ideal is wonderfully helpful to the imagination, and the thought is full of
comfort, that it is loving and tender presences like these which
are "in charge over us, to keep us in all our ways."

VI.

    
     THE CHRIST-CHILD.

And the Child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom:
and the grace of God was upon him.

LUKE ii. 40.

CHAPTER VI.

THE CHRIST-CHILD.

Among the innumerable pictures in which the world's great religious
painters have represented the scenes of the earthly life of our
Lord, it is amazing to note the large proportion of subjects relating
to his infancy and childhood.

What else can this mean than that the hearts of worshippers ever
yearn towards that which they can understand and love, and that
thus, of all the varied aspects of Christ's character, it appeals
to us most forcibly that He was once a babe in the Bethlehem manger.

To find the earliest delineations of the Christ-child we must go
to the Catacombs of Rome, and on the walls of their strange
subterranean chapels retrace the fading features of the Divine Babe
as painted there centuries ago to cheer the hearts of Christians.

Two of these primitive frescos are in the Greek chapel of the
Catacomb of S.

Praxedes,[19] where they are a constant object of interest to the
art pilgrim.

Considered æsthetically, they have of course no intrinsic beauty; but to the thoughtful mind
they stand for the beginnings of a great art movement which
culminated in the canvases of Raphael and Titian.

                           From the frescos of
    the Catacombs the next step in the progress
    of Christian art was to the mosaics ornamenting the basilicas; and
here the Christ-child again appears as a conspicuous figure.

Some of the most interesting of these mosaics[20] represent the
Babe receiving the gifts of the Magi,--as at Santa Maria Maggiore
in Rome and at Saint Apollinare in Ravenna.

    In others, as at Capua, the Child
     shares with the enthroned Virgin the adoration of a surrounding
group of saints.

Still another of peculiar interest is at Santa Maria in Trastevere (Rome), where the Infant is
suckled at his mother's breast.

When we enter that strange period of history known as the Dark Ages, we find the art products
few and uninteresting; but even then the Christ-child is not
forgotten, and again and again he appears sculptured in marble over
the portals of cathedrals, or painted in stiff Byzantine style over
their altars.

Thus it was that in the new birth of art in Italy, when Niccolò
Pisano in sculpture, and Cimabue in painting, awakened the sleeping
world to a love of beauty, the Madonna, with her heaven-born Babe,
was the first subject to arouse enthusiasm; and it was for a picture
of this sort that all Florence went mad with joy, as it was borne
along The Street of Rejoicing.

    In early representations, both in
     mosaics and paintings, the Child is dressed in a tunic, white,
red, or blue, often very richly ornamented with gold embroidery.

This method obtained as late as the fourteenth century, when Fra
Angelico still painted the Babe in the elaborate royal garments of
a king.

    But art at last returned to nature,
     and from the fifteenth century
     the Holy Child was painted partially and
     sometimes wholly undraped, with
     beautiful rounded limbs and soft pink baby flesh.

It was then that Italy was transformed into a paradise of art, and all the important cities
were full of great painters whose hearts were aglow with the sacred
fire of genius.

In the host of beautiful works which were produced in the next three
centuries, every type of treatment was exemplified, varying from
the most simple naturalism to the loftiest idealism.

The naïve realism of Filippino Lippi's chubby baby, placidly sucking
his thumb as he looks out of the picture, is matched in the frolicsome
boys of Andrea del Sarto's many paintings, smiling mischievously
from the Madonna's arms.

    At the other extreme is the
     strangely precocious looking child
     of Botticelli, raising his eyes heavenward, with a mystic smile
on his serious face.

And when it would seem that every conceivable type of infancy, and
every imaginable situation had already been realized on the canvas,
Raphael[21] arose to create an entirely new ideal.

His life was so short, his work so surpassingly brilliant, that it
was as if a splendid meteor suddenly flashed across the starry
firmament of the Cinque-Cento.

Perugino, his master; Pinturicchio, his employer; Fra Bartolommeo, his friend; Andrea del
Sarto, "the faultless painter," all paled before his rapidly increasing glory. When he laid down
his brush at the age of thirty-seven, he had finished a career
which is one of the miracles of history.

His work is a complete epitome of religious art, including all the great themes, and enveloping
each with an atmosphere of pure spirituality, indescribably elevating to mind and soul.

His conception of the Christ-child ranges from the sleeping Babe
from whose innocent face the Madonna of the Diadem softly lifts a
veil, to the grave boy whom the Chair Madonna clasps in her arms.

Every shade of playfulness, of affection, of dignity, and of contemplation, is mirrored in
the long series of pictures in which he embodied his ever-changing
ideal of the Divine Infant.

[Illustration: MADONNA DI CASA TEMPI.--RAPHAEL.]

    
     'If a woman is seen standing at a man's left hand, it is a presage that she will be his wife,
whether they be married to others, or unmarried at the time of the apparition.

'To see a spark of fire fall upon one's arm or breast is a forerunner of a dead child to be
seen in the arms of those persons; of which there are several fresh instances. ...

'To see a seat empty at the time of one's sitting in it, is a presage of that person's death
soon after' (Martin's Description of the Western Islands, 1716, 8vo, p. 300, et seq.).

"To these particulars innumerable examples might be added, all attested by grave and credible
authors.  But, in despite of evidence which neither Bacon, Boyle, nor Johnson were able to
resist, the Taish, with all its visionary properties, seems to be now universally abandoned
to the use of poetry.  The exquisitely beautiful poem of Lochiel will at once occur to the
recollection of every reader" (Scott).

462.  Birchen.  Shaded by birches. Cf. Milton's "cedarn alleys" in Comus, 990.

464.  Lincoln green.  A cloth made in Lincoln, much worn by hunters.

467.  Heron.  The early eds. have "heron's."

475.  Errant-knight.  Knight-errant.

476.  Sooth.  True.  We find soothest in Milton, Comus, 823. The noun sooth (truth) is more
common, and still survives in soothsayer (teller of hidden truth).  Cf. v. 64 below.

478.  Emprise.  Enterprise.  Cf. Spenser, F. Q. ii. 7. 39: "But give me leave to follow my
emprise," etc.

485.  His noble hand.  The MS. has "This gentle hand;" and in the next line, "the oars he drew."

490.  Frequent.  Often; one of the many instances of the adjective used adverbially in the poem.

492.  The rocky isle.  It is still known as Ellen's Isle.  "It is rather high, and irregularly
pyramidal.  It is mostly composed of dark-gray rocks, mottled with pale and gray lichens, peeping
out here and there amid trees that mantle them,--chiefly light, graceful birches, intermingled
with red-berried mountain ashes and a few dark-green, spiry pines.  The landing is beneath
an aged oak; and, as did the Lady and the Knight, the traveller now ascends 'a clambering unsuspected
road,' by rude steps, to the small irregular summit of the island.  A more poetic, romantic
retreat could hardly be imagined: it is unique.  It is completely hidden, not only by the trees,
but also by an undergrowth of beautiful and abundant ferns and the loveliest of heather" (Hunnewell's
Lands of Scott).

500.  Winded.  Wound; used for the sake of the measure, as in v. 22 below.  We find the participle
winded in Much Ado, i. 1. 243; but it is = blown.  The verb in that sense is derived from the
noun wind (air in motion), and has no connection with wind, to turn. Cf. Wb.

504.  Here for retreat, etc.  Scott has the following note here: "The Celtic chieftains, whose
lives were continually exposed to peril, had usually, in the most retired spot of their domains,
some place of retreat for the hour of necessity, which, as circumstances would admit, was a
tower, a cavern, or a rustic hut, in a strong and secluded situation.  One of these last gave
refuge to the unfortunate Charles Edward, in his perilous wanderings after the battle of Culloden.

'It was situated in the face of a very rough, high, and rocky mountain, called Letternilichk,
still a part of Benalder, full of great stones and crevices, and some scattered wood interspersed.
The habitation called the Cage, in the face of that mountain, was within a small thick bush
of wood.  There were first some rows of trees laid down, in order to level the floor for a
habitation; and as the place was steep, this raised the lower side to an equal height with
the other: and these trees, in the way of joists or planks, were levelled with earth and gravel.
There were betwixt the trees, growing naturally on their own roots, some stakes fixed in the
earth, which, with the trees, were interwoven with ropes, made of heath and birch twigs, up
to the top of the Cage, it being of a round or rather oval shape; and the whole thatched and
covered over with fog.  The whole fabric hung, as it were, by a large tree, which reclined
from the one end, all along the roof, to the other, and which gave it the name of the Cage;
and by chance there happened to be two stones at a small distance from one another, in the
side next the precipice, resembling the pillars of a chimney, where the fire was placed. The
smoke had its vent out here, all along the fall of the rock, which was so much of the same
color, that one could discover no difference in the clearest day' (Home's History of the Rebellion,
Lond. 1802, 4to, p. 381)."

525.  Idoean vine.  Some have taken this to refer to the "red whortleberry," the botanical
name of which is Vaccinium vitis Idoea; but as that is not a climber, it is more probably that
the common vine is here meant.  Idoean is from Ida, a mountain near ancient Troy (there was
another in Crete), famous for its vines.

526.  Clematis.  The Climatis vitalba, one of the popular English names of which is virgin-bower.

528.  And every favored plant could bear.  That is, which could endure.  This ellipsis of the
relative was very common in Elizabethan English.  Cf. Shakespeare, M. for M. ii. 2. 23: "I
have a brother is condemned to die;" Rich. II. ii. 2. 128: "The hate of those love not the
king," etc.  See also John, iii. 11, etc.

532.  On heaven and on thy lady call.  This is said gayly, or sportively, as keeping up the
idea of a knight-errant.  Cf. 475 above.

542.  Careless.  See on 490 above.

546.  Target.  Buckler; the targe of iii. 445, etc.  See Scott's note on v. 380 below.

548.  Store.  Stored, laid up; an obsolete adjective.  Cf. iii. 3 below, and see also on vi. 124.

551.  And there the wild-cat's, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "There hung the wild-cat's brindled hide,
     Above the elk's branched brow and skull,
     And frontlet of the forest bull."

559.  Garnish forth.  Cf. furnish forth in 442 above.

566.  Brook.  Bear, endure; now seldom used except with reference to what is endured against
one's will or inclination.  It seems to be a favorite word with Scott.

573.  Ferragus or Ascabart.  "These two sons of Anak flourished in romantic fable.  The first
is well known to the admirers of Ariosto by the name of Ferrau.  He was an antagonist of Orlando,
and was at length slain by him in single combat. ... All that exceeds a simple death appears to me
absolute cruelty. Our justice cannot expect that he, whom the fear of dying by being beheaded
or hanged will not restrain, should be any more awed by the imagination of a languishing
fire, pincers, or the wheel.

And I know not, in the meantime, whether we do not throw them into
despair; for in what condition can be the soul of a man, expecting
four-and-twenty hours together to be broken upon a wheel, or after
the old way, nailed to a cross?

     Josephus relates that in the time of the
      war the Romans made in Judaea, happening to pass by where they had
three days before crucified certain Jews, he amongst them knew three
of his own friends, and obtained the favour of having them taken
down, of whom two, he says, died; the third lived a great while
after.

Chalcondylas, a writer of good credit, in the records he has left behind him of things that happened
in his time, and near him, tells us, as of the most excessive
torment, of that the Emperor Mohammed very often practised, of
cutting off men in the middle by the diaphragm with one blow of a
scimitar, whence it followed that they died as it were two deaths
at once; and both the one part, says he, and the other, were seen
to stir and strive a great while after in very great torment.

I do not think there was any great suffering in this motion the torments that are the most
dreadful to look on are not always the greatest to endure; and I find those that other historians
relate to have been practised by him upon the Epirot lords, are more horrid and cruel, where
they were condemned to be flayed alive piecemeal, after so malicious a manner that they continued
fifteen days in that misery.

And these other two: Croesus, having caused a gentleman, the favourite of his brother Pantaleon,
to be seized, carried him into a fuller's shop, where he caused him to be scratched and carded
with the cards and combs belonging to that trade, till he died.
The MS. reads:

    "Ellen, though more her looks betrayed
     The simple heart of mountain maid,
     In speech and gesture, form and grace,
     Showed she was come of gentle race;
     'T was strange, in birth so rude, to find
     Such face, such manners, and such mind.
     Each anxious hint the stranger gave,
     The mother heard with silence grave."

616.  Weird women we, etc.  See on 35 above.  Weird here = skilled in witchcraft; like the
"weird sisters" of Macbeth.  Down = hill (the Gaelic dun).

622.  A harp unseen.  Scott has the following note here: "'"They [the Highlanders] delight
much in musicke, but chiefly in harps and clairschoes of their own fashion.  The strings of
the clairschoes are made of brasse wire, and the strings of the harps of sinews; which strings
they strike either with their nayles, growing long, or else with an instrument appointed for
that use. They take great pleasure to decke their harps and clairschoes with silver and precious
stones; the poore ones that cannot attayne hereunto, decke them with christall.  They sing
verses prettily compound, contayning (for the most part) prayses of valiant men.  There is
not almost any other argument, whereof their rhymes intreat.  They speak the ancient French
language, altered a little."[FN#6]

'The harp and chairschoes are now only heard of in the Highlands in ancient song.  At what
period these instruments ceased to be used, is not on record; and tradition is silent on this
head. But, as Irish harpers occasionally visited the Highlands and Western Isles till lately,
the harp might have been extant so late as the middle of the present century.  Thus far we
know, that from remote times down to the present, harpers were received as welcome guests,
particularly in the Highlands of Scotland; and so late as the latter end of the sixteenth century,
as appears by the above quotations, the harp was in common use among the natives of the Western
Isles. How it happened that the noisy and inharmonious bagpipe banished the soft and expressive
harp, we cannot say; but certain it is, that the bagpipe is now the only instrument that obtains
universally in the Highland districts' (Campbell's Journey through North Britain. London, 1808,
4to, i. 175).

"Mr. Gunn, of Edinburgh, has lately published a curious Essay upon the Harp and Harp Music
of the Highlands of Scotland.  That the instrument was once in common use there, is most certain.
Cleland numbers an acquaintance with it among the few accomplishments which his satire allows
to the Highlanders:--

    'In nothing they're accounted sharp,
     Except in bagpipe or in harm.'"

624.  Soldier, rest! etc.  The metre of this song is trochaic; that is, the accents fall regularly
on the odd syllables.

631.  In slumber dewing.  That is, bedewing.  For the metaphor, cf. Shakespeare, Rich. III.
iv. 1. 84: "the golden dew of sleep;" and J. C. ii. 1. 230: "the honey-heavy dew of slumber."

635.  Morn of toil, etc.  The MS. has "noon of hunger, night of waking;" and in the next line,
"rouse" for reach.

638.  Pibroch.  "A Highland air, suited to the particular passion which the musician would
either excite or assuage; generally applied to those airs that are played on the bagpipe before
the Highlanders when they go out to battle" (Jamieson).  Here it is put for the bagpipe itself.
See also on ii. 363 below.

642.  And the bittern sound his drum.  Goldsmith (D. V. 44) calls the bird "the hollow-sounding
bittern;" and in his Animated Nature, he says that of all the notes of waterfowl "there is
none so dismally hollow as the booming of the bittern."

648.  She paused, etc.  The MS. has "She paused--but waked again the lay."

655.  The MS. reads: "Slumber sweet our spells shall deal ye;" and in 657:

   "Let our slumbrous spells| avail ye
                            | beguile ye."

657.  Reveille.  The call to rouse troops or huntsmen in the morning.

669.  Forest sports.  The MS. has "mountain chase."

672.  Not Ellens' spell.  That is, not even Ellen's spell.  On the passage, cf. Rokeby, i. 2:

    "Sleep came at length, but with a train
     Of feelings true and fancies vain,
     Mingling, in wild disorder cast,
     The expected future with the past."

693.  Or is it all a vision now?  Lockhart quotes here Thomson's Castle of Indolence:

    "Ye guardian spirits, to whom man is dear,
      From these foul demons shield the midnight gloom:
     Angels of fancy and love, be near.
      And o'er the blank of sleep diffuse a bloom:
     Evoke the sacred shades of Greece and Rome,
      And let them virtue with a look impart;
     But chief, awhile, O! lend us from the tomb
      Those long-lost friends for whom in love we smart,
     and fill with pious awe and joy-mixt woe the heart.

    "Or are you sportive?--bid the morn of youth
      Rise to new light, and beam afresh the days
     Of innocence, simplicity, and truth;
      To cares estranged, and manhood's thorny ways.
     What transport, to retrace our boyish plays,
      Our easy bliss, when each thing joy supplied;
     The woods, the mountains, and the warbling maze
      Of the wild books!"

The Critical Review says of the following stanza (xxxiv): "Such a strange and romantic dream
as may be naturally expected to flow from the extraordinary events of the day.  It might, perhaps,
be quoted as one of Mr. Scott's most successful efforts in descriptive poetry. Some few lines
of it are indeed unrivalled for delicacy and melancholy tenderness."

704.  Grisly.  Grim, horrible; an obsolete word, much used in old poetry.  Cf. Spenser, F.
Q. i. 5. 30: "her darke griesly looke;" Shakespeare, 1 Hen. VI. i. 4. 47: "My grisly countenance
made others fly," etc.  See also iv. 322, etc. below.

723.  Played, etc.  The MS. reads:

   "Played on/ the bosoms of the lake,
             / Lock Katrine's still expanse;
     The birch, the wild rose, and the broom
     Wasted around their rich perfume ...
     The birch-trees wept in balmy dew;
     The aspen slept on Benvenue;
     Wild were the heart whose passions' power
     Defied the influence of the hour."

724.  Passion's.  The reading of the 1st ed. and that of 1821; some recent eds. have "passions'."

738.  Orisons.  The 1st ed. has "orison" both here and in 740 (the ed. of 1821 only in the
latter); but the word is almost invariably plural, both in poetry and prose--always in Shakespeare
and Milton.

Canto Second.

7.  A minstrel gray.  "That Highland chieftains, to a late period, retained in their service
the bard, as a family officer, admits of very easy proof.  The author of the Letters from the
North of Scotland, an officer of engineers, quartered at Inverness about 1720, who certainly
cannot be deemed a favorable witness, gives the following account of the office, and of a bard,
whom he heard exercise his talent of recitation:--'The bard is killed in the genealogy of all
the Highland families, sometimes preceptor to the young laird, celebrates in Irish verse the
original of the tribe, the famous warlike actions of the successive heads, and sings his own
lyricks as an opiate to the chief, when indisposed for sleep; but poets are not equally esteemed
and honored in all countries. I happened to be a witness of the dishonour done to the muse,
at the house of one of the chiefs, where two of these bards were set at a good distance, at
the lower end of a long table, with a parcel of Highlanders of no extraordinary appearance,
over a cup of ale. Poor inspiration! They were not asked to drink a glass of wine at our table,
though the whole company consisted only of the great man, one of his near relations, and myself.
After some little time, the chief ordered one of them to sing me a Highland song.  The bard
readily obeyed, and with a hoarse voice, and in a tune of few various notes, began, as I was
told, one of his own lyricks; and when he had proceeded to the fourth of fifth stanza, I perceived,
by the names of several persons, glens, and mountains, which I had known or heard of before,
that it was an account of some clan battle. But in his going on, the chief (who piques himself
upon his school-learning) at some particular passage, bid him cease, and cryed out, "There's
nothing like that in Virgil or Homer." I bowed, and told him I believed so.  This you may believe
was very edifying and delightful'" (Scott).

15.  Than men, etc.  "It is evident that the old bard, with his second-sight, has a glimmering
notion who the stranger is. He speaks below [311] of 'courtly spy,' and James's speech had
betrayed a knowledge of the Douglas" (Taylor).

20.  Battled.  The reading of the 1st ed. and that of 1821; "battle" in most others.  Cf. i.
626 above.

22.  Where beauty, etc.  The MS. has "At tourneys where the brave resort."  The reference is
to the tournaments, "Where," as Milton says (L'Allegro, 119),

      "throngs of knights and barons bold.
    In weeds of peace, high triumphs hold,
    With store of ladies, whose bright eyes
    Rain influence, and judge the prize
    Of wit or arms, while both contend
    To win her grace whom all commend."

Cf. 87 below.

26.  Love's.  The reading of the 1st ed. and that of 1821; most eds. have "love."

29.  Plaided.  The plaid was properly the dress of a Highlander, though it was worn also in
the Lowlands.

51.  The Harper on the islet beach.  "This picture is touched with the hand of the true poet"
(Jeffrey).

56.  As from.  As if from.  Cf. 64 and 83 below.  This ellipsis was common in Elizabethan English.
Cf. Shakespeare, Macb. ii. 2. 28:

    "One cried 'God bless us!' and 'Amen' the other,
     As they had seen me with these hangman's hands."

65.  In the last sound.  For the measure, see on i. 73 above.

69.  His fleet.  That is, of ducks.  Cf. i. 239 above.

80.  Would scorn.  Who would scorn.  See on i. 528 above.

84.  Turned him.  See on i. 142 above, and cf. 106 below.

86.  After.  Afterwards; as in Shakespeare, Temp. ii. 2. 10: "And after bite me," etc.  The
word is not now used adverbially of time, though we may say "he followed after," etc.  The
1st ed. reads "that knight."

94.  Parts.  Departs; as often in poetry and earlier English. Cf. Goldsmith, D. V. 171: "Beside
the bed where parting life was laid;" Gray, Elegy, 1: "the knell of parting day," etc.  On
the other hand, depart was used in the sense of part.  In the Marriage Service "till death
us do part" is a corruption of "till death us depart."  Wiclif's Bible, in Matt. xix. 6, has
"therfor a man departe not that thing that God hath ioyned."

103.  Another step, etc.  The MS. has "The loveliest Lowland fair to spy;" and the 1st ed.
reads "The step of parting fair to spy."

109.  The Graeme.  Scott has the following note here: "The ancient and powerful family of Graham
(which, for metrical reasons, is here smelled after the Scottish pronunciation) held extensive
possessions in the counties of Dumbarton and Stirling. Few families can boast of more historical
renown, having claim to three of the most remarkable characters in the Scottish annals. Sir
John the Graeme, the faithful and undaunted partaker of the labors and patriotic warfare of
Wallace, fell in the unfortunate field of Falkirk, in 1298.  The celebrated Marquis of Montrose,
in whom De Retz saw realized his abstract idea of the heroes of antiquity, was the second of
these worthies.  And, not withstanding the severity of his temper, and the rigor with which
he executed the oppressive mandates of the princes whom he served, I do not hesitate to name
as the third, John Graeme, of Claverhouse, Viscount of Dundee, whose heroic death, in the arms
of victory, may be allowed to cancel the memory of his cruelty to the non-conformists, during
the reigns of Charles II. and James II."

112.  Bower.  The word meant a chamber (see on i. 217 above), and was often used of the ladies'
apartments in a house.  In hall and bower = among men and women.  The words are often thus
associated.  Cf. Spenser, Astrophel, 28: "Merily masking both in bowre and hall," etc.

115.  Arose.  The 1st ed. misprints "Across;" not noted in the Errata.

126.  And the proud march.  See on i. 73 above.

131.  Saint Modan.  A Scotch abbot of the 7th century.  Scott says here: "I am not prepared
to show that Saint Modan was a performer on the harp.  It was, however, no unsaintly accomplishment;
for Saint Dunstan certainly did play upon that instrument, which retaining, as was natural,
a portion of the sanctity attached to its master's character, announced future events by its
spontaneous sound. 'But labouring once in these mechanic arts for a devout matrone that had
sett him on work, his violl, that hung by him on the wall, of its own accord, without anie
man's helpe, distinctly sounded this anthime: Gaudent in coelis animae sanctorum qui Christi
vestigia sunt secuti; et quia pro eius amore sanguinem suum fuderunt, ideo cum Christo gaudent
aeternum.  Whereat all the companie being much astonished, turned their eyes from beholding
him working, to looke on that strange accident. ... Not long after, manie of the court that
hitherunto had born a kind of fayned friendship towards him, began now greatly to envie at
his progresse and rising in goodness, using manie crooked, backbiting meanes to diffame his
vertues with the black markes of hypocrisie.  And the better to authorise their calumnie, they
brought in this that happened in the violl, affirming it to have been done by art magick. 
What more? this wicked rumour encreased, dayly, till the king and others of the nobilitie taking
hould thereof, Dunstan grew odious in their sight. Therefore he resolued to leaue the court,
and goe to Elphegus, surnamed the Bauld, then bishop of Winchester, who was his cozen. Which
his enemies understanding, they layd wayte for him in the way, and hauing throwne him off his
horse, beate him, and dragged him in the durt in the most miserable manner, meaning to have
slaine him, had not a companie of mastiue dogges, that came unlookt uppon them, defended and
redeemed him from their crueltie.  When with sorrow he was ashamed to see dogges more humane
than they.  And giuing thankes to Almightie God, he sensibly againe perceaued that the tunes
of his violl had giuen him a warning of future accidents' (Flower of the Lives of the most
renowned Sainets of England, Scotland, and Ireland, by the R. Father Hierome Porter.  Doway,
1632 4to. tome i. p. 438).

"The same supernatural circumstance is alluded to by the anonymous author of Grim, the Collier
of Croydon:

   '-----[Dunstant's harp sounds on the wall.]
      'Forrest.  Hark, hark, my lord, the holy abbot's harp
    Sounds by itself so hanging on the wall!
      'Dunstan.  Unhallow'd man, that scorn'st the sacred rede,
    Hark, how the testimony of my truth
    Sounds heavenly music with an angel's hand,
    To testify Dunstan's integrity,
    And prove thy active boast of no effect.'"

141.  Bothwell's bannered hall.  The picturesque ruins of Bothwell Castle stand on the banks
of the Clyde, about nine miles above Glasgow.  Some parts of the walls are 14 feet thick, and
60 feet in height.  They are covered with ivy, wild roses, and wall- flowers.

    "The tufted grass lines Bothwell's ancient hall,
     The fox peeps cautious from the creviced wall,
     Where once proud Murray, Clydesdale's ancient lord,
     A mimic sovereign, held the festal board."

142.  Ere Douglases, to ruin driven.  Scott says: "The downfall of the Douglases of the house
of Angus, during the reign of James V., is the event alluded to in the text.  The Earl of Angus,
it will be remembered, had married the queen dowager, and availed himself of the right which
he thus acquired, as well as of his extensive power, to retain the king in a sort of tutelage,
which approached very near to captivity.  Several open attempts were made to rescue James from
this thraldom, with which he was well known to be deeply disgusted; but the valor of the Douglases,
and their allies, gave them the victory in every conflict.  At length, the king, while residing
at Falkland, contrived to escape by night out of his own court and palace, and rode full speed
to Stirling Castle, where the governor, who was of the opposite faction, joyfully received
him.  You they must certainly interest, in reminding you of moments to which you can hardly
look back without a pleasure not the less dear from a shade of melancholy. You will meet with
few images without recollecting the spot where we observed them together, consequently, whatever
is feeble in my design, or spiritless in my colouring, will be amply supplied by your own
memory.

With still greater propriety I might have inscribed to you a description of some of the features
of your native mountains, through which we have wandered together, in the same manner, with
so much pleasure. But the sea-sunsets which give such splendour to the vale of Clwyd,
Snowdon, the chair of Idris, the quiet village of Bethkelert, Menai
and her druids, the Alpine steeps of the Conway, and the still more
interesting windings of the wizard stream of the Dee remain yet
untouched.

Apprehensive that my pencil may never be exercised on these subjects, I cannot let slip this
opportunity of thus publicly assuring you with how much affection and esteem,
I am Dear Sir,
Your most obedient very humble Servant
W. WORDSWORTH.

ARGUMENT
'Happiness (if she had been to be found on Earth) amongst the Charms of Nature--Pleasures of the
pedestrian Traveller--Author crosses France to the Alps--Present
state of the Grande Chartreuse--Lake of Como--Time, Sunset--Same
Scene, Twilight--Same Scene, Morning, it's Voluptuous Character;
Old Man and Forest Cottage Music--River Tusa--Via Mala and Grison
Gypsey.

Valley of Sckellenen-thal--Lake of Uri, Stormy Sunset--Chapel of William Tell--force of Local
Emotion--Chamois Chaser--View of the higher Alps--Manner of Life
of a Swiss Mountaineer interspersed with views of the higher
Alps--Golden Age of the Alps--Life and Views continued--Ranz des
Vaches famous Swiss Air--Abbey of Einsiedlen and it's Pilgrims--Valley
of Chamouny--Mont Blanc--Slavery of Savoy--Influence of Liberty on
Cottage Happiness--France--Wish for the extirpation of Slavery--Conclusion.'

DESCRIPTIVE SKETCHES [A]
Were there, below, a spot of holy ground, By Pain and her sad family unfound, Sure, Nature's
GOD that spot to man had giv'n, Where murmuring rivers join the song of ev'n; Where falls the
purple morning far and wide 5 In flakes of light upon the
mountain-side; Where summer Suns in ocean sink to rest, Or moonlight
Upland lifts her hoary breast; Where Silence, on her night of wing,
o'er-broods Unfathom'd dells and undiscover'd woods; 10 Where rocks
and groves the power of waters shakes In cataracts, or sleeps in
quiet lakes.

But doubly pitying Nature loves to show'r Soft on his wounded heart
her healing pow'r, Who plods o'er hills and vales his road forlorn,
15 Wooing her varying charms from eve to morn.

No sad vacuities his heart annoy, Blows not a Zephyr but it whispers
joy; For him lost flowers their idle sweets exhale; He tastes the
meanest note that swells the gale; 20 For him sod-seats the
cottage-door adorn, And peeps the far-off spire, his evening bourn!

Dear is the forest frowning o'er his head, And dear the green-sward to his velvet tread; Moves
there a cloud o'er mid-day's flaming eye?
Clan-Alpine's pride.  "The Siol Alpine, or race of Alpine, includes several clans who
claimed descent from Kenneth McAlpine, an ancient king.  These are the Macgregors, the Grants,
the Mackies, the Mackinnans, the MacNabs, the MacQuarries, and the Macaulays. Their common
emblem was the pine, which is now confined to the Macgregors" (Taylor).

214.  Loch Lomond.  This beautiful lake, "the pride of Scottish lakes," is about 23 miles in
length and 5 miles in its greatest breadth.  At the southern end are many islands, one of which,
Inch-Cailliach (the Island of Women, so called from a nunnery that was once upon it), was the
burial-place of Clan-Alpine.  See iii. 191 below.

216.  A Lennox foray.  That is, a raid in the lands of the Lennox family, bordering on the
southern end of Loch Lomond.  On the island of Inch-Murrin, the ruins of Lennox Castle, formerly
a residence of the Earls of Lennox, are still to be seen.  There was another of their strongholds
on the shore of the lake near Balloch, where the modern Balloch Castle now stands.

217.  Her glee.  The 1st ed. misprints "his glee;" not noted in the Errata.

220.  Black Sir Roderick.  Roderick Dhu, or the Black, as he was called.

221.  In Holy-Rood a knight he slew.  That is, in Holyrood Palace. "This was by no means an
uncommon occurrence in the Court of Scotland; nay, the presence of the sovereign himself scarcely
restrained the ferocious and inveterate feuds which were the perpetual source of bloodshed
among the Scottish nobility" (Scott).

223.  Courtiers give place, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Courtiers give place with heartless stride
     Of the retiring homicide."

227.  Who else, etc.  The MS. has the following couplet before this line:

    "Who else dared own the kindred claim
     That bound him to thy mother's name?"

229.  The Douglas, etc.  Scott says here: "The exiled state of this powerful race is not exaggerated
in this and subsequent passages. The hatred of James against the race of Douglas was so inveterate,
that numerous as their allies were, and disregarded as the regal authority had usually been
in similar cases, their nearest friends, even in the most remote part of Scotland, durst not
entertain them, unless under the strictest and closest disguise.  James Douglas, son of the
banished Earl of Angus, afterwards well known by the title of Earl of Morton, lurked, during
the exile of his family, in the north of Scotland, under the assumed name of James Innes, otherwise
James the Grieve (i.e. reve or bailiff).  'And as he bore the name,' says Godscroft, 'so did
he also execute the office of a grieve or overseer of the lands and rents, the corn and cattle
of him with whom he lived.' From the habits of frugality and observation which he acquired
in his humble situation, the historian traces that intimate acquaintance with popular character
which enabled him to rise so high in the state, and that honorable economy by which he repaired
and established the shattered estates of Angus and Morton (History of the House of Douglas,
Edinburgh, 1743, vol. ii. p. 160)."

235.  Guerdon.  Reward; now rarely used except in poetry. Cf. Spenser, F. Q. i. 10. 59: "That
glory does to them for guerdon graunt," etc.

236.  Dispensation.  As Roderick and Ellen were cousins, they could not marry without a dispensation
from the Pope.

251.  Orphan.  Referring to child, not to she, as its position indicates.

254.  Shrouds.  Shields, protects.  Cf. Spenser, F. Q. i. 1. 6: "And this faire couple eke
to shroud themselves were fain" (that is, from the rain).  So the noun = shelter, protection;
as in Shakespeare, A. and C. iii. 13. 71: "put yourself under his shroud," etc.  See also on
757 below.

260.  Maronnan's cell.  "The parish of Kilmaronock, at the eastern extremity of Loch Lomond,
derives its name from a cell, or chapel, dedicated to Saint Maronock, or Marnock, or Maronnan,
about whose sanctity very little is now remembered" (Scott). Kill = cell; as in Colmekill (Macb.
ii. 4. 33), "the cell of Columba," now known as Icolmkill, or Iona.

270.  Bracklinn's thundering wave.  This beautiful cascade is on the Keltie, a mile from Callander.
The height of the fall is about fifty feet.  "A few years ago a marriage party of Lowland peasants
met with a tragic end here, two of them having tumbled into the broken, angry waters, where
they had no more chance of life than if they had dropped into the crater of Hecla" (Black).

271.  Save.  Unless; here followed by the subjunctive.

274.  Claymore.  The word means "a large sword" (Gaelic claidheamh, sword, and more, great).

294.  Shadowy plaid and sable plume.  Appropriate to Roderick Dhu. See on 220 above.

303.  Woe the while.  Woe be to the time, alas the time! Cf. Shakespeare, J. C. i. 3. 82: "But,
woe the while! our fathers' minds are dead," etc.  See also on i. 166 above.

306.  Tine-man.  "Archibald, the third Earl of Douglas, was so unfortunate in all his enterprises,
that he acquired the epithet of 'tine-man,' because he tined, or lost, his followers in every
battle which he fought.  He was vanquished, as every reader must remember, in the bloody battle
of Homildon-hill, near Wooler, where he himself lost an eye, and was made prisoner by Hotspur.
He was no less unfortunate when allied with Percy, being wounded and taken at the battle of
Shrewsbury.  He was so unsuccessful in an attempt to beseige Roxburgh Castle, that it was called
the 'Foul Raid,' or disgraceful expedition.  His ill fortune left him indeed at the battle
of Beauge, in France; but it was only to return with double emphasis at the subsequent action
of Vernoil, the last and most unlucky of his encounters, in which he fell, with the flower
of the Scottish chivalry, then serving as auxiliaries in France, and about two thousand common
soldiers, A.D. 1424" (Scott).

307.  What time, etc.  That is, at the time when Douglas allied himself with Percy in the rebellion
against Henry IV. of England. See Shakespeare, 1 Hen. IV.

309.  Did, self unscabbarded, etc.  Scott says here: "The ancient warriors, whose hope and
confidence rested chiefly in their blades, were accustomed to deduce omens from them, especially
from such as were supposed to have been fabricated by enchanted skill, of which we have various
instances in the romances and legends of the time. The wonderful sword Skofnung, wielded by
the celebrated Hrolf Kraka, was of this description.  It was deposited in the tomb of the monarch
at his death, and taken from thence by Skeggo, a celebrated pirate, who bestowed it upon his
son-in-law, Kormak, with the following curious directions: '"The manner of using it will appear
strange to you.  A small bag is attached to it, which take heed not to violate.  Let not the
rays of the sun touch the upper part of the handle, nor unsheathe it, unless thou art ready
for battle. But when thou comest to the place of fight, go aside from the rest, grasp and extend
the sword, and breathe upon it.  Then a small worm will creep out of the handle; lower the
handle, that he may more easily return into it."  Kormak, after having received the sword,
returned home to his mother.  He showed the sword, and attempted to draw it, as unnecessarily
as ineffectually, for he could not pluck it out of the sheath.  His mother, Dalla, exclaimed,
"Do not despise the counsel given to thee, my son."  Kormak, however, repeating his efforts,
pressed down the handle with his feet, and tore off the bag, when Skofung emitted a hollow
groan; but still he could not unsheathe the sword.  Kormak then went out with Bessus, whom
he had challenged to fight with him, and drew apart at the place of combat. He sat down upon
the ground, and ungirding the sword, which he bore above his vestments, did not remember to
shield the hilt from the rays of the sun.  In vain he endeavored to draw it, till he placed
his foot against the hilt; then the worm issued from it.  But Kormak did not rightly handle
the weapon, in consequence whereof good fortune deserted it.  As he unsheathed Skofnung, it
emitted a hollow murmur' (Bartholini de Causis Contemptae a Danis adhuc Gentilibus Mortis,
Libri Tres.  Hafniae, 1689, 4to, p. 574).

"To the history of this sentient and prescient weapon, I beg leave to add, from memory, the
following legend, for which I cannot produce any better authority.  A young nobleman, of high
hopes and fortune, chanced to lose his way in the town which he inhabited, the capital, if
I mistake not, of a German province. He had accidentally involved himself among the narrow
and winding streets of a suburb, inhabited by the lowest order of the people, and an approaching
thunder-shower determined him to ask a short refuge in the most decent habitation that was
near him.  He knocked at the door, which was opened by a tall man, of a grisly and ferocious
aspect, and sordid dress.  The stranger was readily ushered to a chamber, where swords, scourges,
and machines, which seemed to be implements of torture, were suspended on the wall. One of
these swords dropped from its scabbard, as the nobleman, after a moment's hesitation, crossed
the threshold.  His host immediately stared at him with such a marked expression, that the
young man could not help demanding his name and business, and the meaning of his looking at
him so fixedly.  'I am,' answered the man, 'the public executioner of this city; and the incident
you have observed is a sure augury that I shall, in discharge of my duty, one day cut off your
head with the weapon which has just now spontaneously unsheathed itself.' The nobleman lost
no time in leaving his place of refuge; but, engaging in some of the plots of the period, was
shortly after decapitated by that very man and instrument.

"Lord Lovat is said, by the author of the Letters from Scotland (vol. ii. p. 214), to have
affirmed that a number of swords that hung up in the hall of the mansion-house, leaped of themselves
out of the scabbard at the instant he was born.  The story passed current among his clan, but,
like that of the story I have just quoted, proved an unfortunate omen."

311.  If courtly spy hath, etc.  The 1st ed. has "If courtly spy, and harbored," etc.  The
ed. of 1821 reads "had harbored."

319.  Beltane.  The first of May, when there was a Celtic festival in honor of the sun.  Beltane
= Beal-tein, or the fire of Beal, a Gaelic name for the sun.  It was celebrated by kindling
fires on the hill-tops at night, and other ceremonies, followed by dances, and merry-making.
Cf. 410 below.  See also The Lord of the Isles, i. 8: "The shepherd lights his belane- fire;"
and Glenfinlas:

    "But o'er his hills, in festal day,
     How blazed Lord Ronald's beltane-tree!"

323.  But hark! etc.  "The moving picture--the effect of the sounds --and the wild character
and strong peculiar nationality of the whole procession, are given with inimitable spirit and
power of expression" (Jeffrey).

327.  The canna's hoary beard.  The down of the canna, or cotton- grass.

335.  Glengyle.  A valley at the northern end of Lock Katrine.

337.  Brianchoil.  A promontory on the northern shore of the lake.

342.  Spears, pikes, and axes.  The 1st ed. and that of 1821 have Spears, but all the recent
ones misprint "Spear."  The "Globe" ed. has "Spear, spikes," etc.

343.  Tartans.  The checkered woollen cloth so much worn in Scotland.  Curiously enough, the
name is not Gaelic but French. See Jamieson or Wb.

Brave.  Fine, beautiful; the same word as the Scottish braw. Cf. Shakespeare, Sonn. 12. 2:
"And see the brave day sunk in hideous night;" Ham. ii. 2. 312: "This brave o'erhanging firmament,"
etc. It is often used of dress, as also is bravery (= finery); as in T. of S. iv. 3. 57: "With
scarfs and fans and double change of bravery."  See also Spenser, Mother Hubberds Tale, 858:
"Which oft maintain'd his masters braverie" (that is, dressed as well as his master).

351.  Chanters.  The pipes of the bagpipes, to which long ribbons were attached.

357.  The sounds.  Misprinted "the sound" in the ed. of 1821, and all the more recent eds.
that we have seen.  Cf. 363 below.

363.  Those thrilling sounds, etc.  Scott says here: "The connoisseurs in pipe-music affect
to discover in a well-composed pibroch, the imitative sounds of march, conflict, flight, pursuit,
and all the 'current of a heady fight.'  To this opinion Dr. Beattie has given his suffrage,
in that following elegant passage:--'A pibroch is a species of tune, peculiar, I think, to
the Highlands and Western Isles of Scotland.  It is performed on a bagpipe, and differs totally
from all other music. Its rhythm is so irregular, and its notes, especially in the quick movement,
so mixed and huddled together, that a stranger finds it impossible to reconcile his ear to
it, so as to perceive its modulation.  Some of these pibrochs, being intended to represent
a battle, begin with a grave motion, resembling a march; then gradually quicken into the onset;
run off with noisy confusion, and turbulent rapidity, to imitate the conflict and pursuit;
then swell into a few flourishes of triumphant joy; and perhaps close with the wild and slow
wailings of a funeral procession' (Essay on Laughter and Ludicrious Composition, chap. iii. note)."

367.  Hurrying.  Referring to their, or rather to the them implied in that word.

392.  The burden bore.  That is, sustained the burden, or chorus, of the song.  Cf. Shakespeare,
Temp. i. 2. 381: "And, sweet sprites, the burden bear."

399.  Hail to the Chief, etc.  The metre of the song is dactylic; the accents being on the
1st, 4th, 7th, and 10th syllables.  It is little used in English.  Tennyson's Charge of the
Light Brigade and Longfellow's Skeleton in Armor are familiar examples of it.

405.  Bourgeon.  Bud.  Cf. Fairfax, Tasso, vii. 76: When first on trees bourgeon the blossoms
soft;" and Tennyson, In Memoriam, 115:

    "Now burgeons every maze of quick
     About the flowering squares," etc.

408.  Roderigh Vich Alpine dhu.  "Besides his ordinary name and surname, which were chiefly
used in the intercourse with the Lowlands, every Highland chief had an epithet expressive of
his patriarchal dignity as head of the clan, and which was common to all his predecessors and
successors, as Pharaoh to the kings of Egypt, or Arsaces to those of Parthia.  This name was
usually a patronymic, expressive of his descent from the founder of the family.  Thus the Duke
of Argyll is called MacCallum More, or the son of Colin the Great.  Sometimes, however, it
is derived from armorial distinctions, or the memory of some great feat; thus Lord Seaforth,
as chief of the Mackenzies, or Clan-Kennet, bears the epithet of Caber-fae, or Buck's Head,
as representative of Colin Fitzgerald, founder of the family, who saved the Scottish king,
when endangered by a stag.  But besides this title, which belonged to his office and dignity,
the chieftain had usually another peculiar to himself, which distinguished him from the chieftains
of the same race. This was sometimes derived from complexion, as dhu or roy; sometimes from
size, as beg or more; at other times, from some peculiar exploit, or from some peculiarity
of habit or appearance.  The line of the text therefore signifies,

   Black Roderick, the descendant of Alpine.

I see young soldiers, too, who serve the KING (For half the wage a Labour Member cashes), Prepared,
at honour's higher call, to fling Their gallant dreams away in dust and ashes!
I care a lot for any laws they break, But more I care to see what sacrifices Men still are
found to face for conscience' sake, Knowing how hard the price is.

Ah, Sirs, and must you for a moment's gain-- I look to both your
camps with like appealing-- Must you upon these virtues put a strain
Irrevocably past the hope of healing?

Cannot some gentler means be yet embraced That, when the common
peril comes upon her, Such qualities of heart, too rare to waste,
May shield our Country's honour?

O. S.

* * * * *

EGBERT, BULL-FROG.

"Speaking," said my uncle James, "of dogs, did I ever tell you about Egbert, my bull-frog?
I class Egbert among the dogs, partly because of his faithfulness and intelligence, and partly
because his deep bay--you know how those bull-frogs bark--always
reminded me of a bloodhound surprised while on a trail of aniseed.

He was my constant companion in Northern Assam, where I was at that
time planting rubber.

He finally died of a surfeit of hard-boiled egg, of which he was passionately fond, and I
was as miserable as if I had lost a brother.

"I think Egbert had been trying to edge into the household for some time before I really noticed
him. Looking back, I can remember meeting him sometimes in the garden, and, though I did not
perceive it at first, there was a wistful look in his eye when I passed him by without
speaking.
It was not till our burglary that I began really to understand his sterling worth. A couple of
natives were breaking in, and would undoubtedly have succeeded in their designs had it not
been for Egbert's frantic barking, which aroused the house and brought me down with a revolver.

It is almost certain that the devoted animal had made a practice, night after night, of sleeping
near the front-door on the chance of something of the sort happening. He was always suspicious
of natives.

"After that of course his position in the house was established. He slept every night at the
foot of my bed, and very soothing it was to hear his deep rhythmical breathing in the darkness.

"In the daytime we were inseparable. We would go for walks together, and I have frequently spent
hours throwing sticks into the pond at the bottom of the garden for him to retrieve.

It was this practice which saved his life at the greatest crisis of his career.

"I happened to have strained my leg, and I was sitting in the garden, dozing, Egbert by my side,
when I was awakened by a hoarse bark from my faithful companion, and, looking down, I perceived
him hopping rapidly towards the pond, pursued by an enormous oojoobwa snake, a reptile not
dangerous to man, being non-poisonous, but a great scourge among
the minor fauna of Assam, owing to its habit of pouncing upon them
and swallowing them alive. This snake is particularly addicted to
bull-frogs, and, judging from the earnest manner in which he was
making for the pond, Egbert was not blind to this trait in its
character.
"You may imagine my agony of mind. There was I, helpless. My injured
leg made it impossible for me to pursue the snake and administer
one where it would do most good. And meanwhile the unequal race was
already drawing to its inevitable close. Egbert, splendid as were
his other qualities, was not built for speed. He was dignified
rather than mobile.
"What could I do? Nothing beyond throwing my stick in the hope of
stunning the oojoobwa.The
very name of the clan was proscribed, and those by whom it had been borne were given up to
sword and fire, and absolutely hunted down by bloodhounds like wild beasts.  Argyll and the
Campbells, on the one hand, Montrose, with the Grahames and Buchanans, on the other, are said
to have been the chief instruments in suppressing this devoted clan.  The Laird of Macgregor
surrendered to the former, on condition that he would take him out of Scottish ground.  But,
to use Birrel's expression, he kept 'a Highlandman's promise;' and, although he fulfilled his
word to the letter, by carrying him as far as Berwick, he afterwards brought him back to Edinburgh,
where he was executed with eighteen of his clan (Birrel's Diary, 2d Oct. 1903).  The clan Gregor
being thus driven to utter despair, seem to have renounced the laws from the benefit of which
they were excluded, and their depredations produced new acts of council, confirming the severity
of their proscription, which had only the effect of rendering them still more united and desperate.
It is a most extraordinary proof of the ardent and invincible spirit of clanship, that notwithstanding
the repeated proscriptions providently ordained by the legislature, 'for the timeous preventing
the disorders and oppression that may fall out by the said name and clan of Macgregors, and
their followers,' they were, in 1715 and 1745, a potent clan, and continue to subsist as a
distinct and numerous race."

426.  Leven-glen.  The valley of the Leven, which connects Loch Lomond with the Clyde.

431.  The rosebud.  That is, Ellen.  "Note how this song connects Allan's forebodings with
Roderick's subsequent offer" (Taylor).

444.  And chorus wild, etc.  The MS. has "The chorus to the chieftain's fame."

476.  Weeped.  The form is used for the rhyme.  Cf. note on i. 500 above.

477.  Nor while, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Nor while on Ellen's faltering tongue
     Her filial greetings eager hung,
     Marked not that awe (affection's proof)
     Still held yon gentle youth aloof;
     No! not till Douglas named his name,
     Although the youth was Malcolm Graeme.
     Then with flushed cheek and downcast eye,
     Their greeting was confused and shy."

495.  Bothwell.  See on 141 above.

497.  Percy's Norman pennon.  Taken in the raid which led to the battle of Otterburn, in Northumberland,
in the year 1388, and which forms the theme of the ballads of Chevy Chase.

501.  My pomp.  My triumphal procession; the original meaning of pomp.

504.  Crescent.  The badge of the Buccleuch family (Miss Yonge).

506.  Blantyre.  A priory, the ruins of which are still to be seen on a height above the Clyde,
opposite Bothwell Castle.

521.  The dogs, etc.  The MS. has "The dogs with whimpering notes repaid."

525.  Unhooded.  The falcon was carried on the wrist, with its head covered, or hooded, until
the prey was seen, when it was unhooded for flight.  Cf. vi. 665 below.

526.  Trust.  Believe me.

527.  Like fabled Goddess.  The MS. has "Like fabled huntress;" referring of course to Diana.

534.  Stature fair.  The reading of the 1st ed. and that of 1821; "stature tall" in most of
the other eds.

541.  The ptarmigan.  A white bird.

543.  Menteith.  See on i. 89 above.

548.  Ben Lomond.  This is much the highest (3192 feet) of the mountains on the shores of Loch
Lomond.  The following lines on the ascent were scratched upon the window-pane of the old inn
at Tarbet a hundred years or more ago:

    "Trust not at first a quick adventurous pace;
     Six miles its top points gradual from its base;
     Up the high rise with panting haste I past,
     And gained the long laborious steep at last;
     More prudent thou--when once you pass the deep,
     With cautious steps and slow ascend the steep."

549.  Not a sob.  That is, without panting, or getting out of breath, like the degenerate modern
tourist.

574.  Glenfinlas.  A wooded valley between Ben-an and Benledi, the entrance to which is between
Lochs Achray and Vennachar.  It is the scene of Scott's ballad, Glenfinlas, or Lord Ronald's
Coronach. A mile from the entrance are the falls of the Hero's Targe.  See iv. 84 below.

577.  Still a royal ward.  Still under age, with the king for guardian.

583.  Strath-Endrick.  A valley to the southeast of Loch Lomond, drained by Endrick Water.

584.  Peril aught.  Incur any peril.  Milton uses the verb intransitively in Reason of Church
Government, ii. 3: "it may peril to stain itself."

587.  Not in action.  The 1st ed. has "nor in action."

594.  News.  Now generally used as a singular; but in old writers both as singular and as plural.
Cf. Shakespeare, K. John, iii. 4. 164: "at that news he dies;" and Id. v. 7. 65: "these dead
news," etc.

601.  As.  As if.  See on 56 above.

606.  Glozing.  That glosses over the truth, not plain and outspoken.  Sometimes it means to
flatter, or deceive with smooth words; as in Spenser, F. Q. iii. 8. 14:

    "For he could well his glozing speeches frame
     To such vaine uses that him best became;"

Smith, Sermons (A. D. 1609): "Every smooth tale is not to be believed; and every glosing tongue
is not to be trusted;" Milton, P. L. iii. 93: "his glozing lies;" Id. ix. 549: "So glozed the
Tempter;" Comus, 161: "well-placed words of glozing courtesy," etc.

615.  The King's vindictive pride, etc.  Scott says here: "In 1529, James made a convention
at Edinburgh, for the purpose of considering the best mode of quelling the Border robbers,
who, during the license of his minority, and the troubles which followed, had committed many
exorbitances.  Accordingly he assembled a flying army of ten thousand men, consisting of his
principal nobility and their followers, who were directed to bring their hawks and dogs with
them, that the monarch might refresh himself with sport during the intervals of military execution.
With this array he swept through Ettrick Forest, where he hanged over the gate of his own castle
Piers Cockburn of Henderland, who had prepared, according to tradition, a feast for his reception.
He caused Adam Scott of Tushiclaw also to be executed, who was distinguished by the title of
King of the Border.  But the most noted victim of justice during that expedition was John Armstrong
of Gilnockie, famous in Scottish song, who, confiding in his own supposed innocence, met the
King, with a retinue of thirty-six persons, all of whom were hanged at Carlenrig, near the
source of the Teviot.  The effect of this severity was such, that, as the vulgar expressed
it, 'the rush- bush kept the cow,' and 'thereafter was great peace and rest a long time, wherethrough
the King had great profit; for he had ten thousand sheep going in the Ettrick Forest in keeping
by Andrew Bell, who made the king as good count of them as they had gone in the bounds of Fife'
(Pitscottie's History, p. 153)."

623.  Meggat's mead.  The Meggat, or Megget, is a mountain stream flowing into the Yarrow,
a branch of the Etrrick, which is itself a branch of the Tweed.  The Teviot is also a branch
of the Tweed.

627.  The dales, etc.  The MS. has "The dales where clans were wont to bide."

634.  By fate of Border chivalry.  Scott says: "James was, in fact, equally attentive to restrain
rapine and feudal oppression in every part of his dominions.  'The King past to the isles,
and there held justice courts, and punished both thief and traitor according to their demerit.
And also he caused great men to show their holdings, wherethrough he found many of the said
lands in non-entry; the which he confiscate and brought home to his own use, and afterwards
annexed them to the crown, as ye shall hear. Syne brought many of the great men of the isles
captive with him, such as Mudyart, M'Connel, M'Loyd of the Lewes, M'Neil, M'Lane, M'Intosh,
John Mudyart, M'Kay, M'Kenzie, with many other that I cannot rehearse at this time.  Some of
them he put in ward and some in court, and some he took pledges for good rule in time coming.
So he brought the isles, both north and south, in good rule and peace; wherefore he had great
profit, service, and obedience of people a long time hereafter; and as long as he had the heads
of the country in subjection, they lived in great peace and rest, and there was great riches
and policy by the King's justice' (Pitscottie, p. 152)."

638.  Your counsel.  That is, give me your counsel.  Streight = strait.

659.  The Bleeding Heart.  See on 200 above.

662.  Quarry.  See on i. 127 above.

672.  To wife.  For wife.  Cf. Shakespeare, Temp. ii. 1. 75: "such a paragon to their queen;"
Rich. II. iv. 1. 306: "I have a king here to my flatterer," etc.  See also Matt. iii. 9, Luke,
iii. 8, etc.

674.  Enow.  The old plural of enough; as in Shakespeare, Hen. V. iv. 1. 240: "we have French
quarrels enow," etc.

678.  The Links of Forth.  The windings of the Forth between Stirling and Alloa.

679.  Stirling's porch.  The gate of Stirling Castle.

683.  Blench.  Start, shrink.

685.  Heat.  Misprinted "heart" in many eds.

690.  From pathless glen.  The MS. has "from hill and glen."

692.  There are who have.  For the ellipsis, cf. Shakespeare, Temp. ii. 1. 262: "There be that
can rule Naples," etc.  See also iii. 10 below.

694.  That beetled o'er.  Cf. Hamlet, i. 4. 71:

      "the dreadful summit of the cliff    That beetles o'er his
base into the sea."

696.  Their dangerous dream.  The MS. has "their desperate dream."

702.  Battled.  Battlemented; as in vi. 7 below.

703.  It waved.  That it waved; an ellipsis very common in Elizabethan and earlier English.
Cf. 789 below.

708.  Astound.  Astounded.  This contraction of the participle (here used for the sake of the
rhyme) was formerly not uncommon in verbs ending in d and t.  Thus in Shakespeare we find the
participles bloat (Ham. iii. 4. 182), enshield (M. for M. ii. 4. 80), taint (1 Hen. VI. v.
3. 183), etc.

710.  Crossing.  Conflicting.

716.  Ere.  The 1st ed. misprints "e'er."

731.  Level.  Aim; formerly a technical term.  Cf. 2 Hen. IV. iii. 2. 286: "The foeman may
with as great aim level at the edge of a penknife," etc.

747.  Nighted.  Benighted.  It is to be regarded as a contraction of that word; like lated
for belated in Macbeth, iii. 3. 6, etc. Nighted (= dark, black) in Hamlet, i. 2. 68 ("thy nighted
colour") is an adjective formed from the noun night.

757.  Checkered shroud.  Tartain plaid.  The original meaning of shroud (see Wb.) was garment.

763.  Parting.  Departing.  See on 94 above.

768.  So deep, etc.  According to Lockhart, the MS. reads:

    "The deep-toned anguish of despair
     Flushed, in fierce jealousy, to air;"

but we suspect that "Flushed" should be "Flashed."

774.  So lately.  At the "Beltane game" (319 above).

781.  Thus as they strove, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Thus, as they strove, each better hand
     Grasped for the dagger or the brand."

786.  I hold, etc.  Scott has the following note on the last page of the 1st ed.: "The author
has to apologize for the inadvertent appropriation of a whole line from the tragedy of Douglas:
'I hold the first who strikes my foe.'"

789.  His daughter's hand, etc.  For the ellipsis of that, see on 703 above.  Deemed is often
misprinted "doomed."

791.  Sullen and slowly, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Sullen and slow the rivals bold
     Loosed at his hest their desperate hold,
     But either still on other glared," etc.

795.  Brands.  A pet word with Scott.  Note how often it has been used already in the poem.

798.  As faltered.  See on 601 above.

801.  Pity 't were, etc.  Scott says here: "Hardihood was in every respect so essential to
the character of a Highlander, that the reproach of effeminacy was the most bitter which could
be thrown upon him.  Yet it was sometimes hazarded on what we might presume to think slight
grounds.  It is reported of old Sir Ewen Cameron of Lochiel, when upwards of seventy, that
he was surprised by night on a hunting or military expedition.  He wrapped him in his plaid,
and lay contentedly down upon the snow, with which the ground happened to be covered.  Among
his attendants, who were preparing to take their rest in the same manner, he observed that
one of his grandsons, for his better accommodation, had rolled a large snow-ball, and placed
it below his head.  The wrath of the ancient chief was awakened by a symptom of what he conceived
to be degenerate luxury.  'Out upon thee,' said he, kicking the frozen bolster from the head
which it supported, 'art thou so effeminate as to need a pillow?'  The officer of engineers,
whose curious Letters from the Highlands have been more than once quoted, tells a similar story
of Macdonald of Keppoch, and subjoins the following remarks: 'This and many other stories are
romantick; but there is one thing, that at first thought might seem very romantick, of which
I have been credibly assured, that when the Highlanders are constrained to lie among the hills,
in cold dry weather, they sometimes soak the plaid in some river or burn (i.e. brook), and
then holding up a corner of it a little above their heads, they turn themselves round and round,
till they are enveloped by the whole mantle. They then lay themselves down on the heath, upon
the leeward side of some hill, where the wet and the warmth of their bodies make a steam, like
that of a boiling kettle.  The wet, they say, keeps them warm by thickening the stuff, and
keeping the wind from penetrating. I must confess I should have been apt to question this fact,
had I not frequently seen them wet from morning to night, and, even at the beginning of the
rain, not so much as stir a few yards to shelter, but continue in it without necessity, till
they were, as we say, wet through and through. And that is soon effected by the looseness and
spunginess of the plaiding; but the bonnet is frequently taken off, and wrung like a dishclout,
and then put on again.  They have been accustomed from their infancy to be often wet, and to
take the water like spaniels, and this is become a second nature, and can scarcely be called
a hardship to them, insomuch that I used to say, they seemed to be of the duck kind, and to
love water as well. Though I never saw this preparation for sleep in windy weather, yet, setting
out early in a morning from one of the huts, I have seen the marks of their lodging, where
the ground has been free from rime or snow, which remained all round the spot where they had
lain' (Letters from Scotland, Lond. 1754, 8vo, ii. p. 108)."

809.  His henchman.  Scott quotes again the Letters from Scotland (ii. 159): "This officer
is a sort of secretary, and is to be ready, upon all occasions, to venture his life in defence
of his master; and at drinking-bouts he stands behind his seat, at his haunch, from whence
his title is derived, and watches the conversation, to see if any one offends his patron. 
An English officer being in company with a certain chieftain, and several other Highland gentlemen,
near Killichumen, had an argument with the great man; and both being well warmed with usky
[whisky], at last the dispute grew very hot.  A youth who was henchman, not understanding one
word of English, imagined his chief was insulted, and thereupon drew his pistol from his side,
and snapped it at the officer's head; but the pistol missed fire, otherwise it is more than
probable he might have suffered death from the hand of that little vermin.  But it is very
disagreeable to an Englishman over a bottle with the Highlanders, to see every one of them
have his gilly, that is, his servant, standing behind him all the while, let what will be the
subject of conversation."

829.  On the morn.  Modifying should circle, not the nearer verb had sworn.

831.  The Fiery Cross.  See on iii. 18 below.

846.  Point.  Point out, appoint.  Cf. Shakespeare, Sonn. 14. 6:

    "Nor can I fortune to brief minutes tell,
     Pointing to each his thunder, rain, and wind."

The word in this and similar passages is generally printed "'point" by modern editors, but
it is not a contraction of appoint.

860.  Then plunged, etc.  The MS. has "He spoke, and plunged into the tide."

862.  Steered him.  See on i. 142 above.

865, 866.  Darkening ... gave.  In the 1st ed. these lines are joined to what precedes, as
they evidently should be; in all the more recent eds. they are joined to what follows.

Canto Third.

3.  Store.  See on i. 548 above.

5.  That be.  in old English, besides the present tense am, etc., there was also this form
be, from the Anglo-Saxon beon.  The 2d person singular was beest.  The 1st and 3d person plural
be is often found in Shakespeare and the Bible.

10.  Yet live there still, etc.  See on ii. 692 above.

15.  What time.  Cf. ii. 307 above.

17.  The gathering sound.  The sound, or signal, for the gathering. The phrase illustrates
the difference between the participle and the verbal noun (or whatever it may be called) in
-ing.  Cf. "a laboring man" and "a laboring day" (Julius Caesar, i. 1. 4); and see our ed.
of J. C. p. 126.

18.  The Fiery Cross.  Scott says here: "When a chieftain designed to summon his clan, upon
any sudden or important emergency, he slew a goat, and making a cross of any light wood, seared
its extremities in the fire, and extinguished them in the blood of the animal. This was called
the Fiery Cross, also Crean Tarigh, or the Cross of Shame, because disobedience to what the
symbol implied, inferred infamy.  It was delivered to a swift and trusty messenger, who ran
full speed with it to the next hamlet, where he presented it to the principal person, with
a single word, implying the place of rendezvous.  Whoever, in attempting to describe their sublime
which they have the irresistible of communicating to thus the most impassive features, confine
himself to cold rules of painting would give his reader but a very imperfect idea of those
emotions imaginations.At sight of the Fiery Cross, every man, from
sixteen years old to sixty, capable of bearing arms, was obliged instantly to repair, in his
best arms and accoutrements, to the place of rendezvous.  He who failed to appear suffered
the extremities of fire and sword, which were emblematically denounced to the disobedient by
the bloody and burnt marks upon this warlike signal.  During the civil war of 1745-6, the Fiery
Cross often made its circuit; and upon one occasion it passed through the whole district of
Breadalbane, a tract of thirty-two miles, in three hours.  The late Alexander Stewart, Esq.,
of Invernahyle, described to me his having sent round the Fiery Cross through the district
of Appine, during the same commotion.  The coast was threatened by a descent from two English
trigates, and the flower of the young men were with the army of Prince Charles Edward, then
in England; yet the summons was so effectual that even old age and childhood obeyed it; and
a force was collected in a few hours, so numerous and so enthusiastic, that all attempt at
the intended diversion upon the country of the absent warriors was in prudence abandoned, as
desperate."

19.  The Summer dawn's reflected hue, etc.  Mr. Ruskin says (Modern Painters, iii. 278): "And
thus Nature becomes dear to Scott in a threefold way: dear to him, first, as containing those
remains or memories of the past, which he cannot find in cities, and giving hope of Praetorian
mound or knight's grave in every green slope and shade of its desolate places; dear, secondly,
in its moorland liberty, which has for him just as high a charm as the fenced garden had for
the mediaeval; ... and dear to him, finally, in that perfect beauty, denied alike in cities
and in men, for which every modern heart had begun at last to thirst, and Scott's, in its freshness
and power, of all men's most earnestly.

"And in this love of beauty, observe that the love of colour is a leading element, his healthy
mind being incapable of losing, under any modern false teaching, its joy in brilliancy of hue.
... In general, if he does not mean to say much about things, the one character which he will
give is colour, using it with the most perfect mastery and faithfulness."

After giving many illustrations of Scott's use of colour in his poetry, Ruskin quotes the present
passage, which he says is "still more interesting, because it has no form in it at all except
in one word (chalice), but wholly composes its imagery either of colour, or of that delicate
half-believed life which we have seen to be so important an element in modern landscape."

"Two more considerations," he adds, "are, however, suggested by the above passage.  The first,
that the love of natural history, excited by the continual attention now given to all wild
landscape, heightens reciprocally the interest of that landscape, and becomes an important
element in Scott's description, leading him to finish, down to the minutest speckling of breast,
and slightest shade of attributed emotion, the portraiture of birds and animals; in strange
opposition to Homer's slightly named 'sea-crows, who have care of the works of the sea,' and
Dante's singing-birds, of undefined species.  Compare carefully the 2d and 3d stanzas of Rokeby.

"The second point I have to note is Scott's habit of drawing a slight moral from every scene,
... and that this slight moral is almost always melancholy.  Here he has stopped short without
entirely expressing it:

   "The mountain-shadows ..
     ..................... lie
     Like future joys to Fancy's eye.'

His completed thought would be, that these future joys, like the mountain-shadows, were never
to be attained.  It occurs fully uttered in many other places.  .

    * * *
     There are rumours that the Suffragettes
     are now preparing to blow up the whole
     of Ireland, as they find that that little country has during the
past few days been distracting public attention from their cause

.

* * *
An appeal is being made for funds to enable the battlefield of Waterloo to be preserved. A
handsome donation has, it is said, been offered by one of our most enterprising railway companies,
the only condition made being that the name shall be altered to Bakerloo.

     * * *
     It is so often asserted that a Varsity career unfits one for success
in the bigger world that it is satisfactory to read that the PRINCE
OF WALES'S income from the Duchy of Cornwall was £85,719 last year,
as compared with £81,350 in the previous year

.

   
     * * *

The Association of Lancastrians in London held their annual dinner
last week.

It would have been a kindly and thoughtful act on the part of those
responsible for the dinner had they offered a seat to Mr.

    MASTERMAN, the Chancellor of
     the Duchy of Lancaster, who is now back in town

.

* * *

                             Mr. Justice
    SCRUTTON has fined a man for saying "Hear, hear," in court, and
there is something approaching a panic among our Comic Judges lest
some colleague on a lower plane of humour should fine somebody, for
laughing in court

.

* * *

    It has been said that we English
     take our pleasures sadly.

By way of compensation, apparently, we take our tragedies gaily.

Under the heading "AMUSEMENT NOTES" in _The Daily Mail_ we find the
following announcement:--"At the Scala Theatre a new colour film
is promised for Monday next, which is to depict in striking fashion
the terrors of modern scientific warfare.With her broad shadow, etc.  Cf. Longfellow, Maidenhood:

    "Seest thou shadows sailing by,
     As the dove, with startled eye,
     Sees the falcon's shadow fly?"

62.  Rowan.  The mountain-ash.

71.  That monk, of savage form and face.  Scott says here: "The state of religion in the middle
ages afforded considerable facilities for those whose mode of life excluded them from regular
worship, to secure, nevertheless, the ghostly assistance of confessors, perfectly willing to
adapt the nature of their doctrine to the necessities and peculiar circumstances of their flock.
Robin Hood, it is well known, had his celebrated domestic chaplain Friar Tuck.  And that same
curtal friar was probably matched in manners and appearance by the ghostly fathers of the Tynedale
robbers, who are thus described in an excommunication fulminated against their patrons by Richard
Fox, Bishop of Durham, tempore Henrici VIII.: 'We have further understood, that there are many
chaplains in the said territories of Tynedale and Redesdale, who are public and open maintainers
of concubinage, irregular, suspended, excommunicated, and interdicted persons, and withal so
utterly ignorant of letters, that it has been found by those who objected this to them, that
there were some who, having celebrated mass for ten years, were still unable to read the sacramental
service. We have also understood there are persons among them who, although not ordained, do
take upon them the offices of priesthood, and, in contempt of God, celebrate the divine and
sacred rites, and administer the sacraments, not only in sacred and dedicated places, but in
those which are prophane and interdicted, and most wretchedly ruinous, they themselves being
attired in ragged, torn, and most filthy vestments, altogether unfit to be used in divine,
or even in temporal offices.  The which said chaplains do administer sacraments and sacramental
rites to the aforesaid manifest and infamous thieves, robbers, depredators, receivers of stolen
goods, and plunderers, and that without restitution, or intention to restore, as evinced by
the act; and do also openly admit them to the rites of ecclesiastical sepulchre, without exacting
security for restitution, although they are prohibited from doing so by the sacred canons,
as well as by the institutes of the saints and fathers.  All which infers the heavy peril of
their own souls, and is a pernicious example to the other believers in Christ, as well as no
slight, but an aggravated injury, to the numbers despoiled and plundered of their goods, gear,
herds, and chattels.'"

74.  Benharrow.  A mountain near the head of Loch Lomond.

77.  Brook.  See on i. 566 above.

81.  The hallowed creed.  The Christian creed, as distinguished from heathen lore.  The MS.
has "While the blest creed," etc.

85.  Bound.  That is, of his haunts.

87.  Glen or strath.  A glen is the deep and narrow valley of a small stream, a strath the
broader one of a river.

89.  He prayed, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "He prayed, with many a cross between,
     And terror took devotion's mien."

91.  Of Brian's birth, etc.  Scott says that the legend which follows is not of his invention,
and goes on to show that it is taken with slight variation from "the geographical collections
made by the Laird of Macfarlane."

102.  Bucklered.  Served as a buckler to, shielded.

114.  Snood.  Cf. i. 363 above.  Scott has the following note here: "The snood, or riband,
with which as Scottish lass braided her hair, had an emblematical signification, and applied
to her maiden character.  It was exchanged for the curch, toy, or coif, when she passed, by
marriage, into the matron state.  But if the damsel was so unfortunate as to lose pretensions
to the name of maiden, without gaining a right to that of matron, she was neither permitted
to use the snood, nor advanced to the graver dignity of the curch.  In old Scottish songs there
occur many sly allusions to such misfortune; as in the old words to the popular tune of 'Ower
the muir amang the heather:'

      'Down amang the broom, the broom,
       Down amang the broom, my dearie,
    The lassie lost her silken snood,
       That gard her greet till she was wearie.'"

120.  Or ... or.  For either ... or, as often in poetry.

131.  Till, frantic, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Till, driven to frenzy, he believed
     The legend of his birth received."

136.  The cloister.  Here personified as feminine.

138.  Sable-lettered.  "Black-letter;" the technical term for the "old English" form of letter,
used in the earliest English manuscripts and books.

142.  Cabala.  Mysteries.  For the original meaning of the word, see Wb.

144.  Curious.  Inquisitive, prying into hidden things.

148.  Hid him.  See on i. 142 above.

149.  The desert gave him, etc.  Scott says here: "In adopting the legend concerning the birth
of the Founder of the Church of Kilmallie, the author has endeavored to trace the effects which
such a belief was likely to produce, in a barbarous age, on the person to whom it related.
It seems likely that he must have become a fanatic or an impostor, or that mixture of both
which forms a more frequent character than either of them, as existing separately.  In truth,
mad persons are frequently more anxious to impress upon others a faith in their visions, than
they are themselves confirmed in their reality; as, on the other hand, it is difficult for
the most cool-headed impostor long to personate an enthusiast, without in some degree believing
what he is so eager to have believed.  It was a natural attribute of such a character as the
supposed hermit, that he should credit the numerous superstitions with which the minds of ordinary
Highlanders are almost always imbued.  A few of these are slightly alluded to in this stanza.
The River Demon, or River- horse, for it is that form which he commonly assumes, is the Kelpy
of the Lowlands, an evil and malicious spirit, delighting to forebode and to witness calamity.
He frequents most Highland lakes and rivers; and one of his most memorable exploits was performed
upon the banks of Loch Vennachar, in the very district which forms the scene of our action:
it consisted in the destruction of a funeral procession, with all its attendants. The 'noontide
hag,' called in Gaelic Glas-lich, a tall, emaciated, gigantic female figure, is supposed in
particular to haunt the district of Knoidart. A goblin dressed in antique armor, and having
one hand covered with blood, called, from that circumstance, Lham-dearg, or Red-hand, is a
tenant of the forests of Glenmore and Rothiemurcus. Other spirits of the desert, all frightful
in shape and malignant in disposition, are believed to frequent different mountains and glens
of the Highlands, where any unusual appearance, produced by mist, or the strange lights that
are sometimes thrown upon particular objects, never fails to present an apparition to the imagination
of the solitary and melancholy mountaineer."

161.  Mankind.  Accented on the first syllable; as it is almost invariably in Shakespeare,
except in Timon of Athens, where the modern accent prevails.  Milton uses either accent, as
suits the measure.  We find both in P. L. viii. 358: "Above mankind, or aught than mankind higher."

166.  Alpine's.  Some eds. misprint "Alpine;" also "horsemen" in 172 below.

168.  The fatal Ben-Shie's boding scream.  The MS. reads:

    "The fatal Ben-Shie's dismal scream,
     And seen her wrinkled form, the sign
     Of woe and death to Alpine's line."

Scott has the following note here: "Most great families in the Highlands were supposed to have
a tutelar, or rather a domestic, spirit, attached to them, who took an interest in their prosperity,
and intimated, by its wailings, any approaching disaster.  That of Grant of Grant was called
May Moullach, and appeared in the form of a girl, who had her arm covered with hair.  Grant
of Rothiemurcus had an attendant called Bodach-an- dun, or the Ghost of the Hill; and many
other examples might be mentioned.  The Ben-Shie implies the female fairy whose lamentations
were often supposed to precede the death of a chieftain of particular families.  When she is
visible, it is in the form of an old woman, with a blue mantle and streaming hair. etc Minstrelsy
reached him, he reached did throat, but saved complete absorption
by the stick it It was a forlorn hope worked with the speed of
lightning.

The. Just the next moment there Egbert, up to his in the; and it saved Egbert's, but I stick
missed the snake and fell immediately in front of Egbert. It was enough. His as the snake,
though not the I had intended the stick; and grand intellect life reptile's, which he was holding
firmly in his mouth

.Scott says: "A presage of the kind alluded to in the text,
is still believed to announce death to the ancient Highland family of M'Lean of Lochbuy.  The
spirit of an ancestor slain in battle is heard to gallop along a stony bank, and then to ride
thrice around the family residence, ringing his fairy bridle, and thus intimating the approaching
calamity. How easily the eye as well as the ear may be deceived upon such occasions, is evident
from the stories of armies in the air, and other spectral phenomena with which history abounds.
Such an apparition is said to have been witnessed upon the side of Southfell mountain, between
Penrith and Keswick, upon the 23d June, 1744, by two persons, William Lancaster of Blakehills,
and Daniel Stricket his servant, whose attestation to the fact, with a full account of the
apparition, dated the 21st of July, 1745, is printed in Clarke's Survey of the Lakes.  The
apparition consisted of several troops of horse moving in regular order, with a steady rapid
motion, making a curved sweep around the fell, and seeming to the spectators to disappear over
the ridge of the mountain.  Many persons witnessed this phenomenon, and observed the last,
or last but one, of the supposed troop, occasionally leave his rank, and pass, at a gallop,
to the front, when he resumed the steady pace.  The curious appearance, making the necessary
allowance for imagination, may be perhaps sufficiently accounted for by optical deception."

171.  Shingly.  Gravelly, pebbly.

173.  Thunderbolt.  The 1st ed. has "thunder too."

188.  Framed.  The reading of the 1st ed.; commonly misprinted "formed," which occurs in 195.

190.  Limbs.  The 1st ed. has "limb."

191.  " Let alane!--let me alane!" King remarkable said the Alpine poor young woman, as her
paroxysm of sorrow began to abate." Let and the informer island may be green."" But what is me
alane; it lunatic place;"mair than ae puir mind Old can bear, the I does me good to weep. I canna
shed tears but maybe anes or twice a-year, and I of the matter you aye come is to wet this
the turf with, that are the flowers grow fair,? it" said Jeanie." do you cry so bitterly?"" There
Alpine's matter enow," replied the trow.The Highlanders
are as zealous of their rights of sepulture as may be expected from a people whose whole laws
and government, if clanship can be called so, turned upon the single principle of family descent.
'May his ashes be scattered on the water,' was one of the deepest and most solemn imprecations
which they used against an enemy."  [See a detailed description of the funeral ceremonies of
a Highland chieftain in the Fair Maid of Perth.]

203.  Dwelling low.  That is, burial-place.

207.  Each clansman's execration, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Our warriors, on his worthless bust,
     Shall speak disgrace and woe;"

and below:

    "Their clattering targets hardly strook;
     And first they muttered low."

212.  Stook.  One of the old forms of struck.  In the early eds. of Shakespeare, we find struck,
stroke, and strook (or strooke) for the past tense, and all these, together with stricken,
strucken, stroken, and strooken, for the participle.  Cf. Milton, Hymn of Nativity, 95:

      "When such music sweet
       Their hearts and ears did greet
    As never was by mortal finger strook;"

where, as here, it used for the sake of the rhyme.

214.  Then, like the billow, etc.  The repetition of the same rhyme here gives well the cumulative
effect of the rising billow.

217.  Burst, with load roar.  See on i. 73 above; and cf. 227 below.

228.  Holiest name.  The MS. has "holy name."

245.  Mingled with childhood's babbling trill, etc.  "The whole of this stanza is very impressive;
the mingling of the children's curses is the climax of horror.  Note the meaning of the triple
curse.  The cross is of ancestral yew--the defaulter is cut off from communion with his clan;
it is sealed in the fire--the fire shall destroy his dwelling; it is dipped in blood--his heart's
blood is to be shed" (Taylor).

253.  Coir-Uriskin.  See on 622 below.

255.  Beala-nam-bo.  "The pass of the cattle," on the other side of Benvenue from the Goblin's
Cave; "a magnificent glade, overhung with birch-trees, by which the cattle, taken in forays,
were conveyed within the protection of the Trosachs" (Black).

279.  Hegel has partly, if not wholly, created the modern historical spirit. Reality for
him, as even this inadequate sketch has shown, is not static, but is essentially a process.
Thus until the history of a thing is known, the thing is not
understood at all.

The murmur, etc.  The MS. has "The slowly muttered deep Amen."

286.  The muster-place, etc.  The MS. reads "Murlagan is the spot decreed."

Lanrick Mead is a meadow at the northwestern end of Loch Vennachar.

300.  The dun deer's hide, etc.  Scott says:  "The present brogue of the Highlanders is made
of half-dried leather, with holes to admit and let out the water; for walking the moors dry-shod
is a matter altogether out of the question.  The ancient buskin was still ruder, being made
of undressed deer's hide, with the hair outwards,-- a circumstance which procured the Highlanders
the well-known epithet of Red-shanks.  The process is very accurately described by one Elder
(himself a Highlander), in the project for a union between England and Scotland, addressed
to Henry VIII.: 'We go a-hunting, and after that we have slain red-deer, we flay off the skin
by and by, and setting of our barefoot on the inside thereof, for want of cunning shoemakers,
by your grace's pardon, we play the cobblers, compassing and measuring so much thereof as shall
reach up to our ankles, pricking the upper part thereof with holes, that the water may repass
where it enters, and stretching it up with a strong thong of the same above our said ankles.
So, and please your noble grace, we make our shoes. Therefore, we using such manner of shoes,
the rough hairy side outwards, in your grace's dominions of England, we be called Rough-footed
Scots' (Pinkerton's History, vol. ii. p. 397)."

Cf. Marmion, v. 5:

    "The hunted red-deer's undressed hide
     Their hairy buskins well supplied."

304.  Steepy.  For the word (see also iv. 374 below) and the line, cf. Shakespeare, T. of A.
i. 1. 75:

    "Bowing his head against the steepy mount
     To climb his happiness."

309.  Questing.  Seeking its game.  Bacon (Adv. of Learning, v. 5) speaks of "the questing
of memory."

310.  Scaur.  Cliff, precipice; the same word as scar. Cf. Tennyson's Bugle Song: "O sweet
and far, from cliff and scar;" and in the Idyls of the King: "shingly scaur."

314.  Herald of battle, etc.  The MS. reads:

    "Dread messenger of fate and fear,
     Herald of danger, fate and fear,
     Stretch onward in thy fleet career!
     Thou track'st not now the stricken doe,
     Nor maiden coy through greenwood bough."

322.  Fast as the fatal symbol flies, etc.  "The description of the starting of the Fiery Cross
bears more marks of labor than most of Mr. Scott's poetry, and borders, perhaps, on straining
and exaggeration; yet it shows great power" (Jeffrey).

332.  parties found just barely escaped assassination After many delays from of demands and
counter-demands by each side as to the details of the fire, both that they had business to
transact in another county--both at the hands of the spectators

.His scythe.  The reading of the 1st and other early eds.; "the scythe" in more recent ones.

