The most honourable testimony in favour of Aristophanes is that of the sage Plato, who in an
epigram says, that the Graces chose his soul for their abode, who was constantly reading him,
and transmitted the _Clouds_, (this very play, in which, with the meshes of the sophists, philosophy
itself, and even his master Socrates, was attacked), to Dionysius the elder, with the remark,
that from it he would be best able to understand the state of things at Athens. He could hardly
mean merely that the play was a proof of the unbridled democratic freedom which prevailed in
Athens; but must have intended it as an acknowledgment of the poet's profound knowledge of
the world, and his insight into the whole machinery of the civil constitution. Plato has also
admirably characterised him in his _Symposium_, where he puts into his mouth a speech on love,
which Aristophanes, far from every thing like high enthusiasm, considers merely in a sensual
view. His description of it is, however, equally bold and ingenious.

We might apply to the pieces of Aristophanes the motto of a pleasant and acute adventurer in
Goethe: "Mad, but clever." In them we are best enabled to conceive why the Dramatic Art in
general was consecrated to Bacchus: it is the intoxication of poetry, the Bacchanalia of fun.
This faculty will at times assert its rights as well as others; and hence several nations have
set apart certain festivals, such as Saturnalia, Carnivals, &c., in which the people may give
themselves altogether up to frolicsome follies, that when once the fit is over, they may for
the rest of the year remain quiet, and apply themselves to serious business. The Old Comedy
is a general masquerade of the world, during which much passes that is not authorised by the
ordinary rules of propriety; but during which much also that is diverting, witty, and even
instructive, is manifested, which would never be heard of without this momentary breaking up
of the barricades of precision.

However vulgar and even corrupt Aristophanes may have been in his own personal propensities,
and however offensive his jokes are to good manners and good taste, we cannot deny to him,
both in the general plan and execution of his poems, the praise of carefulness, and the masterly
skill of a finished artist. His language is extremely polished, the purest Atticism reigns
in it throughout, and with the greatest dexterity he adapts it to every tone, from the most
familiar dialogue up to the high elevation of the Dithyrambic ode. We cannot doubt that he
would have been eminently successful in grave poetry, when we see how at times with capricious
wantonness he lavishes it only to destroy at the next moment the impression he has made. The
elegant choice of the language becomes only the more attractive from the contrast in which
it is occasionally displayed by him; for he not only indulges at times in the rudest expressions
of the people, the different dialects, and even in the broken Greek of barbarians, but he extends
the same arbitrary power which he exercised over nature and human affairs, to language itself,
and by composition, allusion to names of persons, or imitation of particular sounds, coins
the strangest words imaginable. The structure of his versification is not less artificial than
that of the tragedians; he uses the same forms, but differently modified: his object is ease
and variety, instead of gravity and dignity; but amidst all this apparent irregularity, he
still adheres with great accuracy to the laws of metrical composition. As Aristophanes, in
the exercise of his separate but infinitely varied and versatile art, appears to me to have
displayed the richest development of almost every poetical talent, so also whenever I read
his works I am no less astonished at the extraordinary capacity of his hearers, which the very
nature of them presupposes. We might, indeed, expect from the citizens of a popular government
an intimate acquaintance with the history and constitution of their country, with public events
and transactions, with the personal circumstance of all their contemporaries of any note or
consequence. But besides all this, Aristophanes required of his auditory a cultivated poetical
taste; to understand his parodies, they must have almost every word of the tragical master-pieces
by heart. And what quickness of perception was requisite to catch, in passing the lightest
and most covert irony, the most unexpected sallies and strangest allusions, which are frequently
denoted by the mere twisting of a syllable! We may boldly affirm, that notwithstanding all
the explanations which have come down to us--notwithstanding the accumulation of learning which
has been spent upon it, one-half of the wit of Aristophanes is altogether lost to the moderns.
Nothing but the incredible acuteness and vivacity of the Athenian intellect could make it conceivable
that these comedies which, with all their farcical drolleries, do, nevertheless, all the while
bear upon the most grave interests of human life, could ever have formed a source of popular
amusement. We may envy the poet who could reckon on so clever and accomplished a public; but
this was in truth a very dangerous advantage. Spectators whose understandings were so quick,
would not be easily pleased. Thus Aristophanes complains of the too fastidious taste of the
Athenians, with whom the most admired of his predecessors were immediately out of favour as
soon as the slightest trace of a falling off in their mental powers was perceivable. On the
other hand, he allows that the other Greeks could not bear the slightest comparison with them
in a knowledge of the Dramatic Art. Even genius in this department strove to excel at Athens,
and here, too, the competition was confined within the narrow period of a few festivals, during
which the people always expected to see something new, of which there was always a plentiful
supply. The prizes (on which all depended, there being no other means of gaining publicity)
were distributed after a single representation. We may easily imagine, therefore, the state
of perfection to which this would be carried under the directing care of the poet. If we also
take into consideration the high state of the co-operating arts, the utmost distinctness of
delivery (both in speaking and singing,) of the most finished poetry, as well as the magnificence
and vast size of the theatre, we shall then have some idea of a theatrical treat, the like
of which has never since been offered to the world.

