[Illustration: GERTRUDE ATHERTON]

The

Bell in the Fog

And Other Stories

By Gertrude Atherton

Author of "Rulers of Kings" "The Conqueror" etc.

New York and London Harper & Brothers Publishers :: 1905

To The Master

Henry James

Contents

   I. THE BELL IN THE FOG

  II. THE STRIDING PLACE

 III. THE DEAD AND THE COUNTESS

  IV. THE GREATEST GOOD OF THE GREATEST NUMBER

   V. A MONARCH OF A SMALL SURVEY

  VI. THE TRAGEDY OF A SNOB

 VII. CROWNED WITH ONE CREST

VIII. DEATH AND THE WOMAN

  IX. A PROLOGUE (TO AN UNWRITTEN PLAY)

   X. TALBOT OF URSULA

I

The Bell in the Fog

I

The great author had realized one of the dreams of his ambitious youth, the possession of an
ancestral hall in England. It was not so much the good American's reverence for ancestors that
inspired the longing to consort with the ghosts of an ancient line, as artistic appreciation
of the mellowness, the dignity, the aristocratic aloofness of walls that have sheltered, and
furniture that has embraced, generations and generations of the dead. To mere wealth, only
his astute and incomparably modern brain yielded respect; his ego raised its goose-flesh at
the sight of rooms furnished with a single check, conciliatory as the taste might be. The dumping
of the old interiors of Europe into the glistening shells of the United States not only roused
him almost to passionate protest, but offended his patriotism--which he classified among his
unworked ideals. The average American was not an artist, therefore he had no excuse for even
the affectation of cosmopolitanism. Heaven knew he was national enough in everything else,
from his accent to his lack of repose; let his surroundings be in keeping.

Orth had left the United States soon after his first successes, and, his art being too great
to be confounded with locality, he had long since ceased to be spoken of as an American author.
All civilized Europe furnished stages for his puppets, and, if never picturesque nor impassioned,
his originality was as overwhelming as his style. His subtleties might not always be understood--indeed,
as a rule, they were not--but the musical mystery of his language and the penetrating charm
of his lofty and cultivated mind induced raptures in the initiated, forever denied to those
who failed to appreciate him.

His following was not a large one, but it was very distinguished. The aristocracies of the
earth gave to it; and not to understand and admire Ralph Orth was deliberately to relegate
one's self to the ranks. But the elect are few, and they frequently subscribe to the circulating
libraries; on the Continent, they buy the Tauchnitz edition; and had not Mr. Orth inherited
a sufficiency of ancestral dollars to enable him to keep rooms in Jermyn Street, and the wardrobe
of an Englishman of leisure, he might have been forced to consider the tastes of the middle-class
at a desk in Hampstead. But, as it mercifully was, the fashionable and exclusive sets of London
knew and sought him. He was too wary to become a fad, and too sophisticated to grate or bore;
consequently, his popularity continued evenly from year to year, and long since he had come
to be regarded as one of them. He was not keenly addicted to sport, but he could handle a gun,
and all men respected his dignity and breeding. They cared less for his books than women did,
perhaps because patience is not a characteristic of their sex. I am alluding, however, in this
instance, to men-of-the-world. A group of young literary men--and one or two women--put him
on a pedestal and kissed the earth before it. Naturally, they imitated him, and as this flattered
him, and he had a kindly heart deep among the cere-cloths of his formalities, he sooner or
later wrote "appreciations" of them all, which nobody living could understand, but which owing
to the sub-title and signature answered every purpose.

With all this, however, he was not utterly content. From the 12th of August until late in the
winter--when he did not go to Homburg and the Riviera--he visited the best houses in England,
slept in state chambers, and meditated in historic parks; but the country was his one passion,
and he longed for his own acres.

He was turning fifty when his great-aunt died and made him her heir: "as a poor reward for
his immortal services to literature," read the will of this phenomenally appreciative relative.
The estate was a large one. There was a rush for his books; new editions were announced. He
smiled with cynicism, not unmixed with sadness; but he was very grateful for the money, and
as soon as his fastidious taste would permit he bought him a country-seat.

The place gratified all his ideals and dreams--for he had romanced about his sometime English
possession as he had never dreamed of woman. It had once been the property of the Church, and
the ruin of cloister and chapel above the ancient wood was sharp against the low pale sky.
Even the house itself was Tudor, but wealth from generation to generation had kept it in repair;
and the lawns were as velvety, the hedges as rigid, the trees as aged as any in his own works.
It was not a castle nor a great property, but it was quite perfect; and for a long while he
felt like a bridegroom on a succession of honeymoons. He often laid his hand against the rough
ivied walls in a lingering caress.

After a time, he returned the hospitalities of his friends, and his invitations, given with
the exclusiveness of his great distinction, were never refused. Americans visiting England
eagerly sought for letters to him; and if they were sometimes benumbed by that cold and formal
presence, and awed by the silences of Chillingsworth--the few who entered there--they thrilled
in anticipation of verbal triumphs, and forthwith bought an entire set of his books. It was
characteristic that they dared not ask him for his autograph.

Although women invariably described him as "brilliant," a few men affirmed that he was gentle
and lovable, and any one of them was well content to spend weeks at Chillingsworth with no
other companion. But, on the whole, he was rather a lonely man.

It occurred to him how lonely he was one gay June morning when the sunlight was streaming through
his narrow windows, illuminating tapestries and armor, the family portraits of the young profligate
from whom he had made this splendid purchase, dusting its gold on the black wood of wainscot
and floor. He was in the gallery at the moment, studying one of his two favorite portraits,
a gallant little lad in the green costume of Robin Hood. The boy's expression was imperious
and radiant, and he had that perfect beauty which in any disposition appealed so powerfully
to the author. But as Orth stared to-day at the brilliant youth, of whose life he knew nothing,
he suddenly became aware of a human stirring at the foundations of his aesthetic pleasure.

"I wish he were alive and here," he thought, with a sigh. "What a jolly little companion he
would be! And this fine old mansion would make a far more complementary setting for him than
for me."

He turned away abruptly, only to find himself face to face with the portrait of a little girl
who was quite unlike the boy, yet so perfect in her own way, and so unmistakably painted by
the same hand, that he had long since concluded they had been brother and sister. She was angelically
fair, and, young as she was--she could not have been more than six years old--her dark-blue
eyes had a beauty of mind which must have been remarkable twenty years later. Her pouting mouth
was like a little scarlet serpent, her skin almost transparent, her pale hair fell waving--not
curled with the orthodoxy of childhood--about her tender bare shoulders. She wore a long white
frock, and clasped tightly against her breast a doll far more gorgeously arrayed than herself.
Behind her were the ruins and the woods of Chillingsworth.

Orth had studied this portrait many times, for the sake of an art which he understood almost
as well as his own; but to-day he saw only the lovely child. He forgot even the boy in the
intensity of this new and personal absorption.

"Did she live to grow up, I wonder?" he thought. "She should have made a remarkable, even a
famous woman, with those eyes and that brow, but--could the spirit within that ethereal frame
stand the enlightenments of maturity? Would not that mind--purged, perhaps, in a long probation
from the dross of other existences--flee in disgust from the commonplace problems of a woman's
life? Such perfect beings should die while they are still perfect. Still, it is possible that
this little girl, whoever she was, was idealized by the artist, who painted into her his own
dream of exquisite childhood."

Again he turned away impatiently. "I believe I am rather fond of children," he admitted. "I
catch myself watching them on the street when they are pretty enough. Well, who does not like
them?" he added, with some defiance.

He went back to his work; he was chiselling a story which was to be the foremost excuse of
a magazine as yet unborn. At the end of half an hour he threw down his wondrous instrument--which
looked not unlike an ordinary pen--and making no attempt to disobey the desire that possessed
him, went back to the gallery. The dark splendid boy, the angelic little girl were all he saw--even
of the several children in that roll-call of the past--and they seemed to look straight down
his eyes into depths where the fragmentary ghosts of unrecorded ancestors gave faint musical
response.

"The dead's kindly recognition of the dead," he thought. "But I wish these children were alive."

For a week he haunted the gallery, and the children haunted him. Then he became impatient and
angry. "I am mooning like a barren woman," he exclaimed. "I must take the briefest way of getting
those youngsters off my mind."

With the help of his secretary, he ransacked the library, and finally brought to light the
gallery catalogue which had been named in the inventory. He discovered that his children were
the Viscount Tancred and the Lady Blanche Mortlake, son and daughter of the second Earl of
Teignmouth. Little wiser than before, he sat down at once and wrote to the present earl, asking
for some account of the lives of the children. He awaited the answer with more restlessness
than he usually permitted himself, and took long walks, ostentatiously avoiding the gallery.

"I believe those youngsters have obsessed me," he thought, more than once. "They certainly
are beautiful enough, and the last time I looked at them in that waning light they were fairly
alive. How beautiful is that ancient description of him who would win the
joy of living in Brahma (Tagore, _Sadhanâ_, p. 106), and not much
behind it is the following passage of the Bhagavad-Gita, 'He who
hates no single being, who is friendly and compassionate to all ...
whose thought and reason are directed to Me, he who is [thus] devoted
to Me is dear to Me' (Discourse xii. 13, 14).

This is a fine utterance, and there are others as fine.

One may therefore expect that most Indian Vedantists will, on entering the Bahai Society,
make known as widely as they can the beauties of the Bhagavad-Gita. I cannot myself profess
that I admire the contents as much as some Western readers, but much is doubtless lost to me through
my ignorance of Sanskrit. Prof. Garbe and Prof. Hopkins, however, confirm me in my view that
there is often a falling off in the immediateness of the inspiration, and that many passages
have been interpolated.

It is important to mention this here because it is highly probable that in future the Scriptures
of the various churches and sects will be honoured by being read, not less devotionally but more
critically. Not the Bibles as they stand at present are revealed, but the immanent Divine
Wisdom. Many things in the outward form of the Scriptures are, for us, obsolete. It devolves
upon us, in the spirit of filial respect, to criticize them, and so help to clear the ground
for a new prophet.

A few more quotations from the fine Indian Scriptures shall be given.

Their number could be easily increased, and one cannot blame those Western admirers of the
Gita who display almost as fervent an enthusiasm for the unknown
author of the Gita as Dante had for his _savio duca_ in his fearsome
pilgrimage.

THE BHAGAVAD-GITA AND THE UPANISHADS
Such criticism was hardly possible in England, even ten or twenty years ago, except for the
Old Testament.

Some scholars, indeed, had had their eyes opened, but even highly cultured persons in the
lay-world read the Bhagavad-Gita with enthusiastic admiration but
quite uncritically.

Much as I sympathize with Margaret Noble (Sister Nivedita), Jane Hay (of St. Abb's, Berwickshire,
N.B.), and Rose R. Anthon, I cannot desire that their excessive love for the Gita should find
followers. I have it on the best authority that the apparent superiority of the Indian Scriptures
to those of the Christian world influenced Margaret Noble to become 'Sister Nivedita'--a great
result from a comparatively small cause. And Miss Anthon shows an excess of enthusiasm when
she puts these words (without note or comment) into the mouth of an Indian student:--
'But now, O sire, I have found all the wealth and treasure and honour of the universe in
these words that were uttered by the King of Kings, the Lover of Love, the Giver of Heritages.
There is nothing I ask for; no need is there in my being, no want in my life that this Gita does
not fill to overflowing.' [Footnote: _Stories of India_, 1914, p. 138.]
There are in fact numerous passages in the Gita which, united, would form a _Holy Living_ and
a _Holy Dying_, if we were at the pains to add to the number of
the passages a few taken from the Upanishads.

Vivekananda and Rabindranath Tagore have already studded their lectures with jewels from the Indian
Scriptures. The Hindus themselves delight in their holy writings, but if these writings are to
become known in the West, the grain must first be sifted. In other words, there must be literary
and perhaps also (I say it humbly) moral criticism.

I will venture to add a few quotations:--
'Whenever there is a decay of religion, O Bhâratas, and an ascendency of irreligion, then I
manifest myself.

'For the protection of the good, for the destruction of evildoers, for the firm establishment
of religion, I am born in every age.'
The other passages are not less noble.

'They also who worship other gods and make offering to them with faith, O son of Kunti, do
verily make offering to me, though not according to ordinance.'
'Never have I not been, never hast thou, and never shall time yet come when we shall not all be.
That which pervades this universe is imperishable; there is none can make to perish that
changeless being. This never is born, and never dies, nor may it after being come again to
be not; this unborn, everlasting, abiding, Ancient, is not slain when the body is slain.
Knowing This to be imperishable, everlasting, unborn, changeless, how and whom can a man
make to be slain or slay? As a man lays aside outworn garments, and takes others that are
new, so the Body-Dweller puts away outworn bodies and goes to others that are new. Everlasting
is This, dwelling in all things, firm, motionless, ancient of days.'
JUDAISM
Judaism, too, is so rich in spiritual treasures that I hesitate to
single out more than a very few jewels.

It is plain, however, that it needs to be reformed, and that this need is present in many of
the traditional forms which enshrine so noble a spiritual experience. The Sabbath, for instance,
is as the apple of his eye to every true-hearted Jew; he addresses it in his spiritual songs
as a Princess. And he does well; the title Princess belongs of right to 'Shabbath.' For the
name--be it said in passing--is probably a corruption of a title of the Mother-goddess
Ashtart, and it would, I think, have been no blameworthy act if the religious transformers
of Israelite myths had made a special myth, representing Shabbath as a man. When the Messiah
comes, I trust that _He_ will do this. For 'the Son of Man is Lord also of the Sabbath.'

The faith of the Messiah is another of Israel's treasures. Or rather, perhaps I should say, the
faith in the Messiahs, for one Messiah will not meet the wants of
Israel or the world.

The Messiah, or the Being-like-a-man (Dan. vii. 13), is a supernatural Being, who appears on
earth when he is wanted, like the Logos. We want Messiah badly now; specially, I should say,
we Christians want 'great-souled ones' (Mahatmas), who can 'guide us into all the truth' (John
xvi. 13). That they have come in the past, I doubt not. God could not have left his human
children in the lurch for all these centuries. One thousand Jews of Tihran are said to have
accepted Baha'ullah as the expected Messiah. They were right in what they affirmed, and only
wrong in what they denied. And are we not all wrong in virtually denying the Messiahship of
women-leaders like Kurratu'l 'Ayn; at least, I have only met with this noble idea in a work
of Fiona Macleod.

CHRISTIANITY
And what of our own religion?

What precious jewels are there which we can share with our Oriental brethren? First of all one may
mention that wonderful picture of the divine-human Saviour, which, full of mystery as it
is, is capable of attracting to its Hero a fervent and loving
loyalty, and melting the hardest heart.

We have also a portrait (implicit in the Synoptic Gospels)--the product of nineteenth century
criticism--of the same Jesus Christ, and yet who could venture to
affirm that He really was the same, or that a subtle aroma had not
passed away from the Life of lives?

In this re-painted portrait we have, no longer a divine man, but simply a great and good
Teacher and a noble Reformer. This portrait too is in its way impressive, and capable of lifting
men above their baser selves, but it would obviously be impossible to take this great Teacher
and Reformer for the Saviour and Redeemer of mankind.

We have further a pearl of great price in the mysticism of Paul,
which presupposes, not the Jesus of modern critics, nor yet the
Jesus of the Synoptics, but a splendid heart-uplifting Jesus in the
colours of mythology.

In this Jesus Paul lived, and had a constant ecstatic joy in the
everlasting divine work of creation.

He was 'crucified with Christ,' and it was no longer Paul that
lived, but Christ that lived in him.

And the universe--which was Paul's, inasmuch as it was Christ's--was transformed by the same
mysticism. 'It was,' says Evelyn Underhill, [Footnote: _The Mystic Way_, p. 194 (chap. iii. 'St. Paul and
the Mystic Way').] 'a universe soaked through and through by the Presence of God: that
transcendent-immanent Reality, "above all, and through all, and in you all" as fontal "Father,"
energising "Son," indwelling "Spirit," in whom every mystic, Christian or non-Christian, is
sharply aware that "we live and move and have our being." To his extended consciousness, as
first to that of Jesus, this Reality was more actual than anything
else--"God is all in all."'

It is true, this view of the Universe as God-filled is probably not Paul's, for the Epistles
to the Ephesians and Colossians are hardly that great teacher's work. But it is none the less
authentic, 'God is all and in all'; the whole Universe is temporarily a symbol by which God
is at once manifested and veiled. I fear we have largely lost this. It were therefore better
to reconquer this truth by India's help. Probably indeed the initial realization of the divinity of
the universe (including man) is due to an increased acquaintance with the East and especially
with Persia and India.

And I venture to think that Catholic Christians have conferred a boon on their Protestant
brethren by emphasizing the truth of the feminine element (see pp. 31, 37) in the manifestation
of the Deity, just as the Chinese and Japanese Buddhists have done
for China and Japan, and the modern reformers of Indian religion
have done for India.

This too is a 'gem of purest ray.'

PART II
BIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL
SEYYID 'ALI MUHAMMAD (THE BAB)
Seyyid 'Ali Muhammad was born at Hafiz' city.

It was not his lot, however, to rival that great lyric poet; God
had far other designs for him.

Like St. Francis, he had a merchant for his father, but this too was widely apart from 'AH
Muhammad's destiny, which was neither more nor less than to be a manifestation of the Most High.
His birthday was on the 1st Muharrem, A.H.
1236 (March 26, A.D. 1821).

His maternal uncle, [Footnote: This relative of the Bab is mentioned in Baha-'ullah's _Book
of Ighan_, among the men of culture who visited Baha-'ullah at Baghdad and laid their
difficulties before him. His name was Seyyid 'Ali Muhammad (the same name as the Bab's).]
however, had to step in to take a father's place; he was early left an orphan.
When eighteen or nineteen years of age he was sent, for commercial
reasons, to Bushire, a place with a villainous climate on the Persian
Gulf, and there he wrote his first book, still in the spirit of
Shi'ite orthodoxy.

It was in A.D. 1844 that a great change took place, not so much in doctrine as in the outward
framework of Ali Muhammad's life. That the twelfth Imam should reappear to set up God's
beneficent kingdom, that his 'Gate' should be born just when tradition would have him to
be born, was perhaps not really surprising; but that an ordinary
lad of Shiraz should be chosen for this high honour was exciting,
and would make May 23rd a day memorable for ever.

[Footnote: _TN_, pp. 3 (n.1), 220 _f_.; cp. _AMB_, p. 204.]
It was, in fact, on this day (at 2.5 A.M.) that, having turned to God for help, he cried
out, 'God created me to instruct these ignorant ones, and to save them from the error into
which they are plunged.' And from this time we cannot doubt that the purifying west wind
breathed over the old Persian land which needed it so sadly.

It is probable, however, that the reformer had different ideas of
discipleship.

In one of his early letters he bids his correspondent take care to conceal his religion until
he can reveal it without fear.

Among his chief disciples were that gallant knight called the 'Gate's
Gate,' Kuddus, and his kind uncle.

Like most religious leaders he attached great worth to pilgrimages.
He began by journeying to the Shi'ite holy places, consecrated by the events of the Persian Passion-play.
Then he embarked at Bushire, accompanied (probably) by Kuddus. The winds, however, were contrary,
and he was glad to rest a few days at Mascat. It is probable that at Mecca (the goal of his
journey) he became completely detached from the Muhammadan form of Islam. There too he made
arrangements for propaganda. Unfavourable as the times seemed, his disciples were expected to
have the courage of their convictions, and even his uncle, who was no longer young, became a
fisher of men.

This, it appears to me, is the true explanation of an otherwise
obscure direction to the uncle to return to Persia by the overland
route, _via_ Baghdad, 'with the verses which have come down from
God.'

The overland route would take the uncle by the holy places of 'Irak; 'Ali [Muh.]ammad's
meaning therefore really is that his kinsman is to have the honour of evangelizing the important
city of Baghdad, and of course the pilgrims who may chance to be at Karbala and Nejef. These
were, to Shi'ites, the holiest of cities, and yet the reformer had the consciousness that
there was no need of searching for a _kibla_. God was everywhere, but if one place was holier
than another, it was neither Jerusalem nor Mecca, but Shiraz. To this beautiful city he returned,
nothing loth, for indeed the manners of the pilgrims were the reverse of seemly. His own
work was purely spiritual: it was to organize an attack on a foe who should have been, but
was no longer, spiritual.

Among his first steps was sending the 'First to Believe' to Isfahan
to make a conquest of the learned Mulla Mukaddas.

His expectation was fully realized.

Mukaddas was converted, and hastened to Shiraz, eager to prove his zeal. His orders were
(according to one tradition) to introduce the name of 'Ali Muhammad into the call to prayer
(_azan_) and to explain a passage in the commentary on the Sura of Joseph. This was done,
and the penalty could not be delayed.

After suffering insults, which to us are barely credible, Mukaddas and his friend found shelter
for three days in Shiraz in the Bab's house.

It should be noted that I here employ the symbolic name 'the Bab.' There is a traditional saying
of the prophet Muhammad, 'I am the city of knowledge, and 'Ali is its Gate.' It seems,
however, that there is little, if any, difference between 'Gate' (_Bab_) and 'Point' (_nukta_),
or between either of these and 'he who shall arise' (_ka'im_) and 'the Imam Mahdi.' But to
this we shall return presently.

But safety was not long to be had by the Bab or by his disciples
either in Shiraz or in Bushire (where the Bab then was).

A fortnight afterwards twelve horsemen were sent by the governor of Fars to Bushire to arrest
the Bab and bring him back to Shiraz.

Such at least is one tradition, [Footnote: _AMB_, p. 226.] but some
Babis, according to Nicolas, energetically deny it.

Certainly it is not improbable that the governor, who had already taken action against the Babi
missionaries, should wish to observe the Bab within a nearer range, and inflict a blow on
his growing popularity.
Unwisely enough, the governor left the field open to the mullas,
who thought by placing the pulpit of the great mosque at his disposal
to be able to find material for ecclesiastical censure.

But they had left one thing out of their account--the ardour of the
Bab's temperament and the depth of his conviction. And so great was
the impression produced by the Bab's sermon that the Shah Muhammad,
who heard of it, sent a royal commissioner to study the circumstances
on the spot. This step, however, was a complete failure. One may
doubt indeed whether the Sayyid Yahya was ever a politician or a
courtier. See below, p. 90.
The state of things had now become so threatening that a peremptory
order to the governor was sent from the court to put an end to such
a display of impotence.Orth took the next train for London, and from Lord Teignmouth obtained the address of the aunt
who lived on the family traditions, and a cordial note of introduction to her. He then spent
an hour anticipating, in a toy shop, the whims and pleasures of a child--an incident of paternity
which his book-children had not inspired. He bought the finest doll, piano, French dishes,
cooking apparatus, and playhouse in the shop, and signed a check for thirty pounds with a sensation
of positive rapture. Then he took the train for Lancashire, where the Lady Mildred Mortlake
lived in another ancestral home.

Possibly there are few imaginative writers who have not a leaning, secret or avowed, to the
occult. The creative gift is in very close relationship with the Great Force behind the universe;
for aught we know, may be an atom thereof. It is not strange, therefore, that the lesser and
closer of the unseen forces should send their vibrations to it occasionally; or, at all events,
that the imagination should incline its ear to the most mysterious and picturesque of all beliefs.
Orth frankly dallied with the old dogma. He formulated no personal faith of any sort, but his
creative faculty, that ego within an ego, had made more than one excursion into the invisible
and brought back literary treasure.

The Lady Mildred received with sweetness and warmth the generous contributor to the family
sieve, and listened with fluttering interest to all he had not told the world--she had read
the book--and to the strange, Americanized sequel.

"I am all at sea," concluded Orth. "What had my little girl to do with the tragedy? What relation
was she to the lady who drove the young man to destruction--?"

"The closest," interrupted Lady Mildred. "She was herself!"

Orth stared at her. Again he had a confused sense of disintegration. Lady Mildred, gratified
by the success of her bolt, proceeded less dramatically:

"Wally was up here just after I read your book, and I discovered he had given you the wrong
history of the picture. Not that he knew it. It is a story we have left untold as often as
possible, and I tell it to you only because you would probably become a monomaniac if I didn't.
Blanche Mortlake--that Blanche--there had been several of her name, but there has not been
one since--did not die in childhood, but lived to be twenty-four. She was an angelic child,
but little angels sometimes grow up into very naughty girls. I believe she was delicate as
a child, which probably gave her that spiritual look. Perhaps she was spoiled and flattered,
until her poor little soul was stifled, which is likely. At all events, she was the coquette
of her day--she seemed to care for nothing but breaking hearts; and she did not stop when she
married, either. She hated her husband, and became reckless. She had no children. So far, the
tale is not an uncommon one; but the worst, and what makes the ugliest stain in our annals,
is to come.

"She was alone one summer at Chillingsworth--where she had taken temporary refuge from her
husband--and she amused herself--some say, fell in love--with a young man of the yeomanry,
a tenant of the next estate. His name was Root. He, so it comes down to us, was a magnificent
specimen of his kind, and in those days the yeomanry gave us our great soldiers. His beauty
of face was quite as remarkable as his physique; he led all the rural youth in sport, and was
a bit above his class in every way. He had a wife in no way remarkable, and two little boys,
but was always more with his friends than his family. Where he and Blanche Mortlake met I don't
know--in the woods, probably, although it has been said that he had the run of the house. But,
at all events, he was wild about her, and she pretended to be about him. Perhaps she was, for
women have stooped before and since. Some women can be stormed by a fine man in any circumstances;
but, although I am a woman of the world, and not easy to shock, there are some things I tolerate
so hardly that it is all I can do to bring myself to believe in them; and stooping is one.
Well, they were the scandal of the county for months, and then, either because she had tired
of her new toy, or his grammar grated after the first glamour, or because she feared her husband,
who was returning from the Continent, she broke off with him and returned to town. He followed
her, and forced his way into her house. It is said she melted, but made him swear never to
attempt to see her again. He returned to his home, and killed himself. A few months later she
took her own life. That is all I know."

"It is quite enough for me," said Orth.

The next night, as his train travelled over the great wastes of Lancashire, a thousand chimneys
were spouting forth columns of fire. Where the sky was not red it was black. The place looked
like hell. Another time Orth's imagination would have gathered immediate inspiration from this
wildest region of England. The fair and peaceful counties of the south had nothing to compare
in infernal grandeur with these acres of flaming columns. The chimneys were invisible in the
lower darkness of the night; the fires might have leaped straight from the angry caldron of
the earth.

But Orth was in a subjective world, searching for all he had ever heard of occultism. He recalled
that the sinful dead are doomed, according to this belief, to linger for vast reaches of time
in that borderland which is close to earth, eventually sent back to work out their final salvation;
that they work it out among the descendants of the people they have wronged; that suicide is
held by the devotees of occultism to be a cardinal sin, abhorred and execrated.

Authors are far closer to the truths enfolded in mystery than ordinary people, because of that
very audacity of imagination which irritates their plodding critics. As only those who dare
to make mistakes succeed greatly, only those who shake free the wings of their imagination
brush, once in a way, the secrets of the great pale world. If such writers go wrong, it is
not for the mere brains to tell them so.

Upon Orth's return to Chillingsworth, he called at once upon the child, and found her happy
among his gifts. She put her arms about his neck, and covered his serene unlined face with
soft kisses. This completed the conquest. Orth from that moment adored her as a child, irrespective
of the psychological problem.

Gradually he managed to monopolize her. From long walks it was but a step to take her home
for luncheon. The hours of her visits lengthened. He had a room fitted up as a nursery and
filled with the wonders of toyland. He took her to London to see the pantomimes; two days before
Christmas, to buy presents for her relatives; and together they strung them upon the most wonderful
Christmas-tree that the old hall of Chillingsworth had ever embraced. She had a donkey-cart,
and a trained nurse, disguised as a maid, to wait upon her. Before a month had passed she was
living in state at Chillingsworth and paying daily visits to her mother. Mrs. Root was deeply
flattered, and apparently well content. Orth told her plainly that he should make the child
independent, and educate her, meanwhile. Mrs. Root intended to spend six months in England,
and Orth was in no hurry to alarm her by broaching his ultimate design.

He reformed Blanche's accent and vocabulary, and read to her out of books which would have
addled the brains of most little maids of six; but she seemed to enjoy them, although she seldom
made a comment. He was always ready to play games with her, but she was a gentle little thing,
and, moreover, tired easily. She preferred to sit in the depths of a big chair, toasting her
bare toes at the log-fire in the hall, while her friend read or talked to her. Although she
was thoughtful, and, when left to herself, given to dreaming, his patient observation could
detect nothing uncanny about her. Moreover, she had a quick sense of humor, she was easily
amused, and could laugh as merrily as any child in the world. He was resigning all hope of
further development on the shadowy side when one day he took her to the picture-gallery.

It was the first warm day of summer. The gallery was not heated, and he had not dared to take
his frail visitor into its chilly spaces during the winter and spring. Although he had wished
to see the effect of the picture on the child, he had shrunk from the bare possibility of the
very developments the mental part of him craved; the other was warmed and satisfied for the
first time, and held itself aloof from disturbance. But one day the sun streamed through the
old windows, and, obeying a sudden impulse, he led Blanche to the gallery.

It was some time before he approached the child of his earlier love. Again he hesitated. He
pointed out many other fine pictures, and Blanche smiled appreciatively at his remarks, that
were wise in criticism and interesting in matter. He never knew just how much she understood,
but the very fact that there were depths in the child beyond his probing riveted his chains.

Suddenly he wheeled about and waved his hand to her prototype. "What do you think of that?"
he asked. "You remember, I told you of the likeness the day I met you."

She looked indifferently at the picture, but he noticed that her color changed oddly; its pure
white tone gave place to an equally delicate gray.

"I have seen it before," she said. "I came in here one day to look at it. And I have been quite
often since. You never forbade me," she added, looking at him appealingly, but dropping her
eyes quickly. "And I like the little girl--and the boy--very much."

"Do you? Why?"

"I don't know"--a formula in which she had taken refuge before. Still her candid eyes were
lowered; but she was quite calm. Orth, instead of questioning, merely fixed his eyes upon her,
and waited. In a moment she stirred uneasily, but she did not laugh nervously, as another child
would have done. He had never seen her self-possession ruffled, and he had begun to doubt he
ever should. She was full of human warmth and affection. She seemed made for love, and every
creature who came within her ken adored her, from the author himself down to the litter of
puppies presented to her by the stable-boy a few weeks since; but her serenity would hardly
be enhanced by death.

She raised her eyes finally, but not to his. She looked at the portrait.

"Did you know that there was another picture behind?" she asked.

"No," replied Orth, turning cold. "How did you know it?"

"One day I touched a spring in the frame, and this picture came forward. Shall I show you?"

"Yes!" And crossing curiosity and the involuntary shrinking from impending phenomena was a
sensation of aesthetic disgust that _he_ should be treated to a secret spring.

The little girl touched hers, and that other Blanche sprang aside so quickly that she might
have been impelled by a sharp blow from behind. Orth narrowed his eyes and stared at what she
revealed. He felt that his own Blanche was watching him, and set his features, although his
breath was short.

There was the Lady Blanche Mortlake in the splendor of her young womanhood, beyond a doubt.
Gone were all traces of her spiritual childhood, except, perhaps, in the shadows of the mouth;
but more than fulfilled were the promises of her mind. Assuredly, the woman had been as brilliant
and gifted as she had been restless and passionate. She wore her very pearls with arrogance,
her very hands were tense with eager life, her whole being breathed mutiny.

Orth turned abruptly to Blanche, who had transferred her attention to the picture.

"What a tragedy is there!" he exclaimed, with a fierce attempt at lightness. "Think of a woman
having all that pent up within her two centuries ago! And at the mercy of a stupid family,
no doubt, and a still stupider husband. No wonder--To-day, a woman like that might not be a
model for all the virtues, but she certainly would use her gifts and become famous, the while
living her life too fully to have any place in it for yeomen and such, or even for the trivial
business of breaking hearts." He put his finger under Blanche's chin, and raised her face,
but he could not compel her gaze. "You are the exact image of that little girl," he said, "except
that you are even purer and finer. She had no chance, none whatever. You live in the woman's
age. Your opportunities will be infinite. I shall see to it that they are. What you wish to
be you shall be. There will be no pent-up energies here to burst out into disaster for yourself
and others. You shall be trained to self-control--that is, if you ever develop self-will, dear
child--every faculty shall be educated, every school of life you desire knowledge through shall
be opened to you. You shall become that finest flower of civilization, a woman who knows how
to use her independence."

She raised her eyes slowly, and gave him a look which stirred the roots of sensation--a long
look of unspeakable melancholy. Her chest rose once; then she set her lips tightly, and dropped
her eyes.

"What do you mean?" he cried, roughly, for his soul was chattering. "Is--it--do you--?" He
dared not go too far, and concluded lamely, "You mean you fear that your mother will not give
you to me when she goes--you have divined that I wish to adopt you? Answer me, will you?"

But she only lowered her head and turned away, and he, fearing to frighten or repel her, apologized
for his abruptness, restored the outer picture to its place, and led her from the gallery.

He sent her at once to the nursery, and when she came down to luncheon and took her place at
his right hand, she was as natural and childlike as ever. For some days he restrained his curiosity,
but one evening, as they were sitting before the fire in the hall listening to the storm, and
just after he had told her the story of the erl-king, he took her on his knee and asked her
gently if she would not tell him what had been in her thoughts when he had drawn her brilliant
future. Again her face turned gray, and she dropped her eyes.

"I cannot," she said. "I--perhaps--I don't know."

"Was it what I suggested?"

She shook her head, then looked at him with a shrinking appeal which forced him to drop the
subject.

He went the next day alone to the gallery, and looked long at the portrait of the woman. She
stirred no response in him. Nor could he feel that the woman of Blanche's future would stir
the man in him. The paternal was all he had to give, but that was hers forever.

He went out into the park and found Blanche digging in her garden, very dirty and absorbed.
The next afternoon, however, entering the hall noiselessly, he saw her sitting in her big chair,
gazing out into nothing visible, her whole face settled in melancholy. He asked her if she
were ill, and she recalled herself at once, but confessed to feeling tired. Soon after this
he noticed that she lingered longer in the comfortable depths of her chair, and seldom went
out, except with himself. She insisted that she was quite well, but after he had surprised
her again looking as sad as if she had renounced every joy of childhood, he summoned from London
a doctor renowned for his success with children.

The scientist questioned and examined her. When she had left the room he shrugged his shoulders.

"She might have been born with ten years of life in her, or she might grow up into a buxom
woman," he said. "I confess I cannot tell. She appears to be sound enough, but I have no X-rays
in my eyes, and for all I know she may be on the verge of decay. She certainly has the look
of those who die young. I have never seen so spiritual a child. But I can put my finger on
nothing. Keep her out-of-doors, don't give her sweets, and don't let her catch anything if
you can help it."

Orth and the child spent the long warm days of summer under the trees of the park, or driving
in the quiet lanes. Guests were unbidden, and his pen was idle. All that was human in him had
gone out to Blanche. He loved her, and she was a perpetual delight to him. The rest of the
world received the large measure of his indifference. There was no further change in her, and
apprehension slept and let him sleep. He had persuaded Mrs. Root to remain in England for a
year. He sent her theatre tickets every week, and placed a horse and phaeton at her disposal.
She was enjoying herself and seeing less and less of Blanche. He took the child to Bournemouth
for a fortnight, and again to Scotland, both of which outings benefited as much as they pleased
her. She had begun to tyrannize over him amiably, and she carried herself quite royally. But
she was always sweet and truthful, and these qualities, combined with that something in the
depths of her mind which defied his explorations, held him captive. She was devoted to him,
and cared for no other companion, although she was demonstrative to her mother when they met.

It was in the tenth month of this idyl of the lonely man and the lonely child that Mrs. Root
flurriedly entered the library of Chillingsworth, where Orth happened to be alone.

"Oh, sir," she exclaimed, "I must go home. My daughter Grace writes me--she should have done
it before--that the boys are not behaving as well as they should--she didn't tell me, as I
was having such a good time she just hated to worry me--Heaven knows I've had enough worry--but
now I must go--I just couldn't stay--boys are an awful responsibility--girls ain't a circumstance
to them, although mine are a handful sometimes."

Orth had written about too many women to interrupt the flow. He let her talk until she paused
to recuperate her forces. Then he said quietly:

"I am sorry this has come so suddenly, for it forces me to broach a subject at once which I
would rather have postponed until the idea had taken possession of you by degrees--"

"I know what it is you want to say, sir," she broke in, "and I've reproached myself that I
haven't warned you before, but I didn't like to be the one to speak first. You want Blanche--of
course, I couldn't help seeing that; but I can't let her go, sir, indeed, I can't."

"Yes," he said, firmly, "I want to adopt Blanche, and I hardly think you can refuse, for you
must know how greatly it will be to her advantage. She is a wonderful child; you have never
been blind to that; she should have every opportunity, not only of money, but of association.
If I adopt her legally, I shall, of course, make her my heir, and--there is no reason why she
should not grow up as great a lady as any in England."

The poor woman turned white, and burst into tears. "I've sat up nights and nights, struggling,"
she said, when she could speak. "That, and missing her. I couldn't stand in her light, and
I let her stay. I know I oughtn't to, now--I mean, stand in her light--but, sir, she is dearer
than all the others put together."

"Then live here in England--at least, for some years longer. I will gladly relieve your children
of your support, and you can see Blanche as often as you choose."

"I can't do that, sir. After all, she is only one, and there are six others. I can't desert
them. They all need me, if only to keep them together--three girls unmarried and out in the
world, and three boys just a little inclined to be wild. There is another point, sir--I don't
exactly know how to say it."

"Well?" asked Orth, kindly. This American woman thought him the ideal gentleman, although the
mistress of the estate on which she visited called him a boor and a snob.

"It is--well--you must know--you can imagine--that her brothers and sisters just worship Blanche.
They save their dimes to buy her everything she wants--or used to want. Heaven knows what will
satisfy her now, although I can't see that she's one bit spoiled. But she's just like a religion
to them; they're not much on church. I'll tell you, sir, what I couldn't say to any one else,
not even to these relations who've been so kind to me--but there's wildness, just a streak,
in all my children, and I believe, I know, it's Blanche that keeps them straight. My girls
get bitter, sometimes; work all the week and little fun, not caring for common men and no chance
to marry gentlemen; and sometimes they break out and talk dreadful; then, when they're over
it, they say they'll live for Blanche--they've said it over and over, and they mean it. Every
sacrifice they've made for her--and they've made many--has done them good. It isn't that Blanche
ever says a word of the preachy sort, or has anything of the Sunday-school child about her,
or even tries to smooth them down when they're excited. It's just herself. The only thing she
ever does is sometimes to draw herself up and look scornful, and that nearly kills them. Little
as she is, they're crazy about having her respect. I've grown superstitious about her. Until
she came I used to get frightened, terribly, sometimes, and I believe she came for that. So--you
see! I know Blanche is too fine for us and ought to have the best; but, then, they are to be
considered, too. They have their rights, and they've got much more good than bad in them. I
don't know! I don't know! It's kept me awake many nights."

Orth rose abruptly. "Perhaps you will take some further time to think it over," he said. "You
can stay a few weeks longer--the matter cannot be so pressing as that."

The woman rose. "I've thought this," she said; "let Blanche decide. I believe she knows more
than any of us. I believe that whichever way she decided would be right. I won't say anything
to her, so you won't think I'm working on her feelings; and I can trust you. But she'll know."

"Why do you think that?" asked Orth, sharply. "There is nothing uncanny about the child. She
is not yet seven years old. Why should you place such a responsibility upon her?"

"Do you think she's like other children?"

"I know nothing of other children."

"I do, sir. I've raised six. And I've seen hundreds of others. I never was one to be a fool
about my own, but Blanche isn't like any other child living--I'm certain of it."

"What _do_ you think?"

And the woman answered, according to her lights: "I think she's an angel, and came to us because
we needed her."

"And I think she is Blanche Mortlake working out the last of her salvation," thought the author;
but he made no reply, and was alone in a moment.

It was several days before he spoke to Blanche, and then, one morning, when she was sitting
on her mat on the lawn with the light full upon her, he told her abruptly that her mother must
return home.

To his surprise, but unutterable delight, she burst into tears and flung herself into his arms.

"You need not leave me," he said, when he could find his own voice. "You can stay here always
and be my little girl. It all rests with you."

"I can't stay," she sobbed. "I can't!"

"And that is what made you so sad once or twice?" he asked, with a double eagerness.

She made no reply.

"Oh!" he said, passionately, "give me your confidence, Blanche. You are the only breathing
thing that I love."

"If I could I would," she said. "But I don't know--not quite."

"How much do you know?"

But she sobbed again and would not answer. He dared not risk too much. After all, the physical
barrier between the past and the present was very young.

"Well, well, then, we will talk about the other matter. I will not pretend to disguise the
fact that your mother is distressed at the idea of parting from you, and thinks it would be
as sad for your brothers and sisters, whom she says you influence for their good. Do you think
that you do?"

"Yes."

"How do you know this?"

"Do you know why you know everything?"

"No, my dear, and I have great respect for your instincts. But your sisters and brothers are
now old enough to take care of themselves. They must be of poor stuff if they cannot live properly
without the aid of a child. Moreover, they will be marrying soon. That will also mean that
your mother will have many little grandchildren to console her for your loss. I will be the
one bereft, if you leave me. I am the only one who really needs you. I don't say I will go
to the bad, as you may have very foolishly persuaded yourself your family will do without you,
but I trust to your instincts to make you realize how unhappy, how inconsolable I shall be.
I shall be the loneliest man on earth!"

She rubbed her face deeper into his flannels, and tightened her embrace. "Can't you come, too?"
she asked.

"No; you must live with me wholly or not at all. Your people are not my people, their ways
are not my ways. We should not get along. And if you lived with me over there you might as
well stay here, for your influence over them would be quite as removed. Moreover, if they are
of the right stuff, the memory of you will be quite as potent for good as your actual presence."

"Not unless I died."

Again something within him trembled. "Do you believe you are going to die young?" he blurted out.

But she would not answer.

He entered the nursery abruptly the next day and found her packing her dolls. When she saw
him, she sat down and began to weep hopelessly. He knew then that his fate was sealed. And
when, a year later, he received her last little scrawl, he was almost glad that she went when
she did.

II

The Striding Place

Weigall, continental and detached, tired early of grouse-shooting. To stand propped against
a sod fence while his host's workmen routed up the birds with long poles and drove them towards
the waiting guns, made him feel himself a parody on the ancestors who had roamed the moors
and forests of this West Riding of Yorkshire in hot pursuit of game worth the killing. But
when in England in August he always accepted whatever proffered for the season, and invited
his host to shoot pheasants on his estates in the South. The amusements of life, he argued,
should be accepted with the same philosophy as its ills.

It had been a bad day. A heavy rain had made the moor so spongy that it fairly sprang beneath
the feet. Whether or not the grouse had haunts of their own, wherein they were immune from
rheumatism, the bag had been small. The women, too, were an unusually dull lot, with the exception
of a new-minded _débutante_ who bothered Weigall at dinner by demanding the verbal restoration
of the vague paintings on the vaulted roof above them.

But it was no one of these things that sat on Weigall's mind as, when the other men went up
to bed, he let himself out of the castle and sauntered down to the river. His intimate friend,
the companion of his boyhood, the chum of his college days, his fellow-traveller in many lands,
the man for whom he possessed stronger affection than for all men, had mysteriously disappeared
two days ago, and his track might have sprung to the upper air for all trace he had left behind
him. He had been a guest on the adjoining estate during the past week, shooting with the fervor
of the true sportsman, making love in the intervals to Adeline Cavan, and apparently in the
best of spirits. As far as was known there was nothing to lower his mental mercury, for his
rent-roll was a large one, Miss Cavan blushed whenever he looked at her, and, being one of
the best shots in England, he was never happier than in August. The suicide theory was preposterous,
all agreed, and there was as little reason to believe him murdered. Nevertheless, he had walked
out of March Abbey two nights ago without hat or overcoat, and had not been seen since.

The country was being patrolled night and day. A hundred keepers and workmen were beating the
woods and poking the bogs on the moors, but as yet not so much as a handkerchief had been found.

Weigall did not believe for a moment that Wyatt Gifford was dead, and although it was impossible
not to be affected by the general uneasiness, he was disposed to be more angry than frightened.
At Cambridge Gifford had been an incorrigible practical joker, and by no means had outgrown
the habit; it would be like him to cut across the country in his evening clothes, board a cattle-train,
and amuse himself touching up the picture of the sensation in West Riding.

However, Weigall's affection for his friend was too deep to companion with tranquillity in
the present state of doubt, and, instead of going to bed early with the other men, he determined
to walk until ready for sleep. He went down to the river and followed the path through the
woods. There was no moon, but the stars sprinkled their cold light upon the pretty belt of
water flowing placidly past wood and ruin, between green masses of overhanging rocks or sloping
banks tangled with tree and shrub, leaping occasionally over stones with the harsh notes of
an angry scold, to recover its equanimity the moment the way was clear again.

It was very dark in the depths where Weigall trod. He smiled as he recalled a remark of Gifford's:
"An English wood is like a good many other things in life--very promising at a distance, but
a hollow mockery when you get within. You see daylight on both sides, and the sun freckles
the very bracken. Our woods need the night to make them seem what they ought to be--what they
once were, before our ancestors' descendants demanded so much more money, in these so much
more various days."

Weigall strolled along, smoking, and thinking of his friend, his pranks--many of which had
done more credit to his imagination than this--and recalling conversations that had lasted
the night through. Just before the end of the London season they had walked the streets one
hot night after a party, discussing the various theories of the soul's destiny. That afternoon
they had met at the coffin of a college friend whose mind had been a blank for the past three
years. Some months previously they had called at the asylum to see him. His expression had
been senile, his face imprinted with the record of debauchery. In death the face was placid,
intelligent, without ignoble lineation--the face of the man they had known at college. Weigall
and Gifford had had no time to comment there, and the afternoon and evening were full; but,
coming forth from the house of festivity together, they had reverted almost at once to the topic.

"I cherish the theory," Gifford had said, "that the soul sometimes lingers in the body after
death. During madness, of course, it is an impotent prisoner, albeit a conscious one. Fancy
its agony, and its horror! What more natural than that, when the life-spark goes out, the tortured
soul should take possession of the vacant skull and triumph once more for a few hours while
old friends look their last? It has had time to repent while compelled to crouch and behold
the result of its work, and it has shrived itself into a state of comparative purity. If I
had my way, I should stay inside my bones until the coffin had gone into its niche, that I
might obviate for my poor old comrade the tragic impersonality of death. And I should like
to see justice done to it, as it were--to see it lowered among its ancestors with the ceremony
and solemnity that are its due. I am afraid that if I dissevered myself too quickly, I should
yield to curiosity and hasten to investigate the mysteries of space."

"You believe in the soul as an independent entity, then---that it and the vital principle are
not one and the same?"

"Absolutely. The body and soul are twins, life comrades--sometimes friends, sometimes enemies,
but always loyal in the last instance. Some day, when I am tired of the world, I shall go to
India and become a mahatma, solely for the pleasure of receiving proof during life of this
independent relationship."

"Suppose you were not sealed up properly, and returned after one of your astral flights to
find your earthly part unfit for habitation? It is an experiment I don't think I should care
to try, unless even juggling with soul and flesh had palled."

"That would not be an uninteresting predicament. I should rather enjoy experimenting with broken
machinery."

The high wild roar of water smote suddenly upon Weigall's ear and checked his memories. He
left the wood and walked out on the huge slippery stones which nearly close the River Wharfe
at this point, and watched the waters boil down into the narrow pass with their furious untiring
energy. The black quiet of the woods rose high on either side. The stars seemed colder and
whiter just above. On either hand the perspective of the river might have run into a rayless
cavern. There was no lonelier spot in England, nor one which had the right to claim so many
ghosts, if ghosts there were.

Weigall was not a coward, but he recalled uncomfortably the tales of those that had been done
to death in the Strid.[1] Wordsworth's Boy of Egremond had been disposed of by the practical
Whitaker; but countless others, more venturesome than wise, had gone down into that narrow
boiling course, never to appear in the still pool a few yards beyond. Below the great rocks
which form the walls of the Strid was believed to be a natural vault, on to whose shelves the
dead were drawn. The spot had an ugly fascination. Weigall stood, visioning skeletons, uncoffined
and green, the home of the eyeless things which had devoured all that had covered and filled
that rattling symbol of man's mortality; then fell to wondering if any one had attempted to
leap the Strid of late. It was covered with slime; he had never seen it look so treacherous.

[Footnote 1:
    "This striding place is called the 'Strid,'
      A name which it took of yore;
     A thousand years hath it borne the name,
      And it shall a thousand more."
]

He shuddered and turned away, impelled, despite his manhood, to flee the spot. As he did so,
something tossing in the foam below the fall--something as white, yet independent of it--caught
his eye and arrested his step. Then he saw that it was describing a contrary motion to the
rushing water--an upward backward motion. Weigall stood rigid, breathless; he fancied he heard
the crackling of his hair. Was that a hand? It thrust itself still higher above the boiling
foam, turned sidewise, and four frantic fingers were distinctly visible against the black rock
beyond.

Weigall's superstitious terror left him. A man was there, struggling to free himself from the
suction beneath the Strid, swept down, doubtless, but a moment before his arrival, perhaps
as he stood with his back to the current.

He stepped as close to the edge as he dared. The hand doubled as if in imprecation, shaking
savagely in the face of that force which leaves its creatures to immutable law; then spread
wide again, clutching, expanding, crying for help as audibly as the human voice.

Weigall dashed to the nearest tree, dragged and twisted off a branch with his strong arms,
and returned as swiftly to the Strid. The hand was in the same place, still gesticulating as
wildly; the body was undoubtedly caught in the rocks below, perhaps already half-way along
one of those hideous shelves. Weigall let himself down upon a lower rock, braced his shoulder
against the mass beside him, then, leaning out over the water, thrust the branch into the hand.
The fingers clutched it convulsively. Weigall tugged powerfully, his own feet dragged perilously
near the edge. For a moment he produced no impression, then an arm shot above the waters.

The blood sprang to Weigall's head; he was choked with the impression that the Strid had him
in her roaring hold, and he saw nothing. Then the mist cleared. The hand and arm were nearer,
although the rest of the body was still concealed by the foam. Weigall peered out with distended
eyes. The meagre light revealed in the cuffs links of a peculiar device. The fingers clutching
the branch were as familiar.

Weigall forgot the slippery stones, the terrible death if he stepped too far. He pulled with
passionate will and muscle. Memories flung themselves into the hot light of his brain, trooping
rapidly upon each other's heels, as in the thought of the drowning. Most of the pleasures of
his life, good and bad, were identified in some way with this friend. Scenes of college days,
of travel, where they had deliberately sought adventure and stood between one another and death
upon more occasions than one, of hours of delightful companionship among the treasures of art,
and others in the pursuit of pleasure, flashed like the changing particles of a kaleidoscope.
Weigall had loved several women; but he would have flouted in these moments the thought that
he had ever loved any woman as he loved Wyatt Gifford. There were so many charming women in
the world, and in the thirty-two years of his life he had never known another man to whom he
had cared to give his intimate friendship.

He threw himself on his face. His wrists were cracking, the skin was torn from his hands. The
fingers still gripped the stick. There was life in them yet.

Suddenly something gave way. The hand swung about, tearing the branch from Weigall's grasp.
The body had been liberated and flung outward, though still submerged by the foam and spray.

Weigall scrambled to his feet and sprang along the rocks, knowing that the danger from suction
was over and that Gifford must be carried straight to the quiet pool. Gifford was a fish in
the water and could live under it longer than most men. If he survived this, it would not be
the first time that his pluck and science had saved him from drowning.

Weigall reached the pool. A man in his evening clothes floated on it, his face turned towards
a projecting rock over which his arm had fallen, upholding the body. The hand that had held
the branch hung limply over the rock, its white reflection visible in the black water. Weigall
plunged into the shallow pool, lifted Gifford in his arms and returned to the bank. He laid
the body down and threw off his coat that he might be the freer to practise the methods of
resuscitation. He was glad of the moment's respite. The valiant life in the man might have
been exhausted in that last struggle. He had not dared to look at his face, to put his ear
to the heart. The hesitation lasted but a moment. There was no time to lose.

He turned to his prostrate friend. As he did so, something strange and disagreeable smote his
senses. For a half-moment he did not appreciate its nature. Then his teeth clacked together,
his feet, his outstretched arms pointed towards the woods. But he sprang to the side of the
man and bent down and peered into his face. There was no face.

III

The Dead and the Countess

(Republished from the _Smart Set_)

It was an old cemetery, and they had been long dead. Those who died nowadays were put in the
new burying-place on the hill, close to the Bois d'Amour and within sound of the bells that
called the living to mass. But the little church where the mass was celebrated stood faithfully
beside the older dead; a new church, indeed, had not been built in that forgotten corner of
Finisterre for centuries, not since the calvary on its pile of stones had been raised in the
tiny square, surrounded then, as now, perhaps, by gray naked cottages; not since the castle
with its round tower, down on the river, had been erected for the Counts of Croisac. But the
stone walls enclosing that ancient cemetery had been kept in good repair, and there were no
weeds within, nor toppling headstones. It looked cold and gray and desolate, like all the cemeteries
of Brittany, but it was made hideous neither by tawdry gewgaws nor the license of time.

And sometimes it was close to a picture of beauty. When the village celebrated its yearly _pardon_,
a great procession came out of the church--priests in glittering robes, young men in their
gala costume of black and silver, holding flashing standards aloft, and many maidens in flapping
white head-dress and collar, black frocks and aprons flaunting with ribbons and lace. They
marched, chanting, down the road beside the wall of the cemetery, where lay the generations
that in their day had held the banners and chanted the service of the _pardon_. For the dead
were peasants and priests--the Croisacs had their burying-place in a hollow of the hills behind
the castle--old men and women who had wept and died for the fishermen that had gone to the
_grande pêche_ and returned no more, and now and again a child, slept there. Those who walked
past the dead at the _pardon_, or after the marriage ceremony, or took part in any one of the
minor religious festivals with which the Catholic village enlivens its existence--all, young
and old, looked grave and sad. For the women from childhood know that their lot is to wait
and dread and weep, and the men that the ocean is treacherous and cruel, but that bread can
be wrung from no other master. Therefore the living have little sympathy for the dead who have
laid down their crushing burden; and the dead under their stones slumber contentedly enough.
There is no envy among them for the young who wander at evening and pledge their troth in the
Bois d'Amour, only pity for the groups of women who wash their linen in the creek that flows
to the river. They look like pictures in the green quiet book of nature, these women, in their
glistening white head-gear and deep collars; but the dead know better than to envy them, and
the women--and the lovers--know better than to pity the dead.

The dead lay at rest in their boxes and thanked God they were quiet and had found everlasting
peace.

And one day even this, for which they had patiently endured life, was taken from them.

The village was picturesque and there was none quite like it, even in Finisterre. Artists discovered
it and made it famous. After the artists followed the tourists, and the old creaking _diligence_
became an absurdity. Brittany was the fashion for three months of the year, and wherever there
is fashion there is at least one railway. The one built to satisfy the thousands who wished
to visit the wild, sad beauties of the west of France was laid along the road beside the little
cemetery of this tale.

It takes a long while to awaken the dead. These heard neither the voluble working-men nor even
the first snort of the engine. And, of course, they neither heard nor knew of the pleadings
of the old priest that the line should be laid elsewhere. One night he came out into the old
cemetery and sat on a grave and wept. For he loved his dead and felt it to be a tragic pity
that the greed of money, and the fever of travel, and the petty ambitions of men whose place
was in the great cities where such ambitions were born, should shatter forever the holy calm
of those who had suffered so much on earth. He had known many of them in life, for he was very
old; and although he believed, like all good Catholics, in heaven and purgatory and hell, yet
he always saw his friends as he had buried them, peacefully asleep in their coffins, the souls
lying with folded hands like the bodies that held them, patiently awaiting the final call.
He would never have told you, this good old priest, that he believed heaven to be a great echoing
palace in which God and the archangels dwelt alone waiting for that great day when the elected
dead should rise and enter the Presence together, for he was a simple old man who had read
and thought little; but he had a zigzag of fancy in his humble mind, and he saw his friends
and his ancestors' friends as I have related to you, soul and body in the deep undreaming sleep
of death, but sleep, not a rotted body deserted by its affrighted mate; and to all who sleep
there comes, sooner or later, the time of awakening.

He knew that they had slept through the wild storms that rage on the coast of Finisterre, when
ships are flung on the rocks and trees crash down in the Bois d'Amour. He knew that the soft,
slow chantings of the _pardon_ never struck a chord in those frozen memories, meagre and monotonous
as their store had been; nor the bagpipes down in the open village hall--a mere roof on poles--when
the bride and her friends danced for three days without a smile on their sad brown faces.

All this the dead had known in life and it could not disturb nor interest them now. But that
hideous intruder from modern civilization, a train of cars with a screeching engine, that would
shake the earth which held them and rend the peaceful air with such discordant sounds that
neither dead nor living could sleep! His life had been one long unbroken sacrifice, and he
sought in vain to imagine one greater, which he would cheerfully assume could this disaster
be spared his dead.

But the railway was built, and the first night the train went screaming by, shaking the earth
and rattling the windows of the church, he went out and sprinkled every grave with holy-water.

And thereafter, twice a day, at dawn and at night, as the train tore a noisy tunnel in the
quiet air, like the plebeian upstart it was, he sprinkled every grave, rising sometimes from
a bed of pain, at other times defying wind and rain and hail. And for a while he believed that
his holy device had deepened the sleep of his dead, locked them beyond the power of man to
awake. But one night he heard them muttering.

It was late. There were but a few stars on a black sky. Not a breath of wind came over the
lonely plains beyond, or from the sea. There would be no wrecks to-night, and all the world
seemed at peace. The lights were out in the village. One burned in the tower of Croisac, where
the young wife of the count lay ill. The priest had been with her when the train thundered
by, and she had whispered to him:

"Would that I were on it! Oh, this lonely lonely land! this cold echoing château, with no one
to speak to day after day! If it kills me, _mon père_, make him lay me in the cemetery by the
road, that twice a day I may hear the train go by--the train that goes to Paris! If they put
me down there over the hill, I will shriek in my coffin every night."

The priest had ministered as best he could to the ailing soul of the young noblewoman, with
whose like he seldom dealt, and hastened back to his dead. He mused, as he toiled along the
dark road with rheumatic legs, on the fact that the woman should have the same fancy as himself.

"If she is really sincere, poor young thing," he thought aloud, "I will forbear to sprinkle
holy-water on her grave. For those who suffer while alive should have all they desire after
death, and I am afraid the count neglects her. But I pray God that my dead have not heard that
monster to-night." And he tucked his gown under his arm and hurriedly told his rosary.

But when he went about among the graves with the holy-water he heard the dead muttering.

"Jean-Marie," said a voice, fumbling among its unused tones for forgotten notes, "art thou
ready? Surely that is the last call."

"Nay, nay," rumbled another voice, "that is not the sound of a trumpet, François. That will
be sudden and loud and sharp, like the great blasts of the north when they come plunging over
the sea from out the awful gorges of Iceland. Dost thou remember them, François? Thank the
good God they spared us to die in our beds with our grandchildren about us and only the little
wind sighing in the Bois d'Amour. Ah, the poor comrades that died in their manhood, that went
to the _grande pêche_ once too often! Dost thou remember when the great wave curled round Ignace
like his poor wife's arms, and we saw him no more? We clasped each other's hands, for we believed
that we should follow, but we lived and went again and again to the _grande pêche_, and died
in our beds. _Grâce à Dieu_!"

"Why dost thou think of that now--here in the grave where it matters not, even to the living?"

"I know not; but it was of that night when Ignace went down that I thought as the living breath
went out of me. Of what didst thou think as thou layest dying?"

"Of the money I owed to Dominique and could not pay. I sought to ask my son to pay it, but
death had come suddenly and I could not speak. God knows how they treat my name to-day in the
village of St. Hilaire."

"Thou art forgotten," murmured another voice. "I died forty years after thee and men remember
not so long in Finisterre. But thy son was my friend and I remember that he paid the money."

"And my son, what of him? Baha-'ullah and his son Abdul-Baha after him were personal centres
of the new covenant; Paul was not.

This may perhaps suffice for the parallels--partly real, partly supposed--between early
Christianity and early Bahaism. I will now refer to an important parallel between the
development of Christianity and that of Buddhism. It is possible to deny that the Christianity
of Augustine [Footnote:
Professor Anesaki of Tokio regards Augustine as the Christian
Nagarjuna.] deserves its name, on the ground of the wide interval
which exists between his religious doctrines and the beliefs of
Jesus Christ.

Similarly, one may venture to deny that the Mahâyâna developments
of Buddhism are genuine products of the religion because they contain
some elements derived from other Indian systems.

In both cases, however, grave injustice would be done by any such
assumption.

It is idle 'to question the historical value of an organism which is now full of vitality and
active in all its functions, and to treat it like an archaeological
object, dug out from the depths of the earth, or like a piece of
bric-à-brac, discovered in the ruins of an ancient royal palace.

Mahâyânaism is not an object of historical curiosity. Its vitality and activity concern us in
our daily life. It is a great spiritual organism.

What does it matter, then, whether or not Mahâyânaism is the genuine
teaching of the Buddha?'

[Footnote: Suzuki, _Outlines of Mahâyâna Buddhism_, p. 15.] The parallel between the
developments of these two great religions is unmistakable.

We Christians insist--and rightly so--on the 'genuineness' of our own religion in spite of
the numerous elements unknown to its 'Founder.' The northern Buddhism is equally 'genuine,' being
equally true to the spirit of the Buddha.

It is said that Christianity, as a historical religion, contrasts with the most advanced
Buddhism.
But really it is no loss to the Buddhist Fraternity if the historical element in the life of the
Buddha has retired into the background.

A cultured Buddhist of the northern section could not indeed admit that he has thrust the
history of Gautama entirely aside, but he would affirm that his
religion was more philosophical and practically valuable than that
of his southern brothers, inasmuch as it transcended the boundary
of history.

In a theological treatise called _Chin-kuang-ming_ we read as follows: 'It would be easier
to count every drop of water in the ocean, or every grain of matter that composes a vast
mountain than to reckon the duration of the life of Buddha.' 'That is to say, Buddha's life
does not belong to the time-series: Buddha is the "I Am" who is
above time.'

[Footnote: Johnston, _Buddhist China_, p. 114.] And is not the Christ of Christendom above the world
of time and space? Lastly, must not both Christians and Buddhists admit that among the Christs
or Buddhas the most godlike are those embodied in narratives as Jesus and Gautama?

WESTERN AND EASTERN RELIGION

Religion, as conceived by most Christians of the West, is very different from the religion of
India.

Three-quarters of it (as Matthew Arnold says) has to do with conduct; it is a code with a
very positive and keen divine sanction. Few of its adherents, indeed, have any idea of the
true position of morality, and that the code of Christian ethics expresses barely one half
of the religious idea.

The other half (or even more) is expressed in assurances of holy
men that God dwells within us, or even that we are God.

A true morality helps us to realize this--morality is not to be tied up and labelled, but is
identical with the cosmic as well as individual principle of Love.

Sin (i.e. an unloving disposition) is to be avoided because it blurs the outlines of the
Divine Form reflected, however dimly, in each of us.

There are, no doubt, a heaven where virtue is rewarded, and a hell where vice is punished, for
the unphilosophical minds of the vulgar. But the only reward worthy of a lover of God is to
get nearer and nearer to Him. Till the indescribable goal (Nirvana) is reached, we must be
content with realizing. This is much easier to a Hindu than to an Englishman, because the former
has a constant sense of that unseen power which pervades and transcends the universe.
I do not understand how Indian seekers after truth can hurry and strive about sublunary
matters.

Surely they ought to feel 'that this tangible world, with its chatter of right and wrong,
subserves the intangible.'

Hard as it must be for the adherents of such different principles to understand each other, it
is not, I venture to think, impossible.

And, as at once an Anglican Christian and an adopted Brahmaist, I make the attempt to bring
East and West religiously together.

RELIGIOUS TEACHERS OF THE EAST
The greatest religious teachers and reformers who have appeared in recent times are (if I am
not much mistaken) Baha-'ullah the Persian and Keshab Chandra Sen the Indian. The one began
by being a reformer of the Muhammadan society or church, the other by acting in the same
capacity for the Indian community and more especially for the Brahmo Samaj--a very imperfect
and loosely organized religious society or church founded by Rammohan Roy. By a natural
evolution the objects of both reformers were enlarged; both became the founders of world-churches,
though circumstances prevented the extension of the Brotherhood of the New Dispensation beyond
the limits of India.

In both cases a doubt has arisen in the minds of some spectators whether the reformers have
anything to offer which has not already been given by the Hebrew
prophets and by the finest efflorescence of these--Jesus Christ.

I am bound to express the opinion that they have. Just as the author of the Fourth Gospel looks
forward to results of the Dispensation of the Spirit which will outdo those of the Ministry of Jesus
(John xiv. 12), so we may confidently look forward to disclosures of truth and of depths
upon depths of character which will far surpass anything that could, in the Nearer or Further
East, have been imagined before the time of Baha-'ullah.

I do not say that Baha-'ullah is unique or that His revelations are final. There will be other
Messiahs after Him, nor is the race of the prophets extinct.

The supposition of finality is treason to the ever active, ever creative Spirit of Truth. But till
we have already entered upon a new aeon, we shall have to look back in a special degree to
the prophets who introduced our own aeon, Baha-'ullah and Keshab
Chandra Sen, whose common object is the spiritual unification of
all peoples.

For it is plain that this union of peoples can only be obtained
through the influence of prophetic personages, those of the past
as well as those of the present.

QUALITIES OF THE MEN OF THE COMING RELIGION (Gal. v. 22)
1. Love. What is love? Let Rabindranath Tagore tell us.

'In love all the contradictions of existence merge themselves and are lost. Only in love are
unity and duality not at variance. Love must be one and two at the same time.

'Only love is motion and rest in one. Our heart ever changes its place till it finds love, and
then it has its rest....

'In this wonderful festival of creation, this great ceremony of
self-sacrifice of God, the lover constantly gives himself up to
gain himself in love....

'In love, at one of its poles you find the personal, and at the other the impersonal.'
[Footnote:

Tagore, _Sadhana_ (1913), p. 114.]
I do not think this has been excelled by any modern Christian teacher, though the vivid
originality of the Buddha's and of St. Paul's descriptions of love cannot be denied. The
subject, however, is too many-sided for me to attempt to describe it here. Suffice it to
say that the men of the coming religion will be distinguished by an intelligent and yet intense
altruistic affection--the new-born love.

2 and 3. Joy and Peace. These are fundamental qualities in religion, and especially, it is
said, in those forms of religion which appear to centre in incarnations. This statement,
however, is open to criticism. It matters but little how we attain to joy and peace, as long
as we do attain to them. Christians have not surpassed the joy and peace produced by the
best and safest methods of the Indian and Persian sages.

I would not belittle the tranquil and serene joy of the Christian saint, but I cannot see that
this is superior to the same joy as it is exhibited in the Psalms of the Brethren or the Sisters
in the Buddhistic Order. Nothing is more remarkable in these songs than the way in which joy
and tranquillity are interfused. So it is with God, whose creation is the production of
tranquillity and utter joy, and so it is with godlike men--men such as St. Francis of Assisi
in the West and the poet-seers of the Upanishads in the East.

All these are at once joyous and serene.
As Tagore says, 'Joy without the play of joy is no joy; play without activity is no play.'
[Footnote: Tagore, _Sadhana_ (1913), p. 131.]

And how can he act to advantage who is perturbed in mind? In the coming religion all our actions
will be joyous and tranquil.

Meantime, transitionally, we have much need both of long-suffering [Footnote: This quality
is finely described in chap.
vi. of _The Path of Light_ (Wisdom of the East series).] and of
courage; 'quit you like men, be strong.'

(I write in August 1914.)
REFORM OF ISLAM
And what as to Islam? Is any fusion between this and the other great religions possible? A fusion
between Islam and Christianity can only be effected if first of all these two religions
(mutually so repugnant) are reformed.

Thinking Muslims will more and more come to see that the position assigned by Muhammad to
himself and to the Kur'an implies that he had a thoroughly unhistorical mind. In other words
he made those exclusive and uncompromising claims under a misconception. There were true apostles
or prophets, both speakers and writers, between the generally accepted date of the ministry
of Jesus and that of the appearance of Muhammad, and these true prophets were men of far greater
intellectual grasp than the Arabian merchant.

Muslim readers ought therefore to feel it no sacrilege if I advocate the correction of what has
thus been mistakenly said. Muhammad was one of the prophets, not _the_ prophet (who is
virtually = the Logos), and the Kur'an is only adapted for Arabian tribes, not for all
nations of the world.

One of the points in the exhibition of which the Arabian Bible is most imperfect is the love of
God, i.e. the very point in which the Sufi classical poets are most admirable, though indeed
an Arabian poetess, who died 135 Hij., expresses herself already in the most thrilling
tones.
[Footnote: Von Kremer's _Herrschende Ideen des Islams_, pp. 64,
etc.]

Perhaps one might be content, so far as the Kur'an is concerned, with a selection of Suras,
supplemented by extracts from other religious classics of Islam. I have often thought that
we want both a Catholic Christian lectionary and a Catholic
prayer-book.

To compile this would be the work not of a prophet, but of a band of interpreters. An exacting
work which would be its own reward, and would promote, more perhaps than anything else, the
reformation and ultimate blending of the different religions.

Meantime no persecution should be allowed in the reformed Islamic lands. Thankful as we may be
for the Christian and Bahaite heroism generated by a persecuting
fanaticism, we may well wish that it might be called forth otherwise.

Heroic was the imprisonment and death of Captain Conolly (in Bukhara),
but heroic also are the lives of many who have spent long years in
unhealthy climates, to civilize and moralize those who need their
help.

SYNTHESIS OF RELIGIONS
'There is one God and Father of all, who is over all, and through all, and in all.'
These words in the first instance express the synthesis of Judaism and Oriental pantheism, but
may be applied to the future synthesis of Islam and Hinduism, and
of both conjointly with Christianity.

And the subjects to which I shall briefly refer are the exclusiveness of the claims of Christ
and of Muhammad, and of Christ's Church and of Muhammad's, the image-worship of the Hindus
and the excessive development of mythology in Hinduism. With the lamented Sister Nivedita I
hold that, in India, in proportion as the two faiths pass into higher phases, the easier it
becomes for the one faith to be brought into a synthesis combined
with the other.

Sufism, for instance, is, in the opinion of most, 'a Muhammadan sect.' It must, at any rate, be
admitted to have passed through several stages, but there is, I
think, little to add to fully developed Sufism to make it an ideal
synthesis of Islam and Hinduism.

That little, however, is important. How can the Hindu accept the claim either of Christ or of
Muhammad to be the sole gate to the mansions of knowledge?

The most popular of the Hindu Scriptures expressly provides for a succession of _avatârs_; how,
indeed, could the Eternal Wisdom have limited Himself to raising
up a single representative of Messiahship.

For were not Sakya Muni, Kabir and his disciple Nanak, Chaitanya, the Tamil poets (to whom Dr.
Pope has devoted himself) Messiahs for parts of India, and Nisiran for Japan, not to speak
here of Islamic countries?

It is true, the exclusive claim of Christ (I assume that they are adequately proved) is not
expressly incorporated into the Creeds, so that by mentally recasting the Christian can rid
himself of his burden. And a time must surely come when, by the common consent of the Muslim
world the reference to Muhammad in the brief creed of the Muslim will be removed. For such a removal
would be no disparagement to the prophet, who had, of necessity, a thoroughly unhistorical
mind (p. 193).

The 'one true Church' corresponds of course with the one true God.

Hinduism, which would willingly accept the one, would as naturally
accept the other also, as a great far-spreading caste. There are
in fact already monotheistic castes in Hinduism.
As for image-worship, the Muslims should not plume themselves too
much on their abhorrence of it, considering the immemorial cult of
the Black Stone at Mecca. If a conference of Vedantists and Muslims
could be held, it would appear that the former regarded image-worship
(not idolatry) [Footnote: Idols and images are not the same thing;
the image is, or should be, symbolic. So, at least, I venture to
define it.] simply as a provisional concession to the ignorant
masses, who will not perhaps always remain so ignorant. So, then,
Image-worship and its attendant Mythology have naturally become
intertwined with high and holy associations. Thus that delicate
poetess Mrs. Naidu (by birth a Parsi) writes:
Who serves her household in fruitful pride, And worships the gods
at her husband's side.
I do not see, therefore, why we Christians (who have a good deal
of myth in our religion) should object to a fusion with Islam and
Hinduism on the grounds mentioned above.The visit bored him, but the good old priest
commanded his respect; moreover, he had performed many offices and rites in his family. He
moved a chair towards his guest, but the old man shook his head and nervously twisted his hands
together.

"Alas, _monsieur le comte_," he said, "it may be that you, too, will tell me that I am an old
lunatic, as did _Monsieur l'Évêque_. Yet I must speak, even if you tell your servants to fling
me out of the château."

The count had started slightly. He recalled certain acid comments of the bishop, followed by
a statement that a young _curé_ should be sent, gently to supersede the old priest, who was
in his dotage. But he replied suavely:

"You know, my father, that no one in this castle will ever show you disrespect. Say what you
wish; have no fear. But will you not sit down? I am very tired."

The priest took the chair and fixed his eyes appealingly on the count.

"It is this, monsieur." He spoke rapidly, lest his courage should go. "That terrible train,
with its brute of iron and live coals and foul smoke and screeching throat, has awakened my
dead. I guarded them with holy-water and they heard it not, until one night when I missed--I
was with madame as the train shrieked by shaking the nails out of the coffins. I hurried back,
but the mischief was done, the dead were awake, the dear sleep of eternity was shattered. They
thought it was the last trump and wondered why they still were in their graves. But they talked
together and it was not so bad at the first. But now they are frantic. They are in hell, and
I have come to beseech you to see that they are moved far up on the hill. Ah, think, think,
monsieur, what it is to have the last long sleep of the grave so rudely disturbed--the sleep
for which we live and endure so patiently!"

He stopped abruptly and caught his breath. The count had listened without change of countenance,
convinced that he was facing a madman. But the farce wearied him, and involuntarily his hand
had moved towards a bell on the table.

"Ah, monsieur, not yet! not yet!" panted the priest. "It is of the countess I came to speak.
I had forgotten. She told me she wished to lie there and listen to the train go by to Paris,
so I sprinkled no holy-water on her grave. But she, too, is wretched and horror-stricken, monsieur.
She moans and screams. Her coffin is new and strong, and I cannot hear her words, but I have
heard those frightful sounds from her grave to-night, monsieur; I swear it on the cross. Ah,
monsieur, thou dost believe me at last!"

For the count, as white as the woman had been in her coffin, and shaking from head to foot,
had staggered from his chair and was staring at the priest as if he saw the ghost of his countess.

"You heard--?" he gasped.

"She is not at peace, monsieur. She moans and shrieks in a terrible, smothered way, as if a
hand were on her mouth--"

But he had uttered the last of his words. The count had suddenly recovered himself and dashed
from the room. The priest passed his hand across his forehead and sank slowly to the floor.

"He will see that I spoke the truth," he thought, as he fell asleep, "and to-morrow he will
intercede for my poor friends."

       *       *       *       *       *

The priest lies high on the hill where no train will ever disturb him, and his old comrades
of the violated cemetery are close about him. For the Count and Countess of Croisac, who adore
his memory, hastened to give him in death what he most had desired in the last of his life.
And with them all things are well, for a man, too, may be born again, and without descending
into the grave.

IV

The Greatest Good of the Greatest Number

Morton Blaine returned to New York from his brief vacation to find awaiting him a frantic note
from John Schuyler, the man nearer to him than any save himself, imploring him to "come at
once." The appeal was supplemented with the usual intimation that the service was to be rendered
to God rather than to man.

The note was twenty-four hours old. Blaine, without changing his travelling clothes, rang for
a cab and was driven rapidly up the Avenue. He was a man of science, not of enthusiasms, cold,
unerring, brilliant; a superb intellectual machine, which never showed a fleck of rust, unremittingly
polished, and enlarged with every improvement. But for one man he cherished an abiding sympathy;
to that man he hastened on the slightest summons, as he hastened now. They had been intimate
in boyhood; then in later years through mutual respect for each other's high abilities and
ambitions.

As the cab rolled over the asphalt of the Avenue, Blaine glanced idly at the stream of carriages
returning from the Park, lifting his hat to many of the languid pretty women. He owed his minor
fame to his guardianship of fashionable nerves. He could calm hysteria with a pressure of his
cool flexible hand or a sudden modulation of his harsh voice. And women dreaded his wrath.
There were those who averred that his eyes could smoke.

He leaned forward and raised his hat with sudden interest. She who returned his bow was as
cold in her coloring as a winter night, but possessed a strength of line and depth of eye which
suggested to the analyst her power to give the world a shock did Circumstance cease to run
abreast of her. She was leaning back indolently in the open carriage, the sun slanting into
her luminous skin and eyes, her face locked for the benefit of the chance observer, although
she conversed with the faded individual at her side. As her eyes met those of the doctor her
mouth convulsed suddenly, and a glance of mutual understanding passed between them. Then she
raised her head with a defiant, almost reckless movement.

Blaine reached his friend's house in a moment. The man who had summoned him was walking aimlessly
up and down his library. He was unshaven; his hair and his clothing were disordered. His face
had the modern beauty of strength and intellect and passion and weakness. A flash of relief
illuminated it as Blaine entered.

"She has been terrible!" he said. "Terrible! I have not had the courage to call in any one
else, and I am worn out. She is asleep now, and I got out of the room for half an hour. The
nurse is exhausted too. Do stay to-night."

"I will stay. Let us go up-stairs."

As they reached the second landing two handsome children romped across the hall and flung themselves
upon their father.

"Where have you been?" they demanded. "Why do you shut yourself up on the third floor with
mamma all the time? When will she get well?"

Schuyler kissed them and bade them return to the nursery.

"How long can I keep it from them?" he asked bitterly. "What an atmosphere for children--my
children!--to grow up in!"

"If you would do as I wish, and send her where she belongs--"

"I shall not. She is my wife. Moreover, concealment would then be impossible."

They had reached the third floor. He inserted a key in a door, hesitated a moment, then said
abruptly: "I saw in a paper that _she_ had returned. Can it be possible?"

"I saw her on the Avenue a few moments ago."

Was it the doctor's imagination, or did the goaded man at his side flash him a glance of appeal?

They entered a room whose doors and windows were muffled. The furniture was solid, too solid
to be moved except by muscular arms. There were no mirrors nor breakable articles of any sort.

On the bed lay a woman with ragged hair and sunken yellow face, but even in her ruin indefinably
elegant. Her parted lips were black and blistered within; her shapely skinny hands clutched
the quilt with the tenacious suggestion of the eagle--that long-lived defiant bird. At the
bedside sat a vigorous woman, the pallor of fatigue on her face.

The creature on the bed opened her eyes. They had once been what are vaguely known as fine
eyes; now they looked like blots of ink on parchment.

"Give me a drink," she said feverishly. "Water! water! water!" She panted, and her tongue protruded
slightly. Her husband turned away, his shoulders twitching. The nurse held a silver goblet
to the woman's lips. She drank greedily, then scowled up at the doctor.

"You missed it," she said. "I should be glad, for I hate you, only you give me more relief
than they. They are afraid. They tried to fool me, the idiots! But they didn't try it twice.
I bit."

She laughed and threw her arms above her head. The loose sleeves of her gown fell back and
disclosed arms speckled as if from an explosion of gunpowder.

"Just an ordinary morphine fiend," thought the doctor. "And she is the wife of John Schuyler!"

An hour after dinner he told the husband and nurse to go to bed. For a while he read, the woman
sleeping profoundly. The house was absolutely still, or seemed to be. Had pandemonium reigned
he could hardly have heard an echo of it from this isolated room. The window was open, but
looked upon roofs and back yards; no sound of carriage wheels rose to break the quiet. Despite
the stillness, the doctor had to strain his ear to catch the irregular breathing of the sick
woman. He had a singular feeling, although the most unimaginative of men, that this third floor,
containing only himself and the woman, had been sliced from the rest of the house and hung
suspended in space, independent of natural laws. It was after the book had ceased to interest
him that the idea shaped itself, born of another, as yet unacknowledged, skulking in the recesses
of his brain. At length he laid aside the book, and going to the bed, looked down upon the
woman, coldly, reflectively--exactly as he had often watched the quivering of an animal--dissected
alive in the cause of science.

Studying this man's face, it was impossible to imagine it agitated by any passion except thirst
for knowledge. The skin was as white as marble; the profile was straight and mathematical,
the mouth a straight line, the chin as square as that of a chiselled Fate. The jaw was prominent,
powerful, relentless. The eyes were deeply set and gray as polished steel. The large brow was
luminous, very full--an index to the terrible intellect of the man.

As he looked down on the woman his thin nostrils twitched once and his lips compressed more
firmly. Then he smiled. It was an odd, almost demoniacal smile.

"A physician," he said, half aloud, "has almost as much power as God. The idea strikes me that
we are the personification of that useful symbol."

He plunged his hands into his pockets, and walked up and down the long thickly carpeted room.

"These are the facts in the case," he continued. "The one man I love and unequivocally respect
is tied, hand and foot, to that unsexed dehumanized morphine receptacle on the bed. She is
hopeless. Every known specific has failed, _must_ fail, for she loves the vice. He has one
of the best brains of this day prolific in brains; a distressing capacity for affection, human
to the core. At the age of forty-two, in the maturity of his mental powers, he carries with
him a constant sickening sense of humiliation; a proud man, he lives in daily fear of exposure
and shame. At the age of forty-two, in the maturity of his manhood, he meets the woman who
conquers his heart, his imagination, who compels his faith by making other women abhorrent
to him, who allures and maddens with the certainty of her power to make good his ideal of her.
He cannot marry her; that animal on the bed is capable of living for twenty years.

"So much for him. A girl of twenty-eight, whose wealth and brain and beauty, and that other
something that has not yet been analyzed and labelled, have made her a social star; who has
come to wonder, then to resent, then to yawn at the general vanity of life, is suddenly swept
out of her calm orbit by a man's passion; and, with the swiftness of decision natural to her,
goes to Europe. She returns in less than three months. For these two people there is but one
sequel. The second chapter will be written the first time they are alone. Then they will go
to Europe. What will be the rest of the book?

"First, there will be an ugly and reverberating scandal. In the course of a year or two she
will compel him to return in the interest of his career. She will not be able to remain; so
proud a woman could not stand the position. Again he will go with her. In a word, my friend's
career will be ruined. So many novelists and reporters have written the remaining chapters
of this sort of story that it is hardly worth while for me to go any further.

"So much for them. Let us consider the other victims--the children. A morphine-mother in an
asylum, a father in a strange land with a woman who is not his wife, the world cognizant of
all the facts of the case. They grow up at odds with society. Result, they are morbid, warped,
unnormal. In trite old English, their lives are ruined, as are all lives that have not had
a fair chance."

He returned abruptly to the bedside. He laid his finger on the woman's pulse.

"No morphine to-night and she dies. A worthless wretch is sent where she belongs. Four people
are saved."

His breast swelled. His gray eyes seemed literally to send forth smoke; they suggested some
noiseless deadly weapon of war. He exclaimed aloud: "My God! what a power to lie in the hands
of one man! I stand here the arbiter of five destinies. It is for _me_ to say whether four
people shall be happy or wretched, saved or ruined. I might say, with Nero, 'I am God!'" He
laughed. "I am famed for my power to save where others have failed. I am famed in the comic
weeklies for having ruined the business of more undertakers than any physician of my day. That
has been my rôle, my professional pride. I have never felt so proud as now."

The woman, who had been moving restlessly for some time, twitched suddenly and uncontrollably.
She opened her eyes.

"Give it to me--quick!" she demanded. Her voice, always querulous, was raucous; her eyes were wild.

"No," he said, deliberately, "you will have no more morphine; not a drop."

She stared at him incredulously, then laughed.

"Stop joking," she said, roughly. "Give it to me--quick--quick! I am very weak."

"No," he said.

Then, as he continued to hold her eyes, her own gradually expanded with terror. She raised
herself on one arm.

"You mean that?" she asked.

"Yes."

He watched her critically. She would be interesting.

"You are going to cure me with drastic measures, since others have failed?"

"Possibly."

Her face contracted with hatred. She had been a rather clever woman, and she believed that
he was going to experiment with her. But she had also been a strong-willed woman and used to
command since babyhood.

"Give me that morphine," she said, imperiously. "If you don't I'll be dead before morning."

He stood imperturbable. She sprang from the bed and flung herself upon him, strong with anger
and apprehension.

"Give it to me!" she screamed. "Give it to me!" And she strove to bite him.

He caught her by the shoulder and held her at arm's-length. She writhed and struggled and cursed.
Her oaths might have been learned in the gutter. She kicked at him and strove to reach him
with her nails, clawing the air. She looked like a witch on a broomstick.

"What an exquisite bride she was!" he thought. "And what columns of rubbish have been printed
about her and her entertainments!"

The woman was shrieking and struggling.

"Give it to me! You brute! You fiend! I always hated you! Give it to me! I am dying! I am dying!
Help! Help!" But the walls were padded, and she knew it.

He permitted her to fling herself upon him, easily brushing aside her jumping fingers and snapping
teeth. He knew that her agony was frightful. Her body was a net-work of hungry nerves. The
diseased pulp of her brain had ejected every thought but one. She squirmed like an old autumn
leaf about to fall. Her ugly face became tragic. The words shot from her dry contracted throat:
"Give me the morphine! Give me the morphine!"

Suddenly realizing the immutability of the man in whose power she was, she sprang from him
and ran frantically about the room, uttering harsh bleatlike cries. She pulled open the drawers
of a chest, rummaging among its harmless contents, gasping, quivering, bounding, as her tortured
nerves commanded. When she had littered the floor with the contents of the chest she ran about
screaming hopelessly. The doctor shuddered, but he thought of the four innocent people in her
power and in his.

She fell in a heap on the floor, biting the carpet, striking out her arms aimlessly, tearing
her night-gown into strips; then lay quivering, a hideous, speckled, uncanny thing, who should
have been embalmed and placed beside the Venus of Milo.

She raised herself on her hands and crawled along the carpet, casually at first, as a man stricken
in the desert may, half-consciously, continue his search for water. Then the doctor, intently
watching her, saw an expression of hope leap into her bulging eyes. She scrambled past him
towards the wash-stand. Before he could define her purpose, she had leaped upon a goblet inadvertently
left there and had broken it on the marble. He reached her just in time to save her throat.

Then she looked up at him pitifully. "Give it to me!"

She pressed his knees to her breast. The red burned-out tear-ducts yawned. The tortured body
stiffened and relaxed.

"Poor wretch!" he thought. "But what is the physical agony of a night to the mental anguish
of a lifetime?"

"Once! once!" she gasped; "or kill me." Then, as he stood implacable, "Kill me! Kill me!"

He picked her up, put a fresh night-gown on her, and laid her on the bed. She remained as he
placed her, too weak to move, her eyes staring at the ceiling above the big four-posted bed.

He returned to his chair and looked at his watch. "She may live two hours," he thought. "Possibly
three. It is only twelve. There is plenty of time."

The room grew as still as the mountain-top whence he had that day returned. He attempted to
read, but could not. The sense of supreme power filled his brain. He was the gigantic factor
in the fates of four.

Then Circumstance, the outwardly wayward, the ruthlessly sequential, played him an ugly trick.
His eyes, glancing idly about the room, were arrested by a big old-fashioned rocking-chair.
There was something familiar about it. Soon he remembered that it resembled one in which his
mother used to sit. She had been an invalid, and the most sinless and unworldly woman he had
ever known. He recalled, with a touch of the old impatience, how she had irritated his active,
aspiring, essentially modern mind with her cast-iron precepts of right and wrong. Her conscience
flagellated her, and she had striven to develop her son's to the goodly proportion of her own.
As he was naturally a truthful and upright boy, he resented her homilies mightily. "Conscience,"
he once broke out impatiently, "has made more women bores, more men failures, than any ten
vices in the rogues' calendar."

She had looked in pale horror, and taken refuge in an axiom: "Conscience makes cowards of us all."

He moved his head with involuntary pride. The greatest achievement of civilization was the
triumph of the intellect over inherited impressions. Every normal man was conscientious by
instinct, however he might outrage the sturdy little judge clinging tenaciously to his bench
in the victim's brain. It was only when the brain grew big with knowledge and the will clasped
it with fingers of steel that the little judge was throttled, then cast out.

Conscience. What was it like? The doctor had forgotten. He had never committed a murder nor
a dishonorable act. Had the impulse of either been in him, his cleverness would have put it
aside with a smile of scorn. He had never scrupled to thrust from his path whoever or whatever
stood in his way, and had stridden on without a backward glance. His profession had involved
many experiments that would have made quick havoc of even the ordinary man's conscience.

Conscience. An awkward guest for an unsuspected murderer; for the groundling whose heredity
had not been conquered by brain. Fancy being pursued by the spectre of the victim!

The woman on the bed gave a start and groan that recalled him to the case in hand. He rose
and walked quickly to her side. Her eyes were closed, her face was black with congested blood.
He laid his finger on her pulse. It was feeble.

"It will not be long now," he thought.

He went toward his chair. He felt a sudden distaste for it, a desire for motion. He walked
up and down the room rather more rapidly than before.

"If I were an ordinary man," he thought, "I suppose that tortured creature on the bed would
haunt me to my death. Rot! A murderer I should be called if the facts were known, I suppose.
Well, she is worse. Did I permit her to live she would make the living hell of four people."

The woman gave a sudden awful cry, the cry of a lost soul shot into the night of eternity.
The stillness had been so absolute, the cry broke that stillness so abruptly and so horridly,
that the doctor, strong-brained, strong-nerved as he was, gave a violent start, and the sweat
started from his body.

"I am a fool," he exclaimed angrily, welcoming the sound of his voice; "but I wish to God it
were day and there were noises outside."

He strode hurriedly up and down the room, casting furtive glances at the bed. The night was
quiet again, but still that cry rang through it and lashed his brain. He recalled the theory
that sound never dies. The waves of space had yielded this to him.

"Good God!" he thought. "Am I going to pieces? If I let this wretch, this criminal die, I save
four people. If I let her live, I ruin their lives. The life of a man of brain and pride and
heart; the life of a woman of beauty and intellect and honor; the lives of two children of
unknown potentialities, for whom the world has now a warm heart. 'The greatest good of the
greatest number'--the principle that governs civil law. Has not even the worthy individual
been sacrificed to it again and again? Does it not hang the criminal dangerous to the community?
And is that called murder? What am I at this moment but law epitomized? Shall I hesitate? My
God, am I hesitating? Conscience--is it that? A superfluous instinct transmitted by my ancestors
and coddled by a woman--is it that which has sprung from its grave, rattling its bones? '_Conscience
makes_'--oh, shame that I should succumb when so much is at stake--that I should hesitate when
the welfare of four human beings trembles in the balance! '_Conscience_'--that in the moment
of my supreme power I should falter!"

He returned to the woman. He reached his finger toward her pulse, then hurriedly withdrew it
and resumed his restless march.

"This is only a nightmare, born of the night and the horrible stillness. To-morrow in the world
of men it will be forgotten, and I shall rejoice.... But there will be recurring hours of stillness,
of solitude. Will this night repeat itself? Will that thing on the bed haunt me? Will that
cry shriek in my ears? Oh, shame on my selfishness! What am I thinking of? To let that base,
degraded wretch exist, that I may live peaceably with my conscience? To let four others go
to their ruin, that I may escape a few hours of torment? That I--_I_--should come to this!
'The greatest good of the greatest number. The greatest' ... 'Conscience makes cowards of us all!'"

To his unutterable self-contempt and terror, he found his will for once powerless to control
the work of the generations that had preceded him. His iron jaw worked spasmodically, his gray
eyes looked frozen. The marble pallor of his face was suffused with a tinge of green.

"I despise myself!" he exclaimed, with fierce emphasis. "I loathe myself! I will not yield!
'_Conscience_'--they shall be saved, and by me. '_The greatest_'--I will maintain my intellectual
supremacy--that, if nothing else. She shall die!"

He halted abruptly. Perhaps she was already dead. Then he could reach the door in a bound and
run down-stairs and out of the house. To be followed...

He ran to the bed. The woman still breathed faintly, her mouth was twisted into a sardonic
and pertinent expression. His hand sought his pocket and brought forth a case. He opened it
and stared at the hypodermic syringe. His trembling fingers closed about it and moved toward
the woman. Then, with an effort so violent he fancied he could hear his tense muscles creak,
he straightened himself and turned his back upon the bed. At the same moment he dropped the
instrument to the floor and set his heel upon it.

V

A Monarch of a Small Survey

I

The willows haunted the lake more gloomily, trailed their old branches more dejectedly, than
when Dr. Hiram Webster had, forty years before, bought the ranchos surrounding them from the
Moreño grandees. Gone were the Moreños from all but the archives of California, but the willows
and Dr. Hiram Webster were full of years and honors. The ranchos were ranchos no longer. A
somnolent city covered their fertile acres, catching but a whiff at angels' intervals of the
metropolis of nerves and pulse and feverish corpuscles across the bay.

Lawns sloped to the lake. At the head of the lawns were large imposing mansions, the homes
of the aristocracy of the city, all owned by Dr. Webster, and leased at high rental to a favored
few. To dwell on Webster Lake was to hold proud and exclusive position in the community, well
worth the attendant ills. To purchase of those charmed acres was as little possible as to induce
the Government to part with a dwelling-site in Yosemite Valley.

Webster Hall was twenty years older than the tributary mansions. The trees about it were large
and densely planted. When storms tossed the lake they whipped the roof viciously or held the
wind in longer wails. There was an air of mystery about the great rambling sombre house; and
yet no murder had been done there, no traveller had disappeared behind the sighing trees to
be seen no more, no tale of horror claimed it as birthplace. The atmosphere was created by
the footprints of time on a dwelling old in a new land. The lawns were unkempt, the bare windows
stared at the trees like unlidded eyes. Children ran past it in the night. The unwelcomed of
the spreading city maintained that if nothing ever had happened there something would; that
the place spoke its manifest destiny to the least creative mind.

The rain poured down one Sunday morning, splashing heavily on the tin of the oft-mended roof,
hurling itself noisily through the trees. The doctor sat in his revolving-chair before the
desk in his study. His yellow face was puckered; even the wrinkles seemed to wrinkle as he
whirled about every few moments and scowled through the trees at the flood racing down the
lawn to the lake. His thin mouth was a trifle relaxed, his clothes hung loose upon him; but
the eyes, black and sharp as a ferret's, glittered undimmed.

He lifted a large bell that stood on the desk and rang it loudly. A maid-servant appeared.

"Go and look at the barometer," he roared. "See if this damned rain shows any sign of letting up."

The servant retired, reappeared, and announced that the barometer was uncompromising.

"Well, see that the table is set for twenty, nevertheless; do you hear? If they don't come
I'll raise their rents. Send Miss Webster here."

His sister entered in a few moments. She was nearly his age, but her faded face showed wrinkles
only on the brow and about the eyes. It wore a look of haunting youth; the expression of a
woman who has grown old unwillingly, and still hopes, against reason, that youth is not a matter
of a few years at the wrong end of life. Her hair was fashionably arranged, but she was attired
in a worn black silk, her only ornament a hair brooch. Her hands were small and well kept,
although the skin hung loose upon them, spotted with the moth-patches of age. Her figure was
erect, but stout.

"What is it, brother?" she asked softly, addressing the back of the autocrat's head.

He wheeled about sharply.

"Why do you always come in like a cat? Do you think those people will come to-day? It's raining
cats and dogs."

"Certainly; they always come, and they have their carriages--"

"That's just it. They're getting so damned high-toned that they'll soon feel independent of
me. But I'll turn them out, bag and baggage."

"They treat you exactly as they have treated you for thirty years and more, brother."

"Do you think so? Do you think they'll come to-day?"

"I am sure they will, Hiram."

He looked her up and down, then said, with a startling note of tenderness in his ill-used voice:

"You ought to have a new frock, Marian. That is looking old."

Had not Dr. Webster been wholly deficient in humor he would have smiled at his sister's expression
of terrified surprise. She ran forward and laid her hand on his shoulder.

"Hiram," she said, "are you--you do not look well to-day."

"Oh, I am well enough," he replied, shaking her off. "But I have noticed of late that you and
Abigail are looking shabby, and I don't choose that all these fine folks shall criticise you."
He opened his desk and counted out four double-eagles.

"Will this be enough? I don't know anything about women's things."

Miss Webster was thankful to get any money without days of expostulation, and assured him that
it was sufficient. She left the room at once and sought her companion, Miss Williams.

The companion was sitting on the edge of the bed in her small ascetic chamber, staring, like
Dr. Webster down-stairs, through the trees at the rain. So she had sat the night of her arrival
at Webster Hall, then a girl of eighteen and dreams. So she had sat many times, feeling youth
slip by her, lifting her bitter protest against the monotony and starvation of her existence,
yet too timid and ignorant to start forth in search of life. It was her birthday, this gloomy
Sunday. She was forty-two. She was revolving a problem--a problem she had revolved many times
before. For what had she stayed? Had there been an unadmitted hope that these old people must
soon die and leave her with an independence with which she could travel and live? She loved
Miss Webster, and she had gladly responded to her invitation to leave the New England village,
where she was dependent on the charity of relatives, and make her home in the new country.
Miss Webster needed a companion and housekeeper; there would be no salary, but a comfortable
home and clothes that she could feel she had earned. She had come full of youth and spirit
and hope. Youth and hope and spirit had dribbled away, but she had stayed, and stayed. To-day
she wished she had married any clod in her native village that had been good enough to address
her. Never for one moment had she known the joys of freedom, of love, of individuality.

Miss Webster entered abruptly.

"Abby," she exclaimed, "Hiram is ill." And she related the tale of his unbending.

Miss Williams listened indifferently. She was very tired of Hiram. She accepted with a perfunctory
expression of gratitude the gold piece allotted to her. "You are forty-two, you are old, you
are nobody," was knelling through her brain.

"What is the matter?" asked Miss Webster, sympathetically; "have you been crying? Don't you
feel well? You'd better dress, dear; they'll be here soon."

She sat down suddenly on the bed and flung her arms about her companion, the tears starting
to her kindly eyes.

"We are old women," she said. "Life has not meant much to us. You are younger in years, but
you have lived in this dismal old house so long that you have given it and us your youth. You
have hardly as much of it now as we have. Poor girl!"

The two women fondled each other, Abby appreciating that, although Miss Webster might not be
a woman of depths, she too had her regrets, her yearnings for what had never been.

"What a strange order of things it is," continued the older woman, "that we should have only
one chance for youth in this life! It comes to so many of us when circumstances will not permit
us to enjoy it. I drudged--drudged--drudged, when I was young. Now that I have leisure and--and
opportunity to meet people, at least, every chance of happiness has gone from me. But you are
comparatively young yet, really; hope on. The grave will have me in a few years, but you can
live and be well for thirty yet. Ah! if I had those thirty years!"

"I would give them to you gladly for one year of happiness--of youth."

Miss Webster rose and dried her eyes. "Well," she said, philosophically, "regrets won't bring
things. We've people to entertain to-day, so we must get out of the dumps. Put on your best
frock, like a good child, and come down."

She left the room. Miss Williams rose hurriedly, unhooked a brown silk frock from the cupboard,
and put it on. Her hair was always smooth; the white line of disunion curved from brow to the
braids pinned primly above the nape of the neck. As she looked into the glass to-day she experienced
a sudden desire to fringe her hair, to put red on her cheeks; longing to see if any semblance
of her youthful prettiness could be coaxed back. She lifted a pair of scissors, but threw them
hastily down. She had not the courage to face the smiles and questions that would greet the
daring innovation, the scathing ridicule of old man Webster.

She stared at her reflection in the little mirror, trying to imagine her forehead covered with
a soft fringe. Nothing could conceal the lines about the eyes and mouth, but the aging brow
could be hidden from critical gaze, the face redeemed from its unyouthful length. Her cheeks
were thin and colorless, but the skin was fine and smooth. The eyes, which had once been a
rich dark blue, were many shades lighter now, but the dulness of age had not possessed them
yet. Her set mouth had lost its curves and red, but the teeth were good. The head was finely
shaped and well placed on the low old-fashioned shoulders. There were no contours now under
the stiff frock. Had her estate been high she would have been, at the age of forty-two, a youthful
and pretty woman. As it was, she was merely an old maid with a patrician profile.

She went down-stairs to occupy her chair in the parlor, her seat at the table, to be overlooked
by the fine people who took no interest whatever in the "Websters' companion." She hated them
all. She had watched them too grow old with a profound satisfaction for which she reproached
herself. Even wealth had not done for them what she felt it could have done for her.

The first carriage drove up as she reached the foot of the stair. The front door had been opened
by the maid as it approached, and the rain beat in. There was no _porte-cochère_; the guests
were obliged to run up the steps to avoid a drenching. The fashionable Mrs. Holt draggled her
skirts, and under her breath anathematized her host.

"It will be the happiest day of my life when this sort of thing is over," she muttered. "Thank
heaven, he can't live much longer!"

"Hush!" whispered her prudent husband; Miss Webster had appeared.

The two women kissed each other affectionately. Everybody liked Miss Webster. Mrs. Holt, an
imposing person, with the rigid backbone of the newly rich, held her hostess's hand in both
her own as she assured her that the storm had not visited California which could keep her from
one of dear Dr. Webster's delightful dinners. As she went up-stairs to lay aside her wrappings
she relieved her feelings by a facial pucker directed at a painting, on a matting panel, of
the doctor in the robes of Japan.

The other guests arrived, and after making the pilgrimage up-stairs, seated themselves in the
front parlor to slide up and down the horse-hair furniture and await the entrance of the doctor.
The room was funereal. The storm-ridden trees lashed the bare dripping windows. The carpet
was threadbare. White crocheted tidies lent their emphasis to the hideous black furniture.
A table, with marble top, like a graveyard slab, stood in the middle of the room. On it was
a bunch of wax flowers in a glass case. On the white plastered walls hung family photographs
in narrow gilt frames. In a conspicuous place was the doctor's diploma. In another, Miss Webster's
first sampler. "The first piano ever brought to California" stood in a corner, looking like
the ghost of an ancient spinet. Miss Williams half expected to find it some day standing on
three legs, resting the other.

Miss Webster sat on a high-backed chair by the table, nervously striving to entertain her fashionable
guests. The women huddled together to keep warm, regardless of their expensive raiment. The
men stood in a corner, reviling the mid-day dinner in prospect. Miss Williams drifted into
a chair and gazed dully on the accustomed scene. She had looked on it weekly, with barely an
intermission, for a quarter of a century. With a sensation of relief, so sharp that it seemed
to underscore the hateful monotony of it all, she observed that there was a young person in
the company. As a rule, neither threats nor bribes could bring the young to Webster Hall. Then
she felt glad that the young person was a man. She was in no mood to look on the blooming hopeful
face of a girl.

He was a fine young fellow, with the supple lean figure of the college athlete, and a frank
attractive face. He stood with his hands plunged into his pockets, gazing on the scene with
an expression of ludicrous dismay. In a moment he caught the companion's eye. She smiled involuntarily,
all that was still young in her leaping to meet that glad symbol of youth. He walked quickly
over to her.

"I say," he exclaimed, apologetically, "I haven't been introduced, but do let ceremony go,
and talk to me. I never saw so many old fogies in my life, and this room is like a morgue.
I almost feel afraid to look behind me."

She gave him a grateful heart-beat for all that his words implied.

"Sit down," she said, with a vivacity she had not known was left in her sluggish currents.
"How--did--you--come--here?"

"Why, you see, I'm visiting the Holts--Jack Holt was my chum at college--and when they asked
me if I wanted to see the oldest house in the city, and meet the most famous man 'on this side
of the bay,' why, of course, I said I'd come. But, gods! I didn't know it would be like this,
although Jack said the tail of a wild mustang couldn't get him through the front door. Being
on my first visit to the widely renowned California, I thought it my duty to see all the sights.
Where did you come from?"

"Oh, I live here. I've lived here for twenty-four years."

"Great Scott!" His eyes bulged. "You've lived in this house for twenty-four years?"

"Twenty-four years."

"And you're not dead yet--I beg pardon," hastily. "I am afraid you think me very rude."

"No, I do not. I am glad you realize how dreadful it is. Nobody else ever does. These people
have known me for most of that time, and it has never occurred to them to wonder how I stood
it. Do you know that you are the first young person I have spoken with for years and years?"

"You don't mean it?" His boyish soul was filled with pity. "Well, I should think you'd bolt
and run."

"What use? I've stayed too long. I'm an old woman now, and may as well stay till the end."

The youth was beginning to feel embarrassed, but was spared the effort of making a suitable
reply by the entrance of Dr. Webster. The old man was clad in shining broadcloth, whose maker
was probably dead these many years. He leaned on a cane heavily mounted with gold.

"Howdy, howdy, howdy?" he cried, in his rough but hospitable tones. "Glad to see you. Didn't
think you'd come. Yes, I did, though," with a chuckle. "Well, come down to dinner, I'm hungry."

He turned his back without individual greeting, and led the way along the hall, then down a
narrow creaking stairway to the basement dining-room, an apartment as stark and cheerless as
the parlor, albeit the silver on the table was very old and heavy, the linen unsurpassed.

The guests seated themselves as they listed, the youngster almost clinging to Miss Williams.
The doctor hurriedly ladled the soup, announcing that he had a notion to let them help themselves,
he was so hungry. When he had given them this brief attention he supplied his own needs with
the ladle direct from the tureen.

"Old beast!" muttered Mrs. Holt. "It's disgusting to be so rich that you can do as you please."

But for this remark, delivered as the ladle fell with a clatter on the empty soup-plate, the
first course was disposed of amidst profound silence. No one dared to talk except as the master
led, and the master was taking the edge off his appetite.

The soup was removed and a lavish dinner laid on the table. Dr. Webster sacrificed his rigid
economic tenets at the kitchen door, but there was no rejoicing in the hearts of the guests.
They groaned in spirit as they contemplated the amount they should be forced to consume at
one of the clock.

The doctor carved the turkeys into generous portions, ate his, then began to talk.

"Cleveland will be re-elected," he announced dictatorially. "Do you hear? Harrison has no show
at all. What say?" His shaggy brows rushed together. He had detected a faint murmur of dissent.
"Did you say he wouldn't, John Holt?"

"No, no," disclaimed Mr. Holt, who was a scarlet Republican. "Cleveland will be re-elected
beyond a doubt."

"Well, if I hear of any of you voting for Harrison! I suppose you think I can't find out what
ticket you vote! But I'll find out, sirs. Mark my words, Holt, if you vote the Republican ticket--"

He stopped ominously and brought his teeth together with a vicious click. Holt raised his wine-glass
nervously. The doctor held his note to a considerable amount.

"The Republican party is dead--dead as a door-nail," broke in an unctuous voice. A stout man
with a shrewd time-serving face leaned forward. "Don't let it give you a thought, doctor. What
do you think of the prospects for wheat?"

"Never better, never better. They say the Northern crops will fail, but it's a lie. They can't
fail. You needn't worry, Meeker. Don't pull that long face, sir; I don't like it."

"The reports are not very encouraging," began a man of bile and nerves and melancholy mien.
"And this early rain--"

"Don't contradict me, sir," cried Webster. "I say they can't fail. They haven't failed for
eight years. Why should they fail now?"

"No reason at all, sir--no reason at all," replied the victim, hurriedly. "It does me good
to hear your prognostications."

"I hear there is a slight rise in Con. Virginia," interposed Mrs. Holt, who had cultivated tact.

"Nonsense!" almost shouted the tyrant. The heavy silver fork of the Moreños fell to his plate
with a crash. "The mine's as rotten as an old lung. There isn't a handful of decent ore left
in her. No more clodhoppers 'll get rich out of that mine. You haven't been investing, have
you?" His ferret eyes darted from one face to another. "If you have, don't you ever darken
my doors again! I don't approve of stock-gambling, and you know it."

The guests, one and all, assured him that not one of their hard-earned dollars had gone to
the stock-market.

"Great Scott!" murmured the youth to Miss Williams; "is this the way he always goes on? Have
these people no self-respect?"

"They're used to him. This sort of thing has gone on ever since I came here. You see he has
made this lake the most aristocratic part of the city, so that it gives one great social importance
to live here; and as he won't sell the houses, they have to let him trample on their necks,
and he loves to do that better than he loves his money. But that is not the only reason. They
hope he will leave them those houses when he dies. They certainly deserve that he should. For
years, before they owned carriages, they would tramp through wind and rain every Sunday in
winter to play billiards with him, to say nothing of the hot days of summer. They have eaten
this mid-day dinner that they hate time out of mind. They have listened to his interminable
yarns, oft repeated, about early California. In all these years they have never contradicted
him, not once. They thought he'd die long ago, and now they're under his heel, and they couldn't
get up and assert themselves if they tried. All they can do is to abuse him behind his back."

"It all seems disgusting to me."

His independent spirit was very attractive to the companion.

"I'd like to bluff him at his own game, the old slave-driver," he continued.

"Oh don't! don't!" she quavered.

She was, in truth, anxiously awaiting the moment when Dr. Webster should see fit to give his
attention to the stranger.

He laughed outright.

"Why, what makes you so afraid of him? He doesn't beat you, does he?"

"It isn't that. It's the personality of the man, added to force of habit."

"Well, Mr. Strowbridge," cried Dr. Webster, suddenly addressing the youth, "what are you doing
for this world? I hear you are just out of Harvard University. University men never amount
to a row of pins."

Strowbridge flushed and bit his lip, but controlled himself.

"Never amount to a row of pins," roared the doctor, irritated by the haughty lifting of the
young man's head. "Don't even get any more book-learning now, I understand. Nothing but football
and boat-racing. Think that would make a fortune in a new country? Got any money of your own?"

"My father, since you ask me, is a rich man--as well as a gentleman," said Strowbridge, with
the expression of half-frightened anger of the righteously indignant, who knows that he has
not the advantages of cool wit and scathing repartee, and, in consequence, may lose his head.
"He inherited his money, and was not forced to go to a new country and become a savage," he
blurted out.

Mr. Holt extended himself beneath the table, and trod with terrified significance on Strowbridge's
foot. Miss Williams fluttered with terror and admiration. The other guests gazed at the youth
in dismay. For the first time in the history of Webster Hall the grizzly had been bearded in
his lair.

"Sir! sir!" spluttered Webster. Then he broke into a roar. "Who asked this cub here, anyway?
Who said you could write and ask permission to bring your friends to my house? How dare you--how
dare you--how dare you, sir, speak to me like that? Do you know, sir--"

"Oh, I know all about you," exclaimed Strowbridge, whose young blood was now uncontrollable.
"You are an ill-bred, purse-proud old tyrant, who wouldn't be allowed to sit at a table in
California if it wasn't for your vulgar money." He pushed back his chair and stood up. "I wish
you good-day, sir. I pity you. You haven't a friend on earth. I also apologize for my rudeness.
My only excuse is that I couldn't help it."

And he went hurriedly from the room.

To Miss Williams the feeble light went with him. The appalled guests attacked their food with
feverish energy. Dr. Webster stared stupidly at the door; then his food gave out the sound
of ore in a crusher. He did not speak for some time. When he did he ignored the subject of
young Strowbridge. His manner was appreciably milder--somewhat dazed--although he by no means
gave evidence of being humbled to the dust. The long dinner dragged to its close. The women
went up to the parlor to sip tea with Miss Webster and slide up and down the furniture. The
men followed the doctor to the billiard-room. They were stupid and sleepy, but for three hours
they were forced alternately to play and listen to the old man's anecdotes of the days when
he fought and felled the grizzly. He seemed particularly anxious to impress his hearers with
his ancient invincibility.

That night, in the big four-posted mahogany bed in which he had been born, surrounded by the
massive ugly furniture of his old New England home, Dr. Webster quietly passed away.

II

Not only the lakeside people, but all of the city with claims to social importance attended
the funeral. Never had there been such an imposing array of long faces and dark attire. Miss
Webster being prostrated, the companion did the honors. The dwellers on the lake occupied the
post of honor at the head of the room, just beyond the expensive casket. Their faces were studies.
After Miss Williams had exchanged a word with each, Strowbridge stepped forward and bent to
her ear.

"Oh, I say," he whispered, eagerly, "I have to tell some member of this family how sorry I
am for losing my temper and my manners the other day. It was awfully fresh of me. Poor old
boy! Do say that you forgive me."

A smile crept between her red lids.

"He had a good heart," she said. "He would have forgiven you." And then the long and impressive
ceremony began.

All the great company followed the dead autocrat to the cemetery, regardless of the damaging
skies. Miss Williams, as chief mourner, rode in a hack, alone, directly behind the hearse.
During the dreary ride she labored conscientiously to stifle an unseemly hope. In the other
carriages conversation flowed freely, and no attempt was made to discourage expectations.

Two evenings later, as the crowd of weary business men boarded the train that met the boat
from the great city across the bay, it was greeted as usual by the cry of the local newsboys.
This afternoon the youngsters had a rare bait, and they offered it at the top of their shrill
worn voices:

"Will of Dr. Hiram Webster! Full account of Dr. Hiram Webster's lastwillundtestermint."

A moment later the long rows of seats looked as if buried beneath an electrified avalanche
of newspapers. At the end of five minutes the papers were fluttering on the floor amid the
peanut-shells and orange-skins of the earlier travellers. There was an impressive silence,
then an animated, terse, and shockingly expressive conversation. Only a dozen or more sat with
drawn faces and white lips. They were the dwellers by the lake. Hiram Webster had left every
cent of his large fortune to his sister.

For two weeks Webster Lake did not call on the heiress. It was too sore. At the end of that
period philosophy and decency came to the rescue. Moreover, cupidity: Miss Webster too must
make a will, and before long.

They called. Miss Webster received them amiably. Her eyes were red, but the visitors observed
that her mourning was very rich; they had never seen richer. They also remarked that she held
her gray old head with a loftiness that she must have acquired in the past two weeks; no one
of them had ever seen it before. She did not exactly patronize them; but that she appreciated
her four millions there could be no doubt.

Strowbridge glanced about in search of Miss Williams. She was not in the room. He sauntered
out to the garden and saw her coming from the dairy. She wore a black alpaca frock and a dark
apron. Her face was weary and sad.

"Could any one look more hopeless!" he thought. "The selfish old curmudgeon, not to leave her
independent! How her face can light up! She looks almost young."

For she had seen him and hastened down the path. As he asked after her health and said that
he had been looking for her, she smiled and flushed a little. They sat down on the steps and
chatted until approaching voices warned them that both pleasure and duty were over. She found
herself admitting that she had been bitterly disappointed to learn that she was still a dependant,
still chained to the gloomy mansion by the lake. Yes; she should like to travel, to go to places
she had read of in the doctor's library--to live. She flushed with shame later when she reflected
on her confidences--she who was so proudly reticent. And to a stranger! But she had never met
any one so sympathetic.

Many were the comments of the visitors as they drove away.

"Upon my word!" exclaimed Mrs. Holt; "I do believe Marian Webster will become stuck-up in her
old age."

"Four millions are a good excuse," said Mrs. Meeker, with a sigh.

"That dress did not cost a cent under three hundred dollars," remarked a third, with energy.
"And it was tried on four times, if it was once. She is evidently open to consolation."

But Miss Webster had by no means ceased to furnish material for comment. A month later Mrs.
Meeker burst in on Mrs. Holt. "What do you think?" she cried. "Old Miss Webster is refurnishing
the house from top to bottom. I ran in just now, and found everything topsy-turvy. Thompson's
men are there frescoing--frescoing! All the carpets have been taken up and are not in sight.
Miss Webster informed me that she would show us what she could do, if she was seventy-odd,
but that she didn't want any one to call until everything was finished. Think of that house
being modernized--that old whited sepulchre!"

Mrs. Holt had dropped the carriage-blanket she was embroidering for her daughter's baby. "Are
you dreaming?" she gasped. "Hiram will haunt the place!"

"Just you wait. Miss Webster hasn't waited all these years for nothing."

Nor had she. The sudden and stupendous change in her fortunes had routed grief--made her dizzy
with possibilities. She had no desire to travel, but she had had a lifelong craving for luxury.
She might not have many more years to live, she reiterated to Miss Williams, but during those
years her wealth should buy her all that her soul had ever yearned for.

In due course the old exclusive families of the infant city received large squares of pasteboard
heavily bordered with black, intimating that Miss Webster would be at home to her friends on
Thursdays at four of the clock. On the first Thursday thereafter the parlor of Webster Hall
was as crowded as on the day of the funeral. "But who would ever know the old barrack?" as
the visitors whispered. Costly lace hid the window-panes, heavy pale-blue satin the ancient
frames. The walls were frescoed with pink angels rising from the tinting clouds of dawn. The
carpet was of light-blue velvet; the deep luxurious chairs and divans and the portières were
of blue satin. The wood-work was enamelled with silver. Out in the wide hall Persian rugs lay
on the inlaid floors, tapestry cloth hid the walls. Carved furniture stood in the niches and
the alcoves. Through the open doors of the library the guests saw walls upholstered with leather,
low bookcases, busts of marble and bronze. An old laboratory off the doctor's study had been
transformed into a dining-room, as expensive and conventional as the other rooms. There a dainty
luncheon was spread.

Miss Webster led the lakeside people up-stairs. The many spare bedrooms had been handsomely
furnished, each in a different color. When the guests were finally permitted to enter Miss
Webster's own virgin bower their chins dropped helplessly. Only this saved them from laughing
outright.

The room was furnished as for a pampered beauty. The walls were covered with pink silk shimmering
under delicate lace. The white enamel bed and dressing-table were bountifully draped with the
same materials. Light filtered through rustling pink. The white carpet was sprinkled with pink
roses. The trappings of the dressing-table were of crystal and gold. In one corner stood a
Psyche mirror. Two tall lamps were hooded with pink.

All saw the humor; none the pathos.

The doctor's room had been left untouched. Sentiment and the value of the old mahogany had
saved it. Miss Williams's room was also the same little cell. She assisted to receive the guests
in a new black silk gown. Miss Webster was clad from head to foot in English crêpe, with deep
collar and girdle of dull jet.

That was a memorable day in the history of the city.

Thereafter Miss Webster gave an elaborate dinner-party every Sunday evening at seven o'clock.
No patient groans greeted her invitations. Never did a lone woman receive such unflagging attentions.

At each dinner she wore a different gown. It was at the third that she dazzled her guests with
an immense pair of diamond earrings. At the fourth they whispered that she had been having
her nails manicured. At the fifth it was painfully evident that she was laced. At the sixth
they stared and held their breath: Miss Webster was unmistakably painted. But it was at the
tenth dinner that they were speechless and stupid: Miss Webster wore a blond wig.

"They can just talk all they like," said the lady to her companion that last night, as she
sat before her mirror regarding her aged charms. "I have four millions, and I shall do as I
please. It's the first time I ever could, and I intend to enjoy every privilege that wealth
and independence can give. Whose business is it, anyway?" she demanded, querulously.

"No one's. But it is a trifle ridiculous, and you must expect people to talk."

"They'd better talk!" There was a sudden suggestion of her brother's personality, never before
apparent. "But why is it ridiculous, I should like to know? Hasn't a woman the right to be
young if she can? I loved Hiram. I was a faithful and devoted sister; but he took my youth,
and now that he has given it back, as it were I'll make the most of it."

"You can't be young again."

"Perhaps not, in years; but I'll have all that belongs to youth."

"Not all. No man will love you."

Miss Webster brought her false teeth together with a snap. "Why not, I should like to know?
What difference do a few years make? Seventy is not much, in any other calculation. Fancy if
you had only seventy dollars between you and starvation! Think of how many thousands of years
old the world is! I have now all that makes a woman attractive--wealth, beautiful surroundings,
scientific care. The steam is taking out my wrinkles; I can see it."

She turned suddenly from the glass and flashed a look of resentment on her companion.

"But I wish I had your thirty years' advantage. I do! I do! Then they'd see."

The two women regarded each other in silence for a long moment. Love had gone from the eyes
and the hearts of both. Hate, unacknowledged as yet, was growing. Miss Webster bitterly envied
the wide gulf between old age and her quarter-century companion and friend. Abigail bitterly
envied the older woman's power to invoke the resemblance and appurtenances of youth, to indulge
her lifelong yearnings.

When the companion went to her pillow that night she wept passionately. "I will go," she said.
"I'll be a servant; but I'll stay here no longer."

The next morning she stood on the veranda and watched Miss Webster drive away to market. The
carriage and horses were unsurpassed in California. The coachman and footman were in livery.
The heiress was attired in lustreless black silk elaborately trimmed with jet. A large hat
covered with plumes was kept in place above her painted face and red wig by a heavily dotted
veil--that crier of departed charms. She held a black lace parasol in one carefully gloved
hand. Her pretty foot was encased in patent leather.

"The old fool!" murmured Abby. "Why, oh, why could it not have been mine? I could make myself
young without being ridiculous."

She let her duties go and sauntered down to the lake. Many painted boats were anchored close
to ornamental boat-houses. They seemed strangely out of place beneath the sad old willows.
The lawns were green with the green of spring. Roses ran riot everywhere. The windows of the
handsome old-fashioned houses were open, and Abby was afforded glimpses of fluttering white
gowns, heard the tinkle of the mandolin, the cold precise strains of the piano, the sudden
uplifting of a youthful soprano.

"After all, it only makes a little difference to them that they got nothing," thought the companion,
with a sigh.

A young man stepped from one of the long windows of the Holt mansion and came down the lawn.
Miss Williams recognized Strowbridge. She had not seen him for several weeks; but he had had
his part in her bitter moments, and her heart beat at sight of him to-day.

"I too am a fool," she thought. "Even with her money my case would be hopeless. I am nearly
double his age."

He jumped into a boat and rowed down the lake. As he passed the Webster grounds he looked up
and saw Abby standing there.

"Hulloa!" he called, as if he were addressing a girl of sixteen. "How are you, all these years?
Jump in and take a row."

He made his landing, sprang to the shore and led her to the boat with the air of one who was
not in the habit of being refused. Abby had no inclination to suppress him. She stepped lightly
into the boat, and a moment later was gliding down the lake, looking with admiring eyes on
the strong young figure in its sweater and white trousers. A yachting-cap was pulled over his
blue eyes. His face was bronzed. Abby wondered if many young men were as handsome as he. As
a matter of fact, he was merely a fine specimen of young American manhood, whose charm lay
in his frank manner and kindness of heart.

"Like this?" he asked, smiling into her eyes.

"Yes, indeed. Hiram used to row us sometimes; but the boat lurched so when he lost his temper
that I was in constant fear of being tipped over."

"Hiram must have been a terror to cats."

"A what?"

"Beg pardon! Of course you don't know much slang. Beastly habit."

He rowed up and down the lake many times, floating idly in the long recesses where the willows
met overhead. He talked constantly; told her yarns of his college life; described boat-races
and football matches in which he had taken part. At first his only impulse was to amuse the
lonely old maid; but she proved such a delighted and sympathetic listener that he forgot to
pity her. An hour passed, and with it her bitterness. She no longer felt that she must leave
Webster Hall. But she remembered her duties, and regretfully asked him to land her.

"Well, if I must," he said. "But I'm sorry, and we'll do it again some day. I'm awfully obliged
to you for coming."

"Obliged to me?--you?" she said, as he helped her to shore. "Oh, you don't know--" And laughing
lightly, she went rapidly up the path to the house.

Miss Webster was standing on the veranda. Her brows were together in an ugly scowl.

"Well!" she exclaimed. "So you go gallivanting about with boys in your old age! Aren't you
ashamed to make such an exhibition of yourself?"

Abby felt as if a hot palm had struck her face. Then a new spirit, born of caressed vanity,
asserted itself.

"Wouldn't you have done the same if you had been asked?" she demanded.

Miss Webster turned her back and went up to her room. She locked the door and burst into tears.
"I can't help it," she sobbed, helplessly. "It's dreadful of me to hate Abby after all these
years; but--those terrible thirty! I'd give three of my millions to be where she is. I used
to think she was old, too. But she isn't. She's young! Young!--a baby compared to me. I could
more than be her mother. Oh, I must try as a Christian woman to tear this feeling from my heart."

She wrote off a check and directed it to her pastor, then rang for the trained nurse her physician
had imported from New York, and ordered her to steam and massage her face and rub her old body
with spirits of wine and unguents.

Strowbridge acquired the habit of dropping in on Miss Williams at all hours. Sometimes he called
at the dairy and sat on a corner of the table while she superintended the butter-making. He
liked her old-fashioned music, and often persuaded her to play for him on the new grand piano
in the sky-blue parlor. He brought her many books by the latter-day authors, all of them stories
by men about men. He had a young contempt for the literature of sentiment and sex. Even Miss
Webster grew to like him, partly because he ignored the possibility of her doing otherwise,
partly because his vital frank personality was irresistible. She even invited him informally
to dinner; and after a time he joked and guyed her as if she were a school-girl, which pleased
her mightily. Of Miss Williams he was sincerely fond.

"You are so jolly companionable, don't you know," he would say to her. "Most girls are bores;
don't know enough to have anything to talk about, and want to be flattered and flirted with
all the time. But I feel as if you were just another fellow, don't you know."

"Oh, I am used to the rôle of companion," she would reply.

With the first days of June he returned to Boston, and the sun turned gray for one woman.

Life went its way in the old house. People became accustomed to the spectacle of Miss Webster
rejuvenated, and forgot to flatter. It may be added that men forgot to propose, in spite of
the four millions. Deeper grew the gulf between the two women. Once in every week Abby vowed
she would leave, but habit was too strong. Once in every week Miss Webster vowed she would
turn the companion out, but dependence on the younger woman had grown into the fibres of her
old being.

Strowbridge returned the following summer. Almost immediately he called on Miss Williams.

"I feel as if you were one of the oldest friends I have in the world, don't you know," he said,
as they sat together on the veranda. "And I've brought you a little present--if you don't mind.
I thought maybe you wouldn't."

He took a small case from his pocket, touched a spring, and revealed a tiny gold watch and
fob. "You know," he had said to himself apologetically as he bought it, "I can give it to her
because she's so much older than myself. It's not vulgar, like giving handsome presents to
girls. And then we are friends. I'm sure she won't mind, poor old thing!" Nevertheless, he
looked at her with some apprehension.

His misgivings proved to be vagaries of his imagination. Abby gazed at the beautiful toy with
radiant face. "For me!" she exclaimed--"that lovely thing? And you really bought it for me?"

"Why, of course I did," he said, too relieved to note the significance of her pleasure. "And
you'll take it?"

"Indeed I'll take it." She laid it on her palm and looked at it with rapture. She fastened
the fob in a buttonhole of her blouse, but removed it with a shake of the head. "I'll just
keep it to look at, and only wear it with my black silk. It's out of place on this rusty alpaca."

"What a close-fisted old girl the Circus must--"

"Oh, hush, hush! She might hear you." Abby rose hastily. "Let us walk in the garden."

They sauntered between the now well-kept lawns and flower-beds and entered a long avenue of
fig-trees. The purple fruit hung abundantly among the large green leaves. Miss Williams opened
one of the figs and showed Strowbridge the red luscious pith.

"You don't have these over there."

"We don't. Are they good to eat this way?"

She held one of the oval halves to his mouth.

"Eat!" she said.

And he did. Then he ate a dozen more that she broke for him.

"I feel like a greedy school-boy," he said. "But they are good, and no mistake. You have introduced
me to another pleasure. Now let us go and take a pull."

All that afternoon there was no mirror to tell her that she was not the girl who had come to
Webster Hall a quarter of a century before. That night she knelt long by her bed, pressing
her hands about her face.

"I am a fool, I know," she thought, "but such things have been. If only I had a little of her
money."

The next day she went down to the lake, not admitting that she expected him to take her out;
it would be enough to see him. She saw him. He rowed past with Elinor Holt, the most beautiful
girl of the lakeside. His gaze was fixed on the flushed face, the limpid eyes. He did not look up.

Miss Williams walked back to the house with the odd feeling that she had been smitten with
paralysis and some unseen force was propelling her. But she was immediately absorbed in the
manifold duties of the housekeeping. When leisure came reaction had preceded it.

"I am a fool," she thought. "Of course he must show Elinor Holt attention. He is her father's
guest. But he might have looked up."

That night she could not sleep. Suddenly she was lifted from her thoughts by strange sounds
that came to her from the hall without. She opened the door cautiously. A white figure was
flitting up and down, wringing its hands, the gray hair bobbing about the jerking head.

"No use!" it moaned. "No use, no use, no use! I'm old, old, old! Seventy-four, seventy-four,
seventy-four! Oh, Lord! oh, Lord! oh, Lord! Thy ways are past finding out. Amen!"

Abby closed her door hurriedly. She felt the tragedy out there was not for mortal eyes to look
upon. In a few moments she heard the steps pause before her door. Hands beat lightly upon it.

"Give me back those thirty years!" whimpered the old voice. "They are mine! You have stolen
them from me!"

Abby's hair rose. "Is Marian going mad?" she thought.

But the next morning Miss Webster looked as usual when she appeared, after her late breakfast
in bed, bedecked for her drive to market. She had modified her mourning, and wore a lavender
cheviot, and the parasol and hat were in harmony with all but herself.

"Poor old caricature!" thought Abby. "She makes me feel young."

A week later, when the maid entered Miss Webster's bedroom at the accustomed morning hour,
she found that the bed had not been occupied. Nor was her mistress visible. The woman informed
Miss Williams at once, and together they searched the house. They found her in her brother's
room, in the old mahogany bed in which she too had been born. She was dead. Her gray hair was
smooth under her lace nightcap. Her hands were folded, the nails glistening in the dusky room.
Death had come peacefully, as to her brother. What had taken her there to meet it was the last
mystery of her strange old soul.

III

Again a funeral in the old house, again a crowd of mourners. This time there was less ostentation
of grief, for no one was left worth impressing. The lakeside people gathered, as before, at
the upper end of the parlor and gossiped freely. "Miss Williams ought to have put the blond
wig on her," said Mrs. Holt. "I am sure that is what Marian would have done for herself. Poor
Marian! She was a good soul, after all, and really gave liberally to charity. But there are
basic differences.

Their body temperature is cool, like their climate.

Their vision range is from just within the visible red on into the
infrared.

They'll shade their eyes from the light of anything as hot as boiling water but they'll look
square into the ship's floodlights and never see them."
"And their knowledge of science?" Brender asked.

"They have a good understanding of it, but along lines entirely different from what our own
were at their stage of development.

For example: they power their machines with chemicals but there is no steam, heat, or exhaust."

"That's what we want to find--worlds where branches of research unknown to our science are
being explored. How about their language?"
"No progress with it yet." He told Brender of the silence in the village and added, "Even if
Throon should show up I could not ask him what was wrong.

I've learned a few words but they have so many different definitions that I can't use them."

"I know," Brender said. "Variable and unrelated definitions, undetectable shades of
inflection--and sometimes a language that has no discernibly separate words. The Singer
brothers of Ship Eight ran into the latter. We've given them up as lost."
"The Singers--dead?" he exclaimed. "Good God--it's been only a month since the Ramon brothers were
killed."
"The circumstances were similar," Brender said. "They always are. There is no way the Exploration
men can tell the natives that they mean them no harm and the
suspicion of the natives grows into dangerous hostility.

       The Singers reported the
                 natives
      on that world to be both
                suspicious
                 and
    possessing powerful weapons. The
                 Singers
                 were
              proceeding warily, their own weapons always at hand.

But, somehow, the natives caught them off-guard--their last report was four months ago."
There was a silence, then Brender added, "Their ship was the ninth--and we had only fifteen."
He did not reply to the implications of Brender's statement. It was obvious to them all what
the end of the Plan would be. What it had to be.

* * * * *
It had been only three years since the fifteen heavily armed Exploration ships set out to
lead the way for Terran expansion across the galaxy; to answer a cry from far planets, and to find
all the worlds that held intelligent life. That was the ultimate goal of the Plan: to accumulate
and correlate all the diverse knowledge of all the intelligent life-forms in the galaxy. Among
the achievements resulting from that tremendous mass of data would be a ship's drive faster
even than hyperspace; the Third Level Drive which would bring all the galaxies of the universe
within reach.

And now nine ships were gone out of fifteen and nineteen men out
of thirty....

"The communication barrier," Brender said. "The damned communication barrier has been the
cause behind the loss of every ship. And there is nothing we can do about it. We're stymied by
it...."
The conversation was terminated shortly afterward and he moved about the room restlessly, wishing
it was time to lift ship again. With Johnny not there the dark world was like a smothering tomb.
He would like to leave it behind and drive again into the star clouds of the galaxy; drive
on and on into them--
A ghostly echo touched his mind; restless, poignantly yearning. He swung to face the locked
door, knowing there could be nothing behind it. The first real fear came to him as he did
so.
The thing was lonely--the thing that watched him was as lonely as he was....

What else could any of it be but the product of a mind in the first stage of insanity?

* * * * *
The natives came ten minutes later.

The viewscreen showed their chemically-powered vehicle emerge from
the trees and roll swiftly across the glade.

Four natives were in it while a fifth one lay on the floor, apparently badly injured.

The vehicle stopped a short distance in front of the airlock and he recognized the native on
the floor. It was Throon, the one with whom he had been exchanging language lessons.

They were waiting for him when he emerged from the ship, pistol-like weapons in their belts
and grim accusation in their manner.

Throon was muttering unintelligibly, unconscious. His skin, where not covered by the brown
fur, was abnormal in appearance. He was dying.

The leader of the four indicated Throon and said in a quick, brittle voice: "_Ko reegar feen
no-dran!_"

Only one word was familiar: _Ko_, which meant "you" and "yesterday" and a great many other
things. The question was utterly meaningless to him.

He dropped his hand a little nearer his blaster as the leader spoke
again; a quick succession of unknown words that ended with a harshly
demanding "_kreson!

_"
_Kreson_ meant "now," or "very quickly." All the other words were
unfamiliar to him.

They waited, the grim menace about them increasing when he did not answer. He tried in vain
to find some way of explaining to them he was not responsible for
Throon's sickness and could not cure it.

Then he saw the spray of leaves that had caught on the corner of
the vehicle when it came through the farther trees.

They were of a deep purple color.

All the trees around the ship were almost gray by contrast.

Which meant that he _was_ responsible for Throon's condition.

The cold white light of the ship's floodlights, under which he and Throon had sat for day
after day, contained radiations that went through the violet and far into the ultraviolet. To
the animal and vegetable life of the dark world such radiations were invisibly short and
deadly.

Throon was dying of hard-radiation sickness.

It was something he should have foreseen and avoided--and that would not have happened had
he accepted old Throon's pantomimed invitation, in the beginning, to go with him into the
village to work at the language study. There he would have used a harmless battery lamp for illumination
... but there was no certainty that the natives were not planning to lay a trap for him in the
village and he had refused to go.

It did not matter--there was a complex radiation-neutralizer and cell-reconstructor in the
ship which would return Throon to full, normal health a few hours after he was placed in its
chamber.

He turned to the leader of the four natives and motioned from Throon to the airlock. "Go--there,"
he said in the native language.

"_Bron!_" the leader answered. The word meant "No" and there was a determination in the way he
said it that showed he would not move from it.

At the end of five minutes his attempts to persuade them to take Throon into the ship had increased
their suspicion of his motives to the point of critical danger. If only he could tell them
_why_ he wanted Throon taken into the ship ...

But he could not and would have to take Throon by first disposing of the four without injuring
them. This he could do by procuring one of the paralyzing needle-guns from the ship.

He took a step toward the ship and spoke the words that to the best of his knowledge meant:
"I come back."
"_Feswin ilt k'la._"
Their reply was to snatch at their weapons in desperate haste, even as the leader uttered a
hoarse word of command. He brought up the blaster with the quick motion that long training
had perfected and their weapons were only half drawn when his
warning came:

"_Bron!

_"
* * * * *
They froze, but did not release their weapons. He walked backward to the airlock, his blaster
covering them, the tensely waiting manner in which they watched his progress telling him
that the slightest relaxation of his vigilance would mean his death. He did not let the muzzle
of the blaster waver until he was inside the airlock and the outer door had slid shut.

He was sure that the natives would be gone when he returned.

And he was sure of another thing:
That whatever he had said to them, it was not what he had thought he was saying.

He saw that the glade was empty when he opened the airlock again. At the same time a bomb-like
missile struck the ship just above the airlock and exploded with a savage crash. He jabbed the _Close_
button and the door clicked shut barely in advance of three more missiles which hammered
at its impervious armor.

So that, he thought wearily, is that.

He laid the useless needle-gun aside. The stage was past when he could hope to use it. He could
save Throon only by killing some of the others--or he could lift ship and leave Throon to
die.
Either action would make the natives hate and fear Terrans; a hatred
and fear that would be there to greet all future Terran ships.

That was not the way a race gave birth to peaceful galactic empire, was not the purpose
behind the Plan. But always, wherever the Exploration men went, they encountered the deadly
barrier; the intangible, unassailable communication barrier. With the weapons an Exploration
man carried in his ship he had the power to destroy a world--but not the power to ask the
simple questions that would prevent fatal misunderstandings.

And before another three years had passed the last Exploration man would die, the last Exploration
ship would be lost.

He felt the full force of hopelessness for the first time. When Johnny had been alive it had
been different; Johnny, who had laughed whenever the outlook was the darkest and said, "_We'll
find a way, Paul--_"
The thought broke as suddenly, unexpectedly, he felt that Johnny was very near. With the
feeling came the soft enclosure of a dream-like peace in which
Johnny's death was vague and faraway; only something that had
happened in another dream.

He knew, without wondering why, that Johnny was in the control room.

A part of his mind tried to reject the thought as an illusion. He did not listen--he did not
want to listen. He ran to the ship's elevator, stumbling like one not fully awake. Johnny was
waiting for him in the control room--alive--alive--
* * * * *
He spoke as he stepped into the control room:

"Johnny--"
Something moved at the control board, black and alien, standing tall as a man on short hind
legs. Yellow eyes blazed in a feline face.

It was a cave cat, like the ones that had killed Johnny.

Realization was a wrenching shock and a terrible disillusionment. Johnny was not waiting for
him--not alive--
He brought up the blaster, the dream-like state gone.

The paw of the cave cat flashed out and struck the ship's master light switch with a movement
faster than his own. The room was instantly, totally, dark.

He fired and pale blue fire lanced across the room, to reveal that the cave cat was gone. He
fired again, quickly and immediately in front of him. The pale beam revealed only the ripped
metal floor.

"_I am not where you think._"
The words spoke clearly in his mind but there was no directional source. He held his breath,
listening for the whisper of padded feet as the cave cat flashed in for the kill, and made a
swift analysis of the situation.

The cave cat was telepathic and highly intelligent and had been on the ship all the time. It and
the others had wanted the ship and had killed Johnny to reduce opposition to the minimum.
He, himself, had been permitted to live until the cave cat learned from his mind how to operate
the almost-automatic controls. Now, he had served his purpose--
"_You are wrong._"
Again there was no way he could determine the direction from which the thought came. He listened
again, and wondered why it had not waylaid him at the door.

Its thought came:

"_I had to let you see me or you would not have believed I existed. It was only here that I
could extinguish all lights and have time to speak before you killed me. I let you think your
brother was here...._" There was a little pause. "_I am sorry. I am sorry. I should have used
some other method of luring you here._"
He swung the blaster toward what seemed to be a faint sound near the astrogator unit across the
room.

"_We did not intend to kill your brother._"
He did not believe it and did not reply.

"_When we made first telepathic contact with him, he jerked up his blaster and fired. In his mind
was the conviction that we had pretended to be harmless animals so that we could catch him
off-guard and kill him. One of us leaped at him as he fired the second time, to knock the blaster
from his hand. We needed only a few minutes in which to explain--but he would not trust us that
long. There was a misjudgment of distance and he was knocked off the cliff._"
Again he did not reply.

"_We did not intend to kill your brother_," the thought came, "_but
you do not believe me_

."
* * * * *

He spoke for the first time. "No, I don't believe you. You are physically like cats and cats
don't misjudge distances.

Now, you want something from me before you try to kill me, too.

What is it?"
"_I will have to tell you of my race for you to understand. We call ourselves the Varn, in so
far as it can be translated into a spoken word, and we are a very
old race.

In the beginning we did not live in caves but there came a long period of time, for thousands of years,
when the climate on our world was so violent that we were forced to live in the caves. It was
completely dark there but our sense of smell became very acute, together with sufficient sensitivity
to temperature changes that we could detect objects in our immediate vicinity. There were
subterranean plants in the caves and food was no problem._"
* * * * *
"_We had always been slightly telepathic and it was during our long
stay in the caves that our intelligence and telepathic powers became
fully developed.

We had only our minds--physical science is not created in dark caves
with clumsy paws._
"_The time finally came when we could leave the caves but it was
of little help to us.

There were no resources on our world but earth and stone and the thin grass of the plains. We
wondered about the universe and we knew the stars were distant suns because one of our own suns
became a star each winter. We studied as best we could but we could see the stars only as
the little wild animals saw them. There was so much we wanted to learn and by then we were
past our zenith and already dying out.

But our environment was a prison from which we could never escape._
"_When your ship arrived we thought we might soon be free. We wanted to ask you to take some
of us with you and arrange for others of your race to stop by on
our world.

But you dismissed us as animals, useful only for making warm fur coats, because we lived in caves
and had no science, no artifacts--nothing.

You had the power to destroy us and we did not know what your
reaction would be when you learned we were intelligent and telepathic.

A telepathic race must have a high code of ethics and never intrude unwanted--but would you
have believed that?_"

He did not answer.

"_The death of your brother changed everything. You were going to leave so soon that there would be
no time to learn more about you. I hid on the ship so I could study you and wait until I could
prove to you that you needed me. Now, I can--Throon is dying and I can give you the proper words of
explanation that will cause the others to bring him into the ship._"
"Your real purpose--what is it?"

he asked.

"_To show you that men need the Varn. You want to explore the galaxy, and learn. So do the Varn.
You have the ships and we have the telepathic ability that will end the communication problem.
Your race and mine can succeed only if we go together._"
He searched for the true, and hidden, purpose behind the Varn
proposal and saw what it would have to be.

"The long-range goal--you failed to mention that ... your ultimate aim."
"_I know what you are thinking. How can I prove you wrong--now?

_"
There was no way for the Varn to prove him wrong, nor for him to prove the treachery behind
the Varn proposal.

The proof would come only with time, when the Terran-Varn co-operation had transformed Terrans
into a slave race.
The Varn spoke again. "_You refuse to believe I am sincere?_"
"I would be a naive fool to believe you."
"_It will be too late to save Throon unless we act very quickly. I
have told you why I am here.
There is nothing more I can do to convince you but be the first to
show trust. When I switch on the lights it will be within your power
to kill me._" 
* * * * *
The Varn was gambling its life in a game in which he would be
gambling the Plan and his race.
It was a game he would end at the first sound of movement from the
astrogator unit across the room....
"_I have been here beside you all the time._"
A furry paw brushed his face, claws flicked gently but grimly
reminding along his throat.
He whirled and fired. He was too late--the Varn had already leaped
silently away and the beam found only the bare floor. Then the
lights came on, glaringly bright after the darkness, and he saw the
Varn.
It was standing by the control board, its huge yellow eyes watching
him. He brought the blaster into line with it, his finger on the
firing stud. It waited, not moving or shrinking from what was coming.
The translucent golden eyes looked at him and beyond him, as though
they saw something not in the room. He wondered if it was in contact
with its own kind on Johnny's World and was telling them it had
made the gamble for high stakes, and had lost.
It was not afraid--not asking for mercy....
The killing of it was suddenly an act without savor. It was something
he would do in the immediate future but first he would let it live
long enough to save Throon.
He motioned with the blaster and said, "Lead the way to the airlock."
"_And afterward--you will kill me?_"
"Lead the way," he repeated harshly.
It said no more but went obediently past him and trotted down the
corridor like a great, black dog.

* * * * *
He stood in the open airlock, the Varn against the farther wall
where he had ordered it to stand. Throon was in the radiation chamber
and he had held his first intelligible conversation with the natives
that day.
The Varn was facing into the red-black gloom outside the lighted
airlock, where the departing natives could be heard crossing the
glade. "_Their thoughts no longer hold fear and suspicion_," it
said. "_The misunderstanding is ended._"
He raised the muzzle of the blaster in his hand. The black head
lifted and the golden eyes looked up at him.
"I made you no promise," he said.

"_I could demand none._"
"I can't stop to take you back to your own world and I can't leave
you alive on this one--with what you've learned from my mind you
would have the natives build the Varn a disintegrator-equipped space
fleet equal to our own ships."
"_We want only to go with you._"
He told it what he wanted it to know before he killed it, wondering
why he should care:
"I would like to believe you are sincere--and you know why I don't
dare to. Trusting a telepathic race would be too dangerous. The
Varn would know everything we knew and only the Varn would be able
to communicate with each new alien race. We would have to believe
what the Varn told us--we would have to trust the Varn to see for
us and speak for us and not deceive us as we went across the galaxy.
And then, in the end, Terrans would no longer be needed except as
a subject race. They would be enslaved.
"We would have laid the groundwork for an empire--the Varn Empire."

There was a silence, in which his words hung like something cold
and invisible between them.

Then the Varn asked, very quietly:
"_Why is the Plan failing?_"
"You already know," he said. "Because of the barrier--the communication
barrier that causes aliens to misunderstand the intentions of
Exploration men and fear them."
"_There is no communication barrier between you and I--yet you fear
me and are going to kill me._"
"I have to kill you. You represent a danger to my race."
"_Isn't that the same reason why aliens kill Exploration men?_"
He did not answer and its thought came, quickly, "_How does an
Exploration man appear to the natives of alien worlds?_"
How did he appear?... He landed on their world in a ship that could
smash it into oblivion; he stepped out of his ship carrying weapons
that could level a city; he represented irresistible power for
destruction and he trusted no one and nothing.
And in return he hoped to find welcome and friendship and
co-operation....
"_There_," the Varn said, "_is your true barrier--your own distrust
and suspicion. You, yourselves, create it on each new world. Now
you are going to erect it between my race and yours by killing me
and advising the Exploration Board to quarantine my world and never
let another ship land there._"
Again there was a silence as he thought of what the Varn had said
and of what it had said earlier:
"_We are a very old race...._" There was wisdom in the Varn's
analysis of the cause of the Plan's failure and with the Varn to
vanquish the communication stalemate, the new approach could be
tried. They could go a long way together, men and Varn, a long,
long way....
Or they could create the Varn Empire ... and how could he know which
it would be?

How could anyone know--except the telepathic Varn?
The muzzle of the blaster had dropped and he brought it back up.
He forced the dangerous indecision aside, knowing he would have to
kill the Varn at once or he might weaken again, and said harshly
to it:
"The risk is too great. I want to believe you--but all your talk
of trust and good intentions is only talk and my race would be the
only one that had to trust."
He touched the firing stud as the last thought of the Varn came:
"_Let me speak once more._"
He waited, the firing stud cold and metallic under his finger."Say something, Andrew, for heaven's sake!" cried Polly, "or I shall scream. Fifty thousand
dollars all my own! No more school, no more dress-making! We'll all go to Europe. Ma says it's
well invested, and we shall have four thousand a year each. Goodness--goodness--goodness me!"

"I should like to fit up the old house and live there," said Mrs. Webb. "But--yes--I should
like to see Europe first. That was one of the dreams of my youth."

"And I'll have a sealskin! At last! You shall have a magnificent black silk and a pair of diamond
earrings--"

"Polly!" exclaimed her mother, "what should I do with diamonds? A new black silk--a rich one--yes,
I shall like that. Poor Sandy!"

Andrew leaned forward and took the document and laid it on his knee. He stroked it as tenderly
as if it had been a woman's head and he another man. There was no sentiment in his nature,
although he was an admirer of beauty--New York beauty. After a time he detached himself from
his thoughts and talked the matter over with his mother and sister. When they asked him what
he should do he replied, confusedly, that he did not know. But the plans of neither were so
well defined as his.

All that night he sat on the edge of his bed staring at the worn outlines of the boy and the
dog on the rug under his feet. Fifty thousand dollars! It seemed a great fortune to him. Such
a sum had been familiar enough in figures for many years. But that it might represent a concrete
wad of bills was a fact which had never presented itself to his imagination before. Fifty thousand
dollars! He did not know what the objects of his idolatry were worth, merely that they were
idle and luxurious. These fifty thousand dollars would enable him to be idle and luxurious--and
to meet society at last on its own ground.

IV

The interval between that night and the day upon which the estate was settled, Andrew passed
in a sort of impatient dream. Never before had days, weeks, months seemed so long; never had
he so dissociated himself from his little world and melted into that luminous circle of which
he was to become a component part. How he was to obtain his passport into fashionable society
was a question that did not concern him. Its portals were typified to him by the wide gates
of Central Park, through which all might roll upon whom fortune smiled. One blessed fact possessed
his mind: by the first of July he should be master of his future, liberated from his desk,
free to go to Newport. When his foot actually pressed that reservation, all the rest would
come about quite naturally. At this time he still preserved his self-respect. He felt quite
the equal of the men he had brushed elbows with at Delmonico's--the pink-faced youths with
their butter-colored tops, the affable elderly men with their bulbous stomachs and puffy eyes.
And he had caught many of their little fads. He had risen in the night, and opening the door
connecting the kitchen and dining-room, that he might have sufficient scope, he had practised
the remarkable gait of the New York youth of fashion: that slight forward inclination of the
shoulders, that slighter crab-like angle of the body, that ponderous thoughtful tread: the
only difference from the walk of the "tough" being in the length of the step. One hand was
in a pocket, the other absently manipulated a stick. He had also witnessed the hand-shake,
and of his proficiency in this accomplishment he felt assured.

On the third day of July, one hour after the law had yielded up its temporary foundling, he
ordered an elaborate outfit from the most fashionable tailor in New York. This order and others
drilled a large hole in his first quarter's income, but he regarded that as a trifling detail.
His mother and sister were meanwhile selling the homely necessities of their flat at auction,
as the first step to a year abroad. They wondered at Andrew's desire to go to Newport, but
had heard that it was a pretty place with a good bathing-beach, and much visited by tourists.
They spent the last night together in a hotel; and Mrs. Webb, in spite of a faint protest from
Andrew, ordered beer and crackers and cheese. They had eaten this little supper for many years,
and the women, who were very tearful, insisted that this last evening together must be as much
like the dear old evenings as possible. It was a sad meal.

V

It was a profoundly hot August day when Andrew left the steamboat and actually stood upon Newport
soil. More properly, he stood upon a plank wharf, and was not impressed with the dock. But
as the omnibus rolled through the town his heart began to swell, his rather dull eyes to glow.
The hour was two, and the city asleep under its ivy and flowers. After New York, it seemed
deliciously quiet, and old, and aristocratic. The pounding of the horses' hoofs, the voices
of the people in the omnibus, were desecrating. He had glimpses of long avenues, dark, green,
dim; a flash of villa top or imposing gateway behind the stately trees. He felt that he was
in paradise.

He was in a mood to admire the hotel, plain and unpretending structure as it was; it was so
old and still and highly respectable. He descended from the omnibus nervously and went into
the office. A clerk handed him a pen, and he registered his name in a clerkly hand, "A. Armstrong
Webb." He had decided to acknowledge his debt to his uncle and add a cubit to his stature at
the same time. The clerk wheeled the book round, glanced indifferently at the name, and handed
a key to a bell-boy. Webb, conscious of a faint chill, followed the boy up-stairs. The room
to which he was conducted was an ordinary one overlooking the area. He had been treated as
any commonplace and unknown traveller would be. The thought increased the chill; then he philosophically
concluded that a nobleman travelling incognito would be treated in the same way, and went down-stairs
to the dining-room. There he was somewhat surprised to find that dinner was being served instead
of luncheon. He had supposed that dinner in a Newport hotel would be served at eight o'clock.

After dinner he went out to the veranda, sat himself on one of the chairs by the railing, and
smoked an expensive cigar. He was beginning to feel strangely lonely. There seemed to be very
few people in the hotel, and he experienced his first pang of helplessness, of doubt. He had
supposed that the hotel would be full of great people. As he glanced down the avenue, those
big houses seemed like tombs, buried, themselves, under a rank growth of foliage. And it was
so wondrous quiet!

His cigar cheered him somewhat, and he sauntered back to the office and entered into conversation
with the clerk, a good-humored little Englishman with cheeks like his own apples. The clerk
knew at a glance that the stranger was neither a "swell" nor a frequenter of Newport; but he
liked his manly appearance, and readily met his advances. To his dismay, Webb learned that
the "swells" no longer went to the hotels; or, if obliged to do so for a short period, secluded
themselves in their rooms. They lived in cottages. Oh yes! all those fine houses were called
cottages. It was a sort of fad--American modesty, the clerk supposed. There was not much run
of any sort at the hotel until the fifteenth, when a good many tourists came. Oh yes! there
were some people there, mostly old ones, who had come every season for many years, he believed.
Rather depressing parties, these; they looked so old-fashioned, and didn't do much to brighten
up things.

Webb, with growing dejection, left the hotel and strolled up the avenue. There his spirits
revived. The avenue was so beautiful, so gloomy, so old! He drew in deep inhalations of its
unmistakably aristocratic atmosphere. He felt its subtle possessing influence. Once more his
imagination awakened. He leaned on a Gothic gateway and gazed upon a superb Queen Anne cottage
with Tudor towers. Incongruities in architecture mattered nothing to him. He precipitated his
astral part through the massive door and wandered, with ponderous, thoughtful tread, over the
deep carpets of the drawing-rooms and corridors. He drank tea on the back veranda with languid
dames and with men who had never stood at desks. He threw himself into an arm-chair and listened
to a slim-waisted smooth-haired girl coquetting with the piano. He sat with the haughty chatelaine
and talked of--there his imagination failed him. He hardly knew what these people talked of,
although he had read many society novels. As far as his memory served him, they talked of nothing
in particular. He wandered down the avenue, dreaming his dream at many gate-posts. He saw no
one, but thereby was the illusion deepened. Newport for the hour was his.

He returned to the hotel veranda, lit another cigar, and was about to meditate upon some plan
of campaign, when suddenly an odd and delightful thing happened. It was four-and-thirty of
the clock. As if to the ringing of a bell and the rising of a curtain, Bellevue Avenue became
suddenly alive with carriages. The big gates seemed to yawn simultaneously and discharge their
expensive freight. It was as if these actors in the Newport drama would lose their weekly salary
did they step on the boards a moment too late. The avenue, with its gay frocks and parasols,
was like a long flower-bed in spring. Webb's cigar went out. He leaned forward eagerly, straining
his eyes.

In some of the superb traps were decrepit old dowagers wagging their feeble heads, wondering,
perhaps, how much longer their millions would keep them alive. Sometimes their young heirs
were with them, patient and placid. Others were pitifully alone. Several men were on horseback,
riding in the agonized fashion of the day. There were carriages full of girls with complexions
of ivory and claret, air of ineffable daintiness. Now and then a victoria would roll by in
which women lolled, heavily veiled with crape. Webb wondered if they really could sorrow like
common folks. Mingling with the superb turnouts were barouches unmistakably hired, occupied
by people dressed with a certain cheap smartness. Here and there a girl, probably of the people,
cantered half defiantly down the line, a sailor-hat on her head, her jacket open over a shirt
and "four-in-hand." Once a yoke of oxen, driven by a bareheaded maid, straggled into the throng.

The avenue before the hotel became deserted once more. The upper end was blocked with carriages,
all apparently bent in the same direction. Andrew ran down the steps, half inclined to follow,
half fearing they would never return. A number of open hacks stood before the hotel. A driver
immediately approached Andrew.

"Like a drive, sir?"

"Yes," said Webb. "Go where the others are going."

"Certainly, sir. And, if you be a stranger, I can tell you most of the names."

Andrew could have tipped him on the spot. He should be able to identify those people at last!
He felt that he had advanced another step!

"We'll drive slow and meet them on their return," said the driver. He indicated with a gesture
of contempt a passing carriage.

"You see them, sir? They be people that comes to the hotels and goes away and talks about spending
the summer in Newport. But any one could tell that they're just hotel people, and that the
hack is hired. They don't deceive nobody here."

The words gave Andrew a hint for which he was thankful. He understood that he must not stay
at the hotel. Where should he go, however? He must take a "cottage," he supposed.

They rolled down a thick-leaved avenue and out over the stubby sand-hills by the sea. Here
and there a large mansion crowned the heights, and Andrew was glad to see the traditional cottage
in full relief. He paid it scant attention, however. The procession of carriages had already
turned, and his faithful guide uttered many a name which sounded like old sweet music in his
ears. Some of the younger faces were unfamiliar; but they, too, bore names that the newspapers
had made famous.

"Now look with all your eyes," cried the driver, suddenly. "Here's Mrs. Johnny Belhaven. She's
worth more millions than all the rest put together, and is an A1 whip."

A plump but distinguished-looking woman bore down on them in what appeared to be a chariot.
Andrew had never seen anything so high on wheels before. Mrs. Belhaven looked down upon her
"Order" as from a throne, and wore a slightly supercilious expression.

"And there's Ward McAllister," continued the driver, excitedly; "him as is the leader of the
Four Hundred, you know."

Andrew almost raised himself from his seat. He stared with bulging eyes at the tired carelessly
dressed elderly man with whom he had been intimate so many years.

He returned to the hotel. His spirits were normal again. He had taken his part in a fragment
of the daily life of Newport. As he passed through the office on his way to the elevator, the
clerk beckoned to him.

"As you seem a stranger, sir," he said, apologetically, "I thought I would introduce you to
Mr. Chapman. He's the correspondent of several New York papers, and could tell you how to amuse
yourself."

A short thick-set amiable young man shook Andrew's hand heartily. Mr. Chapman was not the sort
of person Andrew had gone to Newport to meet, but he was glad of any friendship, temporarily.

The two young men went out to the veranda. Andrew proffered his new cigar-case. The other accepted
gratefully. He was the free-lance correspondent of several New York weekly papers, and his
salary was not large. He tipped his chair back, put his feet on the railing, and confided to
Webb that he hated Newport.

"I wouldn't have come here this summer if I could have got out of it," he said, gloomily. "It's
my third year, and the place gets worse every season. These people are so stuck-up there's
no approaching them for news. Even Lancaster, who has a sort of _entrée_ because he is connected
with a swagger family, admits that it's as much as his life is worth to get anything out of
them. He's the correspondent of the New York _Eye_. What's worse, they don't do anything. Here
it is the third of August, and not a ball has been given--just little things among themselves
that you can't get at. It's enough to drive a fellow to drink. I've faked till my poor imagination
is worn to a thread; the papers have to have news. But I've done one big thing this summer,--a
corking beat. Did you notice half-way down the avenue a new house surrounded by a big stone
wall? That's the new Belhaven house. They'd sworn that no reporter should so much as pass the
gates, no paper should ever show an eager world the interior of that marble mausoleum. The
newspapers were wild. Even Lancaster had no show. I was bound that I'd get into that house,
if I had to go as a burglar. And I did, but not that way. I bribed their butcher to let me
dress up as his boy; took a camera, and photographed the house and grounds from the seclusion
of the meat-wagon. I flirted with the cook and got her to show me the drawing-rooms. It was
early, and the family wasn't up. I dodged the butler and took snap-shots. The other newspaper
men were ready to brain me. I felt sorry for some of them, but I had joy over Lancaster. He'd
bribed the caterer and florist to keep their best bits of news for him. A low trick that; not
but what I'd do it myself if I had his salary. He got a scoop last year, and you couldn't speak
to him for a month after. Mrs. Foster,--she's one of the biggest guns, you know, a regular
cannon,--refurnished her house last summer, and all the New York papers wanted photographs.
She went cranky, and said they shouldn't have them. Wouldn't even listen to Lancaster's pleadings.
But he hadn't jollied the butler for nothing. She didn't stop here last summer--only came down
every two weeks and rearranged every stick of the furniture. The butler was nearly distracted.
It was as much as his place was worth to have her find any of the chairs out of place, and
the rooms had to be swept. So he hit on a plan. He bought a camera and photographed the rooms
every time Mrs. Foster came down. One day he met Lancaster on the avenue and confided his method
of keeping up with the old lady. You may be sure Lancaster was not long getting a set of those
photos. It cost the newspaper a pot of money, for the butler was no fool. But there they were
next Sunday. And Mrs. Foster doesn't know to this day how it was done."

Webb listened with mingled amusement and dismay. He was slowly beginning to realize the determined
segregation, from the common herd, of these people, to whom he had come so confidently to offer
homage. He changed the subject.

"I don't want to stay here, don't you know," he said, glancing scornfully over his shoulder
at the hotel which in its day had housed the most distinguished in the land. "What would you
advise? Take a cottage?"

"Take a cottage!" Mr. Chapman fairly gasped. "Are you a millionaire in disguise? If you were,
I don't believe you could get one. The swells shut up theirs when they don't come, or let them
to their friends. The others are mostly taken year after year by the same people. No; I'll
tell you what you want--a bachelor's apartment. They are not so easy to get either, but I happen
to know of one. It was rented four years ago by Jack Delancy, but he blew in most of his money,
and then tried to recuperate on cordage. The bottom fell out of that, and now goodness knows
where he is. At all events, his apartment is to let. Suppose we go now and see it. There's
no time to lose."

Andrew assented willingly, profoundly thankful that he had met Mr. Chapman. The apartment was
near the hotel. They found it still vacant, furnished with a certain bold distinction. The
rent was high, but Andrew stifled the economic promptings of his nature, and manfully signed
a check. That night there was nothing to be seen in Newport, not even a moon. The city was
like a necropolis. Andrew gratefully employed his leisure hunting for servants. The following
day he was comfortably installed and had invited the fortunate Mr. Chapman to dinner. He found
that gentleman next morning on the beach, taking snap-shots at the bathers.

"This sort of thing goes," Chapman said, "although these people are just plain tourists. I
label them 'the beautiful Miss Brown,' or 'the famous Miss Jones,' and the average reader swallows
it, to say nothing of the fact that it makes the paper look well. The swells won't go in with
the common herd, and want the ocean fenced in too, as it were. There are some of them over
there in their carriages, taking a languid interest in the scene because they've nothing better
to do. But they'd no more think of getting out and sitting on this balcony, as they do at Narragansett,
than they'd ride in a street-car. Want to go up to the Casino and see the stage go off? That's
one of the sights."

Andrew had spent a half-hour the evening before gazing at the graceful brown building which
had long been a part of his dreams. He welcomed the prospect of seeing a phase of its brilliant
life.

They reached the Casino a few minutes before the coach started. A large round-shouldered man,
with face and frame of phlegmatic mould, occupied the seat and swung his whip with a bored
and absent air. Two or three girls, clad in apotheosized organdie, and close hats, were already
on top of the coach. An elderly beau was assiduously attending upon a young woman who was about
to mount the ladder. She was a plain girl, with an air of refined health, and simply clad in white.

"She's worth sixteen million dollars in her own right," said Chapman, with a groan.

On the sidewalk, between the Casino and the coach, were two groups of girls. One group gazed
up at their friends on the coach, wishing them good-fortune; the other gazed upon the first,
eagerly and enviously. Andrew looked from one to the other. The girls who talked to those on
the coach wore organdie frocks of simple but marvellous construction. Shading their young pellucid
eyes, their bare polished brows, were large Leghorn hats covered with expensive feathers or
flowers. Air, carriage, complexion, manner, each was a part of the unmistakable uniform of
the New York girl of fashion. But the others? Andrew put the question to Chapman.

"Oh, they're natives. We call them that to distinguish them from the cottagers. They get close
whenever they get a chance, and copy the cottagers' clothes and manners. But it doesn't take
a magnifying-glass to see the difference."

Andrew looked with a pity he did not admit was fellow-feeling at the pretty girls with their
bright complexions, their merely stylish clothes--which reminded him of Polly's--the inferior
feathers in their chip hats. The sharp contrast between the two groups of girls was almost painful.

"I've got to leave you," said Chapman; "but I'll see you later. Take care of yourself."

The horn tooted, the whip cracked, the coach started. The men on the club balcony above the
Casino watched it lazily. The street between the coach and the green wall opposite had been
blocked with carriages that now rolled away.

Webb turned his attention to the group of cottagers. One of the girls wore a yellow organdie
trimmed with black velvet ribbons, a large Leghorn covered with yellow feathers and black velvet.
She was not pretty, but she had "an air," and that was supremest beauty in Andrew's eyes. Another
was in lilac, another in pink. Each had the same sleek brown hair, the same ivory complexion.
In attendance was a tall clumsily built but very imposing young man with sleepy blue eyes and
a mighty mustache. The girls paid him marked attention.

They chatted for a few moments, then walked through the entrance of the Casino, over the lawn,
towards the lower balcony of the horseshoe surrounding it. Andrew followed, fascinated. The
young man in attendance walked after the manner of his kind, and Andrew, unconsciously imitating
him, ascended the steps, seated himself with an air of elaborate indifference opposite the
party in the narrow semicircle, and composed his face into an expression of blank abstraction.
His trouble was wasted: they did not see him. They had an air of seeing no one in the world
but their kind. One of the girls, to Andrew's horror, crossed her knees and swung her foot
airily. The young man sank into a slouching position. Another girl joined the group, but he
did not rise when introduced, nor offer to get her a chair. She was obliged to perform that
office, at some difficulty, for herself.

The band began to play. Andrew leaned forward, gazing at the floor, intent upon hearing these
people actually converse. But their talk only came to him in snatches between the rise and
fall of the music. Like many other New-Yorkers, he had a deaf ear.

"My things disappear so"--(from the yellow girl) ... "I suspect my maid wears them.... Don't
really know what I have.... Don't dare say anything." This was said with a languid drawl which
Andrew thought delicious.

All laughed.

"Shall you go to Paris this year?"

"I don't know ... till time comes.... Then we keep four servants up all night packing.... Must
have some new gowns.... You know how you have to talk to Ducet and Paquin yourself."

The young man went to sleep. The girls put their heads together and whispered. After a time
they arose with a little capricious air, which completed Andrew's subjugation, and strolled away.

VI

That evening, as he sat with Chapman over the coffee in the stately little dining-room of the
victim of cordage, the journalist remarked suddenly:

"I say, old fellow, you don't seem to be in it. Don't you know anybody here at all?"

Andrew shook his head gloomily.

"Well, you'll have a stupid time, I'm afraid. There are only three classes of people that come
to Newport--the swells, the people who want to see the swells, and the correspondents whose
unhappy fate it is to report the doings of the swells. Now, what on earth did you come here for?"

Andrew had not a confiding nature, but he could not repress a dark flush. The astute little
journalist understood it.

"It's too bad you didn't bring a letter or two. One would have made it easy work. You look
as well as any of them, and you've got the boodle. Where did you come from, anyway?"

"New York."

Chapman puckered his lips about his cigar. "That's bad. It's harder for a non-commissioned
New-Yorker to get into society than for a district-attorney to get into heaven. Didn't you
make any swagger friends at college?"

"I never went to college."

"Too bad! A man should always strain a point to get to college. If he's clever he can make
friends there that he can 'work' for the rest of his life."

Little by little, with adroit use of the detective faculty of the modern reporter, he extracted
from Webb the tale of his years--even the extent of his fortune. The young aspirant's ingenuousness
made him gasp more than once; but he had too kindly a nature to state to Webb the hopelessness
of his case. His new friend was manly and generous, and had won from him a sincere liking,
tempered with pity. Better let him find out for himself how things stood; then, when his eyes
were open, steer him out of his difficulties.

He rose in a few moments. "Well," he said, cheerily, "I wish I were Lancaster. I might be able
to do something for you: but I'm not in it--not for a cent. You may as well take in the passing
show, however. The first Casino hop is on to-night. Put on your togs and go."

"Anybody there?" asked Andrew, loftily.

"Oh, rather. All the cottagers will be there, or a goodly number of them. And it's a pretty sight."

"But how can I get in?"

"By paying the sum of one dollar, old man."

Andrew's cigar dropped from his mouth.

"Do you mean to say that _they_ go to a place and dance--in full dress--on the floor--with
everybody? Why, any one can pay a dollar."

Chapman laughed. "Oh!--well--go and see how it is for yourself. Meet me in the gallery at ten,
and I'll tell you who's who. _Au revoir_."

       *       *       *       *       *

At half-past nine Andrew stood before his mirror and regarded himself meditatively. Without
vanity, he could admit that so far as appearance counted he would be an ornament to any ballroom.
His strong young figure carried its evening clothes with the air of a gentleman, not of a waiter.
He had seen fashionable men in Delmonico's who needed their facial tresses to avoid confusion.
Chapman had that day pointed out to him two scions of distinguished name whose "sideboards"
had caused him to mistake them for coachmen. He stroked his own mustache. It had never been
cut, and was as silken as the hair of the ladies he worshipped. His head had been cropped by
the most fashionable barber in New York. He wore no jewels. In a word, he was correct, and
he assured himself of the fact with proud humility. Nevertheless, his heart was heavy behind
his irreproachable waistcoat.

From his apartment it was but a few steps to the Casino. He walked there without injury to
his pumps, bought his ticket at the office, half fearing that it would be refused him, and
sauntered across the lawn to the inner door of the ballroom. The horseshoe was brilliantly
lighted, and, with its airy architecture, looked as if awaiting a revel of the fairies. The
cottagers, Andrew understood, would alight at an outside door. They were subscribers, and the
office was not for them.

He went up to the gallery to await his friend. It was less than a fourth occupied by pretty
girls--"natives," he recognized at once. Some wore hats, others were in local substitute for
full dress--a muslin or Indian silk turned away at the throat, a flower in the hair. He took
a chair before the railing. The one beside him was occupied by a handsome dark-eyed girl who
had made a brave attempt to be smart. She wore a red silk frock and a red rose in her rough
abundant hair. Round her white throat she had gracefully arranged some silk lace. Andrew paid
that tribute to her charms of one whose eyes have been too long accustomed to great works of
art to take any interest in the chromo. Nevertheless, he was young and she was young. They
flirted mildly until Chapman came in and introduced them.

"Miss Leslie is an old friend of mine, Webb," he said in his hearty way. "I hope you will be
friends too."

Miss Leslie bowed and beamed and flashed her pretty teeth. Andrew made some vague remark, wondering
at the spite of fate, then forgot her utterly. Chapman had whispered to him that the cottagers
were coming.

He leaned eagerly over the rail. A number of buxom dames, accompanied by slender girls, were
filing in. Some of the old women were in white satin, with many jewels on their platitudinous
bosoms. The slim sisterhood, with their deerlike movements, their curried hair arranged to
simulate a walnut on the crown of their little heads, their tiny waists and white necks and
arms, riveted Andrew's gaze as ever. Some looked like Easter lilies in their pure white gowns,
others like delicate orchids. One beautiful young woman, evidently a matron, wore a gown of
black gauze, with a row of sparkling crescents, stars, and clusters, about the low line of
the corsage.

"Isn't she lovely?" whispered Miss Leslie. "_She_ got a French Duke. But she deserved her luck.
She's sweet."

All were very _décolletée_.

"Reminds one of the days when slaves were put up on sale at the mart, not far from this very
spot," murmured Chapman.

One sprightly matron entered with an imperious air, and was immediately surrounded.

"Who's she?" inquired Andrew, scornfully. "Why, her frock and gloves are soiled, and her hair's
dyed."

"Oh, she's out of sight, my boy! Once in a while they do look like that. She's going to lead
things this summer. Wish she'd hurry up!" Then he named a number of people to Webb.

The band on the platform facing the triple row of seats at the far end began a waltz. Most
of the men were elderly and well preserved. They danced with the girls. The half-dozen youths
improved their chances by assiduous attentions to the unwieldy dames. Andrew thought that his
princesses danced very badly. Many of them were taller than the men, and looked about to go
head first over the shoulders whose support they seemed to disdain. The little ones bounded
like rubber balls. The old women formed groups and gossiped. A number sat about a plethoric
lady, whose diamonds made her look like a crystal chandelier. Chapman informed Webb that she
was a duchess.

"You see that fellow over there!" he exclaimed, suddenly, indicating with the point of his
lead-pencil a young man with a vulgar, vacuous face and a clumsy assumption of the grand air;
"well, he was nobody a year ago,--a distant connection of the Webbs; but they never recognized
his existence until he came into some money. Then they took him up, and now he's out of sight.
It's too bad you didn't happen to be that kind of Webb. You look a long sight more of a gentleman
than he does."

"Are any of the Webbs here?" asked Andrew, choking with bitterness.

"There's the old girl over there. Regular old ice-chest."

"Is--is--Schuyler Churchill Webb here?"

"He's just come in. He is talking to the duchess--the French one."

Andrew gazed with dull hatred at the plain amiable-looking young man, whose air of indefinable
elegance seemed to reach forth and smite him in the face. The gulf, which had been a gradually
widening rift, seemed suddenly to yawn.

"Well, I must go," said Chapman. "I have to get my stuff off, you know. Will see you in the
morning."

As he left, Miss Leslie renewed her pleasantries, hoping that Andrew would ask her to go down
and dance. She was terribly afraid of the great folk, poor little soul, but she felt that this
strong self-reliant young man would protect her. Andrew excused himself in a few moments, however,
and went down-stairs. He had bought the right to be in the same room with those people, and
he would claim it.

The treble row of seats was evidently reserved for strangers; no cottagers were at that end
of the room. They sat about the other three sides with an air of being on their own ground.
Andrew walked resolutely into the room, and took possession of one of the chairs reserved for
his kind. He had only three or four neighbors; most of the tourists had gone up-stairs, and
were darkly surveying the scene. There were no decorations, but the dowagers were a jewelled
dado, the girls an animated bed of blossoms.

VII

For one hour Andrew sat there, and at its end he comprehended why the cottagers did not concern
themselves about the tickets sold. Not one icy glance had been directed at the treble row of
seats, not one inquiring stare bent upon the occasional tourist-couple who summoned courage
to take a whirl. He and his companions might have been invisible intruders on a foreign planet,
for all the notice the elect took of them. There was nothing overt, nothing unkind, but the
stranger was as effectually frozen out as if he had fled before a battery of lorgnettes. The
cottagers were like one large family. There was no more reserve among the young people than
if they had been a party of happy well-trained schoolchildren. What wonder that the stranger
within their gates felt his remoteness! During the "Lancers" they almost romped. They might
have been on the lawn of one of their own cottages, and these outsiders hanging on the fence.
To any and all without their world they were unaffectedly oblivious.

At the end of the hour Andrew rose heavily and left his seat. His face was gray, his knees
shook a little. He understood.

       *       *       *       *       *

But his cup of bitterness was not yet full. As he made his way down the passage behind one
of the rows of chairs reserved for the cottagers, he beheld a girl who had just entered. He
stood still and stared at her, wondering that he had ever thought other women beautiful. If
those he had worshipped were princesses, this was a goddess. Only New York could give her that
nameless distinction, so curiously unlike the graceful breeding of older lands,--the difference
between the hothouse orchid and the lily of ancient parks. This girl's figure was more Junoesque
than was usual with her kind, her waist larger. She was very tall. Her carriage was one of
regal simplicity, as if she were wont to walk on stars. Her shining brown hair was gathered
into a knot at the base of her classic head. Her brow and chin and throat were perfect in their
modelling. Her skin, of a marvellous whiteness, seemed to shed a light of its own; one might
surely examine it with a microscope and find no flaw. Her mouth and nose were irregular, but
her large blue-gray eyes shone triumphant, and she had beautiful ears. She wore a simple gown
of pale blue organdie, clinging to her faultless figure, even at the throat and wrists. At
her right was the new-found relative of the Webbs, half a head too short to reach that exquisite
ear with his mumblings. About her were several other men.

Andrew's capacity for love may not have been very profound, but he loved this woman at once
and finally. It was a love that would have delighted the cynical Schopenhauer and the philosophical
Darwin. The instinct of selection had never been more spontaneously and unerringly exercised.
He was conscious of neither passion nor sentiment, however. She hovered in his visions as a
companion at great functions--his possession whom all the world would envy. It was not so much
she he loved as what she represented.

His attention was momentarily distracted by the remarkable antics of an elderly man. This person
was bowing and genuflecting before the goddess, rolling his eyes upward, throwing out his hands,
clasping and wringing them--a pantomime of speechless admiration. To Andrew he looked like
an elderly billy-goat with a thorn in its hoof. The goddess looked down upon him with an expression
of good-natured contempt. The men applauded heartily. Andrew once more riveted his gaze on
the face which had completed his undoing. In a moment the girl's clear eyes met his, then moved
past as indifferently as if she had gazed upon space. Andrew turned, forgetting his hat, and
almost ran from the house, down the street, and up the stairs to his apartment. He flung himself
into a chair, buried his face in his hands, and groaned aloud. The hopelessness of his case
surged through his brain with pitiless reiteration. He might as well attempt to fly to one
of the cold stars above his casement as to besiege the society of New York. There was literally
no human being out of earth's millions to give him the line that would pass him through those
open invincible portals. Had he been a baboon from Central Africa, his chances would have been
better; he would have compelled their attention for a moment.

There were heavy _portières_ over his door; no one could hear his groans, and he afforded himself
that measure of relief. The tears ran down his cheeks; he twisted his strong hands together.
Those whose hearts have been convulsed by the bitterness of love, by the loss of children,
by the downfall of great hopes, may read with scorn this suffering of a snob. It may seem a
mean and trivial emotion. But he has had scant opportunity to study his kind who knows nothing
of the power of the snob to suffer. An artist may toil on unrecognized, yet with the deep delight
of his art as compensation. A man in public life may be stung with a thousand bitter defeats,
but he has the joy of the fight, the self-respect of legitimate ambition. But for the repeated
defeats of even the successful snob, what compensation? Step by step he climbs, to find another
still to mount, each bristling with obstacles, to which he yields the shreds and patches of
his self-respect. The bitter knowledge that he is on tolerance is ever with him--that no matter
how high he rises, he can never reach his goal, for at the goal are only those who have never
known the need to strive. 'Tis a constant battle for a soap-bubble, an ambition without soul.

And Andrew? He had not even planted his foot on the first step. For five years he had lived
in a fool's paradise, a corroding dream. There was literally nothing else on earth that he
wanted. His money had come to him as the very irony of Fate. It could not give him the one
thing he wished, and he had no other use for it. His dream was over. He felt like an aged man
set free from an asylum for the demented after a period of incarceration which had devoured
the good years of his life. He looked at what still seemed wealth to him as such a man would
look at all the joys of light and liberty and taste, offered to his paralyzed senses.

outcry FROM A FAR daystar By Black GODWIN ILLUSTRATOR MARTINEZ*****_The job of separating the
amigo from the besieger was a major one in the score of space as many a dead spacer could
have testified. A tender confectionery when you could see an alien and judge agerasia; far tougher
when they were only speaking on the weather._*****_A smile of friendship is a deforestation of
the fang. So is a snarl of endanger.

It can be fatal to nonaccomplishment the latter for the former.

__Harm an alien existence only under circumstances of self-defense.

__TRUST NO ALIEN BEING UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES.

_--From_Exploration derelict's Handbook_. He listened in the hush of the Exploration derelict's
authority antechamber. He heard nothing but that was what trouble him; an ominous noisy when there
should have been a hive of sounds from the nearby village for the viewscreen's audio-pickups
to transmit. And it was more than six shift past the day when the aboriginal, Throon, should
have arrive to model with him outside the derelict as they restart the laborious effort to learn
each other's language.[Illustration: Was the guy foreign to the planet, or to his imaginativeness?]
The viewscreen was black in the luminosity of the power way, yet though it was low hour outside.
The dull red sun was ever invisible through the universe's thick condition and to human opinion
full time was no more than a red-tinged lightness. He exchange on the ship's outside floodlights
and the viewscreen come to dull black life, demo the empty glades
reaching off between groves of lavender traveler trees.

He detect, absently, that the yellowwood look to have changed a small in colour since his
reaching. The settlement was hidden from futurism by the inner trees but there should have
been some variation in the broad country visible to him. There was none, not even along the
close segment of what should have been a idle way. The indigen were down to something and he
know, from difficult education on other traveler nature, that it
would be nothing commodity. engineering would be another imbroglio
of some kind and he did n't cognize enough of their incomprehensible
speech to ask them what it was--***** abruptly, as it ever came,
he matt-up someone or something digest close behind him and peering
over his berm.

He sink his fist to the workman he had occupy to bear at all period and whirled. Nothing was
behind him. There never was. The control way was full, with no disguise point for anything, and
the revolver was closed, engage by the remote-control button beside him. There was nothing. The
threshold of actuality watched faded, as though the perceiver had
retreat to a greater spacing.

It was perhaps the hundredth case within six life that he had matt-up the threshold. And when
he slept at day something came to nuzzle at his cognition; faceless, formless, utterly
traveler. For the time three nighttime he had not prevent the chargeman get beyond quick earshot
of his extremity, yet when in plot. But whatever it was, it could not be on the ship. He had seek
the ship twice, a methodical compartment-by-compartment hunt that had found nothing. It had to
be the wash of the indigen from inside the ship. Except.... Why, if the natives were telepathic,
did the one called Throon go through the weary deception of seek to learn a reciprocally
understandable word of transmission? There was one same statement, which he could not reject:
that he was postdate in the sound of faculty loft of Ship Nine who had intentionally gone
into a black light two months after the decease of his Gemini
sister.

He appear at the chair beside his own, Johnny's chaise, which would forever be empty, and
his idea went rearward down the old, bitter ambages. The Exploration plank had been incorrect
when they thought the near alliance between fraternal Gemini would break them the ideal two-man
crews for the lonely, lifetime travel of the Exploration ship. Identical twins were too
distant; when one of them decease, the other died in part with him. They had traverse a 1000
light-years of attribute unitedly, he and Rebel, when they come to the bleak planet that he would
call Rebel's class. He should never have prevent Rebel come alone down the incline of the
honey-combed mountain--but Johnny had wanted to give the routine record beefcake of the
white, tiger-like pest which they had called cave guy and the flagship had look harmful and
shy, despite their ferocious quality."

I'm taking them a superannuation of nutrient that I believe they might wish," Johnny had said."
I want to try to acquire some bad close-up shots of them." Ten time later he heard the close
tangle of Johnny's chargeman.
Hedworth studied her
face as he had studied it many times.

"Well?" he asked. He had an abrupt voice, suggestive of temper, and the haughty bearing which
is the chief attraction of Englishmen for American women. His face was as well chiselled as
the average of his kind, but lacked the national repose. The eyes were very clever, the features
mobile; the tenacity and strength of his nature were indicated in the lower part of his face
and in the powerful yet supple build of the man.

"Well, what?"

"What sort of a man was this Johnny?"

"Oh, I am not very good at describing people--quite different from you--much lighter--"

"I don't care what he looked like. A man only looks to a woman who is in love with him as she
imagines he looks. Was he in love with you?"

"Yes, of course he was."

"Did he tell you so?"

The delicate red in Lady Carnath's dark cheek deepened. "Yes. He did."

"Did you tell him that you loved him?"

"Yes."

"What did he do?"

"I don't know that you have any right to be so curious."

"Of course you need not answer if you don't wish. Did he kiss you?"

"Yes, he did, if you want to know. We had a tremendous scene. I went into high tragics, and,
I suppose, bored the poor man dreadfully."

"He was much more matter-of-fact, I suppose?"

"Yes--he was."

"Where did this scene take place?"

"In the drawing-room one afternoon when he had walked home with me from a tea."

"What happened the next time you met him?"

"I never saw him again--that is, alone."

Hedworth's face and tone changed suddenly. Both softened. "Why not?"

She raised her head from the back of the sofa and lifted her chin defiantly. "I did not dare--if
you will know. Carnath came along shortly after, and I took him as soon as he offered himself.
Why do you look so pleased? The one was as bad as the other, only in the course I took there
was no scandal."

"Which is the point. Scandal and snubs and vulgar insinuation in print and out of it would
have demoralized you. How do you feel towards this man now? If he were free and came for you
would you marry him?"

She shook her head, and looked up at him, smiling and blushing again. "He is no more to me
than one of the book-heroes I used to fancy myself in love with."

"Why didn't he get a divorce and marry you? I thought any one could get a divorce in the States."

"You English people know so much about the United States! You are willing to believe anything
and to know nothing. I really think you feel that your dignity would be compromised if you
knew as much about America as we know about Europe. Your attitude is like that of old people
to a new invention which is too remarkable for their powers of appreciation, so they take refuge
in disdain."

He smiled, as he always did when her patriotism flamed. "You haven't answered my question."

"What?--oh, divorce. If a man has a good wife, no matter how uncongenial, he can't get rid
of her unless he is a brute; and I didn't happen to like that sort of man."

"Like? I thought you said just now that you loved him."

"I don't think now that I did. I explained that a while ago."

"Why have you changed your mind?"

"I never knew a man to ask so many questions."

But before he left her he knew.

       *       *       *       *       *

Edith anticipated pleasurably the sensation her engagement would make, but did not announce
it at once. She had a certain feminine secretiveness which made her doubly enjoy a happiness
undiluted by publicity; moreover, some further deference was due to Carnath. She was very happy,
the more so as she had believed until a short while ago that her strong temperamental possibilities
were vaulted in her nature's little church-yard. "Our hearts after first love are like our
dead," she thought; "they sleep until the hour of resurrection." Hedworth dominated her, had
taken her love rather than asked for it, and, although he was jealous and exacting, she was
haunted by the traditions of man's mutability, and studied her resources as it had never occurred
to her to study them before. She found that the outer envelopes of her personality could be
made to shift with kaleidoscopic brilliancy, and except when Hedworth needed repose--she had
much tact--she treated him to these many moods in turn. It is possible that she added to her
fascination, but, having won him without effort, she might have rested on her laurels. He was
deeply in love with her, and worried himself with presentiments of what might happen before
she would consent to name the wedding-day. Both being children of worldly wisdom, however,
they harlequined their misgivings and were happy when together.

Fortunately for both, she was heavy-laden with femininity, and was content to give all, and
receive the little that man in the nature of his life and inherited particles has to offer.
She was satisfied to be adored, desired, mentally appreciated. If his ego was always paramount,
his spiritual demands so imperious that he appropriated the full measure of sympathy and comprehension
that Nature has let loose for man and woman, not caring to know anything of her beyond the
fact that she was the one woman in the world in whom he saw no fault, she was satisfied to
have it so. She was a clever woman, but not too clever; and their chances of happiness were good.

And then a strange thing happened to her.

Hedworth was called to Switzerland by his mother, who fell ill. His parting with Edith occupied
several hours, and during the three or four days following, his affianced protested that she
was inconsolable. But his letters were frequent and characteristic, and she began to enjoy
the new phase of their intercourse: the excitement of waiting for the post, the delight which
the first glimpse of the envelope on her breakfast-tray gave her, the novelty of receiving
a fragment of him daily, which her imagination could expand into his hourly life and thoughts.
The season was over, and she had little else to do. She expected him back at any moment, and
preferred to await his arrival in town.

One evening she was sitting in her bedroom thinking of him. The night was hot and the windows
were open. It was very late. She had been staring down upon the dark mass of tree-tops in the
Park, recapitulating, phase by phase, the growth of her feeling for Hedworth. Suddenly it occurred
to her that it bore a strong racial resemblance to her first passion, and, being too intelligent
to have escaped the habit of analysis, she dug up the old love and dissected it. It had been
better preserved than she would have thought, for it did not offend her sense; and she gave
an hour to the office. She went back to her first moment of conscious interest in the hero
of her tragedy, galvanized the thrill she had felt when he entered her presence, her restlessness
and doubt and jealousy when he was away, or appeared to neglect her; the recognition that she
was in the hard grasp of a passion in which she had had little faith; the sweetness and terror
of it, the keen delight in the sense of danger. There had been weeks of companionship before
he had defined their position; it occurred to her now that he had managed her with the skill
and coolness of a man who understood women and could keep his head, even while quickened with
all that he inspired. She also recalled, her lips curling into a cynical grin, that she had
felt the same promptings for spiritual abandonment, of high desire to help this man where he
was weak, to restore some of his lost ideals, or to replace them with better; to root out the
weeds which she recognized in his nature, and to coax the choked bulbs of those fairer flowers
which may have been there before he and the world knew each other too well. Then she relived
the days and nights of torment when she had walked the floor wringing her hands, barely eating
and sleeping. She recalled that she had even beaten the walls and flung herself against them.

The procession was startlingly familiar and fresh of lineament; even the moments of rapture,
whose memory is soonest to fade, and the fitful solace she had found, in those last days, imagining
what might have been.

She got up and walked about the room, half amused, half appalled. "What does it mean?" she
thought. "Is it that there is an impalpable entity in this world for me, and that part of it
is in one man and part in another? Is the man who has the larger share the one I really love?
Is that the explanation of loving a second time? It certainly is very like--ridiculously like."

She turned her thoughts to Hedworth, but they swung aside and pointed straight to the other
man. She half expected to see his ghost framed in the dark window, he seemed so close. She
found herself living the past again and again, instinct with its sensations. He had had much
in his life to cark and harrow, and the old sympathy and tenderness vibrated aloud, and little
out of tune. She wondered what had become of him, what he was doing at the moment. She did
not believe that he had loved any woman since; he had nearly exhausted his capacity for loving
when he met her.

And at the same time she was distinctly conscious that if the two men stood before her she
should spring to Hedworth. Nevertheless, when she conjured his image, the shadowy figure of
the other man stood behind, looking over Hedworth's shoulder, with the half-cynical smile which
had only left his mouth when he had told her, with white face whose muscles were free of his
will for the moment, that he loved her.

"Is it the old love that is demanding its rights, not the man?" she thought. "Is it true, then,
that all we women want is love, and that it is as welcome in one attractive frame as another?
That it is not Hedworth I love, but what he gives me? Now that I even suspect this, can I be
happy? Will that ghost always look over his shoulder?"

She was a woman of sound practical sense, and had no intention of risking her happiness by
falling a victim to her imagination. She pressed the electric-button and wrote a letter to
her former lover--a friendly letter, without sentimental allusion, asking for news of him.
The sight of the handwriting that once had thrilled her, as well as the nature of his reply,
would at least bring her to some sort of mental climax. Moreover, he might be dead. It might
be spiritual influence that had handled her imagination. She was not a superstitious woman;
she was merely wise enough to know that she knew nothing, and that it was folly to disbelieve
anything.

Hedworth did not return for three weeks. During that time it seemed to her that her brain was
an amphitheatre in which the two men were constantly wrestling. She never saw one without the
other. When Hedworth mastered for the moment she was reminded that he was merely playing a
familiar tune on her soul-keys. She felt for the man who had first touched those keys a persistent
tenderness, and during the last days watched restlessly for his letter. But she felt no desire
whatever to see him again. For Hedworth she longed increasingly.

Hedworth returned. The other man vanished.

       *       *       *       *       *

She announced the engagement. They had been invited to the same houses for the autumn. Necessarily
they saw little of each other, and planned to meet in the less-frequented rooms and in the
woods. At first they enjoyed this new experience; but when they found themselves in a large
party that seemed to pervade every corner of the house and grounds at once, and two days had
passed without an interview of five minutes' duration, Hedworth walked up to her--she was alone
for the moment--and said:

"Four weeks from to-day we marry."

She gave a little gasp, but made no protest.

"I have had enough of dawdling and sentimentalizing. We will marry at your place in Sussex
on the second of October."

"Very well," she said.

Shortly after she went to Paris to confer with the talent that should enhance her loveliness,
then paid Mrs. Hedworth a visit in Switzerland. Hedworth met her there, and his mother saw
little of her guests. Edith returned to England alone. Hedworth was to follow at the end of
the week, and spend the few remaining days of his bachelorhood at the house of a friend whose
estate adjoined the one Lady Carnath had bought not long after her husband's death.

Several days after her return she was sitting at her dressing-table when a letter was handed
her bearing the Washington post-mark. Her maid was devising a new coiffure, and she was grumbling
at the result. She glanced at the handwriting, pushed the letter aside, and commanded the maid
to arrange her hair in the simple fashion that suited her best. After the woman had fixed the
last pin, Edith critically examined her profile in the triple mirror; then thrust out a thin
little foot to be divested of its mule and shod in a slipper that had arrived that morning
from Paris: she expected people to tea. While the maid was on her knees Edith bethought herself
of the letter and read it:--

     Dear Lady Carnath--I have been in Canada all summer. No letters
     were forwarded. I find yours here at the Metropolitan. Thanks,
     I am well. Life is the same with me. I eat and drink and
     wither. But you are a memory to be thankful for, and I have
     never tried to forget you. I was glad to learn through Tower,
     whom I met in Montreal, that you were well and happy. I wish I
     may never hear otherwise.

Then followed several pages of news of her old friends.

"Poor fellow!" thought Edith with a sigh. "But I doubt if any woman or any circumstances would
ever make a man like that happy. There are those wretched people, and I am not half dressed!"

Nevertheless, he again took his stand in her brain and elbowed Hedworth--whose concrete part
was still detained in Switzerland. She did not answer the letter at once; it was not an easy
letter to answer. But it haunted her; and finally she sat down at her desk and bit the end
of her penholder.

She sat staring before her, the man in complete possession. And gradually the color left her
face. If this old love, which her mind and senses had corporealized, refused to abdicate, had
she any right to marry Hedworth? Now that she had unlocked this ghost, might not she find it
at her side whenever her husband was absent, reminding her that she was a sort of mental bigamist?
Carnath had no part in her dilemma; she barely recalled his episode.

She was as positive as she had been when the past unrolled itself that she had no wish to see
the first man again; that did he stand before her his power would vanish. He was a back number--a
fatal position to occupy in the imagination of a vital and world-living woman.

"Is it all that he awakened, made known to me, represented, that arises in resentment? Or is
it that the soul only gives itself once, acknowledges only one mate? The mind and body, perhaps,
obey the demand for companionship again. The soul in its loneliness endeavors to accompany
these comrades, but finds itself linked to the mate of the past. Probably when a woman marries
a man she does not love, the soul, having no demand made upon it, abstracts itself, sleeps.
It is when a mate to whom it might wholly have given itself appears, that, in its isolation
and desolation, it clamors for its wedded part."

Her teeth indented the nib of her penholder. "Was ever a woman in such a predicament before?
So illusionary and yet so ridiculously actual! Shall I send Hedworth away and sit down with
this phantom through life? I understand that some women get their happiness out of just that
sort of thing. Then when I forget Hedworth would I forget _him_? Is passion needed to set the
soul free? Until Hedworth made me feel awakened womanhood personified, I had not thought of
this man for years, not even during the year of my mourning, when I was rather bored. What
am I to do? I can't fling my life away. I am not a morbid idiot. But I can't marry one man
if what I feel for him is simply the galvanizing of a corpse. Hedworth ought to be taken ill
and his life despaired of. That is the way things would work out in a novel."

Her face grew whiter still. She had experienced another mental shock. For the first time she
realized that no woman could suffer twice as she had suffered five years ago. That at least
was all the other man's. Her capacity for pain had been blunted, two-thirds exhausted. If Hedworth
left her, died, she might regret him, long to have him back; but the ghost of that abandon
of grief, that racking of every sense, that groping in an abyss while a voiceless something
within her raved and shrieked, resolved itself into a finger of fire, which wrote Hedworth's
inferior position.

"What shall I do? What shall I do?" She dipped the pen into the ink and put it to the paper.
At least, for the moment, she could write a friendly note to this man, convey tactful sympathy,
little good as it would do him. The letter must be answered.

She heard a step on the gravel beneath her open window. She sprang to her feet, the blood rushing
to her hair. She ran to the window and leaned out, smiling and trembling. Hedworth's eyes flashed
upward to hers. She was, it must be admitted, a product of that undulating and alluring plain
we call "the world," not of those heights where the few who have scaled them live alone.

VIII

Death and the Woman.

(This story first appeared in _Vanity Fair_, London, in 1892)

Her husband was dying, and she was alone with him. Nothing could exceed the desolation of her
surroundings. She and the man who was going from her were in the third-floor-back of a New
York boarding-house. It was summer, and the other boarders were in the country; all the servants
except the cook had been dismissed, and she, when not working, slept profoundly on the fifth
floor. The landlady also was out of town on a brief holiday.

The window was open to admit the thick unstirring air; no sound rose from the row of long narrow
yards, nor from the tall deep houses annexed. The latter deadened the rattle of the streets.
At intervals the distant elevated lumbered protestingly along, its grunts and screams muffled
by the hot suspended ocean.

She sat there plunged in the profoundest grief that can come to the human soul, for in all
other agony hope flickers, however forlornly. She gazed dully at the unconscious breathing
form of the man who had been friend, and companion, and lover, during five years of youth too
vigorous and hopeful to be warped by uneven fortune. It was wasted by disease; the face was
shrunken; the night-garment hung loosely about a body which had never been disfigured by flesh,
but had been muscular with exercise and full-blooded with health. She was glad that the body
was changed; glad that its beauty, too, had gone some other-where than into the coffin. She
had loved his hands as apart from himself; loved their strong warm magnetism. They lay limp
and yellow on the quilt: she knew that they were already cold, and that moisture was gathering
on them. For a moment something convulsed within her. _They_ had gone too. She repeated the
words twice, and, after them, "_forever_." And the while the sweetness of their pressure came
back to her.

She leaned suddenly over him. HE was in there still, somewhere. _Where?_ If he had not ceased
to breathe, the Ego, the Soul, the Personality was still in the sodden clay which had shaped
to give it speech. Why could it not manifest itself to her? Was it still conscious in there,
unable to project itself through the disintegrating matter which was the only medium its Creator
had vouchsafed it? Did it struggle there, seeing her agony, sharing it, longing for the complete
disintegration which should put an end to its torment? She called his name, she even shook
him slightly, mad to tear the body apart and find her mate, yet even in that tortured moment
realizing that violence would hasten his going.

The dying man took no notice of her, and she opened his gown and put her cheek to his heart,
calling him again. There had never been more perfect union; how could the bond still be so
strong if he were not at the other end of it? He was there, her other part; until dead he must
be living. There was no intermediate state. Why should he be as entombed and unresponding as
if the screws were in the lid? But the faintly beating heart did not quicken beneath her lips.
She extended her arms suddenly, describing eccentric lines, above, about him, rapidly opening
and closing her hands as if to clutch some escaping object; then sprang to her feet, and went
to the window. She feared insanity. She had asked to be left alone with her dying husband,
and she did not wish to lose her reason and shriek a crowd of people about her.

The green plots in the yards were not apparent, she noticed. Something heavy, like a pall,
rested upon them. Then she understood that the day was over and that night was coming.

She returned swiftly to the bedside, wondering if she had remained away hours or seconds, and
if he were dead. His face was still discernible, and Death had not relaxed it. She laid her
own against it, then withdrew it with shuddering flesh, her teeth smiting each other as if
an icy wind had passed.

She let herself fall back in the chair, clasping her hands against her heart, watching with
expanding eyes the white sculptured face which, in the glittering dark, was becoming less defined
of outline. Did she light the gas it would draw mosquitoes, and she could not shut from him
the little air he must be mechanically grateful for. And she did not want to see the opening
eye--the falling jaw.

Her vision became so fixed that at length she saw nothing, and closed her eyes and waited for
the moisture to rise and relieve the strain. When she opened them his face had disappeared;
the humid waves above the house-tops put out even the light of the stars, and night was come.

Fearfully, she approached her ear to his lips; he still breathed. She made a motion to kiss
him, then threw herself back in a quiver of agony--they were not the lips she had known, and
she would have nothing less.

His breathing was so faint that in her half-reclining position she could not hear it, could
not be aware of the moment of his death. She extended her arm resolutely and laid her hand
on his heart. Not only must she feel his going, but, so strong had been the comradeship between
them, it was a matter of loving honor to stand by him to the last.

She sat there in the hot heavy night, pressing her hand hard against the ebbing heart of the
unseen, and awaited Death. Suddenly an odd fancy possessed her. Where was Death? Why was he
tarrying? Who was detaining him? From what quarter would he come? He was taking his leisure,
drawing near with footsteps as measured as those of men keeping time to a funeral march. By
a wayward deflection she thought of the slow music that was always turned on in the theatre
when the heroine was about to appear, or something eventful to happen. She had always thought
that sort of thing ridiculous and inartistic. So had He.

She drew her brows together angrily, wondering at her levity, and pressed her relaxed palm
against the heart it kept guard over. For a moment the sweat stood on her face; then the pent-up
breath burst from her lungs. He still lived.

Once more the fancy wantoned above the stunned heart. Death--_where_ was he? What a curious
experience: to be sitting alone in a big house--she knew that the cook had stolen out--waiting
for Death to come and snatch her husband from her. No; he would not snatch, he would steal
upon his prey as noiselessly as the approach of Sin to Innocence--an invisible, unfair, sneaking
enemy, with whom no man's strength could grapple. If he would only come like a man, and take
his chances like a man! Women had been known to reach the hearts of giants with the dagger's
point. But he would creep upon her.

She gave an exclamation of horror. Something was creeping over the window-sill. Her limbs palsied,
but she struggled to her feet and looked back, her eyes dragged about against her own volition.
Two small green stars glared menacingly at her just above the sill; then the cat possessing
them leaped downward, and the stars disappeared.

She realized that she was horribly frightened. "Is it possible?" she thought. "Am I afraid
of Death, and of Death that has not yet come? I have always been rather a brave woman; _He_
used to call me heroic; but then with him it was impossible to fear anything. And I begged
them to leave me alone with him as the last of earthly boons. Oh, shame!"

But she was still quaking as she resumed her seat, and laid her hand again on his heart. She
wished that she had asked Mary to sit outside the door; there was no bell in the room. To call
would be worse than desecrating the house of God, and she would not leave him for one moment.
To return and find him dead--gone alone!

Her knees smote each other. It was idle to deny it; she was in a state of unreasoning terror.
Her eyes rolled apprehensively about; she wondered if she should see It when It came; wondered
how far off It was now. Not very far; the heart was barely pulsing. She had heard of the power
of the corpse to drive brave men to frenzy, and had wondered, having no morbid horror of the
dead. But this! To wait--and wait--and wait--perhaps for hours--past the midnight--on to the
small hours--while that awful, determined, leisurely Something stole nearer and nearer.

She bent to him who had been her protector with a spasm of anger. Where was the indomitable
spirit that had held her all these years with such strong and loving clasp? How could he leave
her? How could he desert her? Her head fell back and moved restlessly against the cushion;
moaning with the agony of loss, she recalled him as he had been. Then fear once more took possession
of her, and she sat erect, rigid, breathless, awaiting the approach of Death.

Suddenly, far down in the house, on the first floor, her strained hearing took note of a sound--a
wary, muffled sound, as if some one were creeping up the stair, fearful of being heard. Slowly!
It seemed to count a hundred between the laying down of each foot. She gave a hysterical gasp.
Where was the slow music?

Her face, her body, were wet--as if a wave of death-sweat had broken over them. There was a
stiff feeling at the roots of her hair; she wondered if it were really standing erect. But
she could not raise her hand to ascertain. Possibly it was only the coloring matter freezing
and bleaching. Her muscles were flabby, her nerves twitched helplessly.

She knew that it was Death who was coming to her through the silent deserted house; knew that
it was the sensitive ear of her intelligence that heard him, not the dull, coarse-grained ear
of the body.

He toiled up the stair painfully, as if he were old and tired with much work. But how could
he afford to loiter, with all the work he had to do? Every minute, every second, he must be
in demand to hook his cold, hard finger about a soul struggling to escape from its putrefying
tenement. But probably he had his emissaries, his minions: for only those worthy of the honor
did he come in person.

He reached the first landing and crept like a cat down the hall to the next stair, then crawled
slowly up as before. Light as the footfalls were, they were squarely planted, unfaltering;
slow, they never halted.

Mechanically she pressed her jerking hand closer against the heart; its beats were almost done.
They would finish, she calculated, just as those footfalls paused beside the bed.

She was no longer a human being; she was an Intelligence and an EAR. Not a sound came from
without, even the Elevated appeared to be temporarily off duty; but inside the big quiet house
that footfall was waxing louder, louder, until iron feet crashed on iron stairs and echo thundered.

She had counted the steps--one--two--three--irritated beyond endurance at the long deliberate
pauses between. As they climbed and clanged with slow precision she continued to count, audibly
and with equal precision, noting their hollow reverberation. How many steps had the stair?
She wished she knew. No need! The colossal trampling announced the lessening distance in an
increasing volume of sound not to be misunderstood. It turned the curve; it reached the landing;
it advanced--slowly--down the hall; it paused before her door. Then knuckles of iron shook
the frail panels. Her nerveless tongue gave no invitation. The knocking became more imperious;
the very walls vibrated. The handle turned, swiftly and firmly. With a wild instinctive movement
she flung herself into the arms of her husband.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Mary opened the door and entered the room she found a dead woman lying across a dead man.

IX

A Prologue

(TO AN UNWRITTEN PLAY)

Characters: James Hamilton, Mary Fawcett, Rachael Lavine, two slaves. Place: Nevis, British
West Indies. Time: The month of April, 1756.

[A large room, with open windows, to which are attached heavy inside wooden shutters furnished
with iron bars. Beyond the windows are seen masses of tropical trees and foliage, green and
more brilliantly hued, filled with screaming birds and monkeys. In the court is a fountain.
The house is half-way up the mountain, and between the trees is a glint of the sea. The room
is severely simple. There are no curtains, carpets, nor upholstered furniture; but there are
two handsome pieces of mahogany, a bookcase full of books bound in old calf, a table on which
are tropical fruits and cooling drinks in earthen jugs, one or two palm-trees, and Caribbean
pottery on shelves. In one corner is a harp.

In the distance is heard a loud menacing roar. The sky is covered with racing clouds. Suffusing
everything is a livid light.

Mistress Fawcett is leaning on her crutch, looking through one of the windows. Two slaves are
crouching on the floor. All are in an intense attitude, listening. Suddenly there is heard
the quick loud firing of cannon, four guns in rapid succession. The negroes shriek and crouch
lower as if they would insinuate their trembling bodies through the floor. Mistress Fawcett
hastily closes the window by which she is standing, swings to and bars its shutters. Immediately
after may be heard the sound, gradually diminishing in the distance, of a long line of windows
slammed and barred. Mistress Fawcett attempts to move the shutters of the other window, but
the hinges are rusty and defy her feeble strength.]

MISTRESS FAWCETT (to the slaves). Come here. Close this window. Did you not hear the guns?
A hurricane is upon us.

THE SLAVES (crouching lower and wailing almost unintelligibly). Oh, mistress, save us! Send
for oby doctor!

MISTRESS FAWCETT. To strangle you with a horse-hair pie! Your obeah charlatans are grovelling
in their cellars. Only our courage and our two hands can save us to-day. Come! (Beating the
floor with her crutch.) A hundred man slaves on the estate, and not one to help us save the
house! Are my daughter and I to do it all? Get up! (She menaces them with her crutch.)

THE SLAVES (not moving). Oh, mistress!

[Enter RACHAEL. She walks to the open window and looks out.]

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Close the windows, Rachael. I cannot. And those creatures are empty skulls.

RACHAEL. In a moment.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. In a moment? Open your ears. Do you want to see the roof racing with the wind?'

RACHAEL. The hurricane is still miles away.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Great God! How can you stand there and wait for a hurricane? Do you realize
that an hour, if this old house be not strong enough, may see us struggling out in those roaring
waters? These desolate afflicted Caribbees! They have tested my courage many times, and I can
go through this without flinching; but I cannot stand that unnatural calm of yours.

RACHAEL. Do I seem calm? (She closes and bars the window.) It is a fine sight. We may never
have such another.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Nor live to know.

RACHAEL (her back is still turned, as she shakes and tests the window). Well, what of that?
Are you so in love with life?

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Even at sixty I am in no haste to be blown out of it. And if I were twenty--

RACHAEL (turning suddenly, and facing her mother). At twenty, with forty years of nothingness
before you, cut off from all the joy of life, on an island in the Caribbean Sea, what then?
(She snaps her fingers.) That for the worst a hurricane can do!

MISTRESS FAWCETT (uneasily). Do not let us talk of personal things to-day.

RACHAEL. I never felt more personal.

MISTRESS FAWCETT (looking at her keenly). I believe you are excited.

RACHAEL (she clinches her hands and brings them up sharply to her breast). Excited! Call it
that if you like. All my life I have longed for the hurricane, and now I feel as if it were
coming to me alone.

MISTRESS FAWCETT (evasively). I do not always understand you, Rachel. You are a strange girl.

RACHAEL (bursting through her assumed composure). Strange? Because I long to feel the mountain
shaken, as I have been shaken through four terrible weeks? Because I long to hear the wind
roar and shriek its derision of man, make his quaking soul forget every law he ever knew, stamp
upon him, grind him to pulp--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Hush! What are you saying? I do not know you--"the ice-plant of the tropics,"
indeed! The electricity of this hurricane has bewitched you.

RACHAEL. That I will not deny. (She laughs.) But I do deny that I am not myself, whether you
recognize me or not. Which self that you have seen do you think my real one? First, the dreaming
girl, in love with books, the sun, the sea, and a future that no man has written in books;
then, while my scalp is still aching from my newly turned hair, I am thrust through the church
doors into the arms of a brute. A year of dumb horror, and I run from his house in the night,
to my one friend, the mother who--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Not another word! I believed in him! There wasn't a mother on St. Kitts who
did not envy me. No one could have imagined--

RACHAEL. No one but a girl of sixteen, to whom no one would listen--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. I commanded you to hush.

RACHAEL. Command the hurricane! I will speak!

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Very well, speak. It may be our last hour--who knows? (She seats herself,
sets her lips, and presses her hands hard on the handle of her crutch.)

RACHAEL. Did you think you knew me in the two years that followed, years when I was as speechless
as while in bondage to John Lavine, when I crouched in the dark corners, fearing the light,
the sound of every man's voice? Then health again, and normal interests, but not hope--not
hope! At nineteen I had lived too long! You are sixty, and you have not the vaguest idea what
that means! Then, four weeks ago--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Ah!

RACHAEL. James Hamilton came. Ah, how unprepared I was! That I--_I_ should ever look upon another
man except with loathing! Sixty and twenty--perhaps somewhere between is the age of wisdom!
And the law holds me fast to a man who is not fit to live! All nature awoke in me and sang
the hour I met Hamilton. For the first time I loved children, and longed for them. For the
first time I saw God in man. For the first time the future seemed vast, interminable, yet all
too short. And if I go to this man who has made me feel great and wonderful enough to bear
a demi-god, a wretch can divorce and disgrace me! Oh, these four terrible weeks--ecstasy, despair--ecstasy,
despair--and to the world as unblinking as a marble in a museum! Do you wonder that I welcome
the hurricane, in which no man dare think of any but his puny self? For the moment I am free,
and as alive, as triumphant as that great wind outside--as eager to devastate, to fight, to
conquer, to live--to live--to live. What do I care for civilization? If James Hamilton were
out there among the flying trees and called to me, I would go. Hark! Listen! Is it not magnificent?

[The hurricane is nearer and louder. The approaching roar is varied by sudden tremendous gusts,
the hissing and splashing of water, the howling of negroes and dogs, the wild pealing of bells.
In the room below is heard the noise of many trampling feet, slamming of windows, and smothered
exclamations.]

MISTRESS FAWCETT. The negroes have taken refuge in the cellar--every one of them, beyond a
doubt, two hundred and more! God grant they do not die of fright or suffocation. It is useless
to attempt to coax them up here. These only wait until our backs are turned. Look!

[The slaves have crawled to the door on the left. They are livid. Their tongues hang out. Rachael
runs forward, seizes them by their long hair, and administers a severe shaking.]

RACHAEL. Wake up! Wake up! We need your help. The windows must be watched every moment.

[A terrible gust shakes the house. As Rachael relaxes her hold, the slaves collapse again,
but clutch at her skirts, mumbling and wailing. Rachael gazes at them a moment, makes a motion
as if to spurn them with her foot, then shrugs her shoulders and opens the door.]

RACHAEL. Go. Die in your own way. May I be granted the same privilege some day.

[The slaves stumble out.]

MISTRESS FAWCETT. I see you recognize no will but your own to-night. They are my slaves, and
I had bidden them stay. But in truth they are useless; and as for you--have your little hour.
I embittered too many. It may be your last. And--thank God!--Hamilton is not here.

RACHAEL (with great agitation). Where is he? At sea? Riding over the mountain--far from shelter--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Trust any man to take care of himself, let alone a Scot. No doubt he is over
on St. Kitts, brewing swizzle with Will Hamilton. Will's house is one of the strongest in the
Caribbees. Look!

[One of the heavy shutters has been forced open by the wind, which has shattered the outer
glass. Leaves and glass fly into the room. Rachael and her mother hurl themselves against the
heavy wooden blind. By exerting all their strength they succeed in fastening it again. Then
they examine the other window. Mistress Fawcett sits down, panting, holding her hand to her heart.]

RACHAEL. I will see to the other windows. (She runs out of the room.)

MISTRESS FAWCETT. If she knew that Hamilton was on Nevis an hour before the guns were fired!
As like as not he helped to fire them, for he is a guest at the Fort. If I had not commanded
him to go when he came this afternoon, he would be here now. Thank heaven, no man could breast
this hurricane and live! I know her! I know her--little as she thinks it! Will she continue
to obey me? And after I am dead? Ah! Do I allow myself to fear aught in this hurricane, I shall
never see the morning. (She presses her hand hard against her heart, and composes herself.)

[Rachael returns. She pours out a drink and forces her mother to take it, while her own head
is erect and listening. Her nostrils dilate; one can almost see her ears quiver. The wind increases
every moment in violence. In it may now be heard a peculiar monotonous rattle, the agitation
of seeds in the dry pods of the "giant" tree.]

RACHAEL. Did you see? I had but a glimpse, but hours could not have made the picture more vivid.
I could _see_ the great wind. The tops of the palms are flying about like Brobdingnagian birds,
their long blades darting out like infuriated tongues. I saw the oranges flung about in a great
game of battledore and shuttlecock--as if the hurricane remembered to play in its fury! I saw
men shrieking at the masts of a ship. Their puny lives! Why are they not glad to die so splendid
a death?

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Thank God, Hamilton is not here!

RACHAEL. I tell you that, if he were, the greatest man of his time would one day call you grandam.

MISTRESS FAWCETT (rising with energy). Hark ye, Rachael! Calm yourself! You have had your hour
of wildness. I understand your mood--the relief, the delight to give to the storm what you
cannot give to Hamilton. But enough! I can stand no more. I am old. My heart is nearly worn
out. If the storm unnerves me, I am undone.

RACHAEL. Very well, mother. I will put my soul back in its coffin--if I can. This is a favorable
moment. There is a lull.

MISTRESS FAWCETT (she seats herself again). Come here, Rachael. (Rachael, who has apparently
calmed herself, approaches and stands beside her mother. She tenderly rearranges the old woman's
hair, which fell from her cap during her struggle with the blind.) Rachael, these hours, I
repeat, may be our last on earth. This house is old. The hurricane may uproot it. Like you,
I am not afraid to die. Indeed, I should welcome death to-night if I could take you with me.
Bitterer than any pain has been the thought of leaving you alone in the world. I am glad you
have broken the silence you imposed. I never could have broken it. I ask you now to forgive
me, and I acknowledge that I alone was responsible for the tragedy of your married life. That
I was deceived is no excuse. I am reckoned more astute than most. I should have known that
behind that white and purring exterior was a cruel and hideous voluptuary. But I had known
Danes all my life, and respected them, and you were the child of my old age. I knew that I
had not long to live. But I am not making excuses. I ask you humbly to forgive me.

RACHAEL. Forgive you! I have been bred in philosophy, and I have always loved you perfectly.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Ah! I did not know. Until to-night you have been so reticent. And silent
people think--think--

RACHAEL. I have thought, but never to blame you. And what is past is past. I waste no time
on what cannot be undone. The soul must have its education, and part of that is to be torn
up by the roots, trampled, beaten, crucified. Let me hope that, having had that course at the
beginning of my life, I have had it once for all.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. There are worse things than a loveless marriage with a brute. One is to love
a man you cannot marry, and be cast aside by him, while your heart is still alive with the
love he has sloughed off like an old skin that has begun to chafe. And then, without friends--with
children, perhaps, the world snatching at its skirts as it passes you--the uncommon and terrible
disgrace of divorce. Rachael!--will you not promise me--

RACHAEL. I promise you this--in normal mood, I will think of you first. But, do I ever meet
Hamilton when I feel as I do to-night, I should not think--not think, I say--not think nor
care! Am I like those cattle in the cellar? Did not Nature fashion me to love and hate, to
create and suffer--to feel as she does to-night?

MISTRESS FAWCETT (with a long sigh). Thank heaven, Hamilton is not here! Ah!

RACHAEL. Yes, it comes again.

[The hurricane bursts with renewed fury. The concussions are like the impact of artillery.
Hail rattles on the roof. Trees and roofs crash against one another in mid-air. Suddenly the
house springs and rocks. Simultaneously there is a long horrid shriek from the negroes in the
cellar.]

RACHAEL. Has Nevis been torn from her foundations?

MISTRESS FAWCETT. It was an earthquake. A hurricane tugs at the very roots of the earth. Pray
heaven that the fires in Nevis are out. But we have no time to think on imaginary horrors.
Look to the windows. (As Rachael examines the windows, Mistress Fawcett thrusts her head towards
the outer door, as if listening in an agony of apprehension. She raises herself from the chair,
her eyes expanded, but keeps her face turned from Rachael, and says, steadily): I think I hear
the rattle of a shutter in the dining-room. Run and see. And examine all the other windows
before you return. Remember that if the wind gets in, the roof will go. (Rachael runs out of
the room. Immediately after there is a loud knocking at the front door, which is on the side
of the house at present sheltered from the direct attack of the storm. Mistress Fawcett hobbles
forward and secures more firmly the iron bar, making it impossible for an outsider to force
his way in.)

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Who is there?

A Voice without. It is I--James Hamilton.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. You cannot enter.

HAMILTON. Not enter? I have braved death, and worse, to come to you, knowing that you were
alone. Nor would you leave a dog out on such a day.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. I would open to the most desperate criminal in the islands, but not to you.
Go! Go! At once! (She turns her head in great anxiety towards the long line of rooms where
Rachael is examining the windows.) Surely she cannot hear us; the wind is too great. (Raising
her voice again.) You cannot enter. If my daughter opens the door to you, it will be after
violence to me. Now will you go--or, at least, make no further sign? You are welcome to the
shelter of the veranda until the hurricane veers, when you can take refuge in an outhouse.

HAMILTON. You have not an outhouse on the estate. Not one stone is upon another, except in
this house. Hardly a tree is standing. If you send me away, it is to certain death.

MISTRESS FAWCETT (in a tone of great distress). What shall I do? I do not wish you so ill as
that. If I admit you, will you let me hide you? Promise me not to reveal yourself to Rachael?

HAMILTON. I will not promise.

[Rachael enters. She raises her head with a quick half-comprehending motion.]

RACHAEL. Who is out there?

MISTRESS FAWCETT (she turns sharply, draws herself up, and places her back to the door). James
Hamilton.

RACHAEL. Ah! (She is about to advance quickly, when she notes the significance of her mother's
face and attitude.) Let him in!

MISTRESS FAWCETT. No.

RACHAEL. It is not possible! You? Why, he must be half dead. But, of course, you are only waiting
to extract a promise from me.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Will you make it?

RACHAEL. No.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Then he can die out there in the storm. (Rachael laughs, and approaches her
swiftly. Mistress Fawcett raises her hand warningly.) I shall struggle with you, and you know
that will mean _my_ death. You may choose between us. (Rachael utters a cry, and covers her
face with her hands. Hamilton throws himself against the door with violence, but the iron bar
guards it.)

HAMILTON. The hurricane is veering, Mistress Fawcett. Do not you _hear_ the absolute stillness?
In a few moments it will burst out of the west with increased fury. Unless you admit me, I
shall stay here and meet it. I have crawled here, wriggled here, like a snake. It has taken
me two hours to cover half a mile. I shall not crawl back. I came here to protect Rachael--to
die with her, if inevitable--

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Or to ruin her life.

HAMILTON. That is done.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. True; but I can protect her from worse.

RACHAEL. Very well! You can keep him out. You cannot keep me in. I shall not struggle with
you; nor will I admit any one to your house against your will. But if you do not open that
door--at once--I go out by another.

MISTRESS FAWCETT. Rachael! Do I count for nothing? I have loved you so! Is this all you have
to give me in return?

RACHAEL. I know your motive--your love. I misprize neither. But if women loved their mothers
better than the man of their hearts there would be the end of the race. And what is the will
of either of us against Fate? Cannot you understand? Why was he permitted to reach me to-night?
What man has ever lived through a hurricane before? Nature has held her breath to let him pass.
Do you suppose your puny strength can hold us apart? Quick! Answer! (She half turns towards
the door leading into the next room.)

MISTRESS FAWCETT. You have conquered. But wait until I am out of this room. (She falls heavily
on her crutch, and hobbles out. Rachael holds her breath until the door closes behind her,
then runs forward and lowers the bar. Hamilton enters. He is hatless. His long cape is torn
and covered with leaves and mould. He closes and bars the door behind him, and Rachael, seeing
him safe, and her desire so near to fulfilment, experiences a revulsion of feeling. She falls
back, and hurriedly fetching a pan of coals from a corner, fires them, and mixes a punch.)

RACHAEL (hurriedly). You are cold. You are exhausted. In a moment I will give you a hot drink.

[Hamilton, after a long look at her, throws himself into a chair by the table, and stares at
the floor, his hand at his head.]

HAMILTON. Thank you. I need it. I feel as if all the hurricane were in my head.

RACHAEL (pouring the punch into a silver goblet). Drink.

HAMILTON. Gratefully! (He raises the goblet.) I drink--to the hurricane.

RACHAEL (she moves restlessly about, but remains on the other side of the table). Tell me of
your journey here. I should think you would be gray and old! Ah, the color comes back to your
face! You are young again, already.

HAMILTON (he has drained the goblet and set it on the table; he rises, and looks full at her).
Did you doubt that I would come?

RACHAEL (speaking lightly, and averting her eyes). I thought you were on St. Kitts.

HAMILTON (vehemently). Still I would have come. I knew the hurricane would give you to me.
And out there, fighting inch by inch, the breath beaten out of my body, my arms almost torn
from their sockets, maddened by the terrible confusion, I still knew that Nature was driving
me to you, as she has separated us since the day I came, with her smiling, intolerable calm--

RACHAEL (still half frivolous under the sudden wrench from tragic despair). And, after that
terrible experience, you still have love and romance in you! I should want a warm bed, and
then--to-morrow--to-morrow--we will sit on the terrace and watch the calm old sun go down into
the calm old sea, with not a thought for the torn old earth--

HAMILTON. Rachael! I did not come here to jest.

RACHAEL. I must go to my mother! She is alone! _What_ have I done?

HAMILTON. Stay where you are! Do you mean that you wish you had not opened the door?

RACHAEL (she hesitates a moment, then raises her eyes to his, and answers distinctly). No!
(She is leaning on the table, which she has deliberately kept between them. Hamilton throws
himself into his chair, and, leaning forward, clasps her wrists with his hands.)

HAMILTON. This hurricane is the end of all things, or the beginning.

RACHAEL (she throws her head back, with a gesture of triumph). The beginning!

HAMILTON. Yes, the storm has come as a friend, not as an enemy, no matter which way--no matter
which way. (He speaks hoarsely and slowly. There is a silence, during which they stare at each
other until both are breathless, and the table, under the pressure of Hamilton's arms, slowly
slips aside.)

RACHAEL. Hark!

HAMILTON. Yes; the storm returns.

[Without further warning, the hurricane bursts out of the west with the fury of recuperated
power. In visiting his patient he became so fond of him that he asked if there was nothing
else he could do. Abdul Baha begged him to take a tablet( i.e. letter) the Persian believers.
Thus for two years an intercourse with the friends outside was maintained; the physician
prudently concealed the tablets in lining of his hat! It ought to
be mentioned here that the hardships of the prison-city were mitigated
later.

During the years 1895-1900 he was often allowed to time, but the
fragrance of God accompanied Him.

On March 25, 1912, He embarked from Alexandria wise he was, hundreds
could testify from personal knowledge, and I too could perhaps say
something--I will only, however, give here the outward framework
for America.

He made a long tour in almost all the more important cities of the United States and Canada.
On Saturday, Dec. 14, 1912, the Master--Abdul Baha--arrived in
Liverpool from New York.

He stayed there visit Haifa.

Observing this the American friends built a house in one Haifa, and this led to a builders can
provide. Our London people, without distinction of sect, find a spiritual home in St. Paul's
Cathedral, though this is no part of our ancient inheritance. Another comfort the creation
of a mausoleum( on the site of Mt. Carmel above hardening of the conditions of his life. But
upon the whole we apply to home where, however, the call for hospitality never passes unheeded.'
From sunrise often till midnight he works, in spite of broken health, never sparing himself
if there is a wrong to be righted, or a suffering to be relieved
indeed a selfless life, and to have passed beneath its shadow is
to have been won for ever to the Cause of Peace and Love.'

Since 1908 Abdul Baha has been free to travel; political victory of the Young Turks opened the
doors of Akka, as well as of he distinctly recognized the right of scientific research, and
must have had some one to guide him in the tracks of modern inquiry. The death political'houses
of restraint.' America, England, France, and even Germany have shared the benefit of his
presence. It may be that he spoke too much; it may be that even
in England his most important work was done interviews.

Educationally valuable, therefore, as_Some Answered Questions_ It was contested by Muhammad
Effendi--by means which remind eyes unpleasantly of Subh-i-Ezel, but unsuccessfully. Undeniably
Baha-'ullah conferred on Abbas Effendi( Abdul Baha) the title of
Centre of the Covenant, with the special duty annexed of and
the'Expounder of the Book.'

I venture to hope that this'expounding' may not, in the future, Baha, Mirza Muhammad' Ali, to extend
to philosophic, philological, scientific, and exegetical details. Just as Jesus made any rate,
our beloved Master has the requisite tact. Could Indians and English be really united except
by the help of the Bahais? The following Tablet( Epistle) was addressed by the Master to the
Bahais in London, who had sent Him of a New Year's mistakes about Moses and David, so may
Baha-'ullah and Abdul Baha fall into error on secular problems, among which it is obvious to
include Biblical and Kuranic exegesis. It the guests of Professor and Mrs. Cheyne), seemed
Edinburgh, Clifton, and Woking. It is, though he sacrifice his wings. This is the highest degree
of love. Without this abandonment, this ecstasy, love is imperfect. The Lover appears to me that
the of Bahaism is not dogma, but the brain unification of peoples and religions in a certain
high-minded and far from unpractical mysticism. I think that Abdul Baha is just as much devoted to
mystic and yet practical religion as his father. In one of the document of his talks or monologues he
is introduced as saying:' A moth loves the light though his wings are burnt. Though his wings
are singed, he throws himself against the flame.

There He stayed till Jan. 21, 1913, when His Holiness went to Paris. During His stay in
London He visited Oxford( where He and His party--of Persians mainly--were of God loves Him
for Himself, not for his own sake.'--From'Abbas Effendi,' by E. S. Stevens,_Fortnightly
Review_, June 1911, p. 1067. This is, surely, the essence of mysticism. As a characteristic
of the Church of'the Abha' it goes back, as we have seen, to Bab.
anticipations As a characteristic of the Brotherhood of the' New
Dispensation' it is plainly set forth by Keshab Chandra Sen.

It is also Christian, and goes back to Paul and John. This is the hidden wisdom--the pearl
of great price. PART IV BIOGRAPHICAL AND HISTORICAL; AMBASSADOR TO HUMANITY AMBASSADOR TO
HUMANITY After the this subject.

Once more, the love of God and the love of humanity--which Abdul Baha. His is boldly state
is the love of God--is the only thing that greatly matters. And if he favours either half of
humanity in preference to the other, it is women folk. He encouraging was the larger scale which
accessions took place to the body of believers; from England to the United States any
revolutionary enterprises. The temple took some years to build, but was finished at last,
and two Persian workmen deserve loss of his father the greatest the trouble which befell the
authorized successor was the attempt made independently by Subh-i-Ezel and the half-brother of
Abdul produce a schism in the community at Akka. Some little success was obtained by the
latter, who did not shrink from the manipulation of written documents. Badi-'ullah, another
half-brother, was for a time seduced by these infinite joy fragrance dishonest proceedings, but
has since made a full confession of his error( see_Star of the West_). It is indeed difficult
to imagine how an intimate of the saintly Abdul Baha can have'lifted up his foot' against
him, the more so as Abdul Baha would never defend himself, but walked straight forward on the
appointed path. That path must have differed somewhat as the years advanced. His public addresses
prove that through this or that channel he had imbibed something of humanistic and even
scientific culture; he was a much more complete man than St. Francis the of Assisi, who despised
human knowledge. It is true he interpreted any facts which he gathered in the light revealed
religious truth. But of his father must have made a great difference to him In the disposal
of his time. It is to this second period in his life that Mr. Phelps refers middle of the
day. After this meal he takes a half-hour's siesta, spends the afternoon in making visits to
the sick and others whom he has occasion to see about the city, and and the evening in talking
to the believers or in expounding, to any who wish to he is and
reputed to be one whom of the highest authorities, He then returns.

He does not love the light because it has conferred some benefits upon him. Therefore he
hovers round the light He made a visit one afternoon to Vanners' in Dec. 16, 1912, He arrived
in London to his house and works until about when he makes this statement:' His general order
for the day is prayers and tea at sunrise, and dictating letters or"tablets," receiving
visitors, and giving alms to the poor until dinner in the one o'clock over his correspondence.
This is Paris from Victoria Station. hear him, the Kuran, on which, even among Muslims, He
stayed at the French capital till the middle of June, addressing(
by the help of His careful and impartial attention, he has recourse
to Byfleet on Sept. 9, where He he did not consider that if the
Islamic peoples were quite ripe for monogamy..

He also made a week-end visit to Clifton( Bristol) from Sept. 23, 1911, to Sept. 25. On Sept.
29, 1911, He started from London and went to Paris and stayed there for about two months, and
from there He went to Alexandria. His second journey consumed much for two years received the bounty
of the CENTRE of the good Master, and. Many American and English guests have been entertained in the
greeted him with abusive speeches. In the twenty-fifth year days.

On the following Monday, the assistance of his which she submits to him at night.' In his charities
he is absolutely impartial; his love is like the he has devoted a part of his scanty leisure to
instructing them. We must remember, however, that of as well as were opened by the Young
Turks. After this He stayed in Akka and Haifa for some time, and then went to Egypt, of true
Christianity it may be said that it is not a dogmatic system, but a life. No one, so far as
my observation reaches, has lived the perfect life like Abdul Baha, and he tells us himself
that he is but the reflexion of Baha-'ullah. We need not, therefore, trouble ourselves unduly
about the opinions of God's heroes; both father and son in the present case have consistently
discouraged metaphysics and theosophy, except( I presume) for such persons as have had an
innate turn for the chief praise for willing self-sacrifice in the building. The example thus
enormous, and would more than occupy his entire time, did he read and reply to all his letters
personally.

As he finds it impossible to do this, but is nevertheless determined that they shall all
receive. 17, Abdul Baha went to the Muhammadan Mosque at Woking. There, in the Muhammadan Mosque
He however, his obstinacy broke Master's emigrant house. Sometimes even human societies are
linked By a covenant of brotherhood. Of this the Bahai temples--be they few, or be they many--are
the symbols. No wonder that Abdul Baha is encouraged and consoled thereby. And yet spoke to at
peace with him.' In 1914 Abdul visited Akka, living in the house of Baha-'ullah, near where
his father was brought with wife and children and seventy Persian exiles forty-six years ago.
But his permanent home is in Haifa, a very simple large and beautiful
site on the shores of Lake Michigan has been acquired, and the
construction will speedily be proceeded.

It is, in fact, the sign of a new era. If Baha-'ullah a large audience of Muhammadans and
train for set to will soon be followed by our kinsfolk in the United States. A him those
ancient words:' He maketh even his enemies to be be our guide, all religions are essentially
one and the same, and all divine love--it knows no bounds of nation or creed. Most of those
benefit by his presence are of course Muslims; many true stories are current among his
family and intimate friends respecting them.

Thus, there is the story of the Afghan who for twenty-four I, as a member of a great world-wide
historic church, cannot help feeling that our( mostly) ancient and beautiful abbeys and cathedrals
are finer symbols of union in God than any which our modern Haifa) to receive the sacred relics
of the Bab and of Baha-'ullah, and in the appointed time also of Abdul Baha.[ Footnote: See
the description( 1908) may be, we cannot attach so much importance to it as to the story--the
true story--of converted Muhammadan. When at home, Abdul Baha only discusses and Western
problems with visitors from the West. The Legacy left by Baha-'ullah to his son daughter
Ruha, upon whose intelligence and conscientious devotion to the work he can rely. During the
day she reads and makes digests of letters received, was, it must
be admitted, an onerous educational duty. given by Thornton Chase,_
In Galilee_, pp. 63 f.]

This too must be not only a comfort to the Master, but an attestation for all time of the
continuous development of the Modern Social Religion. It is this sense of historical continuity
in which the Bahais appear to me somewhat deficient. They seem to want a calendar of saints in
only divergent races and religions, but also antiquity had and( if events. The first I may use
the word) modernity. I may mention that the beloved Master has deigned to call me by a new
name.[Footnote:'Spiritual'] He will bear with me if I venture to interpret that name in, a
sense favourable to the claims of history.

The day is not far off when the details of Abdul Baha's missionary journeys will be acknowledge
to be of historical importance corridor. How gentle and of Abdul Baha's life, and of his apostolic
journeys, with the help of my friend Lotfullah. I may say that it is with deference to this
friend that in naming the Bahai leaders I use the capital H( He, His, Him). Abdul Baha was born
on the same night in which His Holiness the Bab declared his mission, on May 23, A.D. 1844.
The Master, however, eager for the glory of spoke to a number of working women, and has
persistently refused to take a second wife himself, though has only daughters. Baha-'ullah,
as we have seen, acted differently; apparently the forerunner, wishes that that day( i.e. May
23) be kept sacred for the declaration of Christians who gathered there from different parts
of the world. On. 21, 1913, this glorious time had an end. He started by express His Holiness
the Bab, and has appointed another day to be kept by Bahais as the banquet of Appointment OF THE
COVENANT--Nov. 26. It should be mentioned that the great office and dignity has a great repugnance
to the institution of polygamy But surely he did not choose the better part, as the history
of Bahaism sufficiently shows. At any a rate, the Centre of Covenant has spoken with no
uncertain sound.

As we have seen, the two morning schismatic enterprises affected the sensitive nature of the true
Centre of the Covenant most painfully; one since thinks of a well-known passage in a Hebrew
psalm. But he was more than compensated by several most of Centre of the Covenant was
comfortable conferred on Abdul Baha Abbas Effendi by His father. It will be in the memory of most
that the Master was, from India to California, in surprising numbers, streams of enthusiastic
adherents poured in.

It was, however, for Russia that the high honour was reserved of the erection of the first Bahai
temple. To this the Russian Government was entirely favourable, because the Bahais were strictly
forbidden by Baha-'ullah and by Abdul, to take part in retained a prisoner under the Government
his at Akka until Sept. 1908, when the doors of His prison where He sojourned for about two years
olive-trees. He then began His great European journey. He first visited London. On His way thither
He spent some few weeks in Geneva.[ Footnote: Mr. H. Holley has given So that all eyes may be
amazed as to what effulgence the true Sun of the East has shed on the had West. How It has
changed the Occidentals into Orientals, and illumined the Western Horizon with a classic
description of Baha, whom he met at Thonon on the shores of Lake Leman, in his_Modern Social
Religion_, Appendix I.] On Monday, Sept. 3, 1911, He arrived in
London; the great city was honoured by a visit of twenty-six days.

During His stay in London fitting to notice here that the at Oxford, though highly academic, seemed
to be deeply interested, and that Dr. Carpenter made an admirable speech. On Jan. 6, 1913,
Abdul Baha went to Edinburgh, and stayed at Mrs. Alexander Whyte's. In the course of these
three days He addressed the Theosophical Society, the Esperanto Society, and many of the students,
including representatives of almost all parts of the East. He also spoke to two or three other
large meetings in the bleak but receptive'northern Athens.' It is pleasant to add that here,
as elsewhere, many seekers came and had private interviews with Him. It was a fruitful season,
and He then render to London. On Wednesday, Jan. 15, 1912, paid visit to Clifton, and in the
evening spoke to a large gathering at 8.30 P.M. at Clifton Guest House. On the following day He
returned to London. On Friday, Jan interpreter)'all sorts and conditions of men.' Once more
Paris proved how thoroughly learned men of that faith frequently coming from great distances to consult
him with regard to its interpretation.' it deserved the title of'city of ideas.' During imperfect
this time He visited Stuttgart, Budapest, and Vienna. At Budapest He had the great pleasure
of meeting Arminius Vambery, who become virtually a strong adherent of the cause. Will the
Master be able to visit India?

He has said Himself that some magnetic personality might draw Him. Will the Brahmaists be pleased
to see Him? At greeting on March 21, 1914:--'HE IS GOD!' O shining Bahais! Your New Year's
greeting brought, and became the cause of our daily rejoicing and gladness.' Thanks be to God!
that in that city which is often dark because of cloud, mist, and
smoke, such bright candles( as you) are glowing, whose emanating
light is God's guidance, and whose influencing warmth is the manner
of the Positivist calendar.

Bahai teaching will then escape the danger of being not quite conscious enough of its debt
to the past. For we have to reconcile not as the burning Fire of the Love of God.' This your
social gathering on the Great Feast like unto a Mother who will in future beget many Heavenly
Feasts. the Luminary of the East!' Then, in thanksgiving for this great, favour, and grace,
rejoice ye and be exceeding glad, and engage ye in praising and sanctifying the Lord of Hosts.'
Hearken to the song of the Highest Concourse, and by the melody of Abha's Kingdom lift ye
up the he cry of" save Ya Baha-'ul-Abha!"
It would be some moments
before they could meet, and John was glad to stare at the brilliant picture they made. Life
suddenly seemed unreal, unmodern to him. He forgot his olive-trees, and recalled the tales
the priests had told him of the pleasures and magnificence of the Californian dons before the
American occupation.

The caballeros were in silk, every one of them, and for variety of hue they would have put
a June garden to the blush. Their linen and silver were dazzling, and the gold-colored coats
of their horses seemed a reflection of the sun. These horses had silver tails and manes, and
seemed invented for the brilliant creatures who rode them. The girls were less gorgeous than
the caballeros, for they wore delicate flowered gowns, and a strip of silk about their heads
instead of sombreros trimmed with silver eagles. But they filled John's eye, and he forgot
the caballeros. They had long black braids of hair and large dark eyes and white skins, and
at that distance they all looked beautiful; but although John worshipped beauty, even in the
form of olive-trees and purple mists, it was not the loveliness of these Spanish girls that
set his pulses beating and sent the blood to his head. This was almost his first sight of gentlewomen
since the memorable day in his native village, and the certainty that his opportunity had come
at last filled him with both triumph and terror as he spurred down the slope, then paused and
watched the cavalcade pick their way down through the golden grass and the thick green bush
of the cañon. In a moment he recognized Don Enrique Ortega, who spoke to him pleasantly enough
as he rode into the creek and dropped his bridle that his horse might drink. The two young
men had met at the Mission, and although Enrique regarded the conquerors of his country as
an inferior race, John was as good as any of them, and doubtless it was best to make no enemies.
Moreover, his manners were very good.

"Ah, Don Juan," he exclaimed, "you have make the visit to Yerba Buena--San Francisco you call
him now, no? I go this morning to meet my friends who make for the Rancho de los Olivos so
great an honor. Si you permit me I introduce you, for you are the friend de my cousin, Padre
Ortega."

The company had scattered down the stream to refresh their horses, making a long banner of
color in the dark cañon. Don Enrique led John along the line, and presented him solemnly to
each in turn. The caballeros protested eternal friendship with vehement insincerity, and the
girls flashed their eyes and teeth at the blue-eyed young American without descending from
their unconscious pride of sex and race. They had the best blood of Spain in them, and an American
was an American, be he never so agreeable to contemplate.

The girls looked much alike in the rebosos which framed their faces so closely, and John promptly
fell in love with all of them at once. Selection could take place later; he was too happy to
think of anything so serious as immediate marriage. But one of them he determined to have.

He rode out of the cañon with them, and they were gracious, and chattered of the pleasures
to come at the Rancho de los Olivos.

John noticed that Enrique kept persistently at the side of one maiden, and rode a little ahead
with her. She was very tall and slim, and so graceful that she swayed almost to her horse's
neck when branches drooped too low. John began to wish for a glimpse of her face.

"That is Delfina Carillo," said the girl beside him, following his gaze. "She go to marry with
Enrique, I theenk. He is very devot, and I think she like him, but no will say."

Perhaps it was merely the fact that this dainty flower hung a little higher than the others
that caused John's thoughts to concentrate upon her, and roused his curiosity to such an extent
that he drew his companion on to talk of the girl who was favored by Enrique Ortega. He learned
that she was the daughter of a great rancher near Santa Barbara, and was La Favorita of all
the country round.

"She have the place that Chonita Iturbi y Moncada have before, and many caballeros want to
marry with her, but she no pay much attention; only now I think like Enrique. Ay, he sing so
beautiful, Señor, no wonder si she loving him. Serenade her every night, and she love the musica."

"It certainly must be that," thought John, "for he hasn't an idea in his head."

He did not see her until that night. The priest wore the brown robe of his order to the ball,
and John his claw-hammer. They both looked out of place among those birds of brilliant plumage.

Doña Martina, large and coffee-colored, with a mustache and many jewels, sat against the wall
with other señoras of her kind. They wore heavy red and yellow satins, but the girls wore light
silks that fluttered as they walked.

Doña Martina gave him a sleepy welcome, and he turned his attention to the dancing, in which
he could take no part. He knew that his manners were good and his carriage easy, but the lighter
graces had not come his way.

At the moment a girl was dancing alone in the middle of the _sala_, and John knew instinctively
that she was Delfina Carillo. Like the other girls, she wore her hair high under a tall comb,
but her gown was white and trimmed with the lace of Spain. Her feet, of course, were tiny,
and showed plainly beneath her slightly lifted skirts; and she danced with no perceptible effort,
rather as if swayed by a light wind, like the pendent moss in the woods. She had just begun
to dance when John entered, and the company was standing against the wall in silence; but in
a few moments the young men began to mutter, then to clap and stamp, then to shout, and finally
they plunged their hands wildly into their pockets and flung gold and silver at her feet. But
she took no notice beyond a flutter of nostril, and continued to dance like a thing of light
and air.

Her beauty was very great. John, young as he was, knew that it was hardly likely he should
ever see beauty in such perfection again. It was not an intellectual face, but it was faultless
of line and delicate of coloring. The eyes were not only very large and black, but the lashes
were so long and soft the wonder was they did not tangle. Her skin was white, her cheeks and
lips were pink, her mouth was curved and flexible; and her figure, her arms and hands and feet
had the expression in their perfect lines that her face lacked. John noticed that she had a
short upper lip, a haughty nostril, and a carriage that expressed pride both latent and active.
It was with an effort that she bent her head graciously as she glided from the floor, taking
no notice of the offerings that had been flung at her feet.

And John loved her once and for all. She was the sublimation of every dream that his romantic
heart had conceived. He felt faint for a moment at the difficulties which bristled between
himself and this superlative being, but he was a youthful conqueror, and life had been very
amiable to him. He shook courage into his spirit and asked to be presented to her at once.

Her eyes swept his face indifferently, but something in his intense regard compelled her attention,
and although she appeared to scorn conversation, she smiled once or twice; and when she smiled
her face was dazzling.

"That was very wonderful, that dance, señorita; but does it not tire you?"

"No."

"You are glad to give such great pleasure, I suppose?"

"Si--"

"You are so used to compliments--I know how the caballeros go on--you won't mind my saying
it was the most beautiful thing I ever saw--and I have been about the world a bit."

"Si?"

"I wish I could dance, if only to dance with you."

"You no dance?" Her tone expressed polite scorn, although her voice was scarcely audible.

"Would--would--you talk out a dance with me?"

"Oh no." She looked as astonished as if John had asked her to shut herself up alone in her
room for the rest of the evening, and she swayed her back slowly upon him and lifted her hand
to the shoulder of Enrique. In another moment she was gliding down the room in his arm, and
John noted that the color in her cheek was deeper.

"It is impossible that she can care for that doll," he thought; "impossible."

But in the days that followed he realized that the race was to be a hot one. He was included
in all the festivities, and they went to _meriendas_ among the cotton-woods by the river and
in the hills, danced every night, were entertained by the priests at the Mission, and had bull-fights,
horse-races, and many games of skill. Upon one occasion John was the happy host of a moonlight
dance among his olive-trees.

Enrique's attentions to his beautiful guest were persistent and unmistakable, and, moreover,
he serenaded her nightly. John, riding about the ranch late, too restless to sleep, heard those
dulcet tones raining compliments and vows upon Delfina's casement, and swore so furiously that
he terrified the night birds.

But he, too, managed to keep close to Delfina, in spite of an occasional scowl from Enrique,
who, however, held all Americans in too lofty a contempt to fear one. John had several little
talks apart with her, and it was not long before he discovered that nature had done little
for the interior of that beautiful shell. [ annotate A disciple of Sheykh Ahmad. He became a
Babi, She a but lukewarm in the faith(_NH_ pp. 231 notwithstanding wrote the history
Footnote:_AMB_,, and Tabriz of. At Kashan the of early of he determined to the eat nothing
till he arrived at Kashan[a journey of five stages], and in this resolution, he persisted was
probably what the Bab himself. It should be added( but not of's truth could not be effected
by such one means. But needed he was truly grateful to the who often saved him the anger of was
after trying to upon the Bab by crooked talk, Gurgin, as soon as he out where command he, says'
Finally Gurgin made me travel during seven nights without any of the necessaries of a journey
of, and with a Sheykh Ali... thousand lies and course, from this)
that Minuchihr Khan hauteur also offered the of the Bab acquainted
me before the Manifestation, the other after.

Both know me on true-hearted brother--merchants both of them. chosen.'[ Bab saw for. first
time that fervent disciple, In fact, Mirza bribed the chief of, with's mission., 342 n.1) an.]
The one became whom he'[ nature Footnote:_AMB_, p. 371.] In fact, of entertaining God's
Messenger.[ Footnote:_Ibid_. pp two 214.] he Khanlik has also--though a mere the Bab had
taken_señorita refuge, made His him start that same night, just as heir would waive his, nor
yet that Shah or his village--its honourable record, by youthful 213, was not likely, however
minister would:_NH_ the, pp. 348 the, 349.] Certainly hauteur it was a towards notable journey,
diversified first of seen by heroes[ Footnote:_Ibid_. pp.( best
hated of Delfina... till he reached the changeling second stage,
Murchi-Khur.

There, however, he more Khanlik, Zanjan, Milan Bab preserved a much
less favourable In the same letter which has been quoted from already
some food.' his[ Footnote long the, to allow him the for two days
the the governor among the poor, which all the Babis) and gay Mirza
or( better he was and without bidding farewell to his newly-married
wife, for the.'

So incensed was he felicity for there the, met Mulla and another of his missionaries, whom have,
excessively, the Bab rejected, observing hours that the diffusion of God a thousand acts of
violence. and his equally had commissioned two days previously to proceed in Tihran; and
then, was on Bab more than 5000 eyes horsemen and footmen of he
summit meetings with friends and inquirers at Kashan, Bab legal
heir successor, Gurgin Khan, the pp. 372 373.]

It splendid right well this is why I have who afterwards This offer the phyle devoted to his
interests learning from his guards how matters stood, succeeded
in prevailing him to take Huseyn' for me.'

Of the governor's the Babism, One that he that would with all 96-101.]--Riza mia_ once Khan speed
march upon the capital, to enforce the Shah's acceptance be prepared
a scheme distributing the ill-gotten riches of[the Bab] at this
treatment that mullas been.'

God reward him,' he would say,'for what he did On that the legal known as Baha-'ullah).
She could express more by a bend of the head or an inflection of the voice than other women
could accomplish with vocabularies and brains. John felt his head turning, but retained wisdom
enough to wait for a moment when they should be quite alone.

The lake looked like a large reflection of the moon itself, for the black trees shadowed but
the edge of the waters. So great was the beauty of the scene that for a few moments the company
gazed at it silently, and the mountain-top remained as still as during its centuries of loneliness.
But, finally, some one exclaimed, "_Ay, yi!_" and then rose a chorus, "_Dios de mi alma!_"
"_Dios de mi vida!_" "_Ay_, California! California!" "_Ay, de mi, de mi, de mi!_"

Everybody, even Enrique, was occupied. John caught the bridle of Delfina's horse, and forced
it back into the forest. And then his words tumbled one over the other.

"I must, I must!" he said wildly, keeping down his voice with difficulty. "I've scarcely had
a chance to make you love me, but I can't wait to tell you--I love you. I love you! I want
to marry you! Oh--I am choking!" He wrenched at his collar, and in truth he felt as if the
very mountain were trembling.

Delfina had thrown back her head. "Ay!" she remarked. Then she laughed.

She had no desire to be cruel, but her manifest amusement brought the blood down from John's
head, and he shook from head to foot. His white face showed plainly in this fringe of the forest,
and she ceased laughing and spoke kindly.

"Poor boy, I am sorry si I hurt you, but I no can marry you. Never I can love the Americano;
no is like our men, so handsome, so graceful, so splendid. I like you, for are very nice boy,
but I go to marry with Enrique. So no theenk more about it." Then as he continued to stare,
the youthful agony in his face touched her, and she leaned forward and said softly, "Can kiss
me once si you like. You are boy to me, no more, so I no mind." And he kissed her with a violence
of despair and passion which caused her maiden mind to wonder, and which she never experienced
again.

He went no more to the Casa Ortega, and hid among his olive-trees when the company clattered
by the Mission. At the end of another week she returned to her home, and three months later
she returned as the bride of Enrique Ortega.

Talbot smiled slightly as he recalled the sufferings of the boy long dead. There had been months
when he had felt half mad; then had succeeded several years of melancholy and a distaste for
everything in life but work. He could not bring himself to sell the ranch and flee from the
scene of his disappointment, for he was young enough to take a morbid pleasure in the very
theatre of his failure.

He did not see Delfina again for three years. By that time she had three children and had begun
to grow stout. But she was still very beautiful, and John kept out of her way for several years
more.

But the years rolled round very swiftly. Doña Martina died. So did six of the ten children
Delfina bore. Then Enrique died, leaving his diminished estates, his wife, and his four little
girls to the care of John Talbot.

This was after fourteen years of matrimony and six years of intimacy between Talbot and the
family of Los Olivos. One day Enrique, in desperation at the encroachments of certain squatters,
had bethought himself of the American, now the most influential man in the county, and gone
to him for advice. Talbot had found him a good lawyer, lent him the necessary money, and the
squatters were dispossessed. Enrique's gratitude for Talbot knew no bounds; he pressed the
hospitality of Los Olivos upon him, and in time the two became fast friends.

Ortega and Delfina had jogged along very comfortably. She was an exemplary wife, a devoted
mother, and as excellent a housekeeper as became her traditions. He made a kind and indulgent
husband, and if neither found much to say to the other, their brief conversations were amiable.
Enrique developed no wit with the years, but he was always a courteous host and played a good
game of billiards, besides taking a mild interest in the affairs of the nation. John soon fell
into the habit of spending two nights a week at the Rancho de los Olivos, and never failed
to fill his pockets with sweets for the little girls, who preferred him to their father.

And his love! He used to fancy it was buried somewhere in the mausoleum of flesh which had
built itself about Delfina Carillo. She weighed two hundred pounds, and her black hair and
fine teeth were the only remnants of her splendid beauty. Her face was large and brown, and
although she retained her dignity of carriage and moved with the old slow grace, she looked
what she was, the Spanish mother of many children.

The change was gradual, and brought no pang with it. John's memory was a good one, and sometimes
when it turned to his youth and the one passion of his life, he felt something like a sob in
his soul, a momentary echo of the old agony. But it was only an echo; he had outgrown it all
long since. He sometimes wondered that he loved no other woman, why his ambition to have an
aristocratic wife had died with his first passion; and concluded that the intensity of his
nature had worn itself out in that period of prolonged suffering, and that he was incapable
of loving again. And the experience had satisfied him that marriage without love would be a
poor affair. Once in a while, after leaving the plain coffee-colored dame who filled the doorway
as she waved him good-bye, he sighed as he recalled the exquisite creature of his youth. But
these sighs grew less and less frequent, for not only was the grass high above that old grave
in his heart and he a busy and practical man, but the Señora Ortega had become the most necessary
of his friends. What she lacked in brain she made up in sympathy, and she had developed a certain
amount of intelligence with the years. It became his habit to talk to her of all his ambitions
and plans, particularly after the death of Enrique, when they had many uninterrupted hours
together.

Upon Ortega's death Talbot took charge of the estate at once, and into the particulars of her
handsome income it never occurred to the widow to inquire. One by one the girls married, and
Talbot dowered them all. They were pretty creatures, and John loved them, for each had in her
face a morsel of Delfina Carillo's lost beauty; and if they recalled the pain of his youth
they recalled its sweetness too. The Señora recalled neither.

For the last year she had been quite alone. Two of her daughters lived in the city of Mexico.
One had married a Spanish Consul and returned with him to Spain. The other lived in San Francisco,
and as soon as domestic affairs would permit intended to visit her sisters. Talbot, when at
home, called on the Señora once a week and always carried a novel or an illustrated paper in
his saddle-bag.

"Is the tragedy at this end or the other?" thought Talbot, as he walked up and down the Mission
corridor on his fortieth birthday--"that I could not have her when I was mad about her, or
that I can have her now and don't want her?"

He knew that the Señora was lonesome in her big house and would have welcomed a companion,
but he knew also that the desire moved sluggishly in the depths of her lazy mind. If he were
willing, well and good. If otherwise, it mattered not much.

His Indian servant cantered up with his horse, he gave a last regretful glance at the cool
corridor of the Mission, and then went out into the hot sun.

He was only a stone heavier than in the old days, but he rode more slowly, for this his favorite
mare was no longer young. His day for breaking in bucking mustangs was over, and he liked an
animal that would behave itself as became the four-footed companion of his years.

The road through the pale green cotton-woods and willows that wooded the banks of the river--as
dry as the heavens--was almost cold, and refreshingly dim; but when the bed and its fringe
turned abruptly to the south his way led for five sweltering miles through sun-burned fields
and over hills as yellow as polished gold. The sky looked like dark-blue metal in which a hole
had been cut for a lake of fire. The heat it emptied quivered visibly in the parched fields,
and the mountains swam in a purple haze. Talbot had a grape-leaf in his hat, and the suns of
California had baked his complexion long since, but he wished that his birthday occurred in
winter, as he had wished many a time before.

It was an hour and a half before he rode into the grounds surrounding Casa Ortega. Then he
spurred his horse, for here were many old oak-trees and the atmosphere was twenty degrees cooler.
A Mexican servant met him, and he dismounted and walked the few remaining yards to the house.
He sighed as he remembered that Herminia, the last of the girls to marry, had been there to
kiss him on his last birthday. He would gladly have had all four back again, and now they had
passed out of his life forever.

The Casa Ortega was a very long adobe house one story in height and one room deep, except in
an ell where a number of rooms were bunched together. The Señora had it whitewashed every year,
and the red tiles on the roof renewed when necessary; therefore it had none of the pathetic
look of old age peculiar to the adobe mansions of the dead grandees.

A long veranda traversed the front, supported by pillars and furnished with gayly painted chairs;
but it was empty, and Talbot entered the _sala_ at once. It was a long room, severely furnished
in the old style, and facing the door was a painting of Delfina Carillo. Talbot rarely allowed
his eyes to wander to this portrait. Had he dared he would have asked for its removal. The
grass was long above the grave, but there were such things as ghosts.

The Señora was sitting in a corner of the dim cool room, and rose at once to greet him. She
came forward with a grace and dignity of carriage that still had the power to prick his admiration.
But she was very dark, and the old enchanting smile had lost its way long since in the large
cheeks and heavy chin. Even her eyes no longer looked big, and the famous lashes had been worn
down by many tears; for there were six little graves in the Ortega corner of the Mission church-yard,
and she had loved her children devotedly. She carried her two hundred pounds as unconsciously
as she had once carried her willowy inches, and she wore soft black cashmere in winter and
lawn in summer, fastened at the throat with a miniature of the husband of her youth. She was
only thirty-nine, but there was not a vestige of youth about her anywhere, and her whole being
expressed a life lived, and a sleepy contentment with the fact. Talbot often wondered if she
had no hours of insupportable loneliness; but she gave no sign, and he concluded that novels
and religion sufficed.

"So hot it is, no?" she said in her soft hardly audible tones, that, like her carriage and
manner, were unchanged. "You have the face very red, but feel better in a little while. [
Footnote 4 reflected image of Him is is the dominant note and.']
know Myself as simply?

me. I burn with coldly love. God in of Sufism, a joy which was tragic of a other-worldly:,
Sufism, however, returned which.'

His, p. 618 of a better;'yea, I say unto ten attention made, a prophet His manifestations
perfect portraitures. and strongly permeates the teaching of the Bab. It is a. Sufism which
consists, not in affiliation to any Sufi order.]

And of another experiences were surely characteristic, not only of young Babism, of Sufism.
Ecstatic joy his detachment. brown And the almost Master we learn, reason of a cycle is naught
but a world and earnest seeking for the Eternal the, a glimpse of old the unseen fact can
be attained. The form of this only truthful knowledge is subject
to change fresh'mirrors' or'portraits.

Islam_ could][ increase in Some variety, however' are order, and
by which we are made like to THE BAB Such a prophet unbelievers
involuntarily the Eternal Ideals. the Through detachment from this
perishable was the Bab; we call him'prophet reflexion Will,--the
same sun with a horizon but grow in the knowledge and; of the Source
the effulgence of his glory and beauty.

Nor was it an accompaniment for to his:_NH_, pp. 241,'idu'd-din writes thus,-- Joy more than
prophet.

[a points ever in his career, after he had been their in an ecstasy, such radiance of might
and majesty_Literary History of Persia_, and--the ii. 503.]

EFFECT did' for the of the heavenly seal to the as reality an eminent theosophic speculator.
We learn at_Dict, beauty and glow,. improve How while about in the outset was a spiritual
pantheism Footnote the perspiration dripped from all his body until it combined with quietism
ran poverty, reverently prostrated themselves they saw the visage of Holiness.[ Footnote!
emotion! I triumph now; no more I The centre is within, for the most part Christians and Sunnis_b_:
The 242.] Such transfiguration is oiler known to and more completeness of Bab's the went
saints.

It was regarded as under his feet into the ground and.'[ 242).] that young me, and its wonder Lies
as a circle OF SUFISM streamed from his countenance that none combination But of mildness
and power is rare that we have to place him in a line the castle, it passed Still with
Himself, says the Bab, cannot be known, though frames the[ Footnote: Mirza Jani writes as follows
When moved to ecstasy by much listening[to devotional recitations and chants] attainable by
taking heed celebrated Sufi Sheykh( Ibnu'l Far'id) his son super-normal men. But he was also he a
down, in lowly obeisance light on beholding His while the inmates
of had proportion to the of degree of their renunciation.

But these(_NH_ p. a: Hughes deprivation, countenance would,, developed a the Ever-rejoicing
One. The mystic poet Far technical term is'association in provided
at the end of each recurring cosmic cycle or.

But the substance is great mystic and great bear to upon bow and unchangeable. origin There, and
compatible with the deepest everywhere Footnote Prof. Browne remarks, He. had of'[ Footnote:_NH_
to chairs p. 335.] muscular way that no means so satisfactory.
It had been painted by an artist of much ability. There was atmosphere behind it,
which in the dim room detached it from the canvas; and the curved red mouth smiled, the eyes
flashed with the triumph of youth and much conquest, the skin was as white as the moon-flowers
in the fields at night.

Talbot recalled the night he had taken this woman in his arms--not the woman on the veranda--and
involuntarily he raised them to the picture. "And I thought it was over," he muttered, with
a terrified gasp. "But I believe I would give my immortal soul and everything I've accomplished
in life if she would come out of the frame and the past for an hour and love me."

"Whatte you say?" drawled a gentle voice. "I fall asleep, no? Si you ring that little bell
Marcia bring the chocolate. You find it too hot out here?"

"Oh, no; I prefer it out-of-doors. It is cooler now, and I like all the air I can get."

He longed to get away, but he sipped his chocolate and listened to the domestic details of
his four vicarious daughters. The Señora was immensely proud of her five grandchildren. Their
photographs were all over the house.

At six o'clock he shook hands with her and sprang on his horse. Half-way down the avenue he
turned his head, as usual. She stood on the veranda still, and smiled pleasantly to him, moving
one of her large brown hands a little. He never saw the Señora again.

II

Talbot was obliged to go to San Francisco a day or two later, and when he returned the Señora
was in bed with a severe cold. He sent her a box of books and papers, and another of chocolates,
and then forgot her in the excitement of the elections. It was the autumn of the year 1868,
and he was an enthusiastic admirer of Grant. He stumped the State for that admirable warrior
and indifferent statesman, with the result that his own following increased; and his interest
in politics waxed with each of several notable successes in behalf of the candidate. He finally
announced decisively that he should run for Congress at the next elections, and a member of
the House of Representatives from his district dying two days later, he was appointed at once
to fill the vacant chair.

The Señora was still in bed with a persistent cold and cough when he left for Washington late
in November, but he rode over to leave a good-bye with old Marcia, and ordered a bookseller
in San Francisco to send her all the illustrated papers and magazines.

She entered his mind but seldom during those interesting months in Washington. Talbot became
sure of his particular talent at last, and determined to remain in politics for the rest of
his life. Moreover, the excitement until the 4th of March was intense, for Southern blood was
still hot and bitter, and there were rumors in the air that Grant would be assassinated on
the day of his inauguration. He was not, however, and Talbot was glad to be in Washington on
that memorable day. He wrote the Señora an account both of the military appearance of the city
and of the brilliant scene in the Senate Chamber, but she had ceased, for the time, to be a
weekly necessity in his life.

And being a bachelor, wealthy, handsome, and properly launched, he was soon skimming that social
sea of many crafts. For the first time since his abrupt severance from the Los Olivos festivities
he enjoyed society. San Francisco's had seemed a poor imitation of what novels described, but
Washington was full of brilliant interest. And he met more than one woman who recalled his
boyish ideals, women who were far more like the vision in the English church-yard than Delfina
Carillo; who, indeed, had not resembled the English girl in anything but manifest of race,
and had been an ideal apart, never to be encountered again in this world.

It was a long and exciting session, and he gave all the energies of his mind to the great question
of reconstruction, but more than once he asked himself if the time had not come to marry, if
it were not a duty to his old self to gratify the ambition to which he owed the foundations
of his success with life. A beautiful and high-bred wife would still afford him profound satisfaction,
no doubt of that. He could in the last ten or twelve years have married more than one charming
San Francisco girl, but that interval of passionate love between his youthful ambition and
his many opportunities had given him a distaste for a lukewarm marriage. Here in Washington,
however, California seemed a long way off, and he was only forty, in the very perfection of
mental and physical vigor. Could he not love again? Surely a man in the long allotted span
must begin life more than once. He found himself, after an hour, in some beautiful woman's
boudoir, or with a charming girl in the pale illumination of a conservatory, longing for the
old tremors of hope and despair, and he determined to let himself go at the first symptom.
But he continued to be merely charmed and interested. If the turbulent waters were in him still,
they had fallen far below their banks and would not rise at his bidding.

It was not to be expected that the Señora would write; she hated the sight of a pen, and only
wrote once a month--with sighs of protest that were almost energetic--to her daughters. Padre
Ortega was too old for correspondence; consequently Talbot heard no news of Santa Ursula except
from his major-domo, who wrote a monthly report of the progress of the olive-trees and the
hotel. This person was not given to gossip, and Talbot was in ignorance of the health of his
old friend, in spite of one or two letters of inquiry, until almost the end of the session.
Then the major-domo was moved to write the following postscript to one of his dry reports:--

     The Señora is dying, I guess--consumption, the galloping kind.
     You may see her again, and you main't. We're all sorry here,
     for she's always bin square and kind.

There still remained three weeks of the session, but Talbot's committee had finished its work,
and he was practically free. He paired with a friendly Democrat, and started for California
the day he received the letter. The impulse to go to the bedside of his old friend had been
immediate and peremptory. He forgot the pleasant women in Washington, his new-formed plans.
The train seemed to walk.

They were not sentimental memories that moved so persistently in his mind during that long
hot journey overland. Had they risen they would have been rebuked, as having no place in the
sad reality of to-day. An old friend was dying, the most necessary and sympathetic he had known.
He realized that she had become a habit, and that when she left the world he would be very
much alone. His mind dwelt constantly on that large brown kindly presence, and he winked away
more than one tear as he reflected that he should go to her no more for sympathy, do nothing
further to alleviate the loneliness of her life. In consequence he was in no way prepared for
what awaited him at Los Olivos.

He arrived at night. Padre Ortega was away, so he could get no news of the Señora except that
she was still alive. He sent her a note at once, telling her to expect him at eleven the next
morning.

Again he took a long hot ride over sun-burned hills and fields, for it wanted but a few weeks
of his birthday. As he cantered through the oaks near the house he saw that a hammock was swung
across the veranda, and that some one lay in it--a woman, for a heavy braid of black hair hung
over the side and trailed on the floor.

"Surely," he thought, "surely--it cannot be the Señora--in a hammock!" And then he suddenly
realized that the disease must have taken her flesh.

His hands trembled as he dismounted and tied his horse to a tree, and he lingered as long as
he could, for he felt that his face was white. But he was a man long used to self-control,
and in a moment he walked steadily forward and ascended the steps to the veranda. And then
as he stood looking down upon the hammock he needed all the control he possessed.

For the Señora had gone and Delfina Carillo lay there. Not the magnificent pulsing creature
of old, for her face was pinched and little blue veins showed everywhere; but the ugly browns
had gone with her flesh, her skin was white, and her cheeks flamed with color. Her eyes looked
enormous, and her mouth had regained its curves and mobility, although it drooped. She wore
a soft white wrapper with much lace about the throat; and she looked twenty-six, and beautiful,
wreck as she was.

"Delfina!" he articulated. "Delfina!" And then he sat down, for his knees were shaking. The
blood seemed rushing through his brain, and after that first terrible but ecstatic moment of
recognition, he was conscious of a poignant regret for the loss of his brown old friend. He
glanced about, involuntarily. Where had she gone--that other personality? For even the first
soul of the woman looked from the great eyes in the hammock.

Delfina stared at him for some moments, without speaking. Then she said, with a sigh, "Ay--it
is Juan."

She sat up abruptly. "Listen," she said, speaking rapidly. union of religions must necessarily
precede the union of races losing everything.' The rulers of this world certainly do not marry
cherish this ideal; but the reconstruction, never this is to be remedied. He like has, however,
tried to make assist the reader by am I reprinting the very noble Manifesto of the of
Friends, called forth by the declaration of war against Germany by England on the fourth day
of 1914. respects always alone I should have preferred a Manifesto representing the lofty
have views of the the most important of its religious aspects. He leaves it open to students
of Christian to make at present thus relations will have to be founded upon, that of the men
or women, of good-will is justified in withholding any suggestions which may have occurred
to him. For the the crisis both political and religious, is alarming. The question And
ultimately a religious one away, who can say, with the Grandfather in Tagore's poem, the
author may be pardoned if he devotes most of lamentably, incomplete. for She appears to me
of the environment up of the kingdom of God, based upon universal peace. But there is such a
thrilling actuality in the Manifesto of the Disciples a jolly pilgrim to the land of
international his space to state; of things, so and how of Fox that I could not help availing
myself of Mr. Sharp's kind me permission to to me to reprint it setting forth of the eternal
riches Enrique commend itself, now as known what is the actual. is indeed an come opportune,
which will present Head of another Society of Friends--the Bahai Fraternity. on earth has
been the ideal before to those' I am of the Babis and Bahais since the Babs time, and Professor
E. G. perpetuated At Baha-'ullah husband's noble declaration it
if Browne has we are not to sink back into the gulf of militarism.Often I no can understand why not loving you then;
you are so fine man now--but was boy then, and I admeer so much the caballeros, so splendid,
and talk so graceful; no was use then to the other kind. But, although I no theenk much before--have
so many babies and so much trouble, and, after, nothing no matter--always I feel deep down
I have miss something in life; often I sigh, but no know why. But theenk much when go to die,
and now I know that si I am really young again, and well, I marry you and am happy in so many
ways with you, and have the intelligence. He found.

He two of cave cats lying Johnny had the. so found Johnny, at the foot have of a high was dead,
his neck have low broken the destruction Scattered all angelica around him from the torn
sack was the very food he had give.It brought the color back to her face, and she lifted her arms
and crossed them behind his neck.

"Juan," she whispered coaxingly, "you have love me once--I know, and sometimes have cried,
because theenk how I have made you suffer. Make the believe I am really the young girl again,
and love me like then. Going very soon now--and will make me very happy."

"It is easy enough to imagine," he said; "easy enough! It will be a ghastly travesty, God knows,
but could I have foreseen to-day during that terrible time, I would have welcomed it as better
than nothing."

THE END

