Leonardo Donato would be very gracious to the Lady of the Giustiniani, though she had come
so near to costing the city a divided vote, because he had seen the misery in her eyes with
her great love for Venice, and because the Council had so declared its vote for the State that
he could afford to be magnanimous. Nay, since even the Senator Marcantonio had not flinched
before that wonderful agonized white face, he need not confine her, as he had intended, in
a convent for decorous keeping; he was glad of the change in her favor which would prevent
the harshness that might have increased her influence to the degree of danger. He sent, instead,
a gracious message by his secretary--"Might the father pay a visit to his daughter of the Republic
to inquire of her welfare and assure her of his favor, before she returned to her palace?"

But the message of courtesy, sent by the Doge himself, had been stayed on the threshold of
his own state salon.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Republic had, indeed, quitted herself nobly in her vote; so valiant a blow had she struck
for the rights of princes that this consciousness rang out in the bold tones of her announcement
to the courts of Europe--"Which things we have thought best to tell you for your sole information,
so that if mention be made of them to you, and not else, you may be able to answer to the purpose
and to justify this our most righteous cause."

And from the moment that the Senate had been unofficially apprised by Nani that the terrible
Interdict was already printed and would presently be fulminated, every possible precaution
of self-defense had been put in operation throughout the dominions of Venice, with an ingenuity,
a foresight, and a celerity which the watching courts of Europe not only viewed with amazement,
but accepted as an evidence of the conscious power and justice of the Republic. Overtures came
fast from England, from Spain, from France--every monarch wished some share in the pacification
between these courts of Rome and Venice.

Meanwhile, in Venice life went on superbly. There was no question of any spiritual disfranchisement;
these sons of the Church were not under interdict, having committed no sin which laid them
open to that charge. Moreover, no ban had been _published_ throughout the wide extent of their
domain. Hence, for the Venetians, there was no interdict, whatever awful anathema might be
affixed to those distant doors of Saint Peter's in Rome; with whatever voice of anger its terrors
might be thundered at the Holy See, against rulers, people, priests, and sacraments within
the doomed city--the wide waters of the lagoon laved its shores in benediction, like a baptismal
charm upon the fair front of Venice, against which the Curse threatened impotently.

At the centre of this superb and daring court sat a friar, trained from his childhood up in
the customs, traditions, and beliefs of his Church and of his order--a reverent practitioner
in her fasts and sacraments, simple in his habits as a hermit-monk, faithful in his religious
duties as the most punctilious priest in Rome, sure in his faith that God would uphold the
right, and asserting, without compromise, that right was on the side of Venice.

What a stay for rulers who fortified their every position by some appeal to precedent--who
would punctiliously know the source and interpretation of every law upon which they rested!

Above all, what a stay for the simple people who, in these days of bewildering conflict, knew
not what to believe!

Would Masses go on, and the church doors be open and the sacraments continue? Might they still
take their brides and baptize their little ones, and follow their dead to burial, and sign
the sign of the cross, in token of the favor of heaven--as loyal sons of the Church?

