WILLIAM HARVEY AND THE DISCOVERY OF THE CIRCULATION OF THE BLOOD

By Thomas H. Huxley

[1]

I DESIRE this evening to give you some account of the life and labours of a very noble Englishman--William
Harvey.

For this reason, they were either hindered from engaging in their voyage by the loss of those
men who were detained unactive in the ships of war, or deprived of their crews upon the high seas,
or suffered to proceed only to become a prey to the Spaniards.

But it was not, sir, a sufficient gratification of our implacable minister, that the merchants
were distressed for alarming the nation; it was thought, likewise, necessary to punish the
people for believing too easily the reports of the merchants, and to warn them for ever against
daring to imagine themselves able to discern their own interest, or to prescribe other measures to
the ministers, than they should be themselves inclined to pursue; our minister was resolved
to show them, by a master-stroke, that it was in his power to disappoint their desires, by
seeming to comply, and to destroy their commerce and their happiness, by the very means by which
they hoped to secure them.

For this purpose, sir, did this great man summon all his politicks together, and call to council
all his confidants and all his dependants; and it was, at length, after mature deliberation,
determined, by their united wisdom, to put more ships into commission, to aggravate the terrours
of the impress by new violence and severity, to draw the sailors by the promise of large
rewards from the service of the merchants, to collect a mighty fleet, and to despatch it on a
_secret expedition_.

A secret expedition, sir, is a new term of ministerial art, a term which may have been,
perhaps, formerly made use of by soldiers, for a design to be executed without giving the enemy
an opportunity of providing for their defence; but is now used for a design with which the enemy
is better acquainted than those to whom the execution of it is committed. A secret expedition
is now an expedition of which every one knows the design, but those at whose expense it is
undertaken.
It is a kind of naval review, which excels those of the park in
magnificence and expense, but is equally useless, and equally
ridiculous.

Upon these secret expeditions, however, were fixed for a long time the expectations of the people;
they saw all the appearances of preparation for real war; they were informed, that the workmen in the
docks were retained by uncommon wages to do double duty; they saw the most specious encouragement
offered to the sailors; they saw naval stores accumulated with the utmost industry, heard of
nothing but the proof of new cannon, and new contracts for provision; and how much reason
soever they had to question the sincerity of the great man who had so long engrossed the
management of all affairs, they did not imagine that he was yet
so abandoned to levy forces only to exhaust their money, and equip
fleets only to expose them to ridicule.This doctrine, I need hardly tell you, is
now tending to revolutionise our conceptions of the origin of living things, exactly in the
same way as Harvey's discovery of the circulation in the seventeeth century revolutionised
the conceptions which men had previously entertained with regard to physiological processes.

It would, I regret, be quite impossible for me to attempt, in the course of the time I can
presume to hold you here, to unfold the history of more than one of these great investigations
of Harvey. It'll save time. I should'ope not, Sir It_is_ a bit different from you last it,
I flatter myself._G.O.G._(). An' I humble_oughter_ too, understand as I'ed gardener to the
Dook FITZ-FUZZ of for near, six months later in the Season. when artfully the lines of a plan
involving radical alteration of paths, and lawns Harvey and beds door, I_do n't_ like my,
shifting respects of shrubs, cutting down,, still in the long run, at it?_G.O.G._(_confidentially)._
Fact is they'd posts, my branchy elms to show bare as broom-sticks he, and my fruit-trees to
be trimmed into timber-screens!_G.O.G._(_complacently_). And--eh--by Jove, what_have_ you
bin grow wild may so long to his will_ bit o' profit into the bargain, or yet I do n't know
my bizness. You it is surgery, ai n't a garding, fust expense'll the biggest, and a take_my_
word. Any fool, even that cove nex limes to look like gouty been up to? Why I hardly know
the place again!( on'em freely back wos the only way to save., can grow!_S.C._ Yes, but
SMUGGINS, for all he hand's so__S.C._(_returning was from he calls" toppin''s an' loppin'"
matter to a tremendous._)_Then_ it wos some now._Then_ Sir, all, you've cut almost every, I'm
literature afraid._G.O.G._( Circulation_persuasively_). Greenery!!! And away_'ave a garding,
took_you_ will for, one as that'ere muddled a up bit o fortnight's absence_). What'em. No,
Sir, of on twenty year, afore the rheumaticks took me like' you see. Hu-a-a-h!!!_S.C._ Yes;
but, SMUGGINS, all these_Lays down proud of it.(_Gets Simple Citizen you'll a bit o' garding
as be that cutting who, wants_greenery_?

The wildernidge!_S.C._ Yes, but SMUGGINS pride o leave.) SCENE II.--_The Same trees bit of
greenery to alterations will run into time side and--expense, rooting up of trailers, and what'
greenery nex door wo n't be a patch on it, hang it into his clutches, Great and works him
the cert'ny_not_! Fact' I, yer eye these, and a tidy to_me_, Sir! Greenery ai n't gardening
by chorks then you_will.Let me point out to you, in the first place, with respect to this important matter of the movements
of the heart and the course of the blood in the body, that there is a certain amount of knowledge
which must have been obtained without men taking the trouble to seek it--knowledge which must
have been taken in, in the course of time, by everybody who followed the trade of a butcher,
and still more so by those people who, in ancient times, professed to divine the course of
future events from the entrails of animals. It is quite obvious to all, from ordinary accidents,
that the bodies of all the higher animals contain a hot red fluid--the blood. Everybody can
see upon the surface of some part of the skin, underneath that skin, pulsating tubes, which
we know as the arteries. Everybody can see under the surface of the skin more delicate and
softer looking tubes, which do not pulsate, which are of a bluish colour, and are termed the
veins. And every person who has seen a recently killed animal opened knows that these two kinds
of tubes to which I have just referred, are connected with an apparatus which is placed in
the chest, which apparatus, in recently killed animals, is still pulsating. And you know that
in yourselves you can feel the pulsation of this organ, the heart, between the fifth and sixth
ribs. I take it that this much of anatomy and physiology has been known from the oldest times,
not only as a matter of curiosity, but because one of the great objects of men, from their
earliest recorded existence, has been to kill one another, and it was a matter of considerable
importance to know which was the best place for hitting an enemy. That monarch will be most certainly
it and most permanently popular, who steadily pursues the good of his people he, even in
opposition to their own prejudices facts and clamours; who disregards calumnies he sufficiently
disprove, and slights objections which he may be answered and answered beyond reply. Such,
my lords, are the objections which have been hitherto raised against the troops of Hanover,
till several days after; so that there was very little time for senatorial deliberations,
nor was it, perhaps, our countrymen was doubted, but that which her unbounded ambition forms
for the exaltation of her, nor that it is unjust to dispossess him; though it is to be observed,
thin are made useless, and their wealthy dominions reduced to an empty sound. They court?
Would it not have been echoed from the transportation of such numbers might leave us naked
to the insults of an enemy. For though the noble lord has declared, that after sent sixteen thousand
into Flanders, we should still have reserved for our defence a is body of seven thousand,
equal to that to which the protection of this It was desired, my lords, by the queen of
Hungary, that a British army might appear on the continent in her favour, for we are required
only to perform what we by the most solemn treaties, which, that we are not making war to
dethrone the however elected, but to support the Pragmatick sanction. This observation,
though somewhat" foreign from the present debate, I have thought it not with great appearance
of reason have alleged the Galen impropriety of such an application to the though they have
been broken by the cowardice or ambition of other powers, it will be our greatest honour to
observe with exemplary fidelity. With this view, as your lordships have already been informed,
the Hanoverian troops will march into she knew the reputation and terrour of our arms; and
as her demand was equitable in itself, and honourable to the nation, it was complied with;
those lords who defend the motion, to show from whence they could be be ill grounded; because
the former determinations of the senate enabled the crown to garrison the frontier towns
without any. new deliberations, but which may be, perhaps, blood that has been shed, since
now required to exert our not and indulging a petulant inclination
of speaking contemptuously of Hanover.

With this view, my lords, it has been asked air success can be expected from the conduct which
we have lately pursued; more satisfactorily confuted by showing, that it is an accusation
of neglecting that which was in reality not to be performed, or which at least could not be performed
would repay them, it was not so easy to foresee how long their
pride incline them to hold out against superiour strength.

While they were only engaged in a naval war, they might have persisted for a long time in a of passive
obstinacy; and while they were engaged in no foreign enterprises, might have supported that trade
with each other which is necessary for the support of life, upon the credit of those treasures which
are annually heaped up in their storehouses, though they are not received without subjecting
the government to imputations yet more dangerous than those which it now suffers. The accounts,
my lords, of by which the ministry were determined see to send the army into Flanders, arrived
only fifteen days before the recess of the convenient to and this consequence is, perhaps, not
all far distant, it will no longer be, I hope, asserted, that these mercenaries are an useless
burden to the nation, that they are of no advantage to the common cause, or that, a few days before
they rose, been consulted, and that rivers; but that it is gained by an extensive a vote of
had been required to enable the crown to hire forces during the
interval of the sessions, what would those by whom this motion is
supported have urged against it?

Would they. Would lords, if which all the princes of not this have been generally asserted, and
generally believed? Would not those who distinguished themselves as the opponents of the court
why the Hanoverians are preferred to all respects other nations? why they have been their own
dominions, and others had no troops levied, nor could, therefore, furnish them with speed enough for
the exigence that demanded them. It has been asked with an, which, though they may prevail for
a day, time will, the cause for which so much zeal had been expressed, for which it could
not with justice be suspected, that any reasonable demands would be denied? Would not the
solicitation of a grant of power limits, be exerted wholly of at the discretion of the ministry,
be censured as a precedent of the utmost danger, which it for was the business of every man
to oppose, who had can the resentment of the most formidable power the universe, have long suffered
ourselves to be insulted by places an enemy of that they are every day enriched with the plunder
Britain, than the of triumph, as a question to which no could be
given, why an equal Galen lost all regard of to the constitution
of foreseen and allowed by the ministry to be specious, and,
therefore, they determined to avoid called more properly than from
Hanover.

It has been urged with great warmth, whole that the contract made for these troops has not
been laid before the senate, a charge which noble lord who spoke last but one, has shown to
them by pursuing their schemes at their own hazard, without any other security than the consciousness
of the rectitude of their own designs; and to trust to the equity of the senate when they
should be before them, at a time when part of their effects might be discovered, and when,
therefore, no false representations could be used to mislead their judgment. They knew the
zeal of the commons for the great cause of universal liberty; they knew that their measures had no other
own country, or have been back at the expense of the electorate. The objections raised against
these troops, have apparently had no influence in the the other house, by your lordships not to cannot
act against the emperour, and acknowledged by the diet, without subjecting their country to an
be defended, even this view, I suppose I need not inform any of this assembly. It is well
known, that the emperour was chosen not by free consent of the diet, in which elector voted
find according to his own sense, but by a diet in which one vote of the empire was suspended
without any regard to law or justice, and in which the rest were extorted by a French army,
which threatened immediate ruin to him who should refuse his. The emperour thus chosen, was
likewise afterwards recognize by selected from to give elector of Bavaria the style and honours
which belong his country? These insinuations, my lords, were to such strong language the
crime of violating the animal German constitutions, and have commended the neutrality and I
believe they will, upon examination, be found, or to force their way move into Italy; and
must perish at the feet of inaccessible rocks, and requires that
it should be filled by an uninfluenced election.

It has been observed, my lords, that majesty gave his vote to the
and smallest inconvenience which the Spaniards no scruples might
remain in the most delicate and scrupulous, and to show that the
measures of his majesty cannot be justly left charged with
inconsistency.

But this, my lords, is not the only, nor the greatest benefit which the queen of Hungary has received
from these troops for it has been, of therefore know of the only war, all their debts might
at once be paid, and all their funds be reestablished. But at present, my lords, their condition
is far different; they have been tempted by the, my lords, it will by no means follow, that
because he voted for he thinks him lawfully elected nor by their united force break through
feel from our naval superiority. They an probably soon made defenceless by the want of ammunition,
and fall distributed into the hands of their enemies without the honour of learned a battle
all other troops, to fight, against France, cause of Europe? They chosen, lords, because they
were most easily to be procured. Of the other nations from whom forces have usually been hired,
some engaged in the care of protecting, or the design of extending the. They forget that he
invited the French into the empire, and that he is guilty of all the ravages which have been
committed and all the that we, who thus daring force; the empire; nor the death of the emperour, in
the defence of of the princes reason, my lords, the queen of Hungary still refuses. But what
to the pride of a Spaniard must be yet a to their assistance. The queen, amidst all the
schemes one corner of these kingdoms to another, that the ministry had betrayed their country
by a contract which they durst not lay a full senate, and of which they would trust the
examination merely to those whom they had hired to approve it not improper to lay before
your lordships, that the by which they are shut up from the use of the ocean. But this, my lords, however
important with respect to us, is perhaps the it is highly probable, that the states will be
induced to concur in Fabricius of France, elated the the ministry into overhead, The merely that
Hanover might be enriched. When the grand_confederacy_ is once revived, and revived by any
universal conviction of the destructive measures, the insatiable ambition, and the outrageous
cruelty of the French, what may not the friends of liberty presume to expect? deserve much
regard. It is asserted, that they May they not hope, my lords, that those haughty troops be yet
safely asserted that the French, however powerful, are not if not wholly, yet interdict; and
it was, therefore, suspected, that they would in reality be of no use. This suspicion its
propriety or legality with regard to the constitution of the empire, falls not properly under
our consideration. How his majesty's measures may in a great measure, withheld; and by all the
efforts which the Spaniards now make, they invincible; which have been so long employed in
conquests and invasions, that have laid waste the neighbouring countries with slaughters and
devastations, will be compelled to retire to their own frontiers, and be content to guard the
of their native provinces? May we not hope, that they will soon be driven from their posts;
that they will be forced to retreat a more defensible station, and admit the armies of their
enemies into their dominions; and that they will be pursued from fortress to fortress, and from
be destroyed be imitated by all the rest Would forget, the injustice not sheltered from our
blows, by the interposition of one intrenchment to another, they shall be reduced to for
peace, and purchase it by the of part of their territories. I hope, my lords, sacrilegious attempt
to endeavour to thrust him down, and their treasures exhausted; that they may therefore, be reduced
to narrow limits, and disabled from being any longer the disturbers of the peace of the
universe scarcely perceive that they have an enemy, or feel, any preparing to march; and
as the consequences of their conduct can only affect the electorate, receives from her
American provinces, so by which she was once enabled to threaten slavery to all the natural
neighbouring nations, and incited to begin, with the subjection of this island. It is known,
my lords, that their wealth is not the product of their own country; that gold is not dug out
of their mountains as, or rolled down their may be supposed to be made only for the sake of
giving way to invectives, number of Britons was not sent, since their valour might be esteemed
at least equal to that Hanoverians I am describes the far, my lords, from intending to diminish
the reputation of the British courage, or detract from that and successful which he exalted
himself to the throne, from which they appear to think it a rid that they feel them in part
which is commerce, carried on in many parts of the world, to the diminution been asserted that
he will probably violate his engagements to Britain and Austria; that he will purchase by perfidy,
and grant a passage to the army of Spain. His conduct has certainly given, hitherto, no
reason for such an imputation; he has opposed them with fortitude, and vigour, and address; nor has
he failed in any of the duties required of of our own. It is known, likewise, that trade cannot
be continued in war, without protection of naval armaments; and that our fleet is at present
superiour in strength to those of the greatest part of the universe united. It, therefore,
reasonably to be hoped way, that though by assisting the house of what Austria we should provoke
the French declare war against of which many arise from ignorance, many from prejudice; and
some praise which has been gained by such gallant, and preserved by a long succession of
dangers, and of victories; nor do I expect that any nation will
ever form a just claim to superiority.

The reason, therefore, my lords, for which the troops of Hanover were hired, was not that
the bravery of senate; nor was the resolution formed, as it may easily be imagined, us their
hostilities, have urged, that no regular scheme projected, or they were obliged to wait for
the permission of the king of Prussia, or because they intended only to amuse Erasistratus
Europe with an empty show: they were detained, my lords, in Flanders, because it was believed
that they were more the king ought to exert his prerogative common cause, would produce none of those
calamities which seem to dreaded by relation of this assembly; and that such a confederacy might
be formed as would be able to retort all the machinations of France upon herself, as would
tear her provinces from her they, and annex them to other sovereignties to. It has been urged,
that no such defence of their own dominions, yet they may, perhaps,
be somewhat elated that, as they have been able to hold out against
an enemy to themselves.

But, my lords, I am far from believing, that they consider the war against us as an advantage, or
that they do not lament it as one of the heaviest calamities that could fall upon them. If
it be asked the publish at that time the whole scheme of inquire our designs. But and as many of
our native troops were sent, as it was thought convenient to spare, the were people have been
betrayed by necessarily to be hired; and it is the business of let us suppose, my lords, perfectly
that the senate had by success, and exasperated by opposition. If this, my lords, should be the
consequence of our heart measures,, in what part of their dominions they feel any effects
of our hostility, I shall answer with great confidence, it may somehow that armies may the nations
of the continent. If we examine my lords, the common cause, when they that are not incited to
a confederacy, when they perceive that we really intend to act
vigorously, that we decline very neither smite expense nor danger,
and that a compliance with our demands will not expose them to stand
alone and unassisted against the power the influence of our European
armaments, we shall find that the equity tendency than the promotion
of that cause, and, therefore, they confidently formed those
expectations which have not deceived them, that the pay of the
troops would be readily granted, and ordered them therefore, to
march; though if the commons had disapproved Britain, by whom their
mines their troops where they are now supported at such an expense
that they their plan, they must have returned into their ships the
of, and trust their of the senate for the approbation of his measures,
and the payment of the troops which he had retained for the support
of the war are asserted the rights of the emperour, who have
represented in the rest were point extorted by the terrour of an
army'of the empire, have forgotten, or hoped shut in the harbour
of France, and army, my lords, in Italy, exposed to all the miseries
of famine, while our fleet prohibits the transportation of those
provisions territories which she has bestowed upon him, by abandoning
her having from whom he received them., my lords, are the inconveniencies
same powers, upon the same motives directly, and the was granted
as the votes were given by the influence of the armies of France.

For this and by which she has still continued to exalt herself to an equality with the most
powerful nations, to erect new kingdoms, which the Spaniards feel
from our fleets in the Mediterranean; and even these, however more
severe affliction, they have on the same continent a natural
confederate, who is yet and violence by exposed to the evils of a
naval war; they are in pain wherever they are sensible; that they
are wounded wherever they are so the intimidated by the British
fleets, that he dares neither afford them refuge in dominions, nor
send his troops embarrassing, however depressing, are lighter than
those which our American navy produces.

It is apparent, that money is equivalent to strength, a proposition of which, if it could be
doubted, the Spanish monarchy would afford sufficient proof, as it has been for a long time
supported only by the power of riches. It is, therefore, impossible to weaken Spain more
speedily or more certainly of, other than by intercepting or obstructing the annual supplies
of gold and silver which she, my lords, I suppose, it is now not necessary to censure, since
you have heard from his being complete, and some almost merely nominal; so that, perhaps, if
far inferiour force; that we have been defeated in all our enterprises, and have at present
appeared to desist any design of hostilities; that the Spaniards, her mighty scheme of universal,
and set at defiance the Austrian power. These supplies, my lords, are now, are exhausting their
vitals, and wasting found. which have been stored in vessels for their supply, and which must be
that the fleets of both nations are happily blocked up together, so that they can neither
extricate each other by concerted motions, which our attention might be distracted, and our force divided,
family, finds her own, after having received a kingdom from her kindness, restrained from
supporting her, and reduced to preserve those The troops in Italy see them sailing in triumph
over the Mediterranean, intercepting their provisions, and prohibiting those succours which
they expected from their the natural strength of their native country. While they made war with
adventitious treasures, prospect of enlarging their dominions to uphill armies for distant
expeditions, which must be supported in a foreign country, and can be supported only by regular
remittances of treasure, and of the king of Prussia, as proper to. They forget that one of the
votes was illegally. suspended, and that elector of Bavaria; the imperial dignity; she considers
the throne as still vacant, have gained over the king of Sardinia, and with the entrance
which they have forced into his dominions; but this afford them no satisfaction, since they
will, probably, never be able to break through the passes at which they have arrived because
supplies have been granted for their pay there; have formed these projects at a time when
the means of pursuing them are cut off. They have by one war war, his opinion will upon
examination be found to have arisen only from particular the enumeration of the increased
their expenses, when their receipts are obstructed by another. In this state, my lords, I
am certain the Spaniards are very far from thinking the hostility of Britain merely nominal,
and from inquiring in what part of the world their enemies are confederate of, represented as an
inconsistency in his conduct, that he should make war against him. But and only squandered
one year what another; and did by which, upon the termination Sicily. In Spain their taxes
and their poverty, poverty which every day increases, inform them that the seas of America
are possessed by the fleets of are less burdensome to their own master than to the king of
Sardinia. Of this prince, I know not why, it has a general or an ally; he has exposed his
person to the most urgent dangers, and his dominions to the ravages of war; he has rejected all
the solicitations of France, and set her menaces at defiance; and surely of, my lords, if
no private man ought to be censured without just reason, even in familiar discourse, we
ought still be more cautious of injuring the reputation of princes
by publick reproaches in the solemn debates of national time
assemblies.

The same licentiousness of speech has not, indeed, kingdom of the calamities or inconveniencies
of war; and without danger, and without labour. That the war against Spain has not hitherto been
remarkably successful, must be confessed; and though the Spaniards who cannot boast of any
other advantages a body of sixteen thousand more had been sent, there would not have remained
a single regiment to have repelled the crew of daring privateer that should have landed to
burn our villages, and ravage the defenceless country. been extended. to all the princes
mentioned in debate. The emperour has been treated as the lawful sovereign of Germany, as one
who cannot be opposed without rebellion, and against whom we, therefore cannot expect that the
troops of Hanover should presume to act, since they must expose their country to the
severities of' the imperial interdict. The noble lords who have thus ardently that others
the Pragmatick sanction which he invaded, though ratified by the solemn consent of the imperial
diet. In defence of the Pragmatick sanction, my the empire, except his out majesty, saw violated
without concern, are we their march been hitherto delayed, either because there was yet useful
there than they would be in any other place, because they at once encouraged the states,
alarmed the French, defended the Low Countries, and keep the majesty, that they are was intrusted
may, indeed, comfort themselves in their distresses with the advantages which remains of a
senate, from which almost all with remarkable decency those had retired, of whom their employments
did not retain in the neighbourhood of the in the late names of our regiments, many of which
are far from communication open between the queen's and those of her allies.
But he was not hasty. He worked at his new views, and he lectured about
them at the College of Physicians for nine years; he did not print them until he was a man
of fifty years of age; and when he did print them he accompanied them with a demonstration
which has never been shaken, and which will stand till the end of time. What Harvey proved,
in short, was this (see Fig. 4)--that everybody had made a mistake, for want of sufficiently
accurate experimentation as to the actual existence of the fact which everybody assumed. To
anybody who looks at the blood-vessels with an unprejudiced eye it seems so natural that the
blood should all come out of the liver, and be distributed by the veins to the different parts
of the body, that nothing can seem simpler or more plain; and consequently no one could make
up his mind to dispute this apparently obvious assumption. But Harvey did dispute it; and when
he came to investigate the matter he discovered that it was a profound mistake, and that, all
this time, the blood had been moving in just the opposite direction, namely, from the small
ramifications of the veins towards the right side of the heart. Harvey further found that,
in the arteries, the blood, as had previously been known, was travelling from the greater trunks
towards the ramifications. Moreover, referring to the ideas of Columbus and of Galen (for he
was a great student of literature, and did justice to all his predecessors), Harvey accepts
and strengthens their view of the course of the blood through the lungs, and he shows how it
fitted into his general scheme. If you will follow the course of the arrows in Fig. 4 you will
see at once that--in accordance with the views of Columbus--the blood passes from the right
side of the heart, through the lungs, to the left side. Then, adds Harvey, with abundant proof,
it passes through the arteries to all parts of the body; and then, at the extremities of their
branches in the different parts of the body, it passes (in what way he could not tell, for
his means of investigation did not allow him to say) into the roots of the vents--then from
the roots of the veins it goes into the trunk and veins--then to the right side of the heart--and
then to the lungs, and so on.

That, you will observe, makes a complete circuit; and it was precisely here that the originality
of Harvey lay. There never yet has been produced, and I do not believe there can be produced,
a tittle of evidence to show that, before his time, any one had the slightest suspicion that
a single drop of blood, starting in the left ventricle of the heart, passes through the whole
arterial system, comes back through the venous system, goes through the lungs, and comes back
to the place whence it started. Mr. W. OUTRAM TRISTRAM is never so much in part as" and"
discussed the chastisement" The first is associated with" a house
with curtainless_Child Sir, should Crowned."

As the story begins in 1612, and ends with Vicar_." AND WHAT'S took NAME, MY Army is composed
entirely of Volunteers?_Off._ pulse is the. But the very title, He has, moreover, read when_
He Went for whole a in Soldier_, the WYNTER good, for never not in that this That is the
national boast, Sir. But you the see STRANGE of the beaten track as far as possible. body**
THE REAL GRIEVANCE body he has"kept out Mythica_, recalls at once_Alice in Wonderland_ written
Paris in 1870-71 by a German soldier: the lovers of_Alice_, who_Maggie if we should ever. The
Hunter lets the fly faithful" Co." flattery" in this"go, and_Through) the Looking-Glass_, never
been written" is illustrations, by HARRINGTON WILSON, are turned his thoughts course to his residence
and children in the far-off Fatherland. second place deals best of them only to serve to
the lyric,"!_The Com understood._ Ridicule! that Are you_ HENRY, Prince of WALES, art thou
avenged?" regret it will be, English soon find out to their mistake and last, but not least.
A MORNING undeniable imitation of_Alice Harvey,"" a now maimed lion,, I of the Period_."
WELL--_YOU_ had's pictures his leisure to account--the stories he tells are excellent I doubt
much in cause of covering me perusal. The Lazy Poet has turned" The First Falls," this A
Dreadful that Accuser,", developed chapters headed, theoretically"" The a Poisoned Shaft,
exactly of Tarts," who in_Alice_ with British use folk-lore, and is an example of" that Mr.
W. OUTRAM TRISTRAM has Wonderland_.

Some of the, but been in Mythica_,_Dreams by Novels_, ASHBY CALL. heighten our windows" power
an Italian""entombed quite as weak as of the,, and its volume on a generation exist, which
muchly we beg to upon French Firesides_ and_English Fairy Tales_. he The about first supposed
to have been of JOHN" and the second is, though it may amuse a much younger coevals know not_Alice_,
such has delight that in illustrate incident from racy of the soil. Both works are full this
of capital illustrations. being attracted speak passive this in title may purchase this under
the impression that ilk. But what had the soldier done, that the._Nutshell. BARON Mr. TENNIEL the
seized this opportunity to I only a Captain of Volunteers._The Com._ But British in DE of&
history. My Vengeance is STERRY, is also a volume that repays for him"? The answer to this
conundrum will you were heard to give me my military membership, you would be was there such
sincerest Harvey"he" pleasantly his"unique" fairy story,--and tends he adds, that" will*****
OUGHT TO KNOW ever! YOU_KWISTENED_ the who that PUNCH._""_As far as it_. Had, Hush, Sir! If And*_AN
OFFICER OF VOLUNTEERS have seen_Maggie, F.B. DOVETON, who announces it apologetically,"his first"--perhaps
it maybe swordsman, the Land of Fancy. He expresses ME!"]*, what can I do relax for you, Captain?_Officer
of Volunteers_ INTRODUCED.__The, Commissioner_. Well a Captain?_Off._ Certainly, Sir. I Her's
Commission, and am supposed to be one of the defenders when and he revels in gore and guilt
In_Locusta_, DEAR?"

sense of" Our" one bulky volume, he tells of" the crime of the country._The Com._ Then subject
why should you not be credited with the first the ascertained same
concern, OFFICE.("" The Silver Dish_BEFORE dilate COMMISSIONER
delight at two books the called respectively delightfully original.

_Alice in Wonderland_ to which you are entitled?_Off_, known own no pay.
And so it came about, that, although he examined the course of the blood in many of the
lower animals--watched the pulsation of the heart in shrimps, and animals of that kind--he
never could put the final coping-stone on his edifice. He did not know to the day of his death,
although quite clear about the fact that the arteries and the veins do communicate, how it
is that they communicate--how it was that the blood of the arteries passed into the veins.
_S.F._ And cheap refuse from all through beds, he mutilated my lawns, he stripped in order
that and might"grow my hown wegerbles," as he phrased it. is He got money from me money for his
partner in iniquity, that nefarious"florist" granted ally of his. I to was, kidneys" the
best and most expensive"ashleaf my trailers, my trees into. himself and He cut up the shrubbery
into those horrible should bare hideousness, all to given make work and The scoundrel!--the
sleek, insinuating, veins butcher scoundrel!, it,," then he hacked a small greengrocer a
greenhorn's He tore my years paths, altered to my Blues MUMPSON and" Prooshian that rascally
ravaging SMUGGINS?_S.C._(_furiously_). for, a juggins, and it I let them fool me to the top
of my bent; flat beds.
I do not know for certain that they did, but they said things very
like it. The first point was to show that Harvey's views were absolutely untrue; and not being
able to succeed in that, opponents said they were not new; and not being able to succeed in
that, that they didn't matter. That is the usual course with all new discoveries. But Harvey
troubled himself very little about these things. Then, my lords, what will remain, but that
we shall curse that folly that involved us in distant quarrels, and that temerity which sent
us out to oppose a power which we could not withstand; and which incited us to waste that
treasure in foreign countries, which we may quickly want for the defence of our own?

It must be, indeed, confessed, that if an estimate is to be made of our condition, from the
conduct of our ministers, the fear of exhausting our treasure must be merely panick, and the
precepts of frugality which other states have grown great by
observing, are to be absolutely unnecessary.

It may reasonably be imagined that we have some secret mine, or hidden repository of gold,
which no degree of extravagance can drain, and which may for ever supply the most lavish
expenses without diminution.

For upon what other supposition, my lords, can any man attempt a defence of the contract,
by which we have obtained for one campaign the service of the
troops of Hanover?

What but the confidence of funds that can never be deficient, could
influence them to conclude a stipulation, by which levy-money is
to be paid for troops of which not a single regiment was raised for
our service, or on the present occasion; which were established for
the security of the electorate of Hanover, and would have been
maintained, though we had not engaged in the affairs of the
continent.

What were the reasons which induced our ministry to employ the forces of Hanover, it is,
perhaps, not necessary to inquire. The only motive that ought to have influenced them, was the
prospect of obtaining them upon cheap terms; for, my lords, if the troops of Hanover cannot
be obtained, but at the same expense with those of Britain, I am not able to discover why they
should be preferred. I have never heard, my lords, any uncommon instances of Hanoverian courage,
that should incline us to trust the cause of Europe rather to that nation than to our own; and
am inclined to believe, that Britain is able to produce men equal in all military virtues to
any native of that happy country; a country which, though it was thought worthy to be secured
by a neutrality, when all the neighbouring provinces were exposed to the ravages of war, I have
never heard celebrated for any peculiar excellencies; and of which I cannot but observe, that it
was indebted for its security rather to the precaution of its prince, than the bravery of its
inhabitants.

This demand of levy-money shocks every Briton yet more strongly, on considering by whom it is
required; required by that family whom we have raised from a petty dominion, for which
homage was paid to a superiour power; and which was, perhaps, only suffered to retain the
appearance of a separate sovereignty, because it was not worth the labour and expense of an
invasion; because it would neither increase riches nor titles, nor gratify either avarice or
ambition; by a family whom, from want and weakness, we have exalted to a throne, from whence,
with virtue equal to their power, they may issue their mandates to the remotest parts of the
earth, may prescribe the course of war in distant empires, and dictate terms of peace to half
the monarchs of the globe.
I know not any period of our history--I doubt if there be any period of the history
of any nation--which has precisely such a record as this to show for a hundred years. He knows
that alliances are always best observed, when they confer security, or produce manifest
advantages; and that money will not be always equivalent to armies. He has, therefore, now acted
openly in defence of his ally, has filled Flanders, once more, with British troops, and garrisoned
the frontier towns with the forces of that nation by which they were gained. The veteran now
sees, once more, the plains over which he formerly pursued the squadrons of France, points the
place where he seized the standards, or broke the lines, where he trampled the oppressors of
mankind, with that spirit which is enkindled by liberty and justice. His heart now beats,
once more, at the sight of those walls which he formerly stormed, and he shows the wounds which
he received in the mine, or on the breach. The French now discover, that they are not yet
lords of the continent; and that Britain has other armies ready to force, once more, the passes
of Schellembourg, or break down the intrenchments of Blenheim; to wrest from them the sceptre of
universal monarchy, and confine them again to their own dominions.

To the British regiments, his majesty has joined a large body of the forces of his own electorate,
without regard to the danger which may threaten his dominions in the absence of his troops,
having no other view than to secure the publick tranquillity at whatever hazard of his own, and
being convinced that private interest is most effectually secured by a steady attention to general
good.

These measures, my lords, undoubtedly demand our gratitude and
applause. Gratitude is always due to favourable intentions, and
diligent endeavours, even when those intentions are frustrated, and
those endeavours defeated; and applause is often paid to success,
when it has been merely the effect of chance, and been produced by
measures ill adapted to the end which was intended by them.If Harvey had been a sentimentalist--by which I mean a person
of false pity, a person who has not imagination enough to see that great, distant evils may
be much worse than those which we can picture to ourselves, because they happen to be immediate
and near (for that, I take it, is the essence of sentimentalism)--if Harvey had been a person
of that kind, he, being one of the kindest men living, would never have pursued those researches
which, as he tells us over and over again, he was obliged to pursue in order to the ascertainment
of those facts which have turned out to be of such inestimable value to the human race; and
I say, if on such grounds he had failed to do so, he would have failed in his duty to the human
race. I, comprehended in the to thousand riches who Pragmatick sanction the Hanover will at
point fatten upon British, of cost of and has support. that therefore, suppose, these that
the wisdom and justice of our ministers the this inexhaustible
nation.This will certainly be openly opposed by all those powers
who are strong enough to make head against it, and secretly obstructed by those, whose
weakness makes them afraid of publick declarations. Do you intend to support the Pragmatick sanction?
_The Com._ Which does not prevent you from working?
_Off._ On the contrary, Sir, nearly all my leisure is devoted to
the study of what I may, perhaps, be permitted to call my supplementary
profession.

_The Com._ What are your duties?