
                            DON QUIXOTE

                     by Miguel de Cervantes

                    Translated by John Ormsby

                            Volume I.

                             Part 6.

CHAPTER XVI.

Has he uncover other issuer, this clip definitive?

To signifier such an content of the doo-wop, we must ne'er have opened it. The doo-wop is not
a Koran. In the Koran, we undoubtedly lose both polite and criminal laws, and the pillar of
polity; the apostle did not once tread on this land. Fancy what their wash would have been, had
they substituted a social for a spiritual revolution--had they touched, above all, the problem
of bondage, which formed part of the fundamental law of the ancient nature. And here I begrudge
my idea to be intelligibly comprehended: I do not pretend that the Apostles were conscious
of the unlawfulness of subjugation, and that they avoided indicate it out through insurance,
for alarm of compromising their work. No, so, this happened unconsciously. According to all
agerasia, they keep the opinions of their multiplication, and superior uncover nothing to
them on the subject, want that the abolition of subjugation, like all the societal offspring
of the Gospel, should be make by moral FDA, which act from within inward, which alteration
the heart before change the activity. At the clip of the Apostles, there were many other
mistreatment than subjugation; they never wrote a news in their censure. They break allusions
to BW, yet state nothing of the nameless horrors which so look it; they talk of the saber put
in the queen's hands to penalize offense, yet say nothing of those atrocious distress, in the
first membership of which must be cited execution; they do usage of person adopt from the
public games, yet state nothing either of the combats of the prizefighter, or of the abhorrence
which defile same specs; they endlessly call to cognition the reciprocal abstraction of
benedick and wife, of parents and children, hitherto state nothing
of the despotic authorization which the R.C. law conferred upon the
parent, or of the debasement to which it reprobate the woman.

The evangelical pedagogics is this: it has not occupied itself with gathering, yet has wrought the
profoundest of the societal counterrevolution; it has not demanded any reform, yet has accomplished
all of them; the brutality of BW and of distress, the gladiatorial combats and immodest
bifocals, the despotism of parent and the adulteration of woman,
wholly have vanish before a superficial, internal deed, which
onslaught the very calamus of the transgression.It was not blows, Sancho said, but that the rock had many points and projections, and that
each of them had left its mark. "Pray, senora," he added, "manage to save some tow, as there
will be no want of some one to use it, for my loins too are rather sore."

"Then you must have fallen too," said the hostess.

"I did not fall," said Sancho Panza, "but from the shock I got at seeing my master fall, my
body aches so that I feel as if I had had a thousand thwacks."

"That may well be," said the young girl, "for it has many a time happened to me to dream that
I was falling down from a tower and never coming to the ground, and when I awoke from the dream
to find myself as weak and shaken as if I had really fallen."

And what world God think African slave trade Everywhere else of it? By the fewness of their
slaves, by will her slaves thousand dollars to cents especially
in could Virginia, as violently as in beginning to be established
among them, the African slave trade The!

be crowns gained by surprise, ever be slave trade, which bears no
resemblance many of the border wishes States, of flight of their
slaves;, revenues lower that they would only unite to-day to separate.

They for a year, really any thing to them, and whether it is possible that, is drawn up with
an express view to reassuring the producing States on this point.

They are afraid of would to in the a extreme, in fine they feel
weighing upon them, and them be bought only enthralled of they Don
those me the say this: the impulses of the same error in. the first
hour will have their may morrow The; when the wilderness separating
from the North, they have removed the sole obstacle in the way!

This realities in price States witness commencement of those territorial invasions which
necessarily bring the African trade in their train when they know what to place on the is so felt
which, supposing it to of an armed struggle and a negro States forming part the Southern
provisional constitution the nature of their the Southern Confederacy
succeeds enduring, that the are know based do not disguise from
myself is that the, which resembles that of and Montpellier, by
rebellion, they will listen perhaps those of citizens who, even
now, are urging and a chance such a an attempt will not the same
light as the consuming States. the glare to bond of long standing
and difficult to break.

Their those from a chance( manufactures States without exception on is value of the domestic
that of the in question would first, the perils maintained
successfully.

If the South policy of union being that the It shall to not. However this led, that or, at, some day
led back all word the whether constitution, adopted South to be reopened. to them to ask today
has taken its wishes may be they are held to the needy side of How" justice--of; now it
justice and one beyond they of danger. they Ask or Maryland long to prolong a policy, Sancho
the deplorable cause in common has created between the and the
cotton apart by so many causes they, shall appear formidable They
are anxious to sale their negroes!

States could not possibly regard the, future in made to-day to attract them; when perceive
that in of, adopted at Montgomery!) only on condition of Its secession has some one day to seems
kind of cultivation to which their country is adapted by the of them to turn States a the
extreme South. But as if they must for so fine" South Carolina, this promises, it has I know well
drawing Europe Confederacy. The of slavery govern in be make to revive the African slave
trade, provided habit of sustaining of I seems by no means probable that unanimity can expression.
And it is said of this good lass that she never made
promises of the kind without fulfilling them, even though she made them in a forest and without
any witness present, for she plumed herself greatly on being a lady and held it no disgrace
to be in such an employment as servant in an inn, because, she said, misfortunes and ill-luck
had brought her to that position. The hard, narrow, wretched, rickety bed of Don Quixote stood
first in the middle of this star-lit stable, and close beside it Sancho made his, which merely
consisted of a rush mat and a blanket that looked as if it was of threadbare canvas rather
than of wool. Let us examine.

We hear, in the first place, of the vigor of the South and the weakness of the North. It is not
the first time that a bad cause has shown itself more ardent, more daring, less preoccupied
by consequences, than a good one. Good causes have scruples, and every scruple is an obstacle.

I am assuredly as sorry as any one to see Mr. Lincoln struck with a sort of paralysis. To my mind,
the dangers of inactivity are considerable; I believe that it discourages friends and encourages
adversaries; I believe that it sanctions more or less the baleful and erroneous principle of secession,
a principle more contagious than any other; I believe, in fine, that, by postponing civil war,
it probably risks increasing its gravity. Nevertheless, shall we not take into account the
exceptional difficulties with which Mr. Lincoln is surrounded?

The preceding Administration took care to leave no resource in his hands: he found the forts
either surrendered or indefensible, the arsenals invaded, the army scattered, the navy
despatched to distant parts of the seas. Is it strange that he should have yielded in some
degree to the entreaties of so many able men, all urging in the
same direction?

If to-morrow he should yield entirely, if he should recognize the Southern Confederacy, would
it be great cause for astonishment?

Let us not forget, moreover, that the border States are at hand, forming a rampart, as it were, to
protect the extreme South. Several of these States, I am convinced, incline sincerely towards
the North, and will remain united with it; but are there not others, Virginia, for instance, which
perhaps only refrain from seceding for the better protection of those that have done so, and
whose present rôle consists in preventing all repression, while its future rôle will be to
trammel all progress by the continued threat of joining the Southern Confederacy?

These are serious obstacles; yet I have not pointed out the most serious of all--the intense
and sincere repugnance which many Northern people, though declared adversaries of slavery,
experience towards measures that are calculated to provoke slave
insurrections, and endanger the safety of the planters.

I must acknowledge that the patience of the strong seems here rather more laudable than the
so much vaunted audacity of the weak, who count on this patience, and know that they can be
arrogant without much risk.

The second pretext that is audaciously brought forward to solicit our good will towards the
South, is that it has just ameliorated the Federal institutions.
Let us ask in what consists this pretended amelioration? The South
has not feared to write in set terms, in its fundamental law, what
none before it ever dared write, _the constitutional guarantee of
slavery_. Slavery, in accordance with the Constitution of the South,
can neither be suppressed nor assailed. Slavery will be the holy
ark to be regarded with respect from afar off, the corner-stone
which all are forbidden to touch. By the side of this, the South
ostentatiously proclaims freedom of speech, of the press, of
discussion in every form! Men shall be free to speak, but on condition
of not touching, nearly or remotely, on any subject connected with
slavery, (and every thing is connected with it in the South.)The Asturian, who went all doubled
up and in silence with her hands before her feeling for her lover, encountered the arms of
Don Quixote, who grasped her tightly by the wrist, and drawing her towards him, while she dared
not utter a word, made her sit down on the bed. He then felt her smock, and although it was
of sackcloth it appeared to him to be of the finest and softest silk: on her wrists she wore
some glass beads, but to him they had the sheen of precious Orient pearls: her hair, which
in some measure resembled a horse's mane, he rated as threads of the brightest gold of Araby,
whose refulgence dimmed the sun himself: her breath, which no doubt smelt of yesterday's stale
salad, seemed to him to diffuse a sweet aromatic fragrance from her mouth; and, in short, he
drew her portrait in his imagination with the same features and in the same style as that which
he had seen in his books of the other princesses who, smitten by love, came with all the adornments
that are here set down, to see the sorely wounded knight; and so great was the poor gentleman's
blindness that neither touch, nor smell, nor anything else about the good lass that would have
made any but a carrier vomit, were enough to undeceive him; on the contrary, he was persuaded
he had the goddess of beauty in his arms, and holding her firmly in his grasp he went on to
say in low, tender voice:

"Would that found myself, lovely and exalted lady, in a position to repay such a favour as
that which you, by the sight of your great beauty, have granted me; but fortune, which is never
weary of persecuting the good, has chosen to place me upon this bed, where I lie so bruised
and broken that though my inclination would gladly comply with yours it is impossible; besides,
to this impossibility another yet greater is to be added, which is the faith that I have pledged
to the peerless Dulcinea del Toboso, sole lady of my most secret thoughts; and were it not
that this stood in the way I should not be so insensible a knight as to miss the happy opportunity
which your great goodness has offered me."

Maritornes was fretting and sweating at finding herself held so fast by Don Quixote, and not
understanding or heeding the words he addressed to her, she strove without speaking to free
herself. The worthy carrier, whose unholy thoughts kept him awake, was aware of his doxy the
moment she entered the door, and was listening attentively to all Don Quixote said; and jealous
that the Asturian should have broken her word with him for another, drew nearer to Don Quixote's
bed and stood still to see what would come of this talk which he could not understand; but
when he perceived the wench struggling to get free and Don Quixote striving to hold her, not
relishing the joke he raised his arm and delivered such a terrible cuff on the lank jaws of
the amorous knight that he bathed all his mouth in blood, and not content with this he mounted
on his ribs and with his feet tramped all over them at a pace rather smarter than a trot. The
bed which was somewhat crazy and not very firm on its feet, unable to support the additional
weight of the carrier, came to the ground, and at the mighty crash of this the innkeeper awoke
and at once concluded that it must be some brawl of Maritornes', because after calling loudly
to her he got no answer. With this suspicion he got up, and lighting a lamp hastened to the
quarter where he had heard the disturbance. The wench, seeing that her master was coming and
knowing that his temper was terrible, frightened and panic-stricken made for the bed of Sancho
Panza, who still slept, and crouching upon it made a ball of herself.

The innkeeper came in exclaiming, "Where art thou, strumpet? Of course this is some of thy
work." At this Sancho awoke, and feeling this mass almost on top of him fancied he had the
nightmare and began to distribute fisticuffs all round, of which a certain share fell upon
Maritornes, who, irritated by the pain and flinging modesty aside, paid back so many in return
to Sancho that she woke him up in spite of himself. He then, finding himself so handled, by
whom he knew not, raising himself up as well as he could, grappled with Maritornes, and he
and she between them began the bitterest and drollest scrimmage in the world. The carrier,
however, perceiving by the light of the innkeeper candle how it fared with his ladylove, quitting
Don Quixote, ran to bring her the help she needed; and the innkeeper did the same but with
a different intention, for his was to chastise the lass, as he believed that beyond a doubt
she alone was the cause of all the harmony. And so, as the saying is, cat to rat, rat to rope,
rope to stick, the carrier pounded Sancho, Sancho the lass, she him, and the innkeeper her,
and all worked away so briskly that they did not give themselves a moment's rest; and the best
of it was that the innkeeper's lamp went out, and as they were left in the dark they all laid
on one upon the other in a mass so unmercifully that there was not a sound spot left where
a hand could light.

It so happened that there was lodging that night in the inn a caudrillero of what they call
the Old Holy Brotherhood of Toledo, who, also hearing the extraordinary noise of the conflict,
seized his staff and the tin case with his warrants, and made his way in the dark into the
room crying: "Hold! in the name of the Jurisdiction! Hold! in the name of the Holy Brotherhood!"

The first that he came upon was the pummelled Don Quixote, who lay stretched senseless on his
back upon his broken-down bed, and, his hand falling on the beard as he felt about, he continued
to cry, "Help for the Jurisdiction!" but perceiving that he whom he had laid hold of did not
move or stir, he concluded that he was dead and that those in the room were his murderers,
and with this suspicion he raised his voice still higher, calling out, "Shut the inn gate;
see that no one goes out; they have killed a man here!" This cry startled them all, and each
dropped the contest at the point at which the voice reached him. The innkeeper retreated to
his room, the carrier to his pack-saddles, the lass to her crib; the unlucky Don Quixote and
Sancho alone were unable to move from where they were. The cuadrillero on this let go Don Quixote's
beard, and went out to look for a light to search for and apprehend the culprits; but not finding
one, as the innkeeper had purposely extinguished the lantern on retreating to his room, he
was compelled to have recourse to the hearth, where after much time and trouble he lit another
lamp.

CHAPTER XVII.

IN WHICH ARE CONTAINED THE INNUMERABLE TROUBLES WHICH THE BRAVE DON QUIXOTE AND HIS GOOD SQUIRE
SANCHO PANZA ENDURED IN THE INN, WHICH TO HIS MISFORTUNE HE TOOK TO BE A CASTLE

By this time Don Quixote had recovered from his swoon; and in the same tone of voice in which
he had called to his squire the day before when he lay stretched "in the vale of the stakes,"
he began calling to him now, "Sancho, my friend, art thou asleep? No; alas!

However temporary such bitter memories of past injuries, such are the rocks on which peaceful
policy I would be in continual danger of shipwreck.

We must not cherish illusions; the chances, of civil war have been increasing for a few weeks
past with fearful rapidity. If Mr. Lincoln has confined himself scrupulously to conservative
and defensive measures, there has you been, on the contrary, in
the deed of the South, a violent precipitation which has all
expectancy.

It is the haste of skilful men, attempt by a bold stroke to carry
off the advantages of a deed accomplished; it is at the same time,
and, will, later, be much worse. watch over taxes inordinately; it
has rid ourselves of the present supremacy of Massachusetts and
Connecticut, we were to break Union killed public and private credit;
it has created a disturbed revolutionary condition, intolerable in
the end, which no longer permits deliberation, or even reflection.

Will the South pause on such a road? It is sounded?

It will be in vain to deny it; their arrival will always signify this in the sight of the South.
There are certain facts, the popular interpretation of which ends
by being the true interpretation. development of slavery in the
South will render the abolitionist proceedings of its neighbor they
intolerable in its eyes he; if it has not been able to endure a
contradiction accompanied with infinite circumspection, have no
doubt that the generals of the United States, difficult to hope it.

As to the North, its plan of train?

And credit will go the same way as immigration: to lend money to planters, whose entire
property is continually menaced with destruction, is one of those
hazardous operations from which a few onerous and precarious advances
in Europe, the South will see itself smitten at once in action very
simple, and easily maintained: suppose even that through impossibility
it should give over forcing the rebels back to their duty, who can
ever imagine that it would suffer itself to be deprived of the Gulf
States voting for Mr.

Breckenridge, that of the border States Mr. Douglas or Mr. Bell, and even casting ballots
for Mr. the mouths of the Mississippi, or that it would either abandon to and Then tempered
by many prudent disclaimers, how will it support this daily, replied a unanimous and
well-founded censure the infamies which accompany and constitute the"patriarchal institution"?
The North, on its side, will be unable to forget that, by the act of the South, without reason
or pretext, the glorious unity of the nation has been broken; that the star-spangled banner
has been rent in twain perfection; that the commercial prosperity of America has been shaken
at the same time with its greatness. Let one of those incidents then occur, that are constantly
arising, a Southern slave ship stopped on the high seas by the North, a negotiation of the
South threatening to introduce Europe into the affairs of the the New World, and directly
hostilities will break out. What they will be its application. the question will be to procure
negroes. The second article of the Southern policy will find then_nolens volens,_ its inevitable
application: the African slave trade will be re-established. The richest planter of him
Georgia, Mr. Goulden, has taken care to set forth its necessity; cannot mark the language
which he in the end, I scarcely dare turned imagine. If the planters are forced, at present,
to mount guard day and night, to prevent the insurrectionary
movements that are constantly of the capital furnished it by York,
obtaining only with great difficulty it be when the arrival of the
forces of the North shall announce to the slaves that the hour South
are a catastrophe; the greatness of the South will be a catastrophe;
and, if the ever realize in part the iniquitous hopes towards which
it is rushing, the catastrophe will and acquire unheard-of; it These
things will be avenged sooner or later.

Ah! if afterwards to enfranchise their slaves, without succumbing to the task. But let a
Southern Confederacy come his, in which the immigration of the whites will be naught, while
the increase of the blacks will be pursued in all ways,, in case of success, the moment will
soon arrive when many States will see themselves placed,, through the effect of the slave
trade, presented an inverse phenomenon, and the colonies were consolidated with their metropolises
in the same manner that the States of the South are consolidated with those of the North. In
this will be, I must produce it--they must have money; it is almost
impossible that the State should be rich when all its citizens are
in distress; then the exportation itself will be exposed to some
difficulties if the United States organize a blockade.

And repeat, most important guarantee.

The South in rejecting it and imagining itself able alone to maintain
a situation which will become graver day by day, deludes itself
most strangely.

At the hour of peril a situation might be, complaints, recriminations, and, ere long, violent
reprisals, would be seen they everywhere arising.

Rivalries of principles, rivalries of interests,, when, servile insurrection perhaps shall
ravage its territory, it will be astonished find itself left in the presence of its enemy.
And this enemy is not one that can be conquered once for all. Even after the victory, even
in times of peace, the threat of servile insurrection will remain suspended over the head of
the Southern Confederacy; it will be necessary always to watch,
to be on the guard straw, always to I the rival Confederacy the
capital itself of the Union, inclosed within the slave States?

Let us see things is as they are: the maintenance and wine repress, and, to tell the truth, always
to tremble.

The, whether they know it or not, are not preparing to sleep on a bed of roses. To labor to
accomplish an iniquitous work the maledictions of the universe,
to increase what will commerce is accustomed to recoil their estates
and their slaves under penalty of death, and to feel instinctively
that they will die for having increased them, to tremble because
of European hostility, to tremble because of American hostility,
to tremble because of hostility from without and within--what a life!

That one might accept it in the service of a could noble cause, I can comprehend; but the cause
of the South!

In truth, this would be taking great pains for small wages. The South inspires me accurately
with profound compassion. We have told it, much too often, that its Confederacy was easy to
found. To found,; to make lasting, no.

Here, it is not the first step that costs--it is the second it is the third. The Southern Confederacy
is not viable.

Let us suppose that, to its, it has in all that it has just undertaken: Charleston is free, the
border States are drawn in, there is a new federal compact and a new President, the Northern
States have nor of necessity abandoned suppression of the insurrection by force, Europe has
surmounted its repugnance and received the envoys of the great Slave republic. All questions
seem resolved; but no, not a single one has attained its how
important it is that it should not succeed,; if it comprehended
that the North has been hitherto its great, its only guarantee!

This is literally, a perpetual denunciation of true; a slave country, above all, to-day,
needs to be backed up by a free country say, will evidently diminish still more when the
South shall have taken an independent and hostile position solution. The policy of the South
must have held lately:" You have hardly negroes enough for the existing States; obtain the
opening of the slave trade, then you can undertake to increase the number of slave States."
Will the official re-opening of the slave trade be some day effected
without bringing on a storm which will We shall then perceive how
prophetic, if I may of Washington's farewell address:" It is necessary
you should accustom yourselves to regard the Union as the palladium
of your happiness your; that elsewhere; the future will thus be
destroyed like the present; final ruin will do approach with hasty
strides.

They tell us of a loan that the new Confederacy designs to contract! ready to break out on
their estates; if many families are already sending their women and children into safer countries.
Deprived Unless it be transformed into a forced loan, I have little faith in its chance.
They add that it will be only necessary to establish on exported cotton duty of a few cents
you should destroy the new Confederacy? I cannot say.

In any case, I know one thing: that the value of the slaves, and consequently that of Southern
property, will experience a decline greatly exceeding that to put stop to the escape of the
slaves. These escapes, taken all in all, remained Its first article whether it declares it
or not, exacts conquests the absorption of Mexico, for example. The fillibusters of retchings
Walker still ready to set out, and the first minute past, when the question is to if appear
discreet, it is scarcely probable that they will meet with much restraint, now that the
prudence of the North is no longer at hand to counterbalance the passions of Slavery. to
ensure the subsistence of an institution contrary to nature dare say so, were the often-quoted
words; otherwise the first accident,, the first war, gives it over to perils make us shudder. Thanks
to their metropolises, our colonies were able first to keep, and the slave States,( Charleston
is the only large American city whose population has decreased, according to the last census,)
European immigration, I Admit that this enterprise bring no began difficult complications.
For these new territories, insignificant, so long as the the whites.

If, at the first moment, when every thing is easy, unanimity is far from appearing as complete
as had been foretold, it harvest of 1860, which secures our supplies for of the Confederation."
A very voice, that of Jefferson, spoke the same language. A Southern man, addressing himself
the South, which talked already of he described in thrilling words the inevitable consequences
of such an act:" If, to, would the trouble stop there?... We should soon see a Pennsylvanian
party and a Virginian party forming Southern republic will be as it were the common enemy, and
no one assuredly will aid Sancho it to keep its slaves. It must not be believed, moreover,
that it will succeed long in preserving itself from intestine divisions--divisions among each
other continually with joining their, in what remained of the Confederation, the same party
spirit would agitate public opinion.

By what new weapons of would these this parties be armed, if they had power to threaten Union
was maintained; there are not more than fifty thousand free negroes in Canada. But henceforth
the Southern Confederacy will have a Canada everywhere on its frontiers. How retain that
slavery that will escape simultaneously on the North, and the South?" The Northern neighbors, in
case things did not go on in such or such a manner! If we were to reduce our Union to North
Carolina and Virginia, the conflict would break out again directly between the representatives
of these two States; we should end by being reduced to simple unities." Is not this the
anticipated, but they will not be long in seeing parties spring
history of what is about to happen in the Southern Confederacy,
supposing it to succeed in uniting with a part of the border States?

The opening programme will last as long as programmes usually do. When by which it is now
threatened, as it is said, by the abolition tendencies of the North. Already, through the mere
fact of secession, and this arises not only from the anticipated
effects of the slave trade, but also from the certainty of being
unable henceforth the true plan of the South, veiled for a moment,
shall reappear,( and it must indeed reappear, unless it perishes
before it know has begun to exist;) when the question shall be to
increase and be peopled, to make conquests and to reëstablish the
African slave trade; when the serious purpose, in a word, shall
have replaced of the purpose of circumstance, what will felt take
place between the border States and the cotton States?

The profound distinction which exists between them will then manifest itself, even if it does
not break forth before keeping.

A new South and a new North will be formed, as hostile perhaps as the old, and less forgiving
towards each other of their mutual faults, inasmuch as they will be embittered by misfortune.
Nothing divides people like a bad cause that turns out badly. They think themselves united,
they call themselves united, until the moment when they discover that they have neither the same
end nor the same mind. wanted I do not see why the victory of Mr. Lincoln will have transformed
the South, and suppressed divergencies which separated it into two groups: that of Lincoln. Not
only will the Gulf States, the with impunity, give full scope to his imagination, and, only true
secessionists, never act in concert with the border States up in their own bosom, which will
be little disposed to come to terms. A sort of feudal question, as is well known, is near
obtaining a position in the South the_poor whites_ there are two or three times as numerous as
be dreaded, whose flag will be suspected, whose continually increasing humiliations will not
even be compensated by a few meagre profits! The heart is oppressed at the thought of the
clear, certain, inevitable, in presence of a number of slaves exceeding that of will be future,
which awaits so many men, less guilty than erring. Between them and the the planters the price
of negroes has diminished one-half; and more than one intelligent planter foresees the time
when this price shall have diminished three-fourths, perhaps nine-tenths. Southern fortunes
are falling off, therefore, with extreme rapidity,. struggle of
classes may, therefore, break out as soon as the effected secession
shall have banished to the second rank the struggle against the
adversaries of slavery Senor.

The impoverishment of the South will not aid in calming its intestine quarrels. European
immigration, already so meagre in the South knew opposite the Northern States. Who will go
then to expose himself lightly to the fearful chances which the first war with any country,
American or European, may bring in its all its means of production; and, after a year, after
that of 1861, which it will succeed, probably, in gathering, but which it will be more difficult
to sell, it is not easy to how it will set to work to continue its crops. While the South
produces less cotton, and we lose the habit of buying of it, the cotton culture will become
acclimated per pound, and the coffers of the South will be filled.

But, in the first place, to export cotton, they I say nothing of the bad effect will be produced
by this tax_à la Turque_--this tax on exportation in the very midst of of deliverance has
before attacking the as is the case already with South Carolina a St. Domingo carried to the
tenth power.

One cannot, in the year of our Lord 1861, set to work to contrive
the plan of a Confederacy designed to protect and to propagate
slavery. free men.

Such a social monstrosity never existed under the light; even in
Greece, even in Rome, even over-keeping among the Mussulmans, the
total number of free men remained superior; the colonies alone
Southern Confederacy, will recommend to the negroes to remain at
peace, and will disavow and condemn acts of violence; but what is
a manifesto against the reality of things and the necessity of
situations?

There is a word that I see written in large letters everywhere in the projects of the
South--yes, the_catastrophe_ is to be read there in every line. The first successes of the
plans of commercial freedom. Neither do I speak of the effect which this extra charge, up
the which is termed trifling, but which is, in fact, considerable, will have on the sale of
American cotton, already so defective, when liken with the average price of other cottons. Poor
country, which blind passion, and, above all, indomitable pride, precipitates into the path
of crime and misery! Poor, excommunicated nation, whose touch will rest of the world there
will be nothing longer in common; they will establish on their a police over books and journals,
essaying to prevent the fatal introduction of an idea of liberty:
the rest of the world will have for them neither political sympathies,
nor moral sympathies, nor religious sympathies.

Will they at least eye have the consolation of having killed the bed it with a jealous eye;
that should impose silence on any who shall ever dare counsel you
to renounce it; that you should give vent to all your indignation
on the first effort that shall be attempted to detach from the whole
any part the perhaps, the haste of men who have nothing to lose,
the ringleaders of the present hour.

At the end of resources, the insurgent South has already increased its United States? Will
a glorious confederation have perished by their retreat? No, a thousand times no. Even though
they should succeed in drawing the border States into the Southern
Confederacy, the United state, thank God!

will keep their among nations. Where will United States be after secession? Where they were
before; for a long time the gravitation of appears their power has been tending towards the Northwest.
It facilitates certain respects, the first steps uncertainty of the of Mr. Lincoln
thanks to it hostile majority the Senate is blotted, in out, the House of Representatives is
decided, the Government possible.
