PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 159.

November 10th, 1920.

CHARIVARIA.

Now that the Presidential elections are over it is hoped that any Irish-Americans who joined
the Sinn Fein murder-gang for electioneering purposes will go home again.

       * * *

Owing to pressure on space, due among other things to the American election, the net sale controversy
in one of our contemporaries was held over on Wednesday last. We are quite sure that neither
Senator HARDING nor Mr. COX was aware of his responsibility in the matter.

       * * *

Lord HOWARD DE WALDEN says, "I would rather trust a crossing-sweeper with an appreciation of
music than a man who comes from a public school." We agree. The former is much more likely
to have been a professional musician in his time.

       * * *

The mystery of the Scottish golf club that was recently inundated with applications for membership
is now explained. It appears that a caddy refused a tip of sixpence offered him by one of the
less affluent members, and the story somehow leaked out.

       * * *

At one Hallowe'en dinner held in London the haggis was ten minutes late. It is said that it
had had trouble with a dog on the way and had come off second best.

       * * *

The man who was heard last week to say that he had no idea that Mrs. ASQUITH had published
a book of memoirs has now, on the advice of his friends, consented to see a doctor.

       * * *

The clergy of Grays, in Essex, are advocating the abolition of Sunday funerals. It is said
that quite a number of strict Sabbatarians have a rooted objection to being buried on the Sabbath.

       * * *

According to an evening paper hawthorn buds have been plucked at Hornsey. We don't care.

       * * *

A Liberal Independent writes to ask if the Mr. LLOYD GEORGE, who has been elected Lord Rector
of Edinburgh University, is the well-known Prime Minister of that name.

       * * *

A firm of music publishers have produced what they describe as a three-quarter one-step. It
will soon be impossible to go to a dance without being accompanied by a professional arithmetician.

       * * *

It seems that high prices have even put an end to the chicken that used to cross the road.

       * * *

"Only through poverty," says Mr. MAURICE HEWLETT, "will England thrive." As a result of this
statement we understand that several profiteers have decided to get down to it once again.

       * * *

A Japanese arrested at Hull was found to have seven revolvers and two thousand rounds of ammunition
on him. It was pointed out to him that the War was over long ago.

       * * *

A contemporary refers to a romance which ended in marriage. Alas! how often this happens.

       * * *

The United States Government has decided to recognise the present Mexican Government. Mexican
bandits say they had better take a good look at them while there is yet time.

       * * *

A Prohibitionist asserts that Scotland will be dry in five years. Our own feeling is that these
end-of-the-world prognostications should be prohibited by law.

       * * *

An Oxford professor has made himself the subject of a series of experiments on the effects
of alcohol. Several college professors of America quite readily admit that they never thought
of that one.

       * * *

A correspondent writes to a contemporary to say that he wears a hat exactly like _The Daily
Mail_ hat, and that he purchased it long before _The Daily Mail_ was started. The audacity
of some people in thinking that anything happened before _The Daily Mail_ started is simply
appalling.

       * * *

Three stars have recently been discovered by an American. No, no; not those stars, but stars
in the heavens.

       * * *

"Whilst returning to camp one night I walked right into a herd of elephants," states a well-known
explorer in his memoirs. We have always maintained that all wild animals above the size of
a rabbit should carry two head-lights and one rear-light whilst travelling after dark.

       * * *

A small island was advertised for sale last week. Just the sort of thing for a bad sailor to
take with him when crossing the Channel on a rough day.

       * * *

"Everyone knows," a writer in _The Daily Mail_ declares, "that electric light in the poultry-house
results in more eggs." There may be more of them but they never have the real actinic taste
of the natural egg.

       * * *

An American inventor has devised a scheme for lassoing enemy submarines. This is a decided
improvement on the method of just sticking a pin into them as they whizz by.

       * * *

Since the talk of Prohibition in Scotland, we are informed that one concert singer began the
chorus of the famous Scottish ballad by singing "O ye'll tak the dry road."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Mrs. Jones_. "YOU'D SEE IN THE PAPERS, JOHN, ABOUT THE AGITATION IN FAVOUR
OF THE WIFE GOVERNING THE HOME."

_Mr. Jones_. "WELL, CARRY ON, DEAR."]

       *       *       *       *       *

From an article on "Bullies at the Bar":--

    "He who had read his 'Pickwick'--and who has not?--will never
    forget the trial scene where poor, innocent Mr. Pickwick is as
    wax in the hands of the cross-examiner."

    _Provincial Paper_.

We regret to say that, in our edition, _Mr. Serjeant Snubbin_ omitted to put his client in
the witness-box, and consequently _Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz_ never had a chance of showing what
he could do with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

=BEFORE THE CENOTAPH.=

NOVEMBER 11TH, 1920.

  Not with dark pomp of death we keep their day,
    Theirs who have passed beyond the sight of men,
    O'er whom the autumn strews its gold again,
  And the grey sky bends to an earth as grey;
  But we who live are silent even as they
    While the world's heart marks one deep throb; and then,
    Touched by the gleam of suns beyond our ken,
  The Stone of Honour crowns the trodden way.

  Above the people whom they died to save
    Their shrine of sleep is set; abideth there
  No dust corruptible, nought that death may have;
    But from remembrance of the days that were
  Rises proud sorrow in a resistless wave
    That breaks upon the empty sepulchre.

D. M. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

=OUR INVINCIBLE NAVY.=

PRIZE-MONEY.

The really intriguing thing about Naval prize-money is the fact that no one knows exactly where
it comes from. You don't win it by any definite act of superlative daring--I mean to say, you
don't have to creep out under cover of darkness and return in the morning with an enemy battleship
in tow to qualify for a modicum of this mysterious treasure. You just proceed serenely on your
lawful occasions, confident in the knowledge that incredible sums of prize-money are piling
themselves up for your ultimate benefit. I suppose the authorities understand all about it;
nobody else does. One just lets it pile. It is a most gratifying thought.

During the more or less stormy times of the First Great War, we of the Navy were always able
to buttress our resolution with golden hopes of a future opulence denied to our less fortunate
comrades in the trenches. Whenever the struggle was going particularly badly for us--when,
for instance, a well-earned shore-leave had been unexpectedly jammed or a tin of condensed
milk had overturned into somebody's sea-boot--we used to console each other with cheerful reminders
of this accumulating fruit of our endeavours. "Think of the prize-money, my boy," we used to
exclaim; "meditate upon the jingling millions that will be yours when the dreary vigil is ended;"
and as by magic the unseemly mutterings of wrath would give place to purrs of pleasurable anticipation.
Even we of the R.N.V.R., mere temporary face-fringes, as it were, which the razor of peace
was soon to remove from the war-time visage of the Service--even we fell under the spell. "Fourteen
million pounds!" we would gurgle, hugging ourselves with joy in the darkness of the night-watches.

In the months immediately following demobilisation I was frequently stimulated by glittering
visions of vast wealth presently to be showered upon me from the swelling coffers of a grateful
Admiralty. During periods of more or less temporary financial embarrassment I would mention
these expectations to my tailor and other restless tradespeople of my acquaintance. "Fourteen
millions--prize-money, you know," I would say confidentially; "may come in at any time now."
I found this had a soothing effect upon them.

As the seasons rolled by, however; as summer and winter ran their appointed courses and again
the primrose pranked the lea unaccompanied by any signs of vernal activity on the part of the
Paymaster-in-Chief, these visions of mine became less insistent. I was at length obliged to
confess that another youthful illusion was fading; prize-money began to take its place in my
mind along with the sea-serpent and similar figures of marine mythology. I was frankly hurt;
I ceased even to raise my hat when passing the Admiralty Offices on the top of a bus.

That was a month or two ago; everything is all right again now. I once more experience the
old pleasing thrill of emotion when riding down Whitehall. I have come to see how ungracious
my recent attitude was.

A chance meeting with Bunbury, late sub-Loot R.N.V.R. and a sometime shipmate of mine--Bunbury
and I had squandered our valour recklessly together aboard the Tyne drifters in the great days
when Bellona wore bell-bottoms--sufficed to bring me head-to-wind.

In the course of conversation I referred to the non-fulfilment of our early dreams; I spoke
rather bitterly.

"And there are fourteen millions somewhere belonging to us," I concluded mutinously.

Bunbury regarded me with pained surprise. "Really, old sea-dog," he said, "this won't do. Never
let the engine-oil of discontent leak into the rum-cask of loyal memories, you know. Now listen
to me. Two years ago you and I wore the wavy gold braid of a valiant life; we surged along
irresistibly in the wake of NELSON; we kept the watch assigned. Does not your bosom very nearly
burst with pride to call those days to mind? It does. What then? Has it never once occurred
to you that the last remaining link between us and the stirring past is this very prize-money
you are so eager to soil with the grimy clutch of avarice? Don't you realize that this alone
exists to keep our memory green in the minds of our old leaders at Whitehall? Picture the scene
as it is. Someone mentions the word 'prize-money.' Immediately the Lords of the Admiralty reach
for their record files and begin turning over the pages. They come upon the names of John Augustus
Plimsoll-- yourself--and Horatio Bunbury--me. 'Ah,' they exclaim fondly, 'two of our old gunroom
veterans--when shall we look upon their like again?' Then they get up and go out to lunch.

"A month or so later the same thing occurs; once more our names leap out from the type-written
page. 'Brave boys,' they murmur, 'gallant lads! What should we have done without them in the
dark days? They shall have their prize-money this very--why, bless my soul, if it isn't one
o'clock!'

"Surely," pursued Bunbury earnestly, "you appreciate the fine sentimental value of this one
last tie? As long as our prize-money is in the keeping of the Service we can still think of
it with intimate regard; we can still call ourselves BEATTY'S boys and hide our blushes when
the people sing 'Rule, Britannia.' You must see that this is the only large-hearted way of
looking at the matter."

"Bunbury, old sailor," I said, swallowing a lump in my throat, "you have done me good; you
have made me feel ashamed of myself."

       *       *       *       *       *

There can be no doubt that Bunbury is right. I am so convinced of it that when next my tailor
inquires anxiously what steps are being taken for the distribution of prize-money I shall put
the matter to him just as Bunbury put it to me. He is certain to understand.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Commercial Candour.=

    "The newest fashions are now being displayed in ----'s new
    dress salons, so that it is an easy matter to select an entire
    winter outfit with the minimum of ease."--_Evening Paper_.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Sir Harry Johnston's 'The Gay Donkeys' has passed its fifth
    edition in London."--_Australian Magazine_.

A clear case for the S.P.C.A. (Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Authors).

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: ENCOURAGE HOME INDUSTRIES.

LORD ROBERT CECIL. "I TRUST THAT AFTER ALL WE MAY SECURE AT LEAST YOUR QUALIFIED SUPPORT FOR
OUR LEAGUE OF NATIONS?"

U.S.A. PRESIDENT-ELECT: "WHY, WHAT'S THE MATTER WITH OURS?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Stout Gentleman (overhearing political discussion)_. "LOOK HERE, MY GOOD FELLOW--I'VE
BEEN LISTENING TO YOUR ARGUMENTS; AND LET ME TELL YOU WE'RE ALL IN THE SAME BOAT."

_Politician_. "LUMME, GUV'NOR, YOU'D BETTER COME IN THE MIDDLE OF IT THEN."]

       *       *       *       *       *

=UNAUTHENTIC IMPRESSIONS.=

I think the time has come for me to follow the example of so many other people and offer to
the world a few pen pictures of prominent statesmen of the day. I shall not call them "Shaving
Papers from Downing Street," nor adopt the pseudonym of "The Man with the Hot Water (or the
Morning Tea)," nor shall I roundly assert that I have been the private secretary, the doctor,
the dentist or the washerwoman of the great men of whom I speak. Nevertheless I have sources
of information which I do not mean to disclose, except to say that heavy persons who sit down
carelessly on sofas may unknowingly inflict considerable pain, through the sharp ends of broken
springs, on those beneath.

I shall begin naturally with Mr. LLOYD GEORGE.

There is probably no statesman of whom such widely different estimates have been formed as
the present Prime Minister of Great Britain. I have heard him compared with THEMISTOCLES, with
MACCHIAVELLI, with MIRABEAU (I think it was MIRABEAU, but it may have been one of those other
people beginning with "M" in French history. Almost everybody in French history began with
an "M," like the things that were drawn by the three little girls in the well), and even with
the younger PITT. I have heard him spoken of as a charlatan, as a chameleon, as a chatterbox,
and, by a man who had hoped that the KAISER would be hanged in Piccadilly Circus, as a chouser.
Almost all of these estimates are thoroughly fallacious. Let us take, for instance, MACCHIAVELLI.
It was the declared opinion of MACCHIAVELLI that for the establishment and maintenance of authority
all means may be resorted to and that the worst and most treacherous acts of the ruler, however
unlawful in themselves, are justified by the wickedness and treachery of the governed. Has
Mr. LLOYD GEORGE ever said this? He may have thought it, of course, but has he ever said it?
No. When one considers that besides this dictum MACCHIAVELLI wrote seven books on the art of
war, a highly improper comedy, a life of CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI (unfinished, and can you wonder?),
and was very naturally put to the torture in 1513, it will be seen how hopelessly the parallel
with Mr. LLOYD GEORGE breaks down.

Let us turn then to the younger PITT. I have read somewhere of the younger PITT that he cared
more for power than for measures, and was ready to sacrifice great causes with which he had
sincerely sympathised rather than raise an opposition that might imperil his ascendency. That
is just the kind of nasty and long-winded thing that anybody might say about anybody. It was
by disregarding this kind of criticism that the younger PITT kept on being younger. But apart
from this, does Mr. LLOYD GEORGE quote HORACE in the House? Never, thank goodness. How many
times did WILLIAM PITT cross the English Channel? Only once in his whole life. That settles it.

The predominant note--I may almost say the keynote--of the PRIME MINISTER'S character is rather
a personal magnetism such as has never been exercised by any statesman before or after. When
he rises to speak in the House all eyes are riveted on him as though with a vice until he has
finished speaking. Even when he has finished they sometimes have to be removed by the Serjeant-at-Arms
with a chisel. His speeches have the moral fervour and intensity of one of the Minor Prophets--NAHUM
or AMOS, in the opinion of some critics, though I personally incline to MALACHI or HABAKKUK.
This personal magnetism which Mr. LLOYD GEORGE radiates in the House he radiates no less in
10, Downing Street, where a special radiatorium has been added to the breakfast-room to radiate
it. Imagine an April morning, a kingfisher on a woody stream, poplar-leaves in the wind, a
shower of sugar shaken suddenly from a sifter, and you have the man.

It has been said that Mr. LLOYD GEORGE has quarrelled with some of his nearest friends; but
this again is a thing that might happen to anybody. Mr. LLOYD GEORGE may have had certain slight
differences of opinion with Lord NORTHCLIFFE, but what about HENRY VIII. and WOLSEY? and HENRY
V. and _Falstaff_? and HENRY II. and THOMAS À BECKET?

Talking of THOMAS À BECKET, rather a curious story has been told to me, which I give for what
it is worth. It is stated that some time ago Mr. LLOYD GEORGE was so enraged by attacks in
a certain section of the Press that he shouted suddenly, after breakfast one morning in Downing
Street, "Will no one rid me of this turbulent scribe?" Whereupon four knights in his secretarial
retinue drew their swords and set out immediately for Printing House Square. Fortunately there
happened to be a breakdown on the Metropolitan Railway that day, so that nothing untoward occurred.

I sometimes think that if one can imagine the eloquence of SAVONAROLA blended with the wiliness
of ULYSSES and grafted on to the strength and firmness of OLIVER CROMWELL, we have the best
historical parallel for Mr. LLOYD GEORGE. It ought to be remembered that the grandfather of
OLIVER CROMWELL came from Wales and that the PROTECTOR is somewhere described as "Oliver Cromwell
_alias_ Williams." Something of that old power of dispensing with stupid Parliamentary opinion
seems to have descended to our present PRIME MINISTER. There is one difference, however. OLIVER
CROMWELL'S famous advice to his followers was to trust in Divine Providence "and keep your
powder dry." Mr. LLOYD GEORGE puts his powder in jam.

K.

       *       *       *       *       *

=Our Patient Fishermen.=

    "Mr. ----, jun., had another salmon on the Finavon Water.
    This is the second he has secured since the flood."--_Scotch
    Paper_.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: "DON'T TURN YOUR 'EAD AWAY, MY LORD. WHY, DURIN' THE WAR IT WAS ALL 'MA, MA,
'AVE YOU ANY MATCHES?'"]

       *       *       *       *       *

=NEW RHYMES FOR OLD CHILDREN.=

THE WHALE.

_AIR._--_"The Tarpaulin Jacket."_

  The whale has a beautiful figure,
    Which he makes every effort to spoil,
  For he knows if he gets a bit bigger
    He increases the output of oil.

  That is why he insists upon swathing
    His person with layers of fat.
  You have seen a financier bathing?
    Well, the whale is a little like that.

  At heart he's as mild as a pigeon
    And extremely attached to his wife,
  But getting mixed up with religion
    Has ruined the animal's life.

  For in spite of his tact and discretion
    There is fixed in the popular mind
  A wholly mistaken impression
    That the whale is abrupt and unkind.

  And it's simply because of the prophet
    Who got into a ship for Tarshish
  But was thrown (very properly) off it
    And swallowed alive by "a fish."

  Now I should not, of course, have contested
    The material truth of the tale
  If the prophet himself had suggested
    That the creature at fault was a whale.

  But the prophet had no such suspicion,
    And that is convincing because
  He was constantly in a position
    To see what the miscreant was.

  And this is what punctures the bubble,
    As JONAH, no doubt, was aware:
  "A _fish_" was the cause of the trouble,
    But the whale is a _mammal_. So there!

A. P. H.

       *       *       *       *       *

=THE LIGHT FANTASTIC.=

"Dancers are born, not made," said John.

"_Some_ are born dancers," corrected Cecilia, "others achieve dancing."

"Well, I'm not going to have it thrust on me any way," retorted John. "I never have liked dancing
and I never shall. I haven't danced for years and years and I don't intend to. I don't know
any of these new-fangled dances and I don't want to."

"Don't be so obstinate," said Cecilia. "What you want doesn't matter. You've got to learn,
so you may as well give way decently. Come along now, I'll play for you, and Margery will show
you the steps."

"If Margery attempts to show me the steps I shall show her the door. I won't be bullied in
my own house. Why don't you make your brother dance, if somebody must?" said John, waving his
arm at me.

"Come on, Alan," said Margery; "we can't waste our time on him. Come and show him how it's done."

"My dear little sister," I said sweetly, "I should simply love it, but the fact is--I can't."

"Can't," echoed Margery. "Why not?"

"I hate to mention these things," I explained, "but the fact is I took part in a war that has
been on recently, and I have a bad hip, honourable legacy of same."

"Oh, Alan," said Margery, "how can you? Your hip's absolutely fit, you know it is. You haven't
mentioned it for months."

"My dear Margery," I said, drawing myself up, "I hope your brother knows how to suffer in silence.
But if you suppose that because I don't complain--Great heavens, child, sometimes in the long
silent watches of the night--"

"Well, how about, tennis, then?" said Margery. "You've been playing all this summer, you know
you have."

"All what summer?" I asked.

"That's a good one," said John; "I bet she can't answer that."

"Don't quibble," said Margery.

"Don't squabble," said Cecilia.

"Yes, stop squibbling," said John.

"I'm not quabbling," said I.

John and I leaned against each other and laughed helplessly.

"When you have finished," said Cecilia with a cold eye, "perhaps you will decide which of you
is going to have the first lesson."

"Good heavens," said John tragically, "haven't they forgotten the dancing yet?"

"We may as well give way, John," I said; "we shall get no peace until we do."

"I suppose not," said John dismally "Very well, then, you're her brother you shall have first go."

He waved me politely to Margery.

"Not at all," I said quickly "Brothers-in-law first in our family--always."

"Could we both come together?" asked John.

"No, you can't," said Margery.

"Then we must toss for it," said John, producing a coin.

"Tails," I called.

"Tails it is," said John, walking across the room to Margery.

And the lesson commenced.

       *       *       *       *       *

"_Chassée_ to the right, _chassée_ to the left, two steps forward, two steps backward, twinkle
each way--"

"Five shillings on Twinkle, please," I interrupted.

Margery stopped and looked at me.

"You keep quiet, Alan," shouted Cecilia, cheerfully banging the piano.

"I shall never learn," said John miserably from the middle of the room, "not in a thousand years."

"Yes, you will," encouraged Margery. "Just listen. _Chassée_ to the right, _chassée_ to the
left, two steps forward, two steps back, twinkle each way--"

"Take away the number you first thought of," I suggested, "and the answer's the Louisiana Glide."

"To finish up," said Margery, "we grasp each other firmly, prance round, two bars...."

"That sounds a bit better," said John.

" ... then waltz four bars," continued Margery, "and that's all. Come on, now."

They came on....

"Good," said Margery as they finished up; "he's doing it splendidly, Cecilia."

John beamed complacently.

"I got through that last bit rather well," he said; "'pon my word, there's more in this dancing
than I thought. I quite enjoyed that twinkling business."

"Have another one," I suggested.

"Don't mind if I do," said John. "May I have the pleasure?" with a courtly bow to Margery.

They re-commenced.

"That's right," said Margery; "now two forward."

"I must have a natural genius for dancing," said John, conversing easily; "I seem to ... Do
we twinkle next?"

"Yes," said Margery.

"I seem to fall into it naturally."

"Look out!" shrieked Margery.

I don't know exactly what happened; I rather think John got his gears mixed up in the twinkling
business. At any rate, one of his feet shot up in the air, he made a wild grab at nothing and
tripped heavily backwards into the hearth. The piano was drowned in general uproar.

John arose with difficulty from the ashes and addressed himself haughtily to Cecilia.

"I can understand that these two," he said, waving a black but contemptuous hand at Margery
and myself, "should scream with delight. Their whole conception of humour is bound up with
banana-skins and orange-peel. But may I ask why _you_ should have hysterics because your husband
has fallen into the fireplace?"

"'You seemed to fall into it so naturally,'" I quoted in a shaky voice.

"Darling," sobbed Cecilia, "I am trying--please--if only you would take that piece of soot
off your nose--" She dabbed her eyes and wept helplessly.

John rubbed his nose quickly and walked to the door.

"If you want my opinion of dancing," he said bitterly, "I think it's a low pagan habit."

"'Twinkle, twinkle, little star,'" sang Margery.

"Bah!" said John, and banged the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW UTOPIA.

[Suggested by Mr. J. H. THOMAS'S book, just out, with a Red Flag on the wrapper.]

  O England, with what joy I hail
    The master-hand that calms and cools
  In THOMAS'S entrancing tale,
        _When Labour Rules_.

  There will be no more serfs and slaves;
    There will be no more feudal fools;
  The KING may stay, if he behaves,
          When Labour rules.

  Workers, in Downing Street installed,
    Will never think of downing tools;
  Strikes clearly never will be called
          When Labour rules.

  The hand of brotherhood that knits
    At present Tom and Dick with Jules
  Will be extended to good Fritz,
          When Labour rules.

  The vile capitalistic crew
    Of human vampires, sharks and ghouls
  Will vanish in the boundless blue
          When Labour rules.

  Our children will be standardized
    In psycho-analytic schools,
  And brains completely equalized
          When Labour rules.

  O Paradise! O frabjous day!
    When 'neath the flag of flaming gules
  Labour shall hold unchallenged sway--
          When THOMAS rules.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: FOLLOWING THE ENORMOUS SUCCESS OF _THE DAILY MAIL_ HAT--

--WE LOOK FORWARD ANXIOUSLY TO _THE TIMES_ CRAVAT--

--_THE TELEGRAPH_ COAT--

--_THE CHRONICLE_ QUILTED BAGS

--_THE HERALD_ PATENT SABOTS.

STUDY OF AN IMPARTIAL READER.

=MANNERS AND MODES.=]

       *       *       *       *       *

=GENF AND THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS.=

"Genf," like "Genève," is the Swiss for "Geneva." It was selected, nearly two years ago, as
the seat of the League of Nations. In a few days the League arrives; and I doubt if any person,
firm, company, corporation or league, having provided itself with a seat, ever waited so long
before it came and sat upon it.

You will remember a learned treatise of mine in these pages on the subject of Lucerne, written
in August last, when our PRIME MINISTER came and sat there. I make my living by writing up
the towns of Switzerland as one by one they get sat on. As there are not more than half-a-dozen
eligible towns in Switzerland, and as we shall have exhausted two of them in less than half
a year, the living I make is a precarious one; in other words I shall soon be dead. Well, well!
A short life and a merry one, say I. You must admit a touch of subtle merriment in that word
"Genf."

To get to Geneva you provide yourself with a passport, a book of rail and steamer tickets,
a ticket for a seat in the Pulman car, a ticket for a berth in the sleeping-car and a ticket
for the registration of your luggage. In short, by the time you are in France you will have
had pass through your hands one passport and eleven tickets; and the first thing you will do
upon settling down into the French train is to compete and intrigue to get a twelfth ticket
for your lunch. You will find that this useless ticket will follow you all the way to Geneva
and will always assert itself when you are accosted by a ticket inspector. I even know a traveller
who arrived eventually at the Swiss frontier with no other paper of identity or justification;
for a passport which should have given his name, address, motive for travelling, shape of mouth,
size of nose and any other peculiarities, he could only tender documentary evidence of his
having eaten the nineteenth lunch of the first series of the day before.

Two things catch the eye about Geneva. In the first place it is on a lake, and in the second
place it is always brimful of International Unions, Leagues, Congresses and Conferences. The
lake is navigated in the season by a fleet of sizeable steamers, and one of these, a two-hundred
tonner, used to call every morning of the season at the little pier outside my house to take
me to business, and brought me back again every evening. By the pier rests an old, old man
whose only duty in life it is to catch the hawser as it is thrown from the incoming liner.
Twice a day for four months that hawser was thrown for the old man to catch, and twice a day
for four months he missed it. I spoke to him about this on the last day, and he showed a fine
courage which nothing can depress. Next season he means to try again. As he will be out of
a job in the interval I am plotting to secure for him the post of naval expert to the League.

Turning from the lake to the international delegates, who abound in Geneva, it is to be noted
that the last lot here were the International Congress of Leagues of Women. Their main agendum
was to pronounce their complete independence of men. One of these delegates went for a row
on the lake and fell in. She was pulled out again by a man.

You will find that Geneva was nominated as the seat of the League in the Peace Treaty of Versailles.
Ever since, the people of Geneva have been busy conjecturing what the League of Nations will
do upon its arrival in Geneva. It will do exactly what you and I would do in similar circumstances.
Stepping out of the station exit it will hurry off to its hotel. But when Leagues go to hotels
they buy the darned things outright. I don't know what they do about notices on the walls;
alter some and remove others, no doubt. The international delegates will be requested to ring
once for the political expert, twice for the military expert and three times for the naval
expert. If my old man gets the last-named job they will have to ring rather more than three
times if they want him to come up _at once_ and discuss schemes for readjusting the various oceans.

As to the other usual decorations of hotel bedroom walls, the notice will be removed which
informs all concerned that the management will not be held responsible for valuables, unless
these be deposited in the office safe, though this will not be intended to indicate that the
new management has doubts as to the safety even of its own safe.

The "Hôtel National," which is the hotel in question, was in process of complete reconstruction
when the purchase took place. A bathroom has been annexed to every room. Presumably every international
delegate will have a suite allotted to his nation. The question I ask myself is this, Will
he put himself in the room and his secretaries in the bathroom, or himself in the bathroom
and the secretaries in the room? And the answer I make to myself is as follows: The delegate
will appoint the room to be his room and the bathroom to be his bathroom and will leave his
secretaries to make the best of things out in the corridor. The suggestion you will probably
make is that there are more suites of rooms than nations; that I must leave you to work out
for yourself. The number of suites of rooms is ascertainable, but no one seems able to inform
me how many nations there are. Personally every time I pick up a newspaper I seem to discover
a new one. However that may be, the nations are now all formed into their League, and may the
best one win the Cup Final, say I!

F. O. L.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _The Profiteer's Wife._ "HEAVENS! MARGARET HAS ELOPED WITH THE CHAUFFEUR IN
THE CAR."

_The Profiteer._ "_WHAT!_ NOT THE NEW ROLLS-ROYCE?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE SPREAD OF EDUCATION.

1914.

"Don't 'e look lovely in 'is uniform?"

"I do like a play wiv a bit of fightin' in it."

"O, ain't 'e sweet!"

"Makes you feel all shiverylike when 'e waves 'is sword an' all, don't it?"

"Oo, I 'ope they're not going to fire no guns."

1920.

"E's got civvy boots on!"

"Take 'is blinkin' name, Sergeant, an' get 'is blinkin' 'air cut."

"What are yer, Sick Parade?"

"Fall in, defaulters."

"'Oo stole the rum?"]

       *       *       *       *       *

=FOR THE CHILDREN.=

Mr. Punch comes once more, hat in hand, to beg for help in a good cause. This time he asks
the generous aid of his readers on behalf of the Victoria Home at Margate, of which Her Majesty
the QUEEN is Patroness. This Home cares for invalid children, from very little ones of only
a few months old, to boys of twelve years and girls of fifteen. There is room for between fifty
and sixty of them and they stay, on an average, for the best part of a year, during which they
receive careful medical attention, and have all their needs tended, body and mind. Many of
them have lost a leg or an arm and nearly all have some bandaged limb, yet, with these disabilities,
they contrive to learn the duties of a loyal Scout and are very proud of their uniform.

The cost of drugs, of surgical dressings and all house-keeping necessaries has risen enormously
and the Home is compelled to plead for further help. Mr. Punch invites his readers to send
for a report and see for themselves the very touching pictures which it gives, in an admirable
set of photographs, of the life of these children in their happy surroundings.

All communications and gifts should be addressed to the Secretary of the Victoria Home for
Invalid Children, at 75, Denison House, Vauxhall Bridge Road, S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: _Minister's Wife._ "ARE YOU ALWAYS AS FEEBLE AS THIS, MR. MACPHERSON? DO YOU
NEVER FEEL STRONGER?"

_Macpherson._ "AH WEEL, ME'M, AS THE MEENISTER WAD TELL YE HIMSEL', ANY SMA' MEASURE O' HEALTH
THAT AH HAE IS JUST ABOOT MEALTIMES."]

       *       *       *       *       *

"The Unknown Warrior."

WESTMINSTER ABBEY, NOVEMBER 11TH, 1920.

  Here lies a warrior, he alone
  Nameless among the named and known;
  None nobler, though by word and deed
  Nobly they served their country's need,
  And won their rest by right of worth
  Within this storied plot of earth.
  Great gifts to her they gave, but he--
  He gave his life to keep her free.

O. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW JOURNALISM.

    ["In New York Mr. Harding leads by a figure something like
    the circulation of _The Daily Mail_. Pennsylvania gives him
    a majority which appears equal to the circulation of _The
    Evening News_. It is phenomenal."--_The Evening News._]

The method which is being used just now by some of Mr. Punch's contemporaries to draw attention
to their circulations does not, it will be seen, tend to numerical nicety, though doubtless
it has its advantages from the advertising point of view. The following items of news are intelligently
anticipated.

       * * *

The licences cancelled in one district in Scotland, as a result of the recent local veto poll,
total exactly half the number of quires of "returns" of last week's _Pawkiesheils Gazette_.
It is insignificant.

       * * *

An analysis of the miners' votes in the Lancashire coalfield proves that there were as many
men in favour of rejecting the Government proposals as would have provided ten readers for
each copy sold (_not_ merely printed) of the last issue of _The Chowbent and Chequerbent Chronicle_.
It is magnificent.

       * * *

It is estimated that, if three more distinguished statesmen and another woman of letters can
be prevailed upon to write piquant reviews of Mrs. ASQUITH'S autobiography, the sale of the
work will probably greatly exceed the numbers of copies of the latest Blue Book issued by H.M.
Stationery Office. It is unthinkable.

       * * *

It is confidently expected that, if the protests against a certain cinema plot can be sustained
for a few days longer, as many people will go to see the show in the first week as there are
feet in the film--without counting those who will sneak round for a free view of "The Stage
Door of the Diadem Theatre." It is good business.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "An ex-Army officer was charged with stealing cooks valued at
    51/- from Messrs. ----'s."--_Sunday Paper._

At that price they must have been very plain cooks.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Illustration: THE SHRINE OF HONOUR.

"WHO GOES THERE?"

"I HAVE NO NAME. I DIED FOR MY COUNTRY."

"PASS, UNKNOWN WARRIOR."]

       *       *       *       *       *

=ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.=

_Monday, November 1st._--In response to a renewed demand for the Admiralty's account of the
Battle of Jutland the PRIME MINISTER made the remarkable statement that it was very difficult
to get "an official _and impartial_ account," but he added that the Government were willing
to publish all the reports and despatches on the subject and leave the public to judge.

  Who shall decide, when Admirals disagree?
  Why, JULIAN CORBETT, or the great B.P.

