Is one much about the same model and pitch of brain that the clown is, only of somewhat a more
polite and finical ignorance, and as sillily scorns him as he is sillily admired by him. The
quality of the city hath afforded him some better dress of clothes and language, which he uses
to the best advantage, and is so much the more ridiculous. His chief education is the visits
of his shop, where if courtiers and fine ladies resort, he is infected with so much more eloquence,
and if he catch one word extraordinary, wears it forever. You shall hear him mince a compliment
sometimes that was never made for him; and no man pays dearer for good words,--for he is oft
paid with them. He is suited rather fine than in the fashion, and has still something to distinguish
him from a gentleman, though his doublet cost more; especially on Sundays, bridegroom-like,
where he carries the state of a very solemn man, and keeps his pew as his shop; and it is a
great part of his devotion to feast the minister. But his chiefest guest is a customer, which
is the greatest relation he acknowledges, especially if you be an honest gentleman, that is
trust him to cozen you enough. His friendships are a kind of gossiping friendships, and those
commonly within the circle of his trade, wherein he is careful principally to avoid two things,
that is poor men and suretyships. He is a man will spend his sixpence with a great deal of
imputation,[85] and no man makes more of a pint of wine than he. He is one bears a pretty kind
of foolish love to scholars, and to Cambridge especially for Sturbridge[86] fair's sake; and
of these all are truants to him that are not preachers, and of these the loudest the best;
and he is much ravished with the noise of a rolling tongue. He loves to hear discourses out
of his element, and the less he understands the better pleased, which he expresses in a smile
and some fond protestation. One that does nothing without his chuck,[87] that is his wife,
with whom he is billing still in conspiracy, and the wantoner she is, the more power she has
over him; and she never stoops so low after him, but is the only woman goes better of a widow
than a maid. In the education of his child no man fearfuller, and the danger he fears is a
harsh school-master, to whom he is alledging still the weakness of the boy, and pays a fine
extraordinary for his mercy. The first whipping rids him to the university, and from thence
rids him again for fear of starving, and the best he makes of him is some gull in plush. He
is one loves to hear the famous acts of citizens, whereof the gilding of the cross[88] he counts
the glory of this age, and the four[89] prentices of London above all the nine[90] worthies.
He intitles himself to all the merits of his company, whether schools, hospitals, or exhibitions,
in which he is joint benefactor, though four hundred years ago, and upbraids them far more
than those that gave them: yet with all this folly he has wit enough to get wealth, and in
that a sufficienter man than he that is wiser.

A LASCIVIOUS MAN

Is the servant he says of many mistresses, but all are but his lust, to which only he is faithful,
and none besides, and spends his best blood and spirits in the service. His soul is the bawd
to his body, and those that assist him in this nature the nearest to it. No man abuses more
the name of love, or those whom he applies this name to; for his love is like his stomach to
feed on what he loves, and the end of it to surfeit and loath, till a fresh appetite rekindle
him; and it kindles on any sooner than who deserve best of him. There is a great deal of malignity
in this vice, for it loves still to spoil the best things, and a virgin sometimes rather than
beauty, because the undoing here is greater, and consequently his glory. No man laughs more
at his sin than he, or is so extremely tickled with the remembrance of it; and he is more violence
to a modest ear than to her he defloured. An unclean jest enters deep into him, and whatsoever
you speak he will draw to lust, and his wit is never so good as here. His unchastest part is
his tongue, for that commits always what he must act seldomer; and that commits with all what
he acts with few; for he is his own worst reporter, and men believe as bad of him, and yet
do not believe him. Nothing harder to his persuasion than a chaste man; and makes a scoffing
miracle at it, if you tell him of a maid. And from this mistrust it is that such men fear marriage,
or at least marry such as are of bodies to be trusted, to whom only they sell that lust which
they buy of others, and make their wife a revenue to their mistress. They are men not easily
reformed, because they are so little ill-persuaded of their illness, and have such pleas from
man and nature. Besides it is a jeering and flouting vice, and apt to put jests on the reprover.
Their disease only converts them, and that only when it kills them.

A RASH MAN

Is a man too quick for himself; one whose actions put a leg still before his judgement, and
out-run it. Every hot fancy or passion is the signal that sets him forward, and his reason
comes still in the rear. One that has brain enough, but not patience to digest a business,
and stay the leisure of a second thought. All deliberation is to him a kind of sloth and freezing
of action, and it shall burn him rather than take cold. He is always resolved at first thinking,
and the ground he goes upon is, _hap what may_. Thus he enters not, but throws himself violently
upon all things, and for the most part is as violently upon all off again; and as an obstinate
_"I will"_ was the preface to his undertaking, so his conclusion is commonly _"I would I had
not;"_ for such men seldom do anything that they are not forced to take in pieces again, and
are so much farther off from doing it, as they have done already. His friends are with him
as his physician, sought to only in his sickness and extremity, and to help him out of that
mire he has plunged himself into; for in the suddenness of his passions he would hear nothing,
and now his ill success has allayed him he hears too late. He is a man still swayed with the
first reports, and no man more in the power of a pick-thank than he. He is one will fight first,
and then expostulate, condemn first, and then examine. He loses his friend in a fit of quarrelling,
and in a fit of kindness undoes himself; and then curses the occasion drew this mischief upon
him, and cries God mercy for it, and curses again. His repentance is merely a rage against
himself, and he does something in itself to be repented again. He is a man whom fortune must
go against much to make him happy, for had he been suffered his own way, he had been undone.

AN AFFECTED MAN

Is an extraordinary man in ordinary things. One that would go a strain beyond himself, and
is taken in it. A man that overdoes all things with great solemnity of circumstance; and whereas
with more negligence he might pass better, makes himself with a great deal of endeavour ridiculous.
The fancy of some odd quaintnesses have put him clean beside his nature; he cannot be that
he would, and hath lost what he was. He is one must be point-blank in every trifle, as if his
credit and opinion hung upon it; the very space of his arms in an embrace studied before and
premeditated, and the figure of his countenance of a fortnight's contriving; he will not curse
you without-book and extempore, but in some choice way, and perhaps as some great man curses.
Every action of his cries,--"_Do ye mark me?_" and men do mark him how absurd he is: for affectation
is the most betraying humour, and nothing that puzzles a man less to find out than this. All
the actions of his life are like so many things bodged in without any natural cadence or connection
at all. You shall track him all through like a school-boy's theme, one piece from one author
and this from another, and join all in this general, that they are none of his own. You shall
observe his mouth not made for that tone, nor his face for that simper; and it is his luck
that his finest things most misbecome him. If he affect the gentleman as the humour most commonly
lies that way, not the least punctilio of a fine man, but he is strict in to a hair, even to
their very negligences, which he cons as rules. He will not carry a knife with him to wound
reputation, and pay double a reckoning, rather than ignobly question it: and he is full of
this--ignobly--and nobly--and genteely; and this mere fear to trespass against the genteel
way puts him out most of all. It is a humour runs through many things besides, but is an ill-favoured
ostentation in all, and thrives not:--and the best use of such men is, they are good parts
in a play.

A PROFANE MAN

Is one that denies God as far as the law gives him leave; that is, only does not say so in
downright terms, for so far he may go. A man that does the greatest sins calmly, and as the
ordinary actions of life, and as calmly discourses of it again. He will tell you his business
is to break such a commandment, and the breaking of the commandment shall tempt him to it.
His words are but so many vomitings cast up to the loathsomeness of the hearers, only those
of his company[91] loath it not. He will take upon him with oaths to pelt some tenderer man
out of his company, and makes good sport at his conquest over the puritan fool. The Scripture
supplies him for jests, and he reads it on purpose to be thus merry: he will prove you his
sin out of the Bible, and then ask if you will not take that authority. He never sees the church
but of purpose to sleep in it, or when some silly man preaches, with whom he means to make
sport, and is most jocund in the church. One that nick-names clergymen with all the terms of
reproach, as "_rat, black-coat_" and the like; which he will be sure to keep up, and never
calls them by other: that sings psalms when he is drunk, and cries "_God mercy_" in mockery,
for he must do it. He is one seems to dare God in all his actions, but indeed would out-dare
the opinion of Him, which would else turn him desperate; for atheism is the refuge of such
sinners, whose repentance would be only to hang themselves.

A COWARD

Is the man that is commonly most fierce against the coward, and labouring to take off this
suspicion from himself; for the opinion of valour is a good protection to those that dare not
use it. No man is valianter than he is in civil company, and where he thinks no danger may
come on it, and is the readiest man to fall upon a drawer and those that must not strike again:
wonderful exceptious and cholerick where he sees men are loth to give him occasion, and you
cannot pacify him better than by quarrelling with him. The hotter you grow, the more temperate
man is he; he protests he always honoured you, and the more you rail upon him, the more he
honours you, and you threaten him at last into a very honest quiet man. The sight of a sword
wounds him more sensibly than the stroke, for before that come he is dead already. Every man
is his master that dare beat him, and every man dares that knows him. And he that dare do this
is the only man can do much with him; for his friend he cares not for, as a man that carries
no such terror as his enemy, which for this cause only is more potent with him of the two:
and men fall out with him of purpose to get courtesies from him, and be bribed again to a reconcilement.
A man in whom no secret can be bound up, for the apprehension of each danger loosens him, and
makes him bewray both the room and it. He is a Christian merely for fear of hell-fire; and
if any religion could fright him more, would be of that.

A SORDID RICH MAN

Is a beggar of a fair estate, of whose wealth we may say as of other men's unthriftiness, that
it has brought him to this: when he had nothing he lived in another kind of fashion. He is
a man whom men hate in his own behalf for using himself thus, and yet, being upon himself,
it is but justice, for he deserves it. Every accession of a fresh heap bates him so much of
his allowance, and brings him a degree nearer starving. His body had been long since desperate,
but for the reparation of other men's tables, where he hoards meats in his belly for a month,
to maintain him in hunger so long. His clothes were never young in our memory; you might make
long epochas from them, and put them into the almanack with the dear year[92] and the great
frost,[93] and he is known by them longer than his face. He is one never gave alms in his life,
and yet is as charitable to his neighbour as himself. He will redeem a penny with his reputation,
and lose all his friends to boot; and his reason is, he will not be undone. He never pays anything
but with strictness of law, for fear of which only he steals not. He loves to pay short a shilling
or two in a great sum, and is glad to gain that when he can no more. He never sees friend but
in a journey to save the charges of an inn, and then only is not sick; and his friends never
see him but to abuse him. He is a fellow indeed of a kind of frantic thrift, and one of the
strangest things that wealth can work.

A MERE GREAT MAN

Is so much heraldry without honour, himself less real than his title. His virtue is, that he
was his father's son, and all the expectation of him to beget another. A man that lives merely
to preserve another's memory, and let us know who died so many years ago. One of just as much
use as his images, only he differs in this, that he can speak himself, and save the fellow
of Westminster[94] a labour: and he remembers nothing better than what was out of his life.
His grandfathers and their acts are his discourse, and he tells them with more glory than they
did them; and it is well they did enough, or else he had wanted matter. His other studies are
his sports and those vices that are fit for great men. Every vanity of his has his officer,
and is a serious employment for his servants. He talks loud, and uncleanly, and scurvily as
a part of state, and they hear him with reverence. All good qualities are below him, and especially
learning, except some parcels of the chronicle and the writing of his name, which he learns
to write not to be read. He is merely of his servants' faction, and their instrument for their
friends and enemies, and is always least thanked for his own courtesies. They that fool him
most do most with him, and he little thinks how many laugh at him bare-head. No man is kept
in ignorance more of himself and men, for he hears naught but flattery; and what is fit to
be spoken, truth, with so much preface that it loses itself. Thus he lives till his tomb be
made ready, and is then a grave statue to posterity.

A POOR MAN

