Hence a steamer, that with five hundred horse-power can make eight knots per hour, will require
rather more than one thousand horse-power to drive her at the speed of ten knots,--the law
being thus modified by the increased resistance consequent upon the greater weight of the large
engines; and thus a limit to speed is imposed, depending upon the weight of machinery which,
relative to her dimensions, a ship can carry. A ship, that at the rate of ten knots under steam
may run twelve hundred miles, can, at the speed of eight knots, and with the expenditure of
rather less fuel, run the distance of eighteen hundred miles; and therefore it is, many contend,
that a man-of-war for distant service should not be laden with large engines, whose full power
can rarely be wanted, and which monopolize so great a space and displacement as to render it
impossible to carry fuel for their proper development.

It is true, that, with large power of engine, the vessel may command, so long as her coals
last, the advantage of high speed, and her large cylinders will enable her, by working the
steam very expansively, to use her fuel with great economy; but there still remains the disadvantage
of the increased first cost of the machinery, and its greater weight and bulk, to be permanently
carried, whether used or not, and which, by increasing the displacement of the vessel, proportionally
diminishes her speed.

The last great improvement in connection with the screw remains to be noticed, namely, lining
the "bushings" and "bearings" with lignum-vitae,--the invention of Mr. Penn, of Greenwich,
near London.

The lignum-vitae is introduced in the manner shown in the drawing. In connection therewith,
it must be said, that the length and diameter of bearings has been increased far beyond the
proportions of former years. The "brasses" are bored out about three-sixteenths of an inch
larger than the shaft; then the recesses are slotted out for the reception of the wooden strips.
If care be taken with this part of the operation, any number of strips can be supplied ready
fitted, and to put in a set of spare strips becomes a short and simple operation.

[Illustration]

Strange as it appears, these wooden bearings are far more durable than those of metal, and
in some ships they have endured for years without any perceptible wear in those parts which,
previously to this invention, had occasioned so much trouble and expense. But for this important
discovery, it is thought by some of the most competent engineers that they would have been
compelled to abandon the use of the screw in heavy ships.

The Napoléon, the type of the new steam-ships of the line in the French navy, is a good illustration
of a first-class, full-powered steamer.

  Her dimensions are as follows:--

  FT.  IN.
  Length extreme.                          262 6.40
  Length at load-line.                     234 0.94
  Beam.                                     53 8.38
  Height between decks.                      6 8.72
  Height of lower port sill.                 7 2.63
  Depth of hold.                            26 9.34
  Deep-load draft.                          25 3
  Immersed cross section, sq. ft. 1063.48
  Displacement.                tons. 6050
  Diameter of cylinders.                     8 2.45
  Length of stroke.                          5 3.06
  Diameter of propeller. (4 bladed)         19 0.70
  Pitch    "     "            mean)         37 11

She has eight boilers, each having five furnaces, consuming, at full speed, (12.14 knots,)
143 tons of coal per day, for which she stows five days' supply. The boilers and engines occupy
eighty-two feet in the length of the ship.

The trial of this ship has established the practicability of adapting a propeller to a ship
of the largest class, so as to insure great speed, and constitute a most effective man-of-war
for certain purposes and in certain situations; but when the great weight of the engines is
considered, and the large space they occupy in the vessel,--thereby diminishing the stowage
of supplies,--and further, that, after the coal is exhausted, the ninety-gun ship has but the
sail of a sixty-gun ship to rely upon, it is not easy to avoid the conclusion, that, however
useful such a vessel may be for short passages,[1] and in those seas in which her supplies
of coal and provisions may be constantly replenished, her sphere of action must be very limited,
and she could not be relied upon for the long cruises and various services on which an ordinary
line-of-battle ship is employed.

[Footnote 1: For debarking a regiment or two of Zouaves on the shores of the Adriatic or upon
the coast of Ireland.]

A ship constructed on the plan of the Napoléon, for the sake of gaining a speed of twelve knots
per hour for the distance of about two thousand two hundred miles, is compelled to sacrifice
a great part of her efficiency in several most important particulars.

In time of war, at short distances from port, for the defence of bays or harbors or the Florida
channel, for the speedy transport of troops to an adjacent coast, or to force a blockade, such
a vessel would undoubtedly be a most valuable addition to our navy: but her employment must
necessarily be confined to such circumstances and such situations; for should she unluckily
fall in with an enemy's squadron, with her coal expended, or her machinery rendered useless
by any of the numerous accidents to which steam-machinery is so constantly exposed, with her
comparatively light rig, and want of stability in consequence of losing so great a weight of
coals, she would hardly prove a very formidable opponent.

Therefore, while admitting the importance and necessity of providing for special service a
small class of fast, full-power steamers, it is submitted that the auxiliary screw-steamer
is the description of ship to which the largest and best consideration should be devoted; for
to the nation possessing the most efficient fleet of such vessels must belong the dominion
of the sea. And while their cost is counted, let it at the same time be remembered that their
value can be estimated only by the character of the service they may render, and that their
capacity for aggression abroad makes them the best defence at home.

Having briefly referred to the various views entertained in regard to the steam-power with
which the navy should be furnished, it will be seen that a difference of opinion on this important
subject may most reasonably be entertained.

None can doubt the advantages of celerity to a man-of-war, yet many believe it would be too
dearly purchased by the sacrifice of space to such an extent as would require supplies to be
often replenished; as this necessity would in war confine the operations of the navy to our
own shores.

On the other hand, it is admitted, that, without high speed, a ship of war cannot exercise
many of her most important functions,--that she can neither choose an engagement, protect a
convoy, nor enforce a blockade.

The best experience affirms the policy of giving to our cruisers as large steampower as is
consistent with a due development of all other warlike qualities; for what would avail the
superior armament of a ship, if the option of fighting or flying remain with her adversary,
which must be the case when the latter commands higher speed? The introduction of improved
ordnance, throwing heavy shells with great precision at long ranges, gives increased importance
to celerity; for in any future fleet-fight, victory should belong to that flag having at command
a steam-squadron of superior speed, which may thereby be concentrated upon any point without
having been long under fire.

May not the command of a maximum speed of thirteen knots be obtained from the machinery now
employed for a maximum speed of ten knots? It evidently may, and with great economy, too, by
the simple introduction of artificial draft, and the use of steam of higher pressure, when
requiring the highest speed. At present, in our men-of-war, the boilers are proportioned for
natural draft, burning about twelve pounds of coal per square foot of grate per hour, and for
a steam-pressure of fifteen pounds per square inch. If, then, the boilers be proportioned to
burn at the maximum, with blowers, say twenty-two pounds of coal to the square foot of grate,
and to generate steam of forty pounds to the square inch, we shall double the power developed
by the machinery, and consequently derive from it the same speed that could be attained without
blowers from double the machinery; while the natural draft and the usual pressure of fifteen
pounds would give sufficient speed for ordinary service. The inconvenience of the higher pressure
with blowers could well be endured for the short and occasional periods during which they would
be required.

To create a perfect screw-frigate, a ship with sail-power complete, and efficient for any service
that may be required, the endeavor should be made--by getting rid of every dispensable article
of weight or bulk, and without reducing supplies below three months' provisions and six weeks'
water--to find space and displacement for an engine of sufficient force to drive her thirteen
knots an hour, together with at least ten days' full consumption of fuel; and this, it is believed,
might be successfully accomplished in ships of the dimensions of the Wabash, beginning with
a judicious reduction of spare spars, spare sails, and spare gear, and by the addition of blowers
to their present machinery: a subject which should immediately receive the earnest consideration
of a commission of the most intelligent officers.

Having fixed upon the proportions of hull and spars, the form of propeller, and the plan of
engine, a cautious discrimination should be exercised in multiplying the types of either. Besides
economy, many other advantages would flow from a judicious regard to similarity in build; as
it would permit us to relieve our ships of many of the spare spars with which they are incumbered,
and we should probably not again hear of suspending the operations of a frigate thousands of
miles away, until a crank or rod could be sent to her; because, when ships of the same class
are cruising together, by a careful distribution of spare spars and machinery among them, it
is hardly probable that damage would be sustained, or loss of spars or "break down" occur,
which might not be remedied by the resources of the squadron.

On the other hand, this system not be carried to a Chinese extreme, lest we follow too long
a false direction,--thus losing the advantage of improvements constantly being made. For such
is the change in all things pertaining to maritime war, that neither model of hull, plan of
engine, nor mould of ordnance is best, unless of the latest creation. True progress will be
most judiciously sought in not departing too suddenly and widely from the established order.

WHITE MICE.

A great many circumstances led me to decide on leaving the convenient boarding-house of Mrs.
Silvernail: a house correctly described as containing several "modern improvements": improperly,
as being "in the immediate vicinity of all the places of public amusement." For, as the Central
Park of New York is a place of public amusement, so likewise is Barnum's Museum; and these
two places being at a distance of about five miles from each other, how could any one house
be in the immediate vicinity of both? But it was not upon this incompatibility that any of
my objections were founded.

If I have a prejudice, it is against being talked _at_ instead of _to_. Now Mrs. Silvernail,
who, like the katydid of the poplar-tree, if small, was shrill, had a way of conveying instructions
to her boarders by means of parables ostensibly directed at Catharine, the tall Irish serving-maid,
but in reality meant for the ear of the obnoxious boarder who had lately transgressed some
important statute of the house, made and provided to meet a case or cases.

A landing-place on the stairs was usually the platform selected for the delivery of a monologue,
in which Catharine was always assumed to be the person addressed; although I have known instances
in which that "excellent wench" was, at the time of being so conferred with, in the grocery
at the corner, about half a block distant, as I could see from the window where I sat and viewed
her protracting her doorway dalliance with Jeremiah Tomaters, the grocer's efficient young man.

"Catharine," my landlady would say in a loudish whisper, close by a malefactor's chamber-door,
and probably when Catharine was yet far down the street,--"Catharine, who let the water in
the bathroom run over just now? If the slippers he left behind him a'n't Mr. Jennings's, I
declare! Boarders must be warned an' watched, elseways we shall hev all in the house afloat,
'cepting the stoves an' flat-irons, by-'n'-by. Somebody at Mrs. Moyler's acted so, and the
house was like a roarin' sea, with the baby adrift in his little cradle, and the roaches a-swimmin'
round. Oh, dear!"

Now Mr. Jennings was the serious boarder, who lodged in the room just over mine: a man who,
from general indications, had never had a bath in his life; certainly he had never troubled
the waters in that house. I was the supposed delinquent, and at me the parable was levelled.

"Catharine, whose pass-key was that you found in the door? It's a mussy we wasn't all a-murdered
and a-plundered in cold blood, by the light o' the moon! Mr. Jennings's night-key it must have
been, to be sure! Boarders must be warned and watched. When Mrs. Toyler's nephew's night-key
was found in the door of Number Forty-Seven, the boarders all went off at daylight in an omnibus,
takin' away custom and character from the house forever."

Now Mr. Jennings, the serious boarder, was always in bed and asleep long before latch-key time
came round; and even supposing he ever _had_ let himself in by means of that mischievous little
convenience, he would as soon have thought of taking the door up to bed with him as of leaving
the key in it. The parable was intended for the hearing of a young man who occupied the room
opposite mine, and who, being connected with clubs, came home nobody ever knew when or in what
condition, but had red eyes o' mornings and a general odor of the convivial kind.

Then, again, Mrs. Silvernail had a way of being always about the doors of the rooms, and a
faculty, as I thought, of hovering near several of them at one and the same moment. There are
men who will turn the least promising circumstance to advantage,--even that of being listened
at through a keyhole, while they discourse to themselves about affairs connected with their
most cherished and secret designs. One Captain Dunnitt, who lived in the house before I came,
adroitly made his account of this eavesdropping propensity of the landlady, by settling his
weekly bill with a silver-mounted pistol, instead of the dollars justly due. He had been a
tragedian as well as a captain, and was saturated with Shakspeare and other bards to a far
greater amount than with money; and when his week came round, he used to stride up and down
his room with much gnashing of teeth and other stage indications of distress, finally settling
down into a chair before the table, on which he would place and replace a packet of letters
and a wisp of unromantic-looking hair. Then he would take the little silver pistol from his
breast, and, after the usual soliloquy of "To be or not to be," or something equally to the
purpose, would point it at his temples just as the landlady came bursting into the room, begging
him for all sakes not to "ruin the character of her second-best room, and the walls newly painted
at that!" Remorse would then double up the manly form of Captain Dunnitt, who would fall on
his knees before the landlady,--"his benefactress! his better angel!"--and then arrangements
would be entered into by which he was not to commit suicide for the present, but could avail
himself of the landlady's indulgence and wait for "that remittance," which was always coming,
but which never came.

But there were more serious objections, even than a landlady of shrill parables and an inquiring
turn of mind, to my prolonging the delights of a residence at the first-class boarding-house
of Mrs. Silvernail. Not the least of these was the fact of its _being_ a boarding-house,--a
community. In such communities, from the inevitable intercourse over the social board, your
circle of acquaintance is always liable to be extended rather than improved. In them there
is no escape from the disinterested offers of those who would be your perpetual friends. I
am still under lasting obligations to a man who, at a boarding-house in which I sojourned for
but three days, forced on me a pipeful of an extremely choice and luxurious kind of tobacco,
to dilate on the properties of which he came and smoked about a quarter of a pound of it in
my room that very evening, and far on into the morning light. His goodness is the more impressed
upon my memory, because, on the same occasion, he drank the greater part of the contents of
a large willow-bound bottle of old St. Croix rum, which I had just received from a friend who
had imported it direct. Then, in boarding-house communities, one's magnetism is as much at
fault as that of a ship sailing up a river whose rock-bound shores are impregnated with iron
elements. I knew a man who was over-magnetized to the extent of matrimony by the lady of the
house,--a widow, and a shrew. He hated, or at least professed to hate her, and had ridiculous
stories about her to no end; but she married him, and he still lives. Another, of a rather
unsociable turn, rejected the proffered civilities of all his fellow-boarders who ever came
to offer him rations of curious tobacco or to assist him in performing a libation of old and
valuable Hollands. The only one of the party to whom he ever "cottoned" was the latest comer,
a smoothed-out, blandulose kind of man, who smoked up all his cunning cigars, made sad havoc
among his Hollanders of gin, departed from that house in an unexpected manner and his friend's
best trousers, in the pockets of which he had bestowed that friend's rarest gems and gold,
and is now serving out a term allotted to him in the State Prison, in recognition of the remarkable
abilities displayed by him in the character of what the police call a "confidence man."

And yet there are more objectionable boarding-house acquaintances than people who insist upon
sharing with you their friendship, be they "confidence men" or not. I suppose we may allow,
in these advanced times, that it is something like magnetism which decides the question of
affinity and its reverse. But, in granting this, I will take the liberty of observing that
external and palpable facts have a considerable effect in directing the currents of magnetism.
For example, and to adopt the language of scientific men, the insignificant circumstance of
a person habituating himself to the partial deglutition of his knife, while partaking of food,
may produce antipathetic emotions on the part of others, whom prejudice or superstition has
led to regard the knife as an article designed for cutting only. This kind of outrage I allude
to merely for the purpose of illustrating a case. In first-class boarding-houses, like that
of Mrs. Silvernail, such rusticities have long since become traditional, and of the things
that have passed away; and, indeed, so particular was that lady with regard to her knives,
that, had a boarder swallowed even a part of one, he would undoubtedly have heard the deed
alluded to through the keyhole of his chamber-door on the following day, in the form of a parable
having for its hero the justified Mr. Jennings, our serious young man.

If external and palpable circumstances, then, are admitted to have a decided effect upon streams
of magnetism, I suppose we may assume that they have also a certain power of determining impressions
by themselves, without the intervention of any of the more subtile agencies whatever. The granting
of this postulate will put me on quite easy terms with regard to the very positive objection
entertained by me towards a certain Mr. Désolé Arcubus, who, by provision of an immutable Medo-Persic
edict promulgated by Mrs. Silvernail, occupied the chair next mine at the first-rate table
of that rigid expounder of boarding-house law.

Mr. Désolé Arcubus, a young man of some three or four and twenty, had no special nationality
about him from which one could guess how he came by his rather uncommon names. He was reputed
to be learned, particularly in the modern languages; had a profusion of long, wild hair of
a greenish-drab hue, which matched his complexion exactly,--this prevalent tint being infused
also into the _cornea_ or "white" of his eye,--and, in physical proportions, was of weedy and
unwholesome growth. He was not a young man of cheerful disposition. On the contrary, his deportment
at table, where alone his fellow-boarders had any opportunity of observing him, was such as
to induce a very general belief that his mind must have been affected by some terrible calamity;
and his presence, indeed, was looked upon as undesirable by many of the guests, whose health
had begun to suffer seriously from the manner in which Arcubus used to groan between his instalments
of food. Sometimes, in the interval between the soup and the solids, he would lean his elbows
upon the table, and, burying his face in his hands, so that his long, sad hair swept the board,
would abandon himself for a brief space to private despondency, until the boiled leg of mutton
brought with it a necessity for renewed action.

Nor was the social feeling of distrust of this unhappy young man allayed when the party learned,
through a boarder of detective instincts, that Mr. Désolé Arcubus was an enthusiast in scientific
pursuits, and that the "romance of a poor young man," as shadowed out by him, was no romance
at all, but an unpleasant reality. Toxicology was the branch of science to which Mr. Arcubus
had for some time past been devoting his mind. For fourteen hours a day he worked assiduously
in the laboratory of an eminent analytical chemist, whose practice in connection with the coroner
was of a flourishing and increasing kind, owing to the growing taste for suicide, and the preference
given to poisons over any other means for accomplishing that irrevocable wrong. In this chamber
of horrors,--a court of which the tests were the stern, incorruptible ordinances of Nature,--he
had already gone steadily through a course which gave him a mastery over the secrets of the
relative poisons, with which he laughed secretly now, and played as securely as a child might
with a dog-rose of whose thorns he had been made aware. But of late, his haggard features,
and the start with which he would wake into life when a guest haply plucked a flower from the
bouquets on the table, or when the handmaiden came round to him with a dish of leguminous vegetables,
could readily have been traced by a clairvoyant to associations connected with the ghastly
belladonna and with the deadly bean of St. Ignatius the Martyr. For Mr. Arcubus had now arrived
at the investigation of the positive poisons,--a fact which might have revealed itself to the
man of science by the general narcotico-acrid expression into which he had settled down bodily;
while the most casual observer might have gathered from his incoherent contributions to the
table-talk that some noxious drug was envenoming the cup of his life.

He had a way of thinking aloud, and, as his thoughts always ran on the subject of his studies,
the expression of them sometimes dovetailed curiously with the general conversation.

"Miss Rocket will not come down to dinner, poor thing!" said Mrs. Silvernail, in her choicest
table-manner. "She has lost her beautiful Angola kitten. It slipped into the glass globe, this
morning, among the gold-fishes, and was drowned."

"Digested in water, several of its constituents are dissolved," said Mr. Arcubus, in a husky
voice, looking wildly at the picture on his plate.

"You have a _spécialité_ for puddings, I perceive, Madam," remarked a smiling old gentleman,
a new-comer, addressing himself to the hostess; "may I ask now of what this very excellent
one is composed?"

"Sulphate of lime, potash, oil, resin, extractive matter, gluten, _et cetera, et cetera_,"
put in Mr. Arcubus, still following out his train of thought.

"During the process of evaporation, a black substance is precipitated," continued he; and at
that very moment, the small colored boy, running to pour out some water for the wild boarder,
who had just arrived in an excited condition from a rowing match, caught his foot in the carpet,
and came to the floor with a crash.

"Black oxide of Mercury, called _Ethiops per se_," pursued Mr. Arcubus, grappling with his
tangled hair.

"Do just try a drop or two of this Hollands of mine in that iced water; it is positively dangerous
to drink it so," said an attentive boarder to Mrs. Silvernail, who certainly _did_ look warm.

"Absorbs oxygen readily, when brought to a red heat," said Mr. Arcubus, abstractedly, as he
pulled at his long fingers and made their joints crack.

"Who is the tall lady who dined here yesterday with Miss Rocket, and talked so enthusiastically
about woman's rights?" inquired the serious boarder of Mrs. Silvernail.

"Prepared by deflagration in a crucible, one part of nitre with two of powdered tartar," proceeded
Mr. Arcubus.

"What do you think of that sample of mixed tobacco I gave you to try?" asked the wild boarder
of another, whom Mrs. Silvernail used to speak of with fear and doubt. "When heated, it readily
sublimes in the form of a dense white vapor," said Mr. Arcubus, confidently, "disagreeably
affecting the nose and eyes."

"I hope you are not going to bring another dog into the house, Mr. Puglock," remonstrated Mrs.
Silvernail, addressing the wild boarder, to whose conversation she had been lending a sharp
ear. "Re'lly now, I must restrict the number of dogs; we have three here already, I believe."

"There is a strong analogy between the virus injected into wounds made by the teeth of a rabid
dog and that found in the poison-apparatus of venomous snakes," brought in Mr. Arcubus, diving
his fork truculently into a ripe tomato.

This last observation of Mr. Arcubus, together with the fact that the blade of his knife had
manifestly turned black, while all the other blades at table were as bright as silver, decided
me. I packed up my portmanteau and writing-case that evening, and, having settled with my wondering
landlady, to whom I accounted for my sudden departure by pleading expediency as to important
affairs, took leave of that estimable widow, and drove away to a distant hotel, from which
I sallied forth early next morning to look for lodgings,--furnished lodgings for single gentlemen,
without board,--for against boarding-houses I had set my face forever.

A peculiar feature of life in lodgings in New York, as in other large cities, is the incomparable
solitude attainable in that blessed state of deliverance from promiscuous "board." One may
dwell for a twelvemonth in lodgings for single gentlemen, without incurring the obligation
of knowing by sight, or even by name, the lodger who occupies the very room opposite to his,
on the same landing. Fifty lodgers may have successively lived in those "apartments" during
the twelve months, on the same terms of perfect isolation from one who would rather mind his
own business than make any inquiries regarding theirs. And so it is, that, of all the stage-pieces
which have achieved popularity in our day, none is more faithful to the facts than the often-repeated
one of "Box and Cox"; yet, but for the exigencies of the drama, which, of course, has for its
principal object the development of a plot, there would have been no necessity whatever for
bringing Box on a footing of acquaintance with Cox,--still less for attributing to either of
them an idea of his landlady's name.

For several months I lived contentedly in the house selected by me, up one pair of stairs,
in a room looking out into a busy street,--a street so narrow, that the trees at one side of
it, whenever a reviving breeze brought with it a subject for greeting and congratulation, shook
hands in quite a friendly manner with those at the other. To illustrate the isolation of a
residence in these lodgings, I may as well state, that, during all the time of my sojourn there,
I never arrived at the knowledge of my landlady's name. It was not graven upon the house-door,
and, as a knowledge of it was of no immediate consequence to any of my occupations, nor likely
to be, I never asked about it from the old woman who kept the rooms in order, and to whom I
seldom spoke, except upon the weekly occasion of handing to her the amount due to the landlady,
with whom I never had any interview after the day I agreed with her for the lodgings. I believe
there was a landlord,--if that be the proper term to apply to a man who is the husband of a
landlady, and nothing else. From my window I once observed a man who might have been the landlord,
a man of subdued appearance, accompanying the lady of the house to church. Subsequently, as
I came in one evening rather earlier than usual, the same person was leaning against the railings
by the hall-door, smoking a cigar. He greeted me as I passed in, addressing me in an interrogative
manner with one word, the only one I ever heard him utter,--

"Owasyerelthbin?"

To which, as I supposed him to be a foreigner, unacquainted with the English tongue, I replied
at random in the only word of German of which I happen to be master,--

"Yaw!"

And this was the only communication I ever had with people of the house, excepting occasional
conversations with the dust-colored old woman who cleaned the windows and swept the floors;
while, with regard to a dozen or two of lodgers who succeeded each other from time to time
in the other disposable rooms of the house, I never saw one of them, nor was acquainted with
them otherwise than by footstep,--and that rather infelicitously at one time, in the case of
something which went either upon crutches or wooden legs, and which occupied the room immediately
over mine. This was in charming contrast with life at Mrs. Silvernail's, in its freedom from
parables, and from the uncared-for society of Miss Rocket's guests; likewise from that of the
serious and vicious boarders, and above all of the poisonous young man.

A day came for cleaning my windows, and, as it rained heavily, I could not give the old woman
a clear stage by going out for a couple of hours, but told her to clean away and be as lively
as she could, while I sat there and wrote. Lodgers, she told me, as she polished up the brightening
panes, came and went week after week, so fast that she forgot one when another came, and never
knew any of their names. She had an eye for character, though, and told me the peculiarities
of some of them in a quaint way, nailing her sentences, now and then, with odd, hard words,
put in independently of the general text.

"And who lives in the room just under mine? Somebody who raises plants, I see,--unless the
green things on the balcony belong to the house."

"A gentleman as keeps emself quite _to_ emself. Lonesome and friendless, I reckon, for he looks
but poorly. Plants out queer sasses in boxes all the time, and some of 'em on the balcoany
itself. Guess he makes kinder tea of 'em, or root-drink. Decoctifies."

"And who in the room opposite, on this floor?"

"Empty now. Two dark-featured little gentlemen had it for a fortnight,-- Jews, I reckon,--and
as like one another as two spots of dirt on this 'ere pane of glass. Spoke a hard-biled kind
of tongue, and was furriners, I guess. Polyanders."

The vacant room would just suit De Vonville, who had arrived a few days before from abroad.
I told him of it, and he came in the next day, bag and baggage, a portion of which latter was
curious and uncommon.

De Vonville, with whom I had lived in lodgings two or three years previously, was a Belgian
and a _savant_, and a man of rare companionable qualities besides. Professionally, I believe,
he called himself a naturalist. He had already roamed over the greater part of America, North
and South, investigating the mysteries of Nature, especially of the animal kingdom, and contributing,
as he went, many specimens of rare animals to the principal collections of Europe. His latest
adventures took him through Africa and the East, whence he brought to New York a number of
living creatures of many species, all of which, however, he had shipped for Havre before I
met him, with the exception of two or three of the least disreputable kinds, which he meant
to keep about him as pets. The most valued of these treasures were a small animal called a
Mangouste, and a cage containing a family of white mice.

These white mice were greatly prized by De Vonville, on account of the rare manner in which
they were marked, their paws and muzzles being of a perfect jet black. They were quite tame
and familiar; but, on the approach of a cat, or any other cause for alarm, the whole family
would concentrate their energies in a very remarkable way into one piercing squeak.

The Mangouste, an animal somewhat resembling a ferret, but more nearly allied to the Nilotic
ichneumon of Egypt, was a marvellously lithe and active little creature, perfectly tame, and
coming as readily as a dog to his name, "Mungo," except when overfed, when he would sleep sometimes
for hours, rolled up at the bottom of his cage, or in some dark corner of the room. There were
personal reminiscences connected with Mungo which rendered him particularly valuable to De
Vonville, whom he had often saved from the stings of the noxious vermin to be encountered by
those who dwell in tents. His instinct was for creeping things, though he looked as if he could
have dined contentedly on a brace of white mice. One piece of mischief he committed, during
the few days he was allowed to run about the rooms: he gnawed holes at the bottom of all the
doors, through which he could let himself in and out. He used to lie in the sun, on my table,
as I sat reading; and was generally companionable and trustworthy, notwithstanding his insidious
look.

Seeing the interest I took in his small menagerie, De Vonville begged me to undertake the superintendence
of it, on his being called away for a brief tour to Baltimore and elsewhere, in pursuance of
an engagement to deliver a course of traveller's tales. Numerous were the directions I had
from him as to the diet and general treatment most congenial to the constitutions of white
mice; and there was implicit confidence expressed, that, for safety, the Mangouste should be
kept strictly confined to his cage. There were parrots to be looked after, also, including
an extremely vituperative old macaw, any verbal communication with whom laid the advancing
party open to all manner of insult and objurgation.

The very first day of my menagerial experience, the Mangouste got out of his cage while I was
feeding him, and glided away into dark nooks and garrets unknown. I failed of recovering him
by a stalking process among the giddy passes of the upper stairs; nor did he return that day
to my often-repeated call; for I vociferated at intervals throughout the day the word "Mungo!"
in a manner that must have led the mysterious inhabitants of that silent house to the conclusion
that I was a spiritual medium, inviting revelations from the shade of the mighty Park.

A hot, clammy night. No balmy essences arise from the kennels of this hollow street in which
I live; whatever comes from that quarter must be malarious, if anything. The windows are thrown
open as far as they were made to be thrown, and I get as far out of one of them as I safely
can, by tilting my chair back, and extending my legs out into that undefined everywhere called
the wide, wide world. The only newspaper within reach of my hand is one I have already looked
over, but I glance at it again, reading backwards from the end an account of a terrible poisoning
case lately brought to light in England, which I had already read forwards from the beginning.
Throwing it away from me in disgust, I reach out my other hand for a book. The one I lay hold
of is "Laurel-Water," the melancholy drama of Sir Theodosius Boughton by insidious poisoner
killed. I dashed it away, backwards, over my head, and, turning off the gas, abandoned myself
to the strange influences that breathed hotly upon me from the clammy vegetation festering
in the ropy night-air.

Why do civic wood-rangers choose the ailantus-tree for a bouquet-holder to the close-pent inhabitants
of towns? Nothing can be more graceful, certainly, than the ellipses arched by the boughs from
its taper stem. Few contrivances more umbrageous than the combination of its long, feathery
foliations into its perfection of a parasol. But there are times in the dank, hot nights of
midsummer, when the ailantus is but a diluted upas-antiar of Macassar, tainting, albeit with
no deadly essence, the muggy air that rocks its slumbering branches and rolls away thence along
the parapets and in at the windows of the sleepers. Dead-horse chestnut it might reasonably
be called, because of its heavy, carrion smell, which, under the influences of a July night,
is but too perceptible to the dwellers of streets where it abides. The tree at my window was
an ailantus, of stately dimensions, and bounteous in a proportionate enormity of smell; yet
it had never before affected me so much as on this night, when I lay dozing in the ghastly
gloom. Sleep must have overcome me, for I had a troublous dream or vision of which Poison was
the predominant nightmare,--a dream and slumber broken by the convulsive sensation which roused
me up as I endeavored in imagination to swallow at one draught the contents of a metal tankard
of half-and-half--half laurel-water, and half decoction of henbane--handed to me on a leaden
salver by a demon-waiter, with a sprig of hemlock in the third buttonhole of his coat. This
Lethean influence could hardly be that of the ailantus-tree alone. What of the plants on the
balcony beneath,--the strange, rooty coilers which the mysterious planter sedulously fosters
at the glooming of dusk, with a weird watering-pot held forth in a fawn-colored hand?

In a particular condition of the nerves,--say, when a man feels "shaky,"--it takes but little
to convince him that anything which may possibly not be all right is to a moral certainty all
wrong. To sleep another night in that room, with the windows open,--and who would shut his
windows in July?--directly exposed to the exhalations of a rising forest of upas-antiars of
Macassar, nurtured by the unwholesome hand of a mysterious vegetarian for purposes unavowed,
was no longer to be thought of. De Vonville's room, which was at the back of the house, and
had no fuming ailantus by its windows on which to browse nightmares of skunkish flavor, afforded
a better climate for a night's rest, notwithstanding the singular ideas which these travelled
men, especially naturalists, have of comfort, in a civilized sense. He invariably slept on
the floor, converting his room, indeed, into the general semblance of a tent, by divesting
it of all the appliances dear to a Christian gentleman, and one who loves to repose as such.
Yet there was comparative freshness in that tent-like apartment, as I entered it that night,
shutting the door of mine after me, to prevent ailantus and upas-antiar from following in my
wake. The little beasts were all sleeping tranquilly in their cages, and the birds on their
perches rested quietly, too,--excepting the old macaw, who cursed me in his sleep, as I lit
up the gas. But the Mangouste had not returned, nor did I quite regret his absence for the
present; because, although highly approving of the culture of four-footed beasts, be they large
or small, I have a prejudice against having my jugular vein breathed, at midnight, by small
animals of the weasel tribe,--an act of which Mungo, probably, would have been incapable. His
relations _will_ do such things, however, and newspapers recording appalling instances of it
may be found.

Shutting the door, I turned the gas down to a mere spark, and stretched my weary limbs on the
mat which served the travelled man for a bed, drawing over me a gauze-like fabric, which, I
suppose, answers in tropical countries all the purposes of the more voluminous "bed-clothes"
of ours. Sleep soon came upon me,--a heavy, but unquiet sleep, in which the same influences
haunted me as those I felt when slumbering at the window. The malaria from the trees was there,
and the planter of the balcony watering henbane and hellebore with boiling aquafortis; likewise
the demon-waiter, with his leaden salver and poisoned tankard, wearing an ophidian smile on
his features and a fresh sprig of hemlock in his third buttonhole.

How long I slept thus I know not. Once I had a vague sense of the Mangouste gliding across
me, but it was only part of a dream; and it was still night, black and awful, when I started
up in good earnest, at a piercing shriek from the united family of white mice, whose cage stood
upon a low stand, about two yards to the right of where I lay.

The sound which followed this was one which the man is not likely to forget who has once heard
it,--whether beneath his foot, as he steps upon the moss-grown log in the rank cedar-swamp,
or under his hand, when about to grasp with it a ledge of the rocks among which he is clambering,
unknowing of the serpent's dens. With clenched teeth, and hair that rustled like the sedge-grass,
I rose and woke up the obedient gas, which flashed tremulously on the scales of an enormous
rattlesnake coiled round the mice's cage, tightening his folds as he whizzed his infernal warning,
and darting out his lightning tongue with baffled fury at the trembling group in the middle
of the cage. This I saw by the first flash. Grasping a sword from among the weapons with which
the walls were studded, I made a pass to sever the monster; but the Mangouste was quicker than
I, as he darted upon the coils of the serpent, which, in a moment, fell heavily to the floor,
a writhing, headless mass.

In the heavy dreams which haunted me during the sleep from which I had just been roused, I
had a vision of the planter of the balcony with a snake coiled round his naked arm. Who so
dull as to require an interpreter for such plain speakings? Rushing down-stairs, I burst open
the door of that person's room with one kick, and there, in the middle of the floor, half-dressed
and bending over a censer of red-hot charcoal, knelt Mr. Désolé Arcubus, the poison-man of
Mrs. Silvernails boarding-house. His features were collapsed and livid, and he held his left
arm, which was much swollen and discolored, close over the red-hot coals, basting it wildly,
the while, with ladlefuls of some hot liquid, while he crammed into his mouth, at intervals,
a handful of herb-fodder of some kind from a salad-bowl on the floor beside him. He was rapidly
growing faint and sinking, but indicated his wishes by signs, and one of several strangers
who now entered the room continued the fomenting treatment, while another ran for medical assistance.

There was an open letter on the table, which I had no hesitation in reading, when I saw at
a glance that it threw light on the matter. The following is an exact copy of it:--

"Hollow Rock----County. N. Y. 17 Jewly. 18--

MR. HARKABUS dear Sir.

a cording to promis i send the sneak by Xpress. He is the Largest and wust Sneak we have ketched
In these parts. Bit a cow wich died in 2.40 likeways her calf of fright. Hope the sneak weed
growed up strong and harty. By eting and drinking of that wede the greatest sneak has no power.
Smeling of it a loan will cure a small sneak ader or the like. I go in upon the dens tomorough
and if we find any Pufing Aders will Xpres them to you per Xpress.

Yr. oblgd. servt. SILENUS CLUCK."

Here was the whole story in a nutshell. For his experiments in septic poisons, Mr. Arcubus
had hired this apartment, with its convenient balcony for the cultivation of his antidotes.
Having prepared his decoctions, he had this night caused himself to be bitten by the snake,
which, disgusted probably at its services being then rudely dispensed with, had followed its
guiding instinct up to the room where the animals were, making its way through the holes nibbled
by the Mangouste underneath the doors. A cold shudder seized me when I guessed the reality
of the sense of something gliding over me in the night. The hunger of the reptile had steered
him straight to the cage of the mice, whose cry of agony at the presence of the great enemy
of mouse-kind had fortunately roused me from my lethargy,--for the rattle of the snake is but
a drowsy sound, and will not awaken the sleeper. How the Mangouste came to appear on the scene
at the nick of time, I know not. He might have come in at the open window, or possibly had
been sleeping, since I missed him, among the trappings and traveller's gear with which the
room was lumbered.

And these were the delights of lodgings,--of lodgings without board! And who could see the
end of it all?--for, if snake-poison lurked on the stairs, probably hydrophobia was tied up
in the cupboard. Brief time I expended in making my arrangements to quit, having first seen
Mr. Arcubus carted away to a hospital, where by skilful treatment he slowly recovered. For
the Mangouste and the mice, the parrots and the blasphemous macaw, I engaged temporary board
and lodging with a bird-and-rabbit man in the neighborhood, telegraphing De Vonville that I
had departed from lodgings forever,--lodgings for single gentlemen, without board.

But, on leaving the house, I did not forget the dust-colored old woman, whose last words to
me, as I tipped her with a gratuity, were oracular:--"Forty long years and more have I lived
in lodgin'-houses and never before seen a sarpint. It behooves all on us, now, to be watchful
for what may be coming next, and wakeful. Circumspectangular."

I live in a hotel now, a very noisy life, and fearfully expensive. "But what do you wish, my
friend?" as the French say, in their peculiar idiom. Believing in the ancient Egyptians, who
worshipped the Nilotic ichneumon, I have privately canonized his cousin, the Mangouste, by
the style and title of St. Mungo; and if ever surplus funds are discovered to my credit in
any solvent bank, at present unknown to me, I will certainly devote a moiety of them to the
foundation of a neat row of alms-cages, for the reception of decayed members of the family
of White Mice.

FOR CHRISTIE'S SAKE.

  Upon us falls the shadow of night,
  And darkened is our day:
  My love will greet the morning light
  Four hundred miles away.
  God love her, torn so swift and far
  From hearts so like to break!
  And God love all who are good to her,
  For Christie's sake!

  I know, whatever spot of ground
  In any land we tread,
  I know the Eternal Arms are round,
  That heaven is overhead;
  And faith the mourning heart will heal,
  But many fears will make
  Our spirits faint, our fond hearts kneel,
  For Christie's sake.

  Good bye, dear! be they kind to you,
  As though you were their ain!
  My daisy opens to the dew,
  But shuts against the rain.
  Never will new moon glad our eyes
  But offerings we shall make
  To old God Wish, and prayers will rise
  For Christie's sake.

  Four years ago we struck our tent;
  O'er homeless babes we yearned;
  Our all--three darlings--with us went,
  But only two returned!
  While life yet bleeds into her grave,
  Love ventures one more stake;
  Hush, hush, poor hearts! if big, be brave,
  For Christie's sake!

  Like crown to most ambitious brows
  Was Christie to us given,
  To make our home a holy house
  And nursery of heaven.
  Oh, softer was her bed of rest
  Than lily's on the lake!
  Peace filled so deep each billowy breast,
  For Christie's sake!

  To music played by harps and hands
  Invisible were we drawn
  O'er charmèd seas, through faëry lands,
  Under a clearer dawn:
  We entered our new world of love
  With blessings in our wake,
  While prospering heavens smiled above,
  For Christie's sake.

  We gazed with proud eyes luminous
  On such a gift of grace,--
  All heaven narrowed down to us
  In one dear little face!
  And many a pang we felt, dear wife,
  With hurt of heart and ache
  All shut within like clasping knife,
  For Christie's sake.

  I would no tears might e'er run down
  Her patient face, beside
  Such happy pearls of heart as crown
  Young mother, new-made bride!
  For 'tis a face that, looking up
  To passing heaven, might make
  An angel stop, a blessing drop,
  For Christie's sake.

  If Love in that child's heart of hers
  Should breathe and break its calm,
  With trouble sweet as that which stirs
  The brooding buds of balm,--
  Listening at ear of peeping pearl,
  Glistening in eyes that shake
  Their sweet dew down,--God bless our girl,
  For Christie's sake!

  But, Father, if our babe must mourn,
  Be merciful and kind!
  And if our gentle lamb be shorn,
  Attemper thou the wind!
  Across the Deluge guide our Dove,
  And to thy bosom take
  With arm of love, and shield above,
  For Christie's sake!

  We have had sorrows many and strange:
  Poor Christie I when I'm gone,
  Some of my words will weirdly change,
  If she read sadly on!
  Lightnings, from what was dark of old,
  With meanings strange will break
  Of sorrows hid or dimly told,
  For Christie's sake.

  Wife, we should still try hard to win
  The best for our dear child,
  And keep a resting-place within,
  When all without grows wild:
  As on the winter graves the snow
  Falls softly, flake by flake,
  Our love should whitely clothe our woe,
  For Christie's sake.

  For one will wake at midnight drear
  From out a dream of death,
  And find no dear head pillowed near,
  No sound of peaceful breath!
  May no weak wailing words arise,
  No bitter thoughts awake
  To see the tears in Memory's eyes:
  For Christie's sake!

  And There, where many crownless kings
  Of earth a crown shall wear,
  The martyrs who have borne the pangs
  Their palm at last shall bear,--
  When with our lily pure of sin
  Our heavenward way we take,
  There may we walk with welcome in,
  For Christie's sake!

THE NURSERY BLARNEY-STONE.

Where is it kept? We have often longed for a sight of that precious bit of aërolite, that talismanic
moon-stone and bewildering boulder, to which the lips of all devoted to infantile education
must be religiously pressed.

In vain have we searched in the closet, where the headless dolls and tailless horses, the collapsed
drum and the torn primer, are put away. We have privately climbed to the summit of the clothes-press,
we have surreptitiously invaded the nurse's own private work-basket, lured by disappointing
lumps of wax and fragments of rhubarb-root; but we did not find it. We believe in its existence
none the less. Real as the coronation-stone of the Scottish kings now in Westminster Abbey,
as the Caaba at Mecca, as the loadstone mountain against which dear old Sinbad was wrecked,
as the meteor which fell into the State of Connecticut and the volcanic island which rose out
of the Straits of Messina, as the rock of Plymouth, or the philosopher's stone,--yet we have
sought in vain for it, and only know of it as of the Great Carbuncle, by the light it sheds.

"Pray, my good Sir," ask legions of fond parents, "what do you mean? Is it Dalby's Carminative,
Daffy's Elixir, Brown's Syrup of Squills, or White's Magnetic Mixture? Is it of the soothing
or the coercing system? a substitute for lollipops or for birch? rock candy or rock the cradle?"

"Look" not "into your heart," responds our Muse, but into your nursery, and write!

We invite a general review of all infantry divisions. We may be, for aught you know, Mrs. Ellis
_incog_., warning the mothers of America, as of yore the Cornelias of England. What is the
Nursery Blarney-Stone? You have none in your own airy and southern-exposed first-pair-back,
(_Nov-Anglicè>_, "the keeping-room chamber,") where you daily water and rake your young olive-sprouts?
upon your word of honor, Madam, you have not? You never tell nursery-tales of ghosts or fairies;
you have conscientiously stripped from the dark closet every vestige of a legend; you have
permitted juvenile inspection of the chimney, to prove that Santa Claus could not descend its
sooty flue without grievous nigritude of the anticipated doll's frock, and have logically appealed
to Miss Bran Beeswax's satin silveriness in proof of the non-existence of the saint beloved
of Christmas-tide. Nay, more, you tell us you have actually invited inspection of the overnight
process of filling the stockings, (you brute!) and you appropriately label each gift, "From
Papa," "From Uncle Edward," "From Sister Kate," "From dear Mamma," lest a figment of the supernatural
untruth should linger in the infantile brain. The "Arabian Nights'" (and "Arabian Days'") "Entertainments"
are on your _Index Expurgatorius_. You have banned Bluebeard, and treated Red Ridinghood as
no better than the Bonnet Rouge of domestic Jacobinism.

You are a model mother, with whom even the late Mr. Gradgrind might be satisfied. "Truth, crushed
to earth" by the whole race of nurses of the good old time, rises again triumphant at your
hearth-stone. Then answer us,--Why did you tell your little ones to-night, as the sparrows
were making an unusually loquacious preparation for their dormitories, that the little birds
were singing their evening hymns, and exhort, thereupon, your unwilling nestlings to a rival
performance of the verses of Dr. Watts? You ought to be prepared to explain, also, for the
benefit of any sucking Socrates, why it is that these feathered choristers have their "revival
seasons," and are terrible backsliders during the moulting period. When you looked out of the
nursery-window, into the poultry-yard, and heard the noisy confabulation of the motherly hens
and pert pullets, you should be prepared to state upon what theological principles it is that
psalmody is not the wont of the Gallinacae. Are the Biddies given over to a reprobate mind,
because you don't happen to like their vocalization? Is it only the Piccolomini and Linds of
the feathered kingdom who have a right to practise sacred music?

And how about that other stupendous fiction of the harvest-moon? Tell us, since you are voluntarily
in the confessional, tell us why you kept back that explanation of its dependence on the Precession
of the Equinoxes, which, at Professor Cram's finishing examination, in your school-girl days,
you so glibly recited before your admiring papa and mamma? Do you really believe that the solar
and stellar system was arranged to accommodate "the reapers reaping early" of the little island
of Great Britain?

We think you said angels! When little Isabel Montgomery, with her long, sunny curls, and sweet,
blue eyes, was taken away, you made a very touching application of her decease, to illustrate
what all good people were to become in the unknown world. How did you get out of the scrape
which followed the remark of your downright eldest, remembering also the departure of a good-natured,
obese, elderly neighbor,--"Then I thpothe Mithter Thimmonth ith a big angel"? So he probably
is; but Simmons's two hundred pounds of earthliness did not suit your sentimentality quite
as readily as the little fairy who always wore such clean pantalets and never tore her pretty
white frocks in a game of romps. Is beatification dependent upon the platform-balance? and
what amount of flesh will turn the scale in favor of the _Avvocato del Diavolo?_

Once upon a time, a little boy was allowed to ramble in the woods. Being an adventurous little
boy, he saw and coveted, and also conquered, (in the good old English sense of the word,) a
pretty bird's-nest and its contents, to wit, several shiny, speckled eggs. He brought them
home for triumphant display. He set them out upon the drawing-room table, and called a family
conclave to admire and exult. What was the surprise and grief of the infant Catiline, to find
himself received, not with applause, but horror! He was accused of robbery, was threatened
with Solomonic penalties, was finally condemned to penance at a side-table upon dry bread and
water, while his innocent brothers and sisters were regaling upon chickens and custards. He
was edified over his scanty meal by melting descriptions of the mother-bird returning to the
desolated home, of her positive sorrow and her probable pining to death. And the same little
boy, looking out through the prison-bars of the nursery-window, saw his mother take by the
hand his weeping sister (much cast down by the fraternal wickedness) and lead her to the nest
of another mother-bird, and then and there encourage her to perform the same act of spoliation.
True, the eggs were not speckled and small, but of a very pretty white, and quite a handful
for the juvenile fingers. But the bereaved "parient" was not slender and active,--in fact,
was rather a tame, confiding, dumpy and dull, pepper-and-salt-colored dame. Her complaints
were not touching, but rather ludicrous,--so much so, indeed, as to suggest to the human hen-bird
that "Biddy was laughing to think what a nice breakfast little Carrie would have off her nice
eggs!" The young Trenck, from aloft beholding, could not but stumble upon certain "glittering
generalities," as, that "eggs was eggs," and that the return of them on the fowl's part, in
consideration of an advance of corn, was not altogether a voluntary barter,--quite, in short,
after the pattern of Coolie apprenticeship. And thus the high moral lesson of the morning was
sadly shaken. Of course this boy did not belong to any of the model mammas, for whom we are
writing.

A large fragment of the Nursery Blarney-Stone has been made over, to have and to hold, to the
writers of the Children's Astor-Place Library. We yawn over poetical justice in novels, and
only tolerate it as an amusing absurdity in genteel comedy, for the sake of getting the curtain
rapidly down over the benedictory guardian and the virtue-rewarded fair, who are impatient
themselves to be off to a very different distribution of cakes and ale. We know that the hero
and the heroine walk complacently away in the company of the dejected villain to wash off their
rouge and burnt cork, and experience the practical domestic felicity which is ordered for them
on the same principles as for us who sit in the pit and applaud. If it were not so, and if
we did not know it to be so, and if we did not know that they know that we know it, we should
perhaps feel very differently.

Why must we, then, be conscientiously constrained to mark out such a very different plan for
our children at home? Why is the life of little boys and girls in books always pictured on
the foot-lights pattern? We remember that we were of those good little boys and girls,--quite
as good as that one who saved his pennies for the missionary-box, or that other who hemmed
a tiny pocket-handkerchief against the nasal needs of a forlorn infant in Burmah; but we don't
remember ever (then or since) to have encountered any of those delightful (and strong-minded)
mothers or those sensible and always well-informed fathers of whom we read. Neither in our
own particularly pleasant home, nor in any where we went, (at three, P.M., to take an early
tea with preparatory barmecidal rehearsals on doll's china,) did we ever meet them. Perhaps
they were the progenitors of the authors of the books. Mr. Thackeray has introduced us to sundry
gentlemen and ladies bearing a faint likeness to them; but he also permitted us to behold Lady
Beckie Crawley _née_ Sharpe boxing little Rawdon's ears, and to meet Mrs. Hobson Newcome at
one of her delightful "at homes," where Runmun Loll, of East Indian origin, was the lion of
the evening.

We couldn't get through five pages of Hannah More, on a wet day, at the dreariest railway-station,
when the expected train was telegraphed as "not due under two hours." What have the innocent
heirs of our name done, that Hannah should continue under numberless _noms-de-plume_ to cater
for them?

We know there must have been a large lump of the Blarney-Stone, conglomerate probably, kept
in the desk of our reverend instructor in the ways of syntax and the dismal paths of numbers.
We have a lively recollection of the countless tables of foreign coins which we committed to
memory, and of the provoking additions and subtractions we underwent to reduce to dollars and
cents of the Federal denomination the fortunes of a score of Rothschilds. But when, under the
shadow of the Drachenfels, we attempted to reimburse the Teutonic waiter for a cup of _café
noir_, we were ignominiously constrained to hold forth a handful of coin and to await the white-jacketed
and bearded one's pleasure, as he helped himself.

We have a strong impression that we should never have attained to our present proud position
of being allowed to write for (and be printed in) the "Atlantic Monthly," without much previous
polish, through the companionship of the fairer sex. Why was it made a crime worthy of Draconian
sternness to address our she-comrades in the pleasant paths of learning? Why did we behold
the severe Magister Morum himself, in utter forgetfulness of his own rule, mingle in the mazy
dance on an evening occasion, at which we were allowed to sit up? Did the girls of a larger
growth lose their dangerous qualities on arriving at belle-hood? Why were our primary _billets-doux_
confiscated, and our offending palms, like Cranmer's, visited with the first penalty, though
we had been obliged to walk blushingly the gauntlet of fifty pairs of maiden eyes and deliver
to the "female principal" of the girls' school across the entry notes which we have since but
too much reason to conclude bore no reference to the affairs of the school-realm? There is
a bit of the Blarney-Stone (always of the nursery formation) which we are sure is discoverable
to the true geologic eye in the underpinning of the Fifth Congregational Society's house of
worship,--then called a meeting-house, now, we believe, styled a church. For all sermons therein
delivered were supposed to be for our personal edification; albeit we were not, by reason of
our tender years, specifically exposed to the heresies of Origen or Pelagius. It must have
been on some afternoon when we were absent, then, that Dr. Baxter delivered the discourse of
which we found a commentary written on the fly-leaf of the hymn-book in our pew,--"Terribly
tedious this P.M., isn't he?" We have always felt that a great opportunity was lost to us.
We should doubtless have been permitted to indulge unchecked in the solution of that lost mystery
of our boyhood, as to the exact number of little brass rods in the front of the gallery, to
scratch our initials with a pin upon the pew-side, or, propped by the paternal arm, to sweetly
slumber till nineteenthly's close. No such sermon was ever pronounced in our hearing. Oh, golden
time of youth! precious season thus lost! We intend yet revisiting that ancient and time-worn
edifice, and, borrowing the keys of the sexton, we mean to revel in all and sundry those delights
of "boyhood's breezy hour" from which we were debarred by that untimely absence. Like the old
gentleman who visited nightly Van Amburg's exhibition of the head-in-the-lion's-mouth feat,
in the moral certainty that a single absence would fall inevitably upon the one night when
Leo would vary the programme by decapitation,--so we lost the one afternoon when that dull
discourse diversified the pious eloquence of Jotham Baxter, D.D., disciple of Dr. Hopkins and
believer in Cotton Mather. Many a refreshing slumber has sealed our eyes under subsequent outpourings
of divinity, but never with that entire sense of permissible indulgence which then would certainly
have been ours. Why was it--except for the Blarney-Stone--that we were always checked in any
Sabba'day notes and queries of what we had noticed in the sanctuary? Why was it wicked and
deserving of a double infliction of catechism (Assembly's) for us to have seen that Bob Jones
had a new jacket, and that he took five marbles and a jack-knife (in aggravating display) out
of its pockets, while our mother and sisters were enabled, without let or hindrance to the
most absorbing devotion, to chronicle every bonnet and ribbon within the walls of the temple?

Certainly, the family-physician carried--as well he might--a bit of the precious rock in his
waistcoat-pocket; for all our subsequent experience of _materia medica_ has never revealed
to us the then patent fact, that all our bodily ailments were the consequence of those particular
sports which damaged clothes and disturbed the quiet of the household. Surely, the connection
between the measles and sailing on the millpond was about as obvious as that between Macedon
and Monmouth; and whooping-cough must have had a very long road to travel, if it originated
in our nutting frolic, when we returned home with a ghastly gash in our trousers-knee.

The Blarney-Stone got into our "Manual of History"; for either it or the "Boston Centinel"
must have made some egregious mistakes as to the character of some famous men who nursed our
country's fortunes. So, too, did the author of "Familiar Letters on Public Characters"; for
he was anything but an indorser of the History-Book, with its wood-cuts (after Trumbull and
West) of the death of General Wolfe, exclaiming, "They run who run the French then I die happy,"
and of General Warren at the Battle of Bunker's Hill, with its amazing portraits of the first
six Presidents, and the death of Tecumseh. Nay, we have found hard work to reconcile our faith,
as per History-Book, in the loveliness of those gentlemen whom stress of weather and a treacherous
pilot put ashore upon Plymouth beach, (where they luckily found a rock to step upon,) with
a certain sweet pastoral called "Evangeline." We found ourselves, just after reading the proceedings
of the Plymouth Monument Association, the other day, pondering over the possible fate of the
Dutch colony of the Mannahattoes, supposing that the Mayflower had made (as was purposed) the
Highlands of Neversink instead of Shankpainter Hill at the end of Cape Cod. It was a perilous
meditation, for we found our belief in Plutarch's Lives, the Charter Oak, and the existence
of the Maelström all sliding away from under us. "Think," we said, "if New York had been Boston,
how it would have fared with the good Knickerbockers!"

Who was our geographer? Why did he insist upon our believing that all French men and women
passed their time in mutual bows and "curchies," and that all Italians were on their knees
to fat priests, clean and rosy-looking? Why did he palm upon us that outrageous fiction of
three kings (like those of Cologne) sitting in full ermine robes, with gold crowns on their
heads, all alone in a sort of summer-parlor, where the heat, must have been at 80° in the shade,
engaged in disparting Poland? We have seen, say, a million of Frenchmen, and nearly the same
of Italians, since then, with a dozen or so of kings and emperors,--but never the faintest
likeness to those deluding pictures. We learned at the same time, by painful rote, the population
of various capital cities; but we cannot find in any statistic-book gazetteer, neither in McCulloch
nor in Worcester, any of the old, familiar numbers. Also in that same Wonder-Book of Malte-Brun,
edited by Pietro il Parlatore, we recall a sketch of a boy running for life down a slope of
at least 45°, just before a snowball some five hundred times as big as the one our school-boys
unitedly rolled up in the back-yard. It was a snowball, round, symmetrical, just such a magnified
copy of the backyard one as might be expected to follow a boy in dreams after too much Johnny-cake
for supper. And that was an avalanche. We have stood since then under the shadow of the Jungfrau,
on the Wengern Alp, at the selfsame spot where Byron beheld the fall of so many. We had the
noble lord's luck, (as most people have.) and saw dozens, but not one big snowball.

We believe there has been reform since that day. Thanks to the London "Illustrated News" and
the "Penny Magazine," juster ideas visit the ingenious youth of the present age. But we solemnly
declare that we grew up in the belief that the President of the United States was daily ushered
to his carriage by a long array of bareheaded and bowing menials, and that his official dress
was a cocked hat and knee-breeches. We furthermore make affidavit that we supposed all the
nobility of Europe to be in the habit of driving four-in-hand over wooden-legged beggars. And
we also depose and say, that we had no other idea of royalty than as continually clad in coronation-robes,
with six peers in the same, with huge wigs, as attendants. All this upon the faith of that
same Malte-Brun, _à la_ P.P. Wasn't this a pretty dish to set before--not a king-but a young
republican, who fancied himself the equal of kings? And lastly, upon the same authority, we
held that "the horrible custom of eating human flesh does not belong exclusively to any nation."
We have seen, we repeat, men and cities. We have dined at the Rocher de Cancale, the Maison
Dorée, at Delmonico's, at German Gasthauses, at Italian Trattorias, at "Joe's" in London, the
Trosachs Inn in the Highlands, and upon all peculiar and national dishes, from the _sardines
au gratin_ of Naples to the _sauer kraut_ of Berlin, from the "one fish-ball" of Boston to
the hog and hominy of Virginia,--but never yet upon any _carte_ did we encounter "Cold Missionary"
or "_Enfans en potage Fijien_."

Where, we repeat, is the Nursery Blarney-Stone? or rather, where is it not?

The gentle reader (prepared to corroborate with many a juvenile reminiscence) must by this
time be prepared for our moral; and it is very briefly this:--Is it not time to consider the
budding brain as entitled to fair play? We, the dear middle-aged people, must surely remember
that it has taken us much toil and trouble to unlearn many things. We know, that, when we pen
anything for our coevals, it is with due attention to such facts as we can command,--that we
have a wholesome fear of criticism,--that, if we make blunders in our seamanship, even though
professedly land-lubbers, some awful Knickerbocker stands by with the Marine Dictionary in
hand to pounce upon us. But for the poor little innocents at home any cast-off rags of knowledge
are good enough. We hand down to them the worn-out platitudes of history which we have carefully
eschewed. We humbug their inexperience with the same nursery fables beneath whose leonine hide
our matured vision detects the ass's ears.

We have been writing lightly enough, but with a purpose. For, absurd as may seem the fictions
we have sported with, are they not types of many other far more serious ones which we cram
down the throats of our rising generation, long after we ourselves have begun to disbelieve
them? There is a conventional teaching which we decorously administer, and leave our pupils
to disavow it when they can. History is still taught in our public and private schools, seasoned
with all the exploded blunders of the past. Men grow up to full manhood with ideas of foreign
lands as ridiculous and unfounded as the pictures over which we have been amusing ourselves
just now in our old Geography. Young America is ignorant enough, Heaven knows, of a great deal
he ought to learn; but what shall we say of our persistently cramming him with what he ought
not to learn? No exploding process is strong enough, it would seem, to blow away the countless
pretty stories with which juvenile histories are embroidered. Niebuhr and Arnold have forever
finished Romulus and Remus and the Livian legends, for maturer beliefs; but childhood goes
on in the same track. Lord Macaulay's Romance of English History has been riddled by the acute
reviewers; but he will be abridged for the use of schools, and not a fiction about William
Penn, or John of Marlborough, or Grahame of Claverhouse, be left out.

Can you plant a garden with weeds and then pull them up again in secure trust that no lurking
burdocks and Canada thistle shall remain? Dear model mothers and prudent papas, be not afraid
of wholesome fiction, as such, duly labelled and left uncorked. It will be far better to administer
plenty of "Robinson Crusoe" and "Sinbad" and "Arabian Nights," good ringing old ballads with
a healthy sentiment at bottom of manly honor and womanly affection, fairy stories and ancient
legends, than all the mince-meat histories and biographies that nurse-wise have been chewed
soft for the use of tender gums. Let us all, for the benefit of ourselves, keep clear of cant;
but if cant we must, why let it be for those who will cant back again, laughing in their sleeves
the while, and not for the dear little faces so solemnly upturned to ours, whose honest blue
eyes (black or green, if you please, as you take your tea) confidingly meet ours.

American education, especially home education, is wanting not in quantity so much as quality;
in that it _is_ fearfully lacking, and we, the educators, are the ones to blame for it.

THE PROFESSOR'S STORY.

CHAPTER V.

AN OLD-FASHIONED DESCRIPTIVE CHAPTER.

It was a comfort to get to a place with something like society, with residences which had pretensions
to elegance, with people of some breeding, with a newspaper, and "stores" to advertise in it,
and with two or three churches to keep each other alive by wholesome agitation. Rockland was
such a place.

Some of the natural features of the town have been described already. The Mountain, of course,
was what gave it its character, and redeemed it from wearing the commonplace expression which
belongs to ordinary country-villages. Beautiful, wild, invested with the mystery which belongs
to untrodden spaces, and with enough of terror to give it dignity, it had yet closer relations
with the town over which it brooded than the passing stranger knew of. Thus, it made a local
climate by cutting off the northern winds and holding the sun's heat like a garden-wall. Peach-trees,
which, on the northern side of the mountain, hardly ever came to fruit, ripened abundant crops
in Rockland.

But there was still another relation between the mountain and the town at its foot, which strangers
were not likely to hear alluded to, and which was oftener thought of than spoken of by its
inhabitants. Those high-impending forests,--"hangers," as White of Selborne would have called
them,--sloping far upward and backward into the distance, had always an air of menace blended
with their wild beauty. It seemed as if some heaven-scaling Titan had thrown his shaggy robe
over the bare, precipitous flanks of the rocky summit, and it might at any moment slide like
a garment flung carelessly on the nearest chance-support, and, so sliding, crush the village
out of being, as the Rossberg when it tumbled over on the valley of Goldau.

Persons have been known to remove from the place, after a short residence in it, because they
were haunted day and night by the thought of this awful green wall piled up into the air over
their heads. They would lie awake of nights, thinking they heard the muffled snapping of roots,
as if a thousand acres of the mountain-side were tugging to break away, like the snow from
a house-roof, and a hundred thousand trees were clinging with all their fibres to hold back
the soil just ready to peel away and crash down with all its rocks and forest-growths. And
yet, by one of those strange contradictions we are constantly finding in human nature, there
were natives of the town who would come back thirty or forty years after leaving it, just to
nestle under this same threatening mountain-side, as old men sun themselves against southward-facing
walls. The old dreams and legends of danger added to the attraction. If the mountain should
ever slide, they had a kind of feeling as if they ought to be there. It was a fascination like
that which the rattlesnake is said to exert.

This comparison naturally suggests the recollection of that other source of danger which was
an element in the everyday life of the Rockland people. The folks in some of the neighboring
towns had a joke against them, that a Rocklander couldn't hear a bean-pod rattle without saying,
"The Lord have mercy on us!" It is very true, that many a nervous old lady has had a terrible
start, caused by some mischievous young rogue's giving a sudden shake to one of these noisy
vegetable products in her immediate vicinity. Yet, strangely enough, many persons missed the
excitement of the possibility of a fatal bite in other regions, where there were nothing but
black and green and striped snakes, mean ophidians, having the spite of the nobler serpent
without his venom,-- poor crawling creatures, whom Nature would not trust with a poison-bag.
Many natives of Rockland did unquestionably experience a certain gratification in this infinitesimal
sense of danger. It was noted that the old people retained their hearing longer than in other
places. Some said it was the softened climate, but others believed it was owing to the habit
of keeping their ears open whenever they were walking through the grass or in the woods. At
any rate, a slight sense of danger is often an agreeable stimulus. People sip their _crème
de noyau_ with a peculiar tremulous pleasure, because there is a bare possibility that it may
contain prussic acid enough to knock them over; in which case they will lie as dead as if a
thunder-cloud had emptied itself into the earth through their brain and marrow.

But Rockland had other features which helped to give it a special character. First of all,
there was one grand street which was its chief glory. Elm Street it was called, naturally enough,
for its elms made a long, pointed-arched gallery of it through most of its extent. No natural
Gothic arch compares, for a moment, with that formed by two American elms, where their lofty
jets of foliage shoot across each other's ascending curves, to intermingle their showery flakes
of green. When one looks through a long double row of these, as in that lovely avenue which
the poets of Yale remember so well,--

  "Oh, could the vista of my life but now as bright appear
  As when I first through Temple Street looked down thine espalier!"--

he beholds a temple not built with hands, fairer than any minster, with all its clustered stems
and flowering capitals, that ever grew in stone.

Nobody knows New England who is not on terms of intimacy with one of its elms. The elm comes
nearer to having a soul than any other vegetable creature among us. It loves man as man loves
it. It is modest and patient. It has a small flake of a seed which blows in everywhere and
makes arrangements for coming up by-and-by. So, in spring, one finds a crop of baby-elms among
his carrots and parsnips, very weak and small compared to those, succulent vegetables. The
baby-elms die, most of them, slain, unrecognized or unheeded, by hand or hoe, as meekly as
Herod's innocents. One of them gets overlooked, perhaps, until it has established a kind of
right to stay. Three generations of carrot and parsnip-consumers have passed away, yourself
among them, and now let your great-grandson look for the baby-elm. Twenty-two feet of clean
girth, three hundred and sixty feet in the line that bounds its leafy circle, it covers the
boy with such a canopy as neither glossy-leafed oak nor insect-haunted linden ever lifted into
the summer skies.

Elm Street was the pride of Rockland, but not only on account of its Gothic-arched vista. In
this street were most of the great houses, or "mansion-houses," as it was usual to call them.
Along this street, also, the more nicely kept and neatly painted dwellings were chiefly congregated.
It was the correct thing for a Rockland dignitary to have a house in Elm Street.

A New England "mansion-house" is naturally square, with dormer windows projecting from the
roof, which has a balustrade with turned posts round it. It shows a good breadth of front-yard
before its door, as its owner shows a respectable expanse of clean shirt-front. It has a lateral
margin beyond its stables and offices, as its master wears his white wrist-bands showing beyond
his coat-cuffs. It may not have what can properly be called grounds, but it must have elbow-room,
at any rate. Without it, it is like a man who is always tight-buttoned for want of any linen
to show. The mansion-house which has had to button itself up tight in fences, for want of green
or gravel margin, will be advertising for boarders presently. The old English pattern of the
New England mansion-house, only on a somewhat grander scale, is Sir Thomas Abney's place, where
dear, good Dr. Watts said prayers for the family, and wrote those blessed hymns of his that
sing us into consciousness in our cradles, and come back to us in sweet, single verses, between
the momenta of wandering and of stupor, when we lie dying, and sound over us when we can no
longer hear them, bringing grateful tears to the hot, aching eyes beneath the thick, black
veils, and carrying the holy calm with them which filled the good man's heart, as he prayed
and sung under the shelter of the old English mansion-house.

Next to the mansion-houses, came the two-story, trim, white-painted, "genteel" houses, which,
being more gossipy and less nicely bred, crowded close up to the street, instead of standing
back from it with arms akimbo, like the mansion-houses. Their little front-yards were very
commonly full of lilac and syringa and other bushes, which were allowed to smother the lower
story almost to the exclusion of light and air, so that, what with small windows and small
windowpanes, and the darkness made by these choking growths of shrubbery, the front parlors
of some of these houses were the most tomb-like, melancholy places that could be found anywhere
among the abodes of the living. Their garnishing was apt to assist this impression. Large-patterned
carpets, which always look discontented in little rooms, hair-cloth furniture, black and shiny
as beetles' wing-cases, and centre-tables, with a sullen oil-lamp of the kind called astral
by our imaginative ancestors, in the centre,--these things were inevitable. In set piles round
the lamp was ranged the current literature of the day, in the form of Temperance Documents,
unbound numbers of one of the Unknown Public's Magazines with worn-out steel engravings and
high-colored fashion-plates, the Poems of a distinguished British author whom it is unnecessary
to mention, a volume of sermons, or a novel or two, or both, according to the tastes of the
family, and the Good Book, which is always Itself in the cheapest and commonest company. The
father of the family with his hand in the breast of his coat, the mother of the same in a wide-bordered
cap, sometimes a print of the Last Supper, by no means Morghen's, or the Father of his Country,
or the old General, or the Defender of the Constitution, or an unknown clergyman with an open
book before him,--these were the usual ornaments of the walls, the first two a matter of rigor,
the others according to politics and other tendencies.

This intermediate class of houses, wherever one finds them in New England towns, are very apt
to be cheerless and unsatisfactory. They have neither the luxury of the mansion-house nor the
comfort of the farm-house. They are rarely kept at an agreeable temperature. The mansion-house
has large fireplaces and generous chimneys, and is open to the sunshine. The farm-house makes
no pretensions, but it has a good warm kitchen, at any rate, and one can be comfortable there
with the rest of the family, without fear and without reproach. These lesser country-houses
of genteel aspirations are much given to patent subterfuges of one kind and another to get
heat without combustion. The chilly parlor and the slippery hair-cloth seat take the life out
of the warmest welcome. If one would make these places wholesome, happy, and cheerful, the
first precept would be,--The dearest fuel, plenty of it, and let half the heat go up the chimney.
If you can't afford this, don't try to live in a "genteel" fashion, but stick to the ways of
the honest farm-house.

There were a good many comfortable farm-houses scattered about Rockland. The best of them were
something of the following pattern, which is too often superseded of late by a more pretentious,
but infinitely less pleasing kind of rustic architecture. A little back from the road, seated
directly on the green sod, rose a plain wooden building, two stories in front, with a long
roof sloping backwards to within a few feet of the ground. This, like the "mansion-house,"
is copied from an old English pattern. Cottages of this model may be seen in Lancashire, for
instance, always with the same honest, homely look, as if their roofs acknowledged their relationship
to the soil out of which they sprung. The walls were unpainted, but turned by the slow action
of sun and air and rain to a quiet dove- or slate-color. An old broken mill- stone at the door,--a
well-sweep pointing like a finger to the heavens, which the shining round of water beneath
looked up at like a dark unsleeping eye,--a single large elm a little at one side,--a barn
twice as big as the house,--a cattle-yard, with

        "The white horns tossing above the wall,"--

some fields, in pasture or in crops, with low stone walls round them,--a row of beehives,--a
garden-patch, with roots, and currant-bushes, and many-hued holly-hocks, and swollen-stemmed,
globe-headed, seedling onions, and marigolds, and flower-de-luces, and lady's-delights, and
peonies, crowding in together, with southernwood in the borders, and woodbine and hops and
morning-glories climbing as they got a chance,--these were the features by which the Rockland-born
children remembered the farm-house, when they had grown to be men. Such are the recollections
that come over poor sailor-boys crawling out on reeling yards to reef topsails as their vessels
stagger round the stormy Cape; and such are the flitting images that make the eyes of old country-born
merchants look dim and dreamy, as they sit in their city palaces, warm with the after-dinner
flush of the red wave out of which Memory arises, as Aphrodite arose from the green waves of
the ocean.

Two meeting-houses stood on two eminences, facing each other, and looking like a couple of
fighting-cocks with their necks straight up in the air,--as if they would flap their roofs,
the next thing, and crow out of their upstretched steeples, and peck at each other's glass
eyes with their sharp-pointed weathercocks.

The first was a good pattern of the real old-fashioned New England meeting-house. It was a
large barn with windows, fronted by a square tower crowned with a kind of wooden bell inverted
and raised on legs, out of which rose a slender spire with the sharp-billed weathercock at
its summit. Inside, tall, square pews with flapping seats, and a gallery running round three
sides of the building. On the fourth side the pulpit, with a huge, dusty sounding-board hanging
over it. Here preached the Reverend Pierrepont Honeywood, D.D., successor, after a number of
generations, to the office and the parsonage of the Reverend Didymus Bean, before mentioned,
but not suspected of any of his alleged heresies. He held to the old faith of the Puritans,
and occasionally delivered a discourse which was considered by the hard-headed theologians
of his parish to have settled the whole matter fully and finally, so that now there was a good
logical basis laid down for the Millennium, which might begin at once upon the platform of
his demonstrations. Yet the Reverend Dr. Honeywood was fonder of preaching plain, practical
sermons about the duties of life, and showing his Christianity in abundant good works among
his people. It was noticed by some few of his flock, not without comment, that the great majority
of his texts came from the Gospels, and this more and more as he became interested in various
benevolent enterprises which brought him into relations with ministers and kind-hearted laymen
of other denominations. The truth is, that he was a man of a very warm, open, and exceedingly
_human_ disposition, and, although bred by a clerical father, whose motto was "_Sit anima mea
cum Puritanis_," he exercised his human faculties in the harness of his ancient faith with
such freedom that the straps of it got so loose they did not interfere greatly with the circulation
of the warm blood through his system. Once in a while he seemed to think it necessary to come
out with a grand doctrinal sermon, and then he would lapse away for while into preaching on
men's duties to each other and to society, and hit hard, perhaps, at some of the actual vices
of the time and place, and insist with such tenderness and eloquence on the great depth and
breadth of true Christian love and charity, that his oldest deacon shook his head, and wished
he had shown as much interest when he was preaching, three Sabbaths back, on Predestination,
or in his discourse against the Sabellians. But he was sound in the faith; no doubt of that.
Did he not preside at the council held in the town of Tamarack, on the other side of the mountain,
which expelled its clergyman for maintaining heretical doctrines? As presiding officer, he
did not vote, to be sure, but there was no doubt that he was all right; he had some of the
Edwards blood in him, and that couldn't very well let him go wrong.

The meeting-house on the other and opposite summit was of a more modern style, considered by
many a great improvement on the old New England model, so that it is not uncommon for a country
parish to pull down its old meeting-house, which has been preached in for a hundred years or
so, and put up one of these more elegant edifices. The new building was in what may be called
the florid shingle-Gothic manner. Its pinnacles and crockets and other ornaments were, like
the body of the building, all of pine wood,--an admirable material, as it is very soft and
easily worked, and can be painted of any color desired. Inside, the walls were stuccoed in
imitation of stone,--first a dark-brown square, then two light-brown squares, then another
dark-brown square, and so on, to represent the accidental differences of shade always noticeable
in the real stones of which walls are built. To be sure, the architect could not help getting
his party-colored squares in almost as regular rhythmical order as those of a chess-board;
but nobody can avoid doing things in a systematic and serial way; indeed, people who wish to
plant trees in natural clumps know very well that they cannot keep from making regular lines
and symmetrical figures, unless by some trick or other, as that one of throwing up into the
air a peck of potatoes and sticking in a tree wherever a potato happens to fall. The pews of
this meeting-house were the usual oblong ones, where people sit close together with a ledge
before them to support their hymn-books, liable only to occasional contact with the back of
the next pew's heads or bonnets, and a place running under the seat of that pew where hats
could be deposited,--always at the risk of the owner, in case of injury by boots or crickets.

In this meeting-house preached the Reverend Chauncy Fairweather, a divine of the "Liberal"
school, as it is commonly called, bred at that famous college which used to be thought, twenty
or thirty years ago, to have the monopoly of training young men in the milder forms of heresy.
His ministrations were attended with decency, but not followed with enthusiasm. "The beauty
of virtue" got to be an old story at last. "The moral dignity of human nature" ceased to excite
a thrill of satisfaction, after some hundred repetitions. It grew to be a dull business, this
preaching against stealing and intemperance, while he knew very well that the thieves were
prowling round orchards and empty houses, instead of being there to hear the sermon, and that
the drunkards, being rarely church-goers, get little good by the statistics and eloquent appeals
of the preacher. Every now and then, however, the Reverend Mr. Fairweather let off a polemic
discourse against his neighbor opposite, which waked his people up a little; but it was a languid
congregation, at best,--very apt to stay away from meeting in the afternoon, and not at all
given to extra evening services. The minister, unlike his rival of the other side of the way,
was a down-hearted and timid kind of man. He went on preaching as he had been taught to preach,
but he bad misgivings at times. There was a little Roman Catholic church at the foot of the
hill where his own was placed, which he always had to pass on Sundays. He could never look
on the thronging multitudes that crowded its pews and aisles or knelt bare-headed on its steps,
without a longing to get in among them and go down on his knees and enjoy that luxury of devotional
contact which makes a worshipping throng as different from the same numbers praying apart as
a bed of coals is from a trail of scattered cinders.

"Oh, if I could but huddle in with those poor laborers and working-women!" he would say to
himself. "If I could but breathe that atmosphere, stifling though it be, yet made holy by ancient
litanies, and cloudy with the smoke of hallowed incense, for one hour, instead of droning over
these moral precepts to my half-sleeping congregation!" The intellectual isolation of his sect
preyed upon him; for, of all the terrible things to natures like his, the most terrible is
to belong to a minority. No person that looked at his thin and sallow cheek, his sunken and
sad eye, his tremulous lip, his contracted forehead, or who heard his querulous, though not
unmusical voice, could fail to see that his life was an uneasy one, that he was engaged in
some inward conflict. His dark, melancholic aspect contrasted with his seemingly cheerful creed,
and was all the more striking, as the worthy Dr. Honeywood, professing a belief which made
him a passenger on board a shipwrecked planet, was yet a most good-humored and companionable
gentleman, whose laugh on week-days did one as much good to listen to as the best sermon he
ever delivered on a Sunday.

A few miles from Rockland was a pretty little Episcopal church, with a roof like a wedge of
cheese, a square tower, a stained window, and a trained rector, who read the service with such
ventral depth of utterance and rrreduplication of the rrresonant letter, that his own mother
would not have known him for her son, if the good woman had not ironed his surplice and put
it on with her own hands.

There were two public-houses in the place: one dignified with the name of the Mountain House,
somewhat frequented by city-people in the summer months, large-fronted, three-storied, balconied,
boasting a distinct ladies'-drawing-room, and spreading a _table d'hôte_ of some pretensions;
the other, "Pollard's Tahvern," in the common speech,--a two-story building, with a bar-room,
once famous, where there was a great smell of hay and boots and pipes and all other bucolic-flavored
elements,--where games of checkers were played on the back of the bellows with red and white
kernels of corn, or with beans and coffee,--where a man slept in a box-settle at night, to
wake up early passengers,--where teamsters came in, with wooden-handled whips and coarse frocks,
reinforcing the bucolic flavor of the atmosphere, and middle-aged male gossips, sometimes including
the squire of the neighboring law-office, gathered to exchange a question or two about the
news, and then fall into that solemn state of suspended animation which the temperance bar-rooms
of modern days produce on human beings, as the Grotta del Cane does on dogs in the well-known
experiments related by travellers. This bar-room used to be famous for drinking and story-telling,
and sometimes fighting, in old times. That was when there were rows of decanters on the shelf
behind the bar, and a hissing vessel of hot water ready, to make punch, and three or four _loggerheads_
(long irons clubbed at the end) were always lying in the fire in the cold season, waiting to
be plunged into sputtering and foaming mugs of flip,---a goodly compound, speaking according
to the flesh, made with beer and sugar, and a certain suspicion of strong waters, over which
a little nutmeg being grated, and in it the hot iron being then allowed to sizzle, there results
a peculiar singed aroma, which the wise regard as a warning to remove themselves at once out
of the reach of temptation.

But the bar of Pollard's Tahvern no longer presented its old attractions, and the loggerheads
had long disappeared from the fire. In place of the decanters, were boxes containing "lozengers,"
as they were commonly called, sticks of candy in jars, cigars in tumblers, a few lemons, grown
hard-skinned and marvellously shrunken by long exposure, but still feebly suggestive of possible
lemonade,--the whole ornamented by festoons of yellow and blue cut fly-paper. On the front
shelf of the bar stood a large German-silver pitcher of water, and scattered about were ill-conditioned
lamps, with wicks that always wanted picking, which burned red and smoked a good deal, and
were apt to go out without any obvious cause, leaving strong reminiscences of the whale-fishery
in the circumambient air.

The common school-houses of Rockland were dwarfed by the grandeur of the Apollinean Institute.
The master passed one of them, in a walk he was taking, soon after his arrival at Rockland.
He looked in at the rows of desks and recalled his late experiences. He could not help laughing,
as he thought how neatly he had knocked the young butcher off his pins.

            "'A little _science_ is a dangerous thing.'

as well as a little 'learning,'" he said to himself; "only it's dangerous to the fellow you
try it on." And he cut him a good stick and began climbing the side of The Mountain to get
a look at that famous Rattlesnake Ledge.

CHAPTER VI.

THE SUNBEAM AND THE SHADOW.

The virtue of the world is not mainly in its leaders. In the midst of the multitude which follows
there is often something better than in the one that goes before. Old generals wanted to take
Toulon, but one of their young colonels showed them how. The junior counsel has been known
not unfrequently to make a better argument than his senior fellow,--if, indeed, he did not
make both their arguments. Good ministers will tell you they have parishioners who beat them
in the practice of the virtues. A great establishment, got up on commercial principles, like
the Apollinean Institute, might yet be well carried on, if it happened to get good teachers.
And when Master Langdon came to see its management, he recognized that there must be fidelity
and intelligence somewhere among the instructors. It was only necessary to look for a moment
at the fair, open forehead, the still, tranquil eye of gentle, habitual authority, the sweet
gravity that lay upon the lips, to hear the clear answers to the pupils' questions, to notice
how every request had the force without the form of a command, and the young man could not
doubt that the good genius of the school stood before him in the person of Helen Darley.

It was the old story. A poor country-clergyman dies and leaves a widow and a daughter. In Old
England the daughter would have eaten the bitter bread of a governess in some rich family.
In New England she must keep a school. So, rising from one sphere to another, she at length
finds herself the _prima donna_ in the department of instruction in Mr. Silas Peckham's educational
establishment.

What a miserable thing it is to be poor! She was dependent, frail, sensitive, conscientious.
She was in the power of a hard, grasping, thin-blooded, tough-fibred, trading educator, who
neither knew nor cared for a tender woman's sensibilities, but who paid her and meant to have
his money's worth out of her brains, and as much more than his money's worth as he could get.
She was consequently, in plain English, overworked, and an overworked woman is always a sad
sight,--sadder a great deal than an overworked man, because she is so much more fertile in
capacities of suffering than a man. She has so many varieties of headache,--sometimes as if
Jael were driving the nail that killed Sisera into her temples,--sometimes letting her work
with half her brain while the other half throbs as if it would go to pieces,--sometimes tightening
round the brows as if her cap-band were Luke's iron crown,--and then her neuralgias, and her
back-aches, and her fits of depression, in which she thinks she is nothing and less than nothing,
and those paroxysms which men speak slightingly of as hysterical,--convulsions, that is all,
only not commonly fatal ones,--so many trials which belong to her fine and mobile structure,--that
she is always entitled to pity, when she is placed in conditions which develop her nervous
tendencies. The poor teacher's work had, of course, been doubled since the departure of Mr.
Langdon's predecessor. Nobody knows what the weariness of instruction is, as soon as the teacher's
faculties begin to be overtasked, but those who have tried it. The _relays_ of fresh pupils,
each new set with its exhausting powers in full action, coming one after another, take out
all the reserved forces and faculties of resistance from the subject of their draining process.

The day's work was over, and it was late in the evening, when she sat down, tired and faint,
with a great bundle of girls' themes or compositions to read over before she could rest her
weary head on the pillow of her narrow trundle-bed, and forget for a while the treadmill stair
of labor she was daily climbing.

How she dreaded this most forlorn of all a teacher's tasks! She was conscientious in her duties
and would insist on reading every sentence,--there was no saying where she might find faults
of grammar or bad spelling. There might but have been twenty or thirty of these themes in the
bundle before her. Of course she knew pretty well the leading sentiments they could contain:
that beauty was subject to the accidents of time; that wealth was inconstant, and existence
uncertain; that virtue was its own reward; that youth exhaled, like the dew-drop from the flower,
ere the sun had reached its meridian; that life was o'ershadowed with trials; that the lessons
of virtue instilled by our beloved teachers were to be our guides through all our future career.
The imagery employed consisted principally of roses, lilies, birds, clouds, and brooks, with
the celebrated comparison of wayward genius to a meteor. Who does not know the small, slanted,
Italian hand of these girls'-compositions,--their stringing together of the good old traditional
copy-book phrases, their occasional gushes of sentiment, the profound estimates of the world,
sounding to the old folks that read them as the experience of a bantam-pullet's last-hatched
young one with the chips of its shell on its head would sound to a Mother Cary's chicken, who
knew the great ocean with all its typhoons and tornadoes? Yet every now and then one is liable
to be surprised with strange clairvoyant flashes, that can hardly be explained, except by the
mysterious inspiration which every now and then seizes a young girl and exalts her intelligence,
just as hysteria in other instances exalts the sensibility,--a little something of that which
made Joan of Arc, and the Burney girl who prophesied "Evelina," and the Davidson sisters. In
the midst of these commonplace exercises which Miss Darley read over so carefully were two
or three that had something of individual flavor about them, and here and there there was an
image or an epithet which showed the footprint of a passionate nature, as a fallen scarlet
feather marks the path the wild flamingo has trodden.

The young lady teacher read them with a certain indifference of manner, as one reads proofs,--noting
defects of detail, but not commonly arrested by the matters treated of. Even Miss Charlotte
Ann Wood's poem, beginning

  "How sweet at evening's balmy hour,"

did not excite her. She marked the inevitable false rhyme of Cockney and Yankee beginners,
_morn_ and _dawn_, and tossed the verses on the pile of those she had finished. She was looking
over some of the last of them in a rather listless way,--for the poor thing was getting sleepy
in spite of herself,--when she came to one which seemed to rouse her attention, and lifted
her drooping lids. She looked at it a moment before she would touch it. Then she took hold
of it by one corner and slid it off from the rest. One would have said she was afraid of it,
or had some undefined antipathy which made it hateful to her. Such odd fancies are common enough
in young persons in her nervous state. Many of these young people will jump up twenty times
a day and run to dabble the tips of their fingers in water, after touching the most inoffensive
objects.

This composition was written in a singular, sharp-pointed, long, slender hand, on a kind of
wavy, ribbed paper. There was something strangely suggestive about the look of it,--but exactly
of what, Miss Darley either could not or did not try to think. The subject of the paper was
The Mountain,--the composition being a sort of descriptive rhapsody. It showed a startling
familiarity with some of the savage scenery of the region. One would have said that the writer
must have threaded its wildest solitudes by the light of the moon and stars as well as by day.
As the teacher read on, her color changed, and a kind of tremulous agitation came over her.
There were hints in this strange paper she did not know what to make of. There was something
in its descriptions and imagery that recalled,--Miss Darley could not say what,--but it made
her frightfully nervous. Still she could not help reading, till she came to one passage which
so agitated her that the tired and overwearied girl's self-control left her entirely. She sobbed
once or twice, then laughed convulsively, and flung herself on the bed, where she worked out
a set hysteric spasm as she best might, without anybody to rub her hands and see that she did
not hurt herself. By-and-by she got quiet, rose and went to her bookcase, took down a volume
of Coleridge and read a short time, and so to bed, to sleep and wake from time to time with
a sudden start out of uneasy dreams.

Perhaps it is of no great consequence what it was in the composition which set her off into
this nervous paroxysm. She was in such a state that almost any slight agitation would have
brought on the attack, and it was the accident of her transient excitability, very probably,
which made a trifling cause the seeming occasion of so much disturbance. The theme was signed,
in the same peculiar, sharp, slender hand, _E. Venner_, and was, of course, written by that
wild-looking girl who had excited the master's curiosity and prompted his question, as before
mentioned.

The next morning the lady-teacher looked pale and wearied, naturally enough, but she was in
her place at the usual hour, and Master Langdon in his own. The girls had not yet entered the
schoolroom.

"You have been ill, I am afraid," said Mr. Bernard.

"I was not well yesterday," she answered. "I had a worry and a kind of fright. It is so dreadful
to have the charge of all these young souls and bodies! Every young girl ought to walk, locked
close, arm in arm, between two guardian angels. Sometimes I faint almost with the thought of
all that I ought to do, and of my own weakness and wants--Tell me, are there not natures born
so out of parallel with the lines of natural law that nothing short of a miracle can bring
them right?"

Mr. Bernard had speculated somewhat, as all thoughtful persons of his profession are forced
to do, on the innate organic tendencies with which individuals, families, and races are born.
He replied, therefore, with a smile, as one to whom the question suggested a very familiar
class of facts.

"Why, of course. Each of us is only footing-up of a double column of figures that goes back
to the first pair. Every unit tells,--and some of them are _plus_, and some _minus_. If the
columns don't add up right, it is commonly because we can't make out all the figures. I don't
mean to say that something may not be added by Nature to make up for losses and keep the race
to its average, but we are mainly nothing but the answer to a long sum in addition and subtraction.
No doubt there are people born with impulses at every possible angle to the parallels of Nature,
as you call them. If they happen to cut these at right angles, of course they are beyond the
reach of common influences. Slight obliquities are what we have most to do with in education.
Penitentiaries and insane asylums take care of most of the right-angle cases.--I am afraid
I have put it too much like a professor, and I am only a student, you know. Pray, what set you--"

The next morning the lady-teacher took to asking me this? "Any strange cases among the scholars?"

The meek teacher's blue eyes met the luminous glance that came with the question. She, too,
was of gentle blood,--not meaning by that that she was of any noted lineage, but that she came
of a cultivated stock, never rich, but long trained to intellectual callings. A thousand decencies,
amenities, reticences, graces, which no one thinks of until he misses them, are the traditional
right of those who spring from such families. And when two persons of this exceptional breeding
meet in the midst of the common multitude, they seek each other's company at once by the natural
law of elective affinity. It is wonderful how men and women know their peers. If two stranger
queens, sole survivors of two ship-wrecked vessels, were cast, half-naked, on a rock together,
each would at once address the other as "Our Royal Sister."

Helen Darley looked into the dark eyes of Bernard Langdon glittering with the light which flashed
from them with his question. Not as those foolish, innocent country-girls of the small village
did she look into them, to be fascinated and bewildered, but to sound them with a calm, steadfast
purpose. "A gentleman," she said to herself, as she read his expression and his features with
a woman's rapid, but exhausting glance. "A lady," he said to himself, as he met her questioning
look,--so brief, so quiet, yet so assured, as of one whom necessity had taught to read faces
quickly without offence, as children read the faces of parents, as wives read the faces of
hard-souled husbands. All this was but a few seconds' work, and yet the main point was settled.
If there had been any vulgar curiosity or coarseness of any kind lurking in his expression,
she would have detected it. If she had not lifted her eyes to his face so softly and kept them
there so calmly and withdrawn them so quietly, he would not have said to himself, "She is a
_lady_," for that word meant a good deal to the descendant of the courtly Wentworths and the
scholarly Langdons.

"There are strange people everywhere, Mr. Langdon," she said, "and I don't think our school-room
is an exception. I am glad you believe in the force of transmitted tendencies. It would break
my heart, if I did not think that there are faults beyond the reach of everything but God's
special grace. I should die, if I thought that my negligence or incapacity was alone responsible
for the errors and sins of those I have charge of. Yet there, are mysteries I do not know how
to account for." She looked all round the school-room, and then said, in a whisper, "Mr. Langdon,
we had a girl that _stole_, in the school, not long ago. Worse than that, we had a girl that
tried to set us on fire. Children of good people, both of them. And we have a girl now that
frightens me so"----

The door opened, and three misses came in to take their seats: three types, as it happened,
of certain classes, into which it would not have been difficult to distribute the greater number
of the girls in the school.--_Hannah Martin_. Fourteen years and three months old. Short-necked,
thick-waisted, round-cheeked, smooth, vacant forehead, large, dull eyes. Looks good-natured,
with little other expression. Three buns in her bag, and a large apple. Has a habit of attacking
her provisions in school-hours.--_Rosa Milburn_. Sixteen. Brunette, with a rare ripe flush
in her cheeks. Color comes and goes easily. Eyes wandering, apt to be downcast. Moody at times.
Said to be passionate, if irritated. Finished in high relief. Carries shoulders well back and
walks well, as if proud of her woman's life, with a slight rocking movement, being one of the
wide-flanged pattern, but seems restless,--a hard girl to look after. Has a romance in her
pocket, which she means to read in school-time.--_Charlotte Ann Wood_. Fifteen. The poetess
before mentioned. Long, light ringlets, pallid complexion, blue eyes. Delicate child, half
unfolded. Gentle, but languid and despondent. Does not go much with the other girls, but reads
a good deal, especially poetry, underscoring favorite passages. Writes a great many verses,
very fast, not very correctly; full of the usual human sentiments, expressed in the accustomed
phrases. Undervitalized. Sensibilities not covered with their normal integuments. A negative
condition, often confounded with genius, and sometimes running into it. Young people that _fall_
out of line through weakness of the active faculties are often confounded with those that _step_
out of it through strength of the intellectual ones.

The girls kept coming in, one after another, or in pairs or groups, until the school-room was
nearly full. Then there was a little pause, and a light step was heard in the passage. The
lady-teacher's eyes turned to the door, and the master's followed them in the same direction.

A girl of about seventeen entered. She was tall and slender, but rounded, with a peculiar undulation
of movement, such as one sometimes sees in perfectly untutored country-girls, whom Nature,
the queen of graces, has taken in hand, but more commonly in connection with the very highest
breeding of the most thoroughly trained society. She was a splendid scowling beauty, black-browed,
with a flash of white teeth that was always like a surprise when her lips parted. She wore
a checkered dress, of a curious pattern, and a camel's-hair scarf twisted a little fantastically
about her. She went to her seat, which she had moved a short distance apart from the rest,
and, sitting down, began playing listlessly with her gold chain, as was a common habit with
her, coiling it and uncoiling it about her slender wrist, and braiding it in with her long,
delicate fingers. Presently she looked up. Black, piercing eyes, not large,--a low forehead,
as low as that of Clytie in the Townley bust,--black hair, twisted in heavy braids,--a face
that one could not help looking at for its beauty, yet that one wanted to look away from for
something in its expression, and could not for those diamond eyes. They were fixed on the lady-teacher
now. The latter turned her own away, and let them wander over the other scholars. But they
could not help coming back again for a single glance at the wild beauty. The diamond eyes were
on her still. She turned the leaves of several of her books, as if in search of some passage,
and, when she thought she had waited long enough to be safe, once more stole a quick look at
the dark girl. The diamond eyes were still upon her. She put her kerchief to her forehead,
which had grown slightly moist; she sighed once, almost shivered, for she felt cold; then,
following some ill-defined impulse, which she could not resist, she left her place and went
to the young girl's desk.

_"What do you want of me, Elsie Venner?_" It was a strange question to put, for the girl had
not signified that she wished the teacher to come to her.

"Nothing," she said. "I thought I could make you come." The girl spoke in a low tone, a kind
of half-whisper. She did not lisp, yet her articulation of one or two consonants was not absolutely
perfect.

"Where did you get that flower, Elsie?" said Miss Darley. It was a rare alpine flower, which
was found only in one spot among the rocks of The Mountain.

"Where it grew," said Elsie Venner. "Take it." The teacher could not refuse her. The girl's
finger-tips touched hers as she took it. How cold they were for a girl of such an organization!

The teacher went back to her seat. She made an excuse for quitting the school-room soon afterwards.
The first thing she did was to fling the flower into her fireplace and rake the ashes over
it. The second was to wash the tips of her fingers, as if she had been another Lady Macbeth.
A poor, overtasked, nervous creature,--we must not think too much of her fancies.

After school was done, she finished the talk with the master which had been so suddenly interrupted.
There were things spoken of which may prove interesting by-and-by, but there are other matters
we must first attend to. IS THE RELIGIOUS WANT OF THE AGE MET?

To answer this question intelligently, we must first glance at the characteristics of the age.
It is an age of remarkable activity. There have been industrious men in other days; there have
been nations of whom it might be truly said, They were an industrious people, they lost no
time in idleness: but their rate of speed was low. Such a people could hardly be deemed enterprising.
They might continue uncomplainingly in their accustomed round of labors, but would lack impulse
to attempt anything new. Circumstances did not compel them to unwonted efforts, and their capabilities
lay dormant. The world was wide, the population comparatively sparse, and the means of subsistence
not difficult of attainment.

Our age is very unlike to that. People begin to crowd one another. There is competition. The
more active and ingenious will have the advantage; they do have the advantage; and this fact
is a constant stimulus. It has been operating for thirty years past with ever-increasing power.
We seem to be approaching a climax,--a point beyond which flesh and blood cannot go. The enterprise
of the more active spirits of our day is astounding; we begin to ask, "Will they stop at anything?
What will they not undertake?" There are a great many unsuccessful attempts; but these are
not necessarily observed, they pass quietly into obscurity, while we hasten to observe the
successes, which are wonderful, and so numerous as to keep us ever on tiptoe, looking for new
wonders. Having seen the railways, the magnetic telegraph, and Hoe's press, in full operation,
and having been brought to accept these as a common measure of time and motion, we find ourselves
indisposed for older usages. We find our age an age of daring and of doing. We are ready to
discard the word _impossible_; from our vocabulary; we deny that anything is the less probable
because of being unprecedented. For doing new things we look about for new means,--being full
charged with the belief that for all worthy or desirable ends there must be adequate and available
means. In this regard, it is an age of unprecedented faith, of expectation of success; and
we all know the natural and necessary influence of such an expectation. Sanguine expectation
lights up the fires of genius; invention is quickened for the attainment of the highest speed
and the greatest momentum. In no former age has there been anything to compare in rapidity
and power of movement with the every-day achievements of this age. The relation of books to
men, and the sphere assigned to books, are materially modified by the characteristics of the
age. Books, as books, are no longer a charm to conjure with. The few really superior books
have a wider and greater influence than ever before; while the great mass of common books have
less, and pass more easily into oblivion. Good books may and must help us; but books cannot
make us men of the nineteenth century, and a power in it. A thorough knowledge of the world
within us, as it stands related to the world without us, is something quite different from
mere book-knowledge. This is an element of influence not only not confined to the bookmen,
but often possessed in a transcendent degree by those whose devotion to books is altogether
subordinate to other avocations. Our common-school education may be said to bring the entire
people upon a common plane. We are no longer the esoteric and the exoteric; we understand our
rights in the common fund of sense and truth very well. We are not very patient with those
who affect to know better than ourselves what we want and what we ought to desire. Most men
are exceedingly in earnest, and determined to be heard in their own cause, and well able to
make themselves understood. Scribes and Pharisees compassing sea and land to make one proselyte
are a good and bad type of our activity in the pursuit of our own ends. Innumerable and infinitely
varied are the shifts employed to secure attention, to effect the sale of merchandise, and
to increase income. Nor are the learned professions much behind the men of merchandise. The
contest of life thickens. Competition for the fruits of labor waxes continually more fierce.
Mother Earth is too moderate in her labors; the ranks of the producers suffer from desertion;
the plough is forsaken; the patient ox is contemned; silence, seclusion, and meditation are
a memory of the past. The world's axis is changed; there is more heat in the North. The world
has advanced, in our age, from a speed of five miles an hour, to twenty or thirty, or more.

Whatever may be thought of the advantages and disadvantages accruing from these movements,
there can be no question of the fact, that they have greatly affected the position and the
relations of speakers and hearers. The million have been driven to do so much for themselves,
that they are in no little danger of jumping to the conclusion, that they no longer need teachers
of religion. A conclusion so fraught with mischief to the race will not be arrested by a pertinacious
adhesion to modes of preaching which men under the old-time training could be made to endure,
but which latter-day contrasts have rendered intolerable.

It is just here, if anywhere, that a special backwardness on the part of the clergy to meet
the religious wants of the age may, without injustice or unkindness, be alleged. It comes about
very naturally; the training of the clergy is not in harmony with the exigencies of the position
they are intended to occupy. The endeavors of the preparatory schools are not to be depreciated.
It is scarcely possible to say too much of the fundamental importance of thoroughness and of
minute accuracy in the rudiments of learning. But that extreme zeal in this behalf has produced
an unnatural divorce of the practical from the critical, it is vain to deny. The devotion to
the latter, which is inaugurated in the preparatory school, is by the college inflamed to the
utmost, and the young man reaches his climax when he receives the appointment of valedictorian;
that is his end; he reaches it, and we may say it is the death of him. He may, indeed, enter
the theological seminary, industriously resolved on more of the same supremacy; but, in most
instances, the great practical ends of a Christ-like life of doing good have been already lost
from his view, and the ways and means by which alone such ends can be reached have become offensive
to him. The student, as he delights in calling himself, has become greatly more interested
in knowledge than in the people for whom he is to use his knowledge. A certain unknown God,
an idol, in short, quite unsuspected, whose name is _Critical Dignity_, is installed in his
heart, in the place of the Son of God. And the man endures the trials of his ministerial life
under the mistaken impression that he is a martyr for Christ. He compels himself to be satisfied
with a measure of attention to his utterances, which would content no sane and sensible man
in any other department of teaching. He will tell you that it is one of the inevitable infelicities
of his vocation, that to nothing are men such unwilling listeners as to religious truth; than
which nothing can be more untrue; for to nothing are men so prepared to listen as to religious
truth, properly presented.

In order to a more generally happy and successful prosecution of the duties of a minister of
Christ, a preliminary fact requires to be considered. That a man is found or finds himself
in any calling is no evidence whatever that he is fitted for that calling. This is just as
true of the ministry as of any other vocation. Every man-of-business knows this. The clergy
seem to us behind the age in being astonishingly blind to it. Men-of-business know that only
a very small fraction of their number can ever attain eminent success. They know, that, in
a term of twenty years, ninety-seven men in a hundred _fail_. Here and there one develops a
remarkable talent for the specific business in which he is engaged. The ninety-and-nine discover
that they have a weary contest to maintain with manifold contingencies and combinations which
no foresight can preclude.

The application of this general truth to their profession the clergy are backward to perceive.
The consequences of this backwardness are very hurtful to their interests. Because of this,
we have an indefinite amount of puerile and undignified complaint from disappointed men, of
disingenuous misrepresentation from incompetent men, who have entered upon labors they were
never fitted to accomplish. Such men undertake their labors in ways that want and must want
the Divine sanction; and they are tempted to ward off a just verdict of unsuitableness and
of incompetency by bringing many and grievous charges against their flocks. "A mania for church-extending";
"a hankering for architectural splendor"; "or for discursive and satirical preaching"; "or
for something florid or profound": these and the like imputations have been put forward, as
a screen, by many an unsuccessful preacher, who failed,--simply failed,--not in selling horns
or hides, shirtings or sugars,--but failed to recommend Christ and his gospel,--failed for
want of head, or heart, or industry, or all three.

The man who embarks his all in hardware, drugs, or law, runs the risk of failure. If his neighbor
can rise earlier, walk faster, talk faster, work harder, and hold on longer, he will get the
avails that might suffice for both. This unalterable fact every business-man accepts.

Do you inquire, To what good purpose do you thrust the possibility of failure upon the attention
of the candidate for the ministry? Would you utterly discourage those who are already more
alive to the perils of their undertaking than we could wish them?

We answer, It is no kindness to encourage men to enter a ministry whose inexorable requirements
and whose incidental possibilities they may not look in the face. It is no kindness to represent
to them that the qualities which they possess _ought_ to engage attention; and that their talents
will command respect, or else it will be the fault of the people.

Men go into business in the face of a possibility of failure through uncontrollable circumstances;
not in defiance of an ascertainable, insufferable incompetency. They toil on, accepting adversity
with such equanimity as God gives them, so long as they are permitted to believe that their
misfortunes are not chargeable upon their incapacity or self-indulgence. But when it is made
apparent that they are not in their proper sphere, they think it no shame to say so, to withdraw,
and to apply their energies to something suited to their tastes and capabilities. And it should
be with the ministry; but as things now are, with the conceptions of the ministry now entertained,
pride interposes to forbid the rectification of the most serious mistakes. It is a question
of dignity and of scholarship; whereas it should be a question of love to God and man, and
of real ability and conscious power to bring them together,--to reconcile man to God.

Our age is an age of great devotion to secular affairs,--of men who are great in the conduct
of such affairs,--in every department in life. To counterbalance this, our ministry must be
filled with an equally earnest devotion to God and salvation. In real ability our ministers
ought to be not a whit behind. But ability is not necessarily scholarship; though it may, and
as far as possible should, include that, and a great deal more. Let it be fully understood,
once for all, that we have no disparaging remark to make of scholarship; a man must be foolish
beyond expression, who pretends to argue that the highest scholarship is less than a most important
and almost indispensable auxiliary to the minister of Christ. All our concern in the matter,
just here, is, that it shall be fully understood that piety and real ability make the minister
of Christ, and not scholarship; in the words of Augustine, "the heart makes the minister";--but
we may safely assume that he meant the heart of a really able man; otherwise we can accord
but a qualified respect to this remark.

The prevailing impression among the ministry appears to be, that the man who cannot write "an
able doctrinal discourse" is but an inferior man, fit only to preach in an inferior place;
and that it would be a great gain to the Church, if scholarship were only so general that the
standard of the universities could be applied, and only Phi-Beta-Kappa men allowed to enter
the ministry. No doubt, those who incline to this view are quite honest, and not unkindly in
it. But those who think this grievously misunderstand the necessities of the age in which we
live. Reading men know where to find better reading than can possibly be furnished by any man
who is bound to write two sermons weekly, or even one sermon a week; and to train any corps
of young men in the expectation that any considerable fraction of them will be able to win
and to maintain a commanding influence in their parishes mainly by the weekly production of
learned discourses is to do them the greatest injury, by cherishing expectations which never
can be realized. Why do our educated men of other professions so seldom and so reluctantly
contribute to the addresses in our religious assemblies? Precisely because they understand
the difficulty of meeting the popular expectation which is created by the prevailing theory;
a theory which demands that sermons, and not only that sermons, but also that all religious
addresses, should be chiefly characterized as learned, acute, scholastic even. An Irish preacher
is reported in an Edinburgh paper as saying lately, that "he had been led to think of his own
preaching and of that of his brethren. He saw very few sermons in the New Testament shaped
after the forms and fashion in which they had been accustomed to shape theirs. He was not aware
of a sermon there, in which they had a little motto selected, upon which a disquisition upon
a particular subject was hung. The sort of sermons which the people in his locality were desirous
to hear were sermons delivered on a large portion of the Word of God, carrying through the
ideas as the Spirit of God had done." And it is, in part at least, because of the prevailing
disregard of this most reasonable desire, that parishes so soon weary of their ministers.

It need not discourage ministers to accept the fact that there will be failures in the ministry,--and
a great many failures among those who rely for their success mainly upon the weekly production
of learned disquisitions. Discouragement is not in accepting a fact that accords with all just
theories of truth, but in adopting a theory which is sure to be invalidated by the almost universal
experience of men in, as well as out of, the ministry. A right-minded minister _may_ have many
falls in struggling up his Hill of Difficulty; but the Lord will lift him up, and will save
him from adding to the temperate grief proper to any measure of short-coming the intolerable
poignancy that comes of cheating by false pretences,--of assuming to do what he knows or should
know that he cannot do, namely, produce any considerable number of great sermons.

Let it, then, be frankly owned, that men, very good men, very capable men, have failed in the
ministry. A. failed, because he did not study; B., because he did not visit his people; C.,
because he could not talk; D., because he was too grave; E., because he was too frivolous;
F. could not, or would not, control his temper; G. alienated by exacting more than he received;
and all of them because of not having what Scougal calls "the life of God in the soul of man."

It is not worth while for any man to go into the ministry who cannot relish the Apostle's invitation,
running thus:--"I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present
your bodies _a living sacrifice_, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service."
If that seem not reasonable, ay, and exceedingly inviting too, better let it alone. All men
cannot do all things. Better raise extraordinary potatoes than hammer out insignificant ideas.
You do not see the connection? you were a Phi-Beta-Kappa man in college, and know that you
can write better than many a man in a metropolitan pulpit? Very likely; but we of the few go
to church to be made better men, and not by fine writing, but by significant ideas, which may
come in a homely garb, so they be only pervaded with affectionate piety, but which can come
to us only from one who has laid all ambitious self-seeking on the altar of God. There is a
power of persuasion in every minister who follows God as a dear child, and who walks in love,
as Christ loved us, which the hardest heart cannot long resist,--which will win the congregation,
however an individual here and there may be able to harden himself against it. You think that
the great power of the pulpit is in high doctrine, presented with metaphysical precision and
acuteness. We have no disparagement to offer of your doctrinal knowledge, nor of your ability
to state it with metaphysical precision and hair-splitting acuteness. But we know, from much
experience, that there is a divine truth, and a fervor and power in imparting it, with which
God inspires the man who is wholly devoted to Him, in comparison with which the higher achievements
of the man who lacks these are trumpery and rubbish. Many, _many_ men have failed in the ministry,
are failing in the ministry every day, because their principal reliance has been upon what
they deem their thorough mastery of the soundest theories of doctrine and of duty. They were
confident they could administer to minds and hearts diseased the certain specific laid down
in the book, admeasured to the twentieth part of a scruple. Confident in their theoretical
acquisitions, they could not comprehend the indispensable necessity of a large experience in
actual cases of mental malady. And for the want of such experience, it was absolutely impossible
that they should be _en rapport_ with the souls they honestly desired to benefit. Can you heal
a heart-ache with a syllogism? There is no dispensing with the precept and prescription,--"Weep
with those that weep!" "Be of the same mind one toward another!"

Theories of doctrine and of practice are not without their value; but the minister who is merely
or chiefly a theorist, whether in doctrines or in measures, is an adventurer; and the chances
against him are as many as the chances against the precise similarity of any two cases presented
to his attention,--as many as the chances against the education of any two men of fifty years
being precisely alike, in every particular and in all their results. The soul's problems are
not to be solved by theories. Such was not the practice of the Great Physician; "_surely, He
hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows._" Theories shirk that. "_In all their affliction,
He was afflicted; in His love and in His pity, He redeemed them._" And precisely in this way
his ministers are now to follow up his practice. Our age is growing less and less tolerant
of formality,--less and less willing to accept metaphysical disquisition in place of a warm-hearted,
loving, fervent expansion of the Word of God, recommended to the understanding and to the sensibility
by lively illustrations of spiritual truth, derived from all the experience of life, from all
observation, from all analogies in the natural world,--in short, from every manner of illumination,
from the heavens above, from the earth beneath, and from the waters which are under the earth.
God is surely everywhere, and hath made all things, and all to testify of Him; and the innumerable
voices all agree together.

And when this is both understood and felt, what rules shall be given to guide and control the
construction and the delivery of discourses? Shall we say, The people must be brought back
to the old-time endurance--ay, _endurance_, that is the word--of long-drawn, laborious ratiocinations,
wherein the truth is diligently pursued for its own sake, with an ultimate reference, indeed,
to the needs and uses of the hearer, but so remote as rarely to be noticed, except by that
very small fraction of any customary congregation who may chance to have an interest in such
doings,--some of whom watch the clergyman as they would the entomologist, running down a truth
that he may impale it, and add one more specimen to his well-ordered collection of common and
of uncommon bugs? Our neighbors in the South do better than this; for they hunt with the lasso,
and never throw the noose except to capture something which can be harnessed to the wheels
of common life.

No, the people are not going back to the endurance of any such misery. They have found out
that still-born rhetoric is by no means the one thing needful, and care far less for the _art_
of speech than for the _nature_ of a holy heart. They want a man to speak less of what he believes
and more of what he feels. The expectation of bringing the people again to endure prolonged
metaphysical discriminations, spun out of commonplace minds, cobwebs to cloak their own nakedness
and universal inaptitude, if indulged, is absurdly indulged. The whole Church is sick of such
trifling. She knows well that it has made her most unsavory to those who might have found their
way into the temples of God, or kept their places there, but for the memory of an immense amount
of wearisome readings from the pulpit,--too often a vocabulary of words seldom or never found
out of sermons,--a manner of speech which, when tried by the sure test of natural, animated
conversation, must be pronounced absurd and abominable. It is a wonder of wonders, that, in
spite of such drawbacks, an individual here and there has been reclaimed from worldliness to
the love and service of God.

The student-habits of the clergy most naturally lead them to prefer the formal statement, the
studied elaboration of ideas, which their own training cannot but render facile and dear to
them. And there is here and there a man who, in virtue of extraordinary genius, can infuse
new life into worn-out phrases,--a man or two who can for a moment or for an hour, by the very
weight and excellence of their thoughts, and because they truly and deeply feel them, arrest
the age, and challenge and secure attention, in spite of all the infelicities of an antiquated
style and an unearthly delivery. But in this age, more than ever before, we are summoned to
surrender our scholastic preferences and esoteric honors to the exigencies of the million.
And the men of this generation have, without much conference, come with great unanimity to
the determination that they will not long endure, either in or out of the pulpit, speakers
who are dull and unaffecting, whether from want of words, ideas, or method and wisdom in the
arrangement of them, or lack of sympathies,--and especially that they will not endure dull
declamation from the pulpit.

If any man really wish to know how he is preaching, let him imagine himself conversing earnestly
with an intelligent and highly gifted, but uneducated man or woman, in his own parlor, or with
his younger children. Would any but an idiot keep on talking, when, with half an eye, he might
discern TEDIOUS, wrought by himself, upon the uncalloused sensibilities of his hearers?

How long ought a sermon to be? As long as you can read in the eye of seven-eighths of your
audience, _Pray, go on_. If you cannot read that, you have mistaken your vocation; you were
never called to the ministry. The secret of the persuasive power of our favorite orators is
in their constant recognition of the ebb and flow of the sensibilities they are acting upon.
Their speech is, in effect, an actual conversation, in which they are speaking for as well
as to the audience; and the interlocutors are made almost as palpably such as at the "Breakfast-
Table" of our dramatic "Autocrat" In contrast with this, the dull preacher, falling below the
dignity and the privilege of his office, addresses himself, not to living men, but to an imaginary
sensibility to abstract truth. The effect of this is obvious and inevitable; it converts hearers
into doubters as to whether in fact there be any such thing as a religion worth recommending
or possessing, and preachers into complainers of the people as indifferent and insensible to
the truth,--a libel which ought to render them liable to fine and punishment. God's truth,
_fairly presented_, is never a matter of indifference or of insensibility to an intelligent,
nor even to an unintelligent audience. However an individual here and there may contrive to
withdraw himself from the sphere of its influence, truth can no more lose her power than the
sun can lose his heat.

The people, under the quickening influences characteristic of our age, are awaking to the consciousness,
that, on the day which should be the best of all the week, they have been defrauded of their
right, in having solemn dulness palmed upon them, in place of living, earnest, animated truth.
Let not ministers, unwisely overlooking this undeniable fact, defame the people, by alleging
a growing facility in dissolving the pastoral relation,--a disregard of solemn contracts,--a
willingness to dismiss excellent, godly, and devoted men, without other reason than the indisposition
to retain them. Be it known to all such, that capable men very department of life were never
in such request as at this very hour; and never, since the world began, was there an audience
so large and so attentive to truth, well wrought and fitted to its purpose, as now.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

_Ludwig van Beethoven. Leben und Schaffen._ Herausgegeben von Adolph Bernhard Marx. 2 vols.
8vo. Berlin, 1859. pp. 379, 339.

FIRST NOTICE.

Beethoven died March 26, 1827, and thirty years passed away without any satisfactory biography
of him. The notices and anecdotes of Seyfried, (1832,) Wegeler, and Ries, (1838,) the somewhat
more extended sketch by Schindler, (1840, second edition 1845,) and what in various forms,
often of very doubtful veracity, appeared from time to time in periodical publications, musical
and other, remained the only sources of information respecting the great master, and the history
of his works, available to the public, even the German public. Wegeler's "Notizen" are indispensable
for the early history of the composer; Schindler's "Biographie," for that of his later years.
Careful scrutiny has failed to detect any important error in the statements of the former,
or in those of the latter, where he professedly speaks from personal knowledge. Schindler is
one of the best-abused men in Germany,--perhaps has given sufficient occasion for it,--but
we must bear this testimony to the value of his work, unsatisfactory as it is. Seyfried and
Ries give little more than personal reminiscences of a period ending some twenty-five or thirty
years before they wrote. The one is always careless; the other died too suddenly to give his
hastily written anecdotes revision. Both must be corrected (as they may easily be, but have
not yet been) by contemporaneous authorities. Their errors are constantly repeated in the biographical
articles upon Beethoven which we find in the Encyclopaedias, with one exception, the article
in the "New American," published by the Appletons.

A life of Beethoven, founded upon a careful digest of these writers, combined with the materials
scattered through other publications,--even though no original researches were made,--was still
a desideratum, when the very remarkable work upon Mozart, by the Russian, Alexander Oulibichef,
appeared, and aroused a singular excitement in the German musical circles through the real
or supposed injustice towards Beethoven into which the hero-worship of the author had led him.
We had hopes that now some one of the great master's countrymen would give us something worthy
of him; but the excitement expended itself in pamphlets and articles in periodicals, in which
as little was done for Beethoven's history as was effected against the views of Oulibichef.

Another Russian, however, Wilhelm von Lenz, came to the rescue in two works,--"Beethoven et
ses trois Styles," (2 vols. 8vo, St. Petersburg, 1862,) and "Beethoven, eine Kunststudie" (2
vols. l2mo, Cassel, 1855). A very feeble champion, this Herr von Lenz. The first of his two
works--in French, rather of the Strat-ford-at-Bow order,--consists principally of an "Analyse
des Sonates de Piano" of Beethoven, in which these works are indeed much talked about, but
not analyzed. The author, an amateur, has plenty of zeal, but, unluckily, neither the musical
knowledge nor the critical skill for his self-imposed task. We mention this took only because
the second volume closes with a "Catalogue critique, chronologique et anecdotique," in which
the author has, with great industry and care, and for the first time, brought together the
principal historical notices of Beethoven's works, scattered through the pages of the books
above noticed and the fifty quarto volumes of the "Leipziger Allgemeine Musikalische Zeitung."

The first volume of "Beethoven, eine Kunststudie" is a "Leben des Meisters," a mere sketch,
made up from the same works as the "Catalogue," with a very few additions from other sources.
As a biographer, Lenz fails as signally as in his capacity of critic. Much original matter,
from one living so far away, was not to be expected; but he has made no commendable use of
the printed authorities which he had at hand. His style is bombastic and feeble; there is neither
a logical nor a chronological progress to his narrative; moreover, he is not always trustworthy,
even in matters personal to himself;--at all events, a very interesting account of a meeting
between him and Mendelssohn, at the house of Moscheles in London,--apropos of nothing,--has
called--out a letter from the latter in a Leipzig musical journal, in which the whole story
is declared to be without foundation. In our references to Lenz, we shall consider his "Catalogue"
and his "Leben des Meisters" as complements to each other, and forming a single work.

Lenz's "Beethoven et ses trois Styles" was avowedly directed against Oulibichef, and called
out a reply from that gentleman, with the title, "Beethoven, ses Critiques et ses Glossateurs,"
(8vo. Paris and Leipzig, 1857,) in which poor Lenz is annihilated, but which makes no pretensions
to biographical value. It contains, indeed, a sketch of the master's life; it is but a sketch,
so highly colored, such a mere painting of Beethoven as lie existed in the author's fancy,--not
in real life,--as to convey a most false idea of him and of his fortunes. The introduction
is an admirable sketch of the progress of music during the first twenty-five years of the present
century,--a supplement to his famous view of modern music in his work upon Mozart. His analyses
of such of Beethoven's works as met his approbation are masterly and unrivalled, save by certain
articles from the pens of Hoffmann and our own writer Dwight. With the later works of the composer
Oulibichef had no sympathy. Haydn and Mozart had given him his standards of perfection. _We_
can forgive Beethoven, when at times he rises above all forms and rules in seeking new means
of expression; Oulibichef could not.

But it is not endless discussions of Beethoven's works which the public--at all events, our
public--demands. We wish his biography,--the history of his life. What has been given us does
but whet the appetite. We wish to have the many original sources, still sealed to us, explored,
and the results of this labor honestly given us. None of the writers above-mentioned have been
in a position to do this, and their publications are but materials for the use of the true
biographer, when he shall appear.

It was therefore with a pleasure as great as it was unexpected, that we saw, some months since,
the announcement of the volumes named at the head of this article. They now lie before us.
We have given thorn a very careful examination, and shall now endeavor to do them full justice,
granting them much more space than has yet been accorded to them in any German publication
which has come under our notice, because out of Germany the reputation of the author is far
greater than at home,--whether upon the old principle, that the "prophet is not without honor,"
etc., we hope hereafter to make clear.

Some particulars respecting Dr. Marx may find place here, as proving that from no man, perhaps,
have we the right to expect so much, in a biography of Beethoven, as from him. We draw them
mostly from Schilling's "Encyclopädie der gesammten musikalischen Wissenschaft," Vol. IV.,
Stuttgart, 1841,--a work which deserves to be better known in our country. It is worthy of
note, that in this work, of which Mozart fills eight pages, Handel, Bach, Haydn, and Beethoven
seven to seven and a half each, Gluck six and a quarter, Meyerbeer four, and Weber four and
a half, Marx, eighteen years since, occupied five.

Adolph Bernhard Marx was born at Halle, Nov. 17, 1799, and, like so many of the distinguished
musicians of recent times, is of Jewish descent. He studied at the University of his native
city, choosing the law for his profession, but making music the occupation of his leisure hours,--the
well-known contrapuntist, Türk, being his instructor in musical theory and composition. "He
[Türk] soon saw whom he had before him, and told Marx at once that he was born to be a musician."[1]

Soon after finishing his legal studies, Marx removed to Berlin, as the place where he could
best enjoy the means of artistic culture. "For one quite without fortune, merely to live in
a strange city demands great strength of character; but to go farther and fit one's self for
a career and for a position in the future, which even under the best auspices is of very difficult
attainment, and, beside all this, to have others dependent upon him for the necessaries of
life,--what a burden to bear! ..... By a very intellectual system of instruction in singing
and in composition, and, at a later period, (1824-81,) by editing the 'Berliner Allgemeine
Musikzeitung,' and several theoretical and practical musical works, he earned the means of
subsistence. Never was a periodical more conscientiously edited. It was for Marx like an official
station, and his seven years upon that paper were in fact a preparation for the position of
Public Teacher, to which in 1830 he was appointed, in the University at Berlin, after having
declined a judicial position offered to him, with a fair salary, in one of the provinces. Honorably
has he since that period filled his station, however great the pains which have been taken
in various quarters that it should not be said of him, 'Virtus post nummos!'"[2]

"The diploma of Doctor of Music Marx received from the University at Marburg; and thereupon
(?) obtained the greatest applause for a course of lectures, in part strictly scientific for
the musician, and in part upon the history of music, its philosophy, etc.; also, as Music-Director
of the University, he has brought (1841,) the academic choir into such a flourishing state,
both as to numbers and skill, as to be adequate to the most difficult music."[3]

Again we read,--"We remember, that, some time since, Fetis, at Paris, pointed out Marx as the
one who had introduced the philosophy of Kant into music." Were this so, so much the more credit
to Marx, who, at that time, we are informed, had never studied the works of the philosopher
of Königsberg, and his basing music upon the Kantian philosophy is therefore but a proof of
the profundity of his genius.

From the same article we extract the following list of his productions:--1. A work on Singing,
in three parts; the second and third of which "contain throughout admirable and novel remarks."
2. "Maigruss" (Maygreeting). "This pamphlet, humorous and delicate, yet powerfully written,"
calls attention to certain novel views of its author in regard to music. 3. Articles in the
"Cäcilia," a musical periodical. 4. Essay on Handel's works. 5. A work on Composition. 6. Several
biographies and other articles in Schilling's Encyclopædia,--"indeed, all the articles signed
A. B. M." 7. Editions of several of Bach's and Handel's works. To these we may now add his
extensive treatise upon Musical Science, in four volumes, his "Music in the Nineteenth Century,"
and the work which is now before us.

Of musical compositions we find the

[Footnote 1: Article in Schilling]

[Footnote 2: Article in Schilling]

[Footnote 3: Ibid.] following noticed:--1. Music to Goethe's "Jery und Bätely,"--which, in
theatrical parlance, was shockingly _damned_;--but then "its author had made many enemies as
editor of the 'Musikalische Zeitung,'" and the singers and actors embraced this opportunity
of revenge. 2. Music to the melodrama, "Die Rache wartet," (Vengeance waits,) by Willibald
Alexis, the scenes of which are laid in Poland at the time of Napoleon's fatal Russian expedition.
"This background was the theme of the music, which consisted of little more than the overture
and _entr'actes_, but was held by musicians of note to be both grand and profound. The character
of the campaign of 1812, especially, was given in the overture with terrible truth of expression.
Still, however, the work _did not succeed_." 3. "Undine's Greeting," text by Fouqué, with a
festive symphony, composed on occasion of the marriage of the present Prince Regent of Prussia.
This was also damned,--but then, it was badly executed! 4. Symphony,--"The Fall of Warsaw,"--still
manuscript. "The music paints most touchingly the rash, superficial, chivalrous character of
the Poles, their love of freedom amid the thunder of cannon, their terrible fall in the bloody
defeat, their solitary condition on strange soil, the awful judgment that fell upon that people."
We are sorry to add, that the Berlin orchestras will not play this work,--preferring Mozart,
Haydn, Beethoven. 5. A Choral and Organ Book,--"one of Marx's most interesting works." 6. "Nahib,"--a
series of songs, the music of which "is gentle, tender, and full of Oriental feeling." 7. "John
the Baptist," an oratorio,--twice performed by the University choir in one of the churches
of Berlin. "A great charm is found in the peculiar sharpness of characterization which distinguishes
this music. The solos and choruses, being held throughout in spirited declamation,--the music
not being aggregated in conventional tone-masses, but developed vigorously after the sense
of the text,--are distinguished from those in the works of recent composers." Unfortunately
for Marx, the public preferred the solos and choruses of such recent composers as Meyerbeer,
Mendelssohn, and Schumann to his. A few songs and hymns completed the list of his works at
that time.

"At present," (1841,) says our authority, "Marx is laboring upon an oratorio, 'Moses,' for
which he long since made studies, and which in its profound conception of character will have
but few equals."

The "Moses" was long since finished, and was performed in several places; but the public has
not proved alive to its merits, and it fares no better than did Beethoven's Ninth Symphony
in its nonage.

We have perhaps quoted somewhat too largely from the article in Schilling; but have thought
so much necessary to give the reader the basis of the great reputation which Marx has, particularly
in England and the United States;--for, singular as the fact may appear, we are unable to recall
the name of any young composer who has appeared and gained any considerable degree of success,
since Marx began to teach, whom he can claim as his pupil. Most of the younger generation are
from the schools of Hauptmann, Haupt, Dehn, the Schneiders, and the Vienna and Prague professors.
Marx's reputation, then, is that of an author,--a writer upon music.

There is one fact, however, worthy of mention in regard to the article from which we have quoted,
which, while it exhibits the modesty of Marx,--modesty, the ornament of true greatness,--may
(or may not) add weight to the extracts we have made from it,--namely, that the article was
written for Schilling by Marx himself.

We have, then, a man of three-score years, whose youth and early manhood fell in the period
of Beethoven's greatest efforts and fame; a musician by profession, and composer, but, through
"the opposition of singers and musicians and the scandalous journalism" of Berlin, forced from
the path of composition into that of the science and literature of the art; for thirty years
lecturer on the history and philosophy of music; professor of the art in the first of German
universities, a position, both social and professional, which gives him command of all the
sources of information; dweller in a city which possesses one of the finest musical libraries
in the world, that, too, in which the bulk of the Beethoven papers are preserved,--a city,
moreover, in which more than in any other the more profound works of the master are studied
and publicly performed. Certainly, from no man living have we the right to expect so much,
as biographer of Beethoven, as from this man.

We have no extravagant ideas of the value of the so-called Conversation-Books of Beethoven.
We are aware that they seldom contain anything from the hand of the master himself,--being
made up, of course, of what people had to say to him; but one hundred and thirty-eight such
books--though in many cases but a sheet or two of foolscap doubled together, generally filled
with mere lead-pencil scribbling, now by his brother, now by the nephew, then by Schindler
or the old housekeeper, upon money matters and domestic arrangements, but often by artists,
poets, and literary men, not only of Vienna, but in some cases even from England, and in one
from America--must contain a great mass of matter, which places one amidst those by whom the
master was surrounded, makes one to "know his goings-out and his comings-in," and occasionally
facts of high importance in the study of his character, and the circumstances in which he spent
his last years. For some twelve years these books have been in Berlin and at the disposal of
Marx. The numerous files of musical periodicals and the mass of musical biography and recent
musical history preserved in the Royal Library must be of inestimable value to the writer on
Beethoven,--a value which Marx must fully appreciate, both from his former labors as editor,
and his more recent onus as contributor of biographical articles to Schilling's Encyclopedia.

As we take up this new life of Beethoven, then, the measure of our expectations is the reputation
of the author, plus the means, the materials, at his command. And certainly the first impression
made by these two goodly volumes is a very favorable one; for, making due allowance for the
music scattered through them with not too lavish a hand, by way of examples, we have still
some six hundred solid pages of reading matter,--space enough in which to answer many a vexed
question, clear up many a dark point, give us the results of widely extended researches, and
place Beethoven the Man and the Composer before us in "Leben und Schaffen,"--in his life and
his labors.

In the first cursory glance through the work, we were struck by an apparent disproportion of
space allotted to different topics, and have taken some pains to examine to how great an extent
this disproportion really exists. We find that in the first volume, four works,--the First,
Second, and Third Symphonies and the opera "Leonore" or "Fidelio" occupy 136 of the 875 pages;
in the second, that the other five Symphonies and the "Missa Solemnis" fill out 123 of the
330 pages. Bearing in mind that the works of Beethoven which have _Opus_ numbers--not to speak
of the others--amount to 137, and that, in some cases, three and even six compositions, so
important as the Rasoumowsky Quartetts, for instance, are included in a single _Opus_, the
disproportion really appears very great. We notice, moreover, that just those works which are
most familiar to the public, which have for thirty years or more been subjects of never-ending
discussion, and which one would naturally suppose might be dismissed in fewest words,--that
these are the works which occupy so much space. What is there so new to be said of the "Heroic
Symphony" that fifty pages should be allotted to it, while the ballet "Prometheus," still strange
to nearly every reader, should be dismissed in three?

We find it also somewhat remarkable that Marx thinks it necessary to give his own notions of
musical form to the extent of nineteen pages, (Vol. I. pp. 79 _et seq_.,) preparatory to his
discussion of the greater works of the master, and yet is able to condense the history of Beethoven's
first twenty-two years--the period, in our view, the most important in making him what he was--in
sixteen! We have not space to follow this out farther, and only add, that, were this work a
mere catch-penny affair by an unknown writer, we should suspect him of "drawing out the thread
of his verbosity" on topics where materials are plenty and talk is easy, in preference to the
labor of original research on points less known.

In reading the work carefully, two points strike us in relation to his printed authorities:
first, that the list of those quoted by Lenz in his "Catalogue" and "Leben des Meisters" comprises
nearly all those cited by Marx; the principal additions being the works of Lenz, Oulibichef,
and A. B. Marx,--the latter of which he exhibits great skill in finding and making opportunities
to advertise;--and secondly, that, where the Russian writer, through haste, carelessness, or
the want of means to verify facts and correct errors, falls into mistakes, the Berlin Professor
generally agrees with him. As it is impossible to suppose that a gentleman who for nearly thirty
years "writes himself, in any bill, warrant, quittance, or obligation," Extraordinary Professor
of a great German University, should simply adopt the labors of an obscure Russian writer without
acknowledgment, we can only suppose these resemblances to be coincidences. These coincidences
are, nevertheless, so numerous, that we may say in general, what Lenz knew of the history of
the man Beethoven and his works is known to Marx,--what was unknown to the former is equally
unknown to the latter. Marx, however, occasionally quotes passages from Schindler, Wegeler,
and Ries at length, to which Lenz only gives references. We will note a few of the coincidences
between the two writers.

Here is the first sentence of the biography:--

"Ludwig van Beethoven was born to his father, a singer in the chapel of the _Elector Max Franz_,
Archbishop of Cologne, Dec. 17, 1770." (Marx, Vol. I. p. 4.) Beethoven was fourteen years old
when this Elector came to Bonn. Max Franz is confounded with Max Friedrich,--a singular mistake,
since Wegeler writes the name in full. It may, however, be a typographical error, or a _lapsus
pennae_ on the part of Marx. We give him all the benefit of the doubt; but, unluckily, we read
on p. 12, that the Archbishop, "brother of Joseph II.," called the Protestant Neefe from the
theatre to the organ-loft of the Electoral Chapel,--this appointment having in fact been made
four years before the "brother of Joseph II." had aught to do with appointments in that part
of the world. Lenz confounds the two Electors in precisely the same manner.

Both Lenz and Marx (p. 9) relate the old exploded story of the child Beethoven and the spider.
The former found it in the "Leipziger Allgemeine Musikalische Zeitung," and probably had not
authorities at hand to correct it. Had Marx sent to the Library for Disjouval's "Arachnologie,"
the work which he gives as _his_ authority, he would have found, that, not Beethoven, but the
French violinist Berthaume, was the hero of the anecdote,--as, indeed, is also related in Schilling's
Encyclopaedia, not many pages after Marx's own article on Beethoven in that work.

That Lenz should misdate Beethoven's visit to Berlin is not strange; that Marx, a Berliner,
should, is. Nor is it remarkable that Lenz knows nothing of Beethoven's years of service as
member of the Electoral orchestra at Bonn; but how Marx should have overlooked it, in case
he has made _any_ researches into the composer's early history, is beyond our comprehension.

Schindler has mistaken the date of certain letters written by Beethoven long before he had
any personal intercourse with him,--the notes to Julia Guicciardi,--which he dates 1806. Both
Lenz and Marx follow him in the date; both quote Beethoven's words, that the lady in question
married Count Gallenberg before the departure of the latter to Italy; both coincide in overlooking
the circumstance related in the "Leipziger Allgemeine Musikalische Zeitung," that, _before_
June, 1806, a grand performance of music, composed and directed by Gallenberg, took place at
Naples in honor of Joseph Bonaparte;--proof sufficient that Beethoven could not in July of
that year have addressed the lady in these terms: "Mein Engel, mein Alles, mein Ich!"

Both Marx and Lenz relate the following anecdote. Haydn, meeting Beethoven, praised the Septett
of the latter; upon which the young man exclaimed, deprecatingly, "Ah, it is far from being
a 'Creation'!" To which Haydn replied, "_That_ you could not have written, for you are an atheist!"

That the absurdity of making Beethoven, then a man of thirty and supposed to be possessed of
common sense, hint at any comparison of a piece of chamber-music with one of the grandest of
oratorios, and that, too, to the author himself, should not have struck Marx, is strange; nor
is it less so, that, in the course of his researches, he has not met with the correction of
the story, by the late Alois Fuchs of Vienna.

In fact, the ballet "Prometheus," in which the progress of man from a state of rude nature
to the highest culture and refinement is depicted, and the "Creation," were both given for
the first time within a few weeks of each other. The affinity of the subjects is clear, and
the remark of the young man, "Ah, dear papa, it is far from being a 'Creation'!" is only natural.
"No," said Haydn, "it is indeed not a 'Creation,' nor do I think its author will ever reach that!"

In the dates given by Marx to Beethoven's compositions he generally coincides with Lenz, in
his "Catalogue," particularly when the latter is wrong,--and when he differs from him, he is
as apt to be wrong as right. Any person who has both works at command may easily verify this
remark.

But we cannot dwell longer on this point.

_Reminiscences of Rufus Choate, The Great American Advocate_. By EDWARD G. PARKER. New York:
Mason Brothers. 1860.

We think it our duty to state our judgment of this book, because it professes to give personal
reminiscences, by a familiar friend, of a remarkable and distinguished man of our own time
and country, has been much read and discussed, and has gained a good deal of popularity of
a certain sort; it therefore belongs _somewhere_ in the literature of the day. Perhaps it would
have been for the good of some of our readers, if we had done this sooner. But, indeed, to
treat with entirely condign justice a book which deals very freely and flippantly with the
literary and even the personal character of one who, though an eminent and to some extent a
public man, was still only yesterday a private gentleman among us, a neighbor and a friend,
is a matter of some delicacy. By the extraordinary alacrity with which this book was produced
the author got a little the start of criticism, perhaps; but we should fail in our duty as
reviewers, if he altogether escaped it. In all charity, we are bound, for that matter, to give
him the full benefit of the speed he has exhibited, in so far as it may serve to explain, if
it cannot extenuate, the wretched manner in which he has performed his self-appointed task.

For the purposes of the bookseller, nothing could have been happier than the publication, within
a few months after the death of Mr. Choate, of such a book as this promised to be. Throughout
the country his name had been generally accounted the synonyme of all that was most original,
mysterious, and fascinating, in the arts of the advocate and the scholar. Perhaps we have none
of us ever known a man in regard to whom a greater degree of _curiosity_ existed among his
countrymen. Those who saw him every day never ventured to believe that they quite ever understood
him, so various and so peculiar were the aspects he exhibited even here at home. Those who
attempted to study him were as much perplexed as charmed. The avidity with which a cheap book,
easily read, professing to give personal recollections of such a man, would be seized upon
by the mass of reading people, was not overestimated.

It is not the purpose of this notice to discuss Mr. Choate,--his eloquence, his wit, his scholarship,
or his personal characteristics. Our office is simply to examine the manner of Mr. Parker's
performing what he set out to perform. Our business is with the book, not with the subject
of it. And, in our judgment, the book is the very worst that could well be written on such
a subject. It is done with bad taste, bad judgment, bad style, It is precisely the book to
mortify and disgust Mr. Choate's admirers, and to fix more firmly than ever such unfavorable
notions of him as may have existed in the minds of others.

Mr. Parker does not appear to have considered what he undertook, when he stepped so lightly
into the position of the biographer of such a man. We will not dwell upon the fact, that a
really just and discriminating account of him demanded, as it certainly did, much acuteness
of perception and dexterity of delineation, together with a high degree of scholarship. What
we are now specifying against the author is, that he took no care whatever to set any wise
or modest bounds to his enterprise. He did not bear in mind how much had been _said_, as well
as how little was _known_ about Mr. Choate; what wonderfully loose and idle notions of him
had got abroad; how the most essential and notable points of his character and genius had been
so clumsily handled by flippant or careless critics, that the popular impression of him was,
to a great degree, extravagant and absurd. Remembering all this, and properly _respecting_
the subject in which he appears to have interested himself so ardently, Mr. Parker should have
applied to his task a somewhat gentle hand; gratifying, if that must be done, the curiosity
of his readers as far as he safely could, but refraining altogether from those aspects of Mr.
Choate's mind and character which he must have known could not be intelligently discussed in
a book so swiftly and lightly executed. No such notion seems to have occurred to him. He has
rattled off his "Reminiscences" with a confidence which may be justly called indecent and impertinent.
The result is what might have been expected. We have so many pages of voluble, superficial,
and exceedingly tedious talk about Mr. Choate,--and that is the whole of it. For our own part,
we have been not at all profited by the reading, and the little amusement it has afforded us
was probably not exactly designed by the author.

We would fain be excused from the duty of remarking upon the merely literary character of the
book, but that may not be. As we said before, the book is somewhere in the literature of the
day, and its place must be ascertained. The following gems of rhetoric it will be useful, for
that end, to notice:--"With me, as with every young man of a taste that way, he talked," etc.;
"he was always booked up on all the fresh topics," etc.; "the sparkle and flash produced by
a battle of brains"; "newspaper topics of erudition and magnificence"; "convulsive humor";
"severity sweetening all the courts through which he revolved"; "the maiden-mother,"--alluding
to an unfortunate female witness who was a mother, though never married; "two names, chiefs
at the bar, _facile princeps_"; not to forget an extraordinary quotation from the title, which
the author says he found at the head of one of Mr. Choate's manuscript plans for daily study,
in these words, "_faciundo ad munus nuper impositum_." Now it must really in justice be said
that to write a biography of Mr. Choate in such a lingo as this is an insult to the subject.
We believe we are fair with Mr. Parker's style. Indeed, where it is not relieved by such barbarisms
as we have quoted, it purls along with a certain weak smartness which is inexpressibly tiresome.

A much more tolerable book, however, would be spoiled by such arrant egotism as our author
displays on every page. We are never rid of _Mr. Parker_ for a moment. Wherever Mr. Choate
is visible, Mr. Parker is strutting by his side. He exhibits, indeed, all the intrusiveness
of Boswell, without any of that honest, self-forgetting, simple-hearted admiration of his distinguished
friend which makes Boswell positively respectable. A single illustration of this weakness is
so apt that we quote it. "Mr. Choate said, 'Some one should write a History of the Ancient
Orators. There is no book in all my library where I can find all there is extant about any
ancient orator.' He earnestly advised the author to undertake it. In pursuance of the idea,
an article on 'Hortensius' appeared in a Review as a beginning. He spoke with enthusiasm of
the satisfaction it gave him; saying it was a new revelation to him, for he never _knew_ Hortensius
before."

Again, Mr. Parker is continually assuring us, in more or less direct terms, of the intimacy
which existed between himself and Mr. Choate. In a matter of this sort, once telling is enough;
and then it should be done with modesty, and so as simply to assure the reader of the genuineness
of the reminiscences. All beyond that is vulgar. One more remark upon Mr. Parker's _behavior_
as an author. He permits himself to speak of individuals of decided personal and public dignity
with quite too much familiarity. This is, of course, nothing more than an offence against good
taste. But it is so prevalent in his pages that we cannot omit it from anything like a summary
of the faults which they display. And none of our young authors, actual or potential, can find
anywhere else a more striking and salutary example of the harm which such a one can do to himself
by indulging in this very unbecoming practice.

We have yet to notice Mr. Parker's book in respect to its success as an attempt at biography.
We suppose he intended to draw the portrait of a man of wit, eloquence, and scholarship. He
constantly assures us in terms that Mr. Choate _was_ such a man; an assurance which certainly
was not necessary to so extensive and brilliant a reputation. If he had stopped there, he would
at least have done no harm. But the illustrations which he gives us are so very far from satisfactory,
that, unless Mr. Choate's reputation in these particulars be surrendered, for which we are
not quite prepared, it must be upon the ground that his biographer has failed entirely to appreciate
him. That Mr. Choate was, for instance, a man of singularly keen and delicate wit, everybody
knows. But we believe that any brother advocate who ever sat at the same courtroom table with
him for three days, or any cultivated person who ever passed an evening in his company, was
likely to hear from his lips, in that space of time, more real wit than Mr. Parker repeats
in his whole book. A few old jokes of his, current in Court Street any time in the last twenty
years, and some odd and extravagant expressions which Mr. Choate may have permitted himself
to use in the courtroom to divert a sullen juror,--such turns of speech as _he_ certainly never
thought were witty, though they raised the desired laugh at the time,--to which he resorted
only as a necessary, but to himself unpalatable part of the business of carrying the verdict,
and which he of all men would desire to have forgotten,--make up pretty much the sum of Mr.
Parker's illustrations in the matter of wit. One faculty which Mr. Choate possessed in a remarkable
degree, that of ready, elegant, and telling quotation, of which many interesting instances
will occur to every one, and which in the hands of an appreciative biographer would have furnished
a topic of rare entertainment, Mr. Parker scarcely mentions. As he regards, or at any rate
describes, Mr. Choate's oratory, it would seem to have consisted altogether in "unearthly screams,"
"jumping up and down," tangled hair, sweating brow, glaring eyes, etc., etc. Upon these things,
which his discriminating admirers were glad to overlook as mere matters of temperament and
constitution, and in spite of which they were charmed with his graceful and truly vigorous
speech, his biographer loves to dwell. He has much to say of the length and complexity of the
sentences, but nothing of the often exquisite elegance of their structure; much of the number
and size of the words of which they consisted,--nothing of the extreme delicacy and dexterity
of their use, the wonderful completeness with which they were made to express every particle
of the orator's meaning. As to Mr. Choate's scholarship, we certainly learn nothing satisfactory
from this unfortunate book. In the conversations which the author, clumsily, indeed, but, we
are bound to believe, faithfully, details, we should expect to find something of the rich fruitage
of a life-long cultivation in letters. But so poor a result does Mr. Parker show in this part
of his work, that he drives us to the dilemma either of placing Mr. Choate in quite an unworthy
rank as a scholar, or of concluding, that, in the case of these conversations, he bestowed
upon his listener very little of any particular preciousness, or that what else was bestowed
was not understood or remembered so as to be recorded.

We cannot dismiss this book without noticing the extremely unhappy treatment which the personal
and professional character of Mr. Choate has received at the author's hands. That he should
have introduced into it, as he has done, such stories, or jokes, or anecdotes, or whatever
else they may be called, as the commonest good taste or good sense should have told him to
exclude, we suppose ought in charity to be attributed to mere uncontrollable garrulity. But
he has also completely missed some of the most obvious and familiar characteristics of Mr.
Choate, and his description of others which he professes to have perceived he spoils by unseemly
and unintelligent illustration. We have not the patience to follow him through this part of
his performance. It is enough to say that none who knew Mr. Choate would ever recognize the
portrait.

We regret extremely that Mr. Parker felt himself called upon to write and print his "Reminiscences."
He has done himself no credit whatever; but that is comparatively a small matter. The book
is in every way an injurious and indecorous one. And if he really respects the fame of the
distinguished man whom he has attempted to describe, he must agree with us in the hope that
his own work may be forgotten as soon as possible.

_A History of the Whig Party_. By R. Mc KINLEY ORMSBY. Boston: Crosby Nichols, & Co.

The duties of an historian, always difficult, are peculiarly so when he attempts to treat of
recent events. In such a case, the historian whose mind is not so warped by sympathies and
antipathies as to make him utterly incompetent to his task must possess a rare impartiality
of judgment and extraordinary keenness of insight, all assisted by candid and painful research.
To what extent these qualities are united in Mr. Ormsby, we propose to inquire.

We are at first favorably impressed. Mr. Ormsby's Preface is most striking,--uniting not only
touching candor, but innocence absolutely refreshing. The duties of historian, which we just
now called so weighty, rest lightly upon his conscious strength. The historian remarks, that
"he is aware that his outlines are very imperfect, and in many things may be erroneous. He
has had no access to libraries or public documents; and his statistics are sometimes given
from general recollection, and are but approximations to accuracy. But, feeling that some history
of the parties of this country is needed, he has the temerity to offer this, till its place
shall be supplied by one more reliable and satisfactory."

Any man's apology for deficiencies in his book may be accepted, provided he be able to make
good the suppressed premise upon which, after all, the whole depends, namely,--that there was
need of his writing at all. Mr. Ormsby seems to think there was, but gives no reasons in support
of his opinion. Supposing it proved, however, it might be gravely debated whether the fortunate
owner of this book would have any advantage over the man so unlucky as not to possess it.

We have all heard of the man who planned a house on so magnificent a scale, that, when the
porch was finished, the funds were found to be nearly exhausted, and the main body of the house
had to be built much smaller than the porch. Mr. Ormsby has avoided this error. His porch is
_not_ half of the whole structure. His book contains 377 pages; of these, only 188 (actually
less than half!) are devoted to porch, or introductory matter. This part is richly studded
with blunders of every description, and written in language which for copiousness and clearness
rivals the fertilizing inundations of the Nile.

The decorous appearance of impartiality, necessary to an historian, is well preserved by such
choice language as "crusade against the institutions and people of the South,"--"fratricidal
hand in sectional warfare,"--"first to arouse jealousy and hatred,"--"the South at the mercy
of the North,"--"shriek for freedom,"--"political mountebank,"--"and it is to the stunted,
obtuse, bigoted, fanatical, ignorant, jaundiced, self-righteous, and self-conceited millions
of such in the North, that Mr. Seward, and others of his kidney, address," etc., etc.,--"British
gold," (a favorite phrase,)--"cant of British philanthropy,"--etc., etc.

Mr. Ormsby devotes some little space to what may be called the legitimate object of his work,--that
is, the vindication of the distinctive tariff policy of the Whigs,--and here advocates a good
cause in a singularly illogical, bungling way. Most of his book, however, is given up to foolish
invective against British machinations in the United States,--an idea which may have been plausible
in Jefferson's time, but has long been abandoned to minds of our author's calibre,--and to
arguments against the Republican party which show only that he is entirely ignorant of the
doctrines of that party, and entirely incompetent to understand them, if he were not ignorant.

We can present only a few specimens, taken almost at random from the pages of this book. The
author's ignorance (omitting the frequent instances of error in the names) may be shown by
his ranking R. M. Johnson of Kentucky and Davy Crockett among the eminent statesmen of their
time! He says of Mr. Clay, "When, in 1825, as a Senator from Kentucky, he sustained Mr. Adams
(in the House) for the Presidency, he acted," etc. Now Henry Clay was not in the Senate at
any time between March 3, 1811, and March 4, 1831. Moreover, if he had been, he could not have
voted for Adams, as Mr. Ormsby would have known, had he known anything of the Constitution
to which he professes such entire devotion. Of the Missouri Compromise he says, "It was an
arrangement by which the South made concessions, and gained nothing"! If we are to adopt the
principle, that slavery is to be fostered, not discouraged, the South did make concessions.
The essential principle of the Republican party is, that slavery is a great evil and brings
in its train many other evils, and that the legislation of the United States is not to be warped
by vain attempts to save the slave-holding interest from inevitable disaster by systematic
injustice to the other interests of the country. If we adopt this view, which is admitted even
by so ardent a pro-slavery leader as Senator Mason of Virginia to have been the view of the
framers of the Constitution, then the South gave up what she never owned, and was paid for
so doing. And taking either view, we must admit that she has since, by the Kansas-Nebraska
act, revoked the grant, without refunding the pay.

Mr. Ormsby mentions "the significant and highly encouraging fact," that many leading Democrats,
including Mr. Hallett, (whose name, of course, he spells incorrectly,) declared for Protection
in the campaign of 1856. His taking courage from so insignificant a fact as any of these gentlemen
declaring for any serviceable doctrine in a campaign shows Mr. Ormsby to be by no means intimately
acquainted with Massachusetts Democracy.

It is commonly thought that General Taylor's nomination kept the Whigs from sinking in 1848,
and that the Whig party died in 1852 "of trying to swallow the Fugitive Slave Law." But Mr.
Ormsby thinks Taylor hurt them, and that the Baltimore Platform was too anti-slavery. He frequently
alludes to Garrison and Phillips as Republicans, although nearly every other adult in the country
knows that they are bitter opponents of that party,--says that Mr. Seward can rely only upon
the Abolitionists in the North,--misunderstands, of course, the "irrepressible conflict,"--says
that no Northern editor ventures to speak or write against Personal Liberty bills, although
probably not a day passes without their being assailed by a dozen in New England alone,--that
slaves never can be carried into New Mexico, although they have been carried thither, and slavery
has even been declared perpetual by enactment of the Territorial Legislature,--and, speaking
of Kansas, that President Buchanan's "best endeavors to secure the people of that Territory
equal rights were thwarted by factionists"!--in other words, "factionists" declined to admit
Kansas under the pro-slavery Lecompton constitution, forced by gross frauds upon a loathing
and reluctant people. He adds, that "no one denies Mr. Buchanan eminent patriotism and statesmanship."
Now, whether the President possesses these qualities or not, there can be no doubt that a great
many deny them to him. And so Mr. Ormsby continues, heaping blunder upon blunder, to a greater
length than we can follow him.

On p.79, he makes this following unorthodox statement: "We have a right to hate and detest
slavery, and should belie our natures, were we not to do so." Elsewhere, however, he dwells
rapturously upon the happy lot of the slave. The apparent inconsistency is explained on p.
318: "We will not insult our understandings by doubting the great enormity of so foul a thing
as human bondage." "In regard to detestation of slavery, there is no difference between the
people of the North and South." "But these two people (!!) differ widely in their feelings
in regard to negro servitude." Oh, that is it, then? Vast is the difference between "human
bondage" and "negro servitude!"

Mr. Ormsby's argument is aimed against the Republicans. Accordingly, he assails the Abolitionists!
Now we do not find fault with him because his arguments are pitiably silly,--because an intelligent
Abolitionist would refute them instantly,--but because, even if they were sound, they have
no bearing upon his point. They are not only nonsensical, but irrelevant.

"For the ignorance of the Southerners," says our author, "we should pity them, and send them
our schoolmasters, who, in happy years past, have ever found a cordial reception." Exactly
so,--"in happy years _past_." He then innocently asks, Is it strange that the South should
think it necessary that she should have the ascendency in at least one branch of the national
government? Oh, no,--not at all,--but as Republicans _don't_ consider it necessary, is it strange
that they should, vote as they think?

Here is a sample of most eminently logical reasoning: "The powerful efforts made by the British
government to suppress the slave-trade have been far from successful. The exportation of negroes
from Africa has not been discontinued, but the sufferings of the middle passage have been increased
twofold; _showing that an attempt to thwart by legislation the decrees of Providence is of
but little avail_." If murder were frequent in New York, and an insufficient force called out
to suppress it, the consequence being only more bloodshed, Mr. Ormsby, to be consistent, would
have to say it was not well to try to suppress murder, the event showing it to be only a futile
legislative attempt to thwart the decrees of Providence!

"Not that any Whig was more in favor of the extension of slavery into the Territories, by the
general government, than Mr. Fremont, or the best Republican at his back; but the idea of the
formation of a party based on the slavery question could not be entertained for a moment by
any one imbued with genuine Whig sentiments." pp. 357-8.

There is precisely the old argument of timid conservatism, although its champions are seldom
unskilful enough to advance it in a form so easily dealt with. You may be bitterly opposed,
forsooth, to the extension of slavery; but you must not organize or even vote against it! Where,
then, is the good of being opposed to it?

The object of all this bad logic, bad history, and bad language is to attack the Republicans,
and advocate the claims of modern Democracy,--not the Democracy of Jefferson and Silas Wright,
but of Cushing and Buchanan. And what is the conclusion? What is the mission of the surviving
Whigs?

"The existence of a conservative, enlightened, and patriotic opposition party is the necessary
condition of the existence of the Democracy as a national party." p. 355.

"The slightest reflection, after even a superficial observation of the condition of our country,
will satisfy any candid person, of ordinary ability, that the reconstruction of the Whig party
is indispensable to the perpetuity of the Union. The Democratic party, though now national,
if left to the sole opposition of the Republican, which is a sectional party, must inevitably,
sooner or later, itself degenerate into sectionalism. This must be the necessary result of
such antagonism. But a party based upon intelligence and moral worth _must, most of the time,
be in the minority of the country, and much of the time exceedingly small. This the Whigs see,
and readily accept the conditions of their existence_." pp. 363-4.

This, then, is the banquet to which we are invited! The mission of the resuscitated Whig party
is to be--not gaining any victory, but--being beaten by the Democrats! It is important to the
nationality of the Democratic party that they have a sound and national opposition for them
to defeat regularly, year after year,--and this want the Whigs are to be so obliging as to supply!

After all, is there anything very strange in silly men writing silly books?

_The West Indies and the Spanish Main_. By ANTHONY TROLLOPE, Author of "Barchester Towers,"
"Doctor Thorne," "The Bertrams," etc. London. 1859. 8vo. pp. 395.

This entertaining volume has already reached a second edition in England. It is made up, in
great part, of a series of lively sketches of the West Indies, British Guiana, and some parts
of Central America, taken on a hasty tour during the winter and spring of last year. Its style
is by no means so good as that of which Mr. Trollope has shown himself the master in his popular
novels; it is disfigured by Carlylisms, and other inelegancies, and bears many marks of negligence
and haste. With a little pains, Mr. Trollope might have made his book much better, and of much
more permanent value. In spite of a sense of real humor, he sometimes falls into heavy attempts
at smartness and fun; and although he has a quick eye for the essential traits of character,
he not infrequently runs into trivial details. In travelling with him, one is not quite certain
whether his companion is a gentleman. Breakfasts, lunches, and dinners hold a great place in
his thoughts. He gives far too much attention to rum-and-water, brandy-and-water, and the varieties
of drinking and eating in general. He has neither the ease nor the self-restraint which mark
the thoroughly well-bred man of the world; but he is, nevertheless, good-natured, amusing,
and likable. The chief merit of his book arises from the fact that he has seen much and many
parts of the world, has been a student of life and manners, and thus has acquired skill in
observation and facility of comparison. The conclusions which he draws from what he sees may
be right or wrong; but he knows well how to state what has come to his notice, and his readers
may get from his pictures many valuable indications in regard to men and to social conditions,
whether they accept his conclusions or not.

The state of the British West Indies is one of peculiar interest at the present day, both in
a social and an economical point of view. The great questions opened by the emancipation of
the slaves in these islands, in 1834, are not yet settled; and upon the solution of the problems
now being worked out there depends not only their own future, but also, in great measure, the
future of all the countries in which slavery still exists. If the results of emancipation prove,
on the whole, advantageous both to masters and slaves, the question of the universal and comparatively
speedy abolition of slavery would be virtually decided. If, however, it should be shown that
the results, in the long run, are disastrous both to whites and blacks, or to either of these
classes, then, although no one can doubt that slavery must sooner or later be done away with,
wherever it now exists, the time of its abolition may be indefinitely postponed, and other
means of accomplishing it must be devised and adopted, than those which the example of the
West Indies will have proved injurious.

As in regard to all matters which have been vehemently discussed, the accounts in regard to
the effects of emancipation in the West Indies differ widely; but the weight of authority tends
to show, that, putting aside for the moment all moral considerations, the scale inclines towards
the side of good. Mr. Trollope, who writes without prejudice, may be taken as a fair witness,
so far as his opportunities for observation extended; and as his views will not satisfy the
warm partisans of either side, it may perhaps be assumed that they are in the main correct.
In his chapter on the Black Men in Jamaica, he says: "I shall be asked, having said so much,
whether I think that emancipation was wrong. By no means. I think that emancipation was clearly
right; but I think that we expected far too great and far too quick a result from emancipation.
These people [the negroes] are a servile race, fitted by nature for the hardest physical work,
and apparently at present fitted for little else. Some thirty years since, they were in a state
where such work was their lot; but their tasks were exacted from them in a condition of bondage
abhorrent to the feelings of the age, and opposed to the religion which we practised. For us,
thinking as we did, slavery was a sin. From that sin we have cleansed ourselves. But the mere
fact of doing so has not freed us from our difficulties. Nor was it to be expected that it
should. The discontinuance of a sin is always the commencement of a struggle."

This is well said. The negroes, freed from the bondage of labor, suddenly becoming masters
of themselves, with simple and easily satisfied wants, with abundant means of subsistence,
to be procured at the expense of the least possible effort, exposed to no competition from
the pressure of population, and endowed by nature with indolent temperaments, naturally took
to leading idle and easy lives, and refused to work except at their own pleasure. They had,
as a class, no desire of regular and continued occupation, and little sense of the worth of
work in itself. There was nothing surprising in this, and the blacks were little to be blamed
for it. But the world will not advance, unless men work; and any country where there is not
a sufficient stimulus for labor is in the course of decline. The inevitable results followed
in the West Indies from the difficulty of obtaining labor. In Jamaica, the largest and most
important of these British islands, other and widely different causes--mistakes in legislation,
previous financial embarrassment, and especially the unwillingness or inability of the planters
to recognize the necessities of their altered position--contributed to bring about a condition
of wretched adversity. Estates went out of cultivation, expensive establishments failed, roads
were disused, and the island was full of the signs of decay. The negroes, indeed, were happy;
a few days' work in the course of the year secured them subsistence; and irregular labor for
wages, on the plantations of their old masters, gave them the means of gratifying their liking
for dress and finery.

A full generation has not yet passed since the act of emancipation, but there are already indications
that this transitional condition is drawing to an end. A portion, at least, of the negroes
are beginning to recognize the responsibilities as well as the privileges of liberty, to seek
employment for the sake of raising themselves and their children in the social scale, and to
accumulate property. They are not merely free, but are becoming independent. Still the number
of those who live from hand to mouth, in the indolent and useless possession of freedom, is
very great. In Mr. Trollope's opinion, little is to be expected from the blacks. "To lie in
the sun and eat bread-fruit and yams is the negro's idea of being free. Such freedom as that
has not been intended for man in this world; and I say that Jamaica, as it now exists, is still
under a devil's ordinance." Education is a slow process with the blacks.

But in Jamaica, as elsewhere, where slavery exists, there is a race neither black nor white,
but of mixed blood, important in numbers, and important also from possessing a mingling of
the qualities of its progenitors, which seems to fit it peculiarly for the prosperous occupation
of the tropics. Supposing this colored race to have the power of continuing itself through
successive generations, a problem which is as yet unsolved, it would seem as if the future
of these islands were mainly in its hands. Of pure whites, there are not more than fifteen
thousand in Jamaica; of the mixed race, there are said to be seventy thousand. Before the abolition
of slavery, their position was one of degradation; since the abolition, it has greatly improved.
They are still looked upon with ill-concealed disdain by their white brothers and sisters;
but they are forcing themselves into social recognition and equality. "These people marry now,"
said a lady to Mr. Trollope; "but their mothers and grandmothers never thought of looking to
that at all." There is matter for reflection, as well as for satisfaction, in that sentence.

But as yet the condition of Jamaica is such as may well excite doubt as to the possibility
of its recovery from the misfortunes under which it has suffered,--misfortunes due quite as
much to the evils of preëxisting slavery, as to the blow given to its prosperity by the act
of emancipation. "Are Englishmen in general aware," asks Mr. Trollope, "that half the sugar-estates
in Jamaica, and I believe more than half the coffee-plantations, have gone back into a state
of bush?--that all this land, rich with the richest produce only some thirty years since, has
now fallen back into wilderness?"

Still, if the experiment of emancipation be considered doubtful or disastrous, so far as Jamaica
is concerned, it cannot be esteemed so in regard to the chief remaining, islands. In Barbadoes,
for instance, there was no squatting-ground for the blacks. The negro was obliged to work or
starve. Labor was consequently abundant,--and "there is not a rood of waste land" in the island.
Even here, "numerous as are the negroes, they certainly live an easier life than that of an
English laborer, earn their money with more facility, and are more independent of their masters."
In the report made by the governor of the island, in 1853, he states,--"So far, the success
of cultivation by free labor in Barbadoes is unquestionable."[1]

Trinidad, of which but a comparatively small part has been cultivated, and where the negroes
have displayed the same indisposition to labor as in Jamaica, is, however, flourishing. Its
prosperity seems to be due to the fact, that, during the last few years, some ten or twelve
thousand Coolies have been brought from the East Indies, and have supplied the demand for labor.

In British Guiana, or Demerara, on the main land, the same fact has brought about a similar
result. The emancipated negro could not be depended upon for regular work. He established himself
on his small freehold, and lived, like Theodore Hook's club-man, "in idleness and ease." But
for some years past laborers have been brought in freely from India and China, and the fertile
colony is now in a state of abundant prosperity. Mr. Trollope seems to us to refute effectually
the notion, so far at least as regards the British West Indies, that this Cooly immigration,
is only slavery under another name. "On their arrival in Demerara," he says, "the Coolies are
distributed among the planters by the Governor,--to each planter according to his application,
his means of providing for them, and his willingness and ability to pay the cost of the immigration
by yearly instalments.

[Footnote 1: We quote from an extract in an able article in the _Edinburgh Review_ for April,
1859, entitled, _The West Indies as they were and are_.]

They are sent to no estate, till a government officer shall have reported that there are houses
for them to occupy. There must be a hospital for them on the estate, and a regular doctor,
with a sufficient salary. The rate of their wages is stipulated, and their hours of work. Though
the contract is for five years, they can leave the estate at the end of the first three, transferring
their services to any other master, and at the end of the five years they are entitled to a
free passage home." "The women are coming now, as well as the men; and they have learned to
husband their means, and put money together."

We pass over the other British "West Indies," though Mr. Trollope's animated sketches tempt
us to linger. The main conclusion to which this part of his book leads is, that this question
of labor is the one upon which the results of emancipation hinge. Unless moved by necessity,
the negro is disinclined to work. Slavery has rendered labor offensive to him, and his own
nature inclines him to idleness, The pressure of population, as in Barbadoes, may compel him,
for his own good, to labor; or he may, as in Demerara, be superseded by other workmen. If left
to himself, his tendency seems to be to sink into sensuality, rather than to rise in civilization
by his own efforts. The condition of the mass of the negroes is undoubtedly a happier one than
in the days of slavery; but it may be fairly doubted whether emancipation has led to any moral
improvement in the race.

How far a forced system of labor for wages might answer for the blacks,--how far a regular
and organized plan of education might elevate them,--how far the danger of their relapse into
barbarism might be obviated by preliminary precautions,--are questions which that country which
next undertakes emancipation must solve for itself, and which the example of the British West
Indies will give some of the means for solving in a satisfactory manner. Mr, Trollope's book
is well worth reading by those who would prepare themselves by knowledge and by reflection
for a proper appreciation of the advantages and the evils of giving unlimited freedom to a
race that has been long enslaved.

There is less interest in his account of Central America than in the other parts of his volume.
The ground is more familiar to American readers, and some of our own travellers have given
descriptions of the country far more thorough and not less entertaining.

Of Cuba, which he trusts may, for the benefit of humanity, be some day transferred to American
keeping, he says but little; and after Mr. Dana's late excellent, though hasty, sketches of
the island, that author must have more than common ability who can, with hope of success, venture
over the same ground.

_The Public Life of Captain John Brown_. By JAMES REDPATH. With an Autobiography of his Childhood
and Youth. Boston. 1860. l2mo. pp. 408.

It would have been well, had this book never been written. Mr. Redpath has understood neither
the opportunities opened to him, nor the responsibilities laid upon him, in being permitted
to write the "authorized" life of John Brown. His book, in whatever light it is viewed,--whether
as the biography of a remarkable man, as an historic narrative of a series of extraordinary
and important events, or simply as a mere piece of literary jobwork,--is equally unsatisfactory.
He has shown himself incompetent to appreciate the character of the man whom he admires, and
he has, consequently, done great wrong to his memory.

There never was more need for a good life of any man than there was for one of John Brown.
The whole country was curious to learn about him, and to be told his story. Those who thought
the best of him, and those who thought the worst, were alike desirous to know more of him than
the newspapers had furnished, and to become acquainted with the course of his life, and the
training which had prepared him for Kansas and brought him to Harper's Ferry. Whatever view
be taken of his character, he was a man so remarkable as to be well worthy of study. In the
bitter and excited state of public feeling in regard to him, there was but one way in which
his life could be properly told,--and that way was, to allow him, as far as possible, to tell
it in his own words. For that part of his life which there were no letters of his to illustrate,
his biographer should have been content to state facts in the simplest and most careful manner,
entering into no controversy, and keeping himself entirely out of sight. Thus only could John
Brown's character produce its due effect. His letters from prison had shown that he was a master
of the homeliest and strongest English. His words said what they meant, and they were understood
by everybody; he had found them in the Bible, and had been familiar with them all his life.
Whatever he was, he could have told us better than any other man; and he was the only man who
would have been listened to with much confidence concerning himself. Mr. Redpath has, very
unfortunately, thought differently. He has not taken pains to collect even all the letters
of John Brown which had been previously published; he has written in the worst temper and spirit
of partisanship, so that with every cautious reader doubts attend many statements which rest
only on his authority; he has thrust himself continually forward; and he has exercised no proper
care in arranging his materials.

The truth is, that a life of Brown was not now needed for those who already admired the stalwart
nature of the man, even though they might deplore his course,--for those who had had their
hearts touched and stirred by his manliness, his truth, his courage, and his unwavering fidelity
to conscience and faith in God; but it was greatly needed for that much larger class,--the
mass of the Northern community,-whose timidity had been startled at his rash attempt, whose
sympathy had been more or less awakened by his bearing and his death, but who were and are
in a painful state of perplexity, in the endeavor to reconcile their abhorrence, or at least
their disapproval, of his attack on Virginia, with their sense of the admirable nature of the
qualities he displayed. It was needed also for the very large class who received from the newspapers
but a confused and imperfect account of the events which took place in Virginia from October
to December, and who, according to their political predilections, condemn or applaud the course
of Captain Brown. And, above all, it was needed for the men who have disgraced themselves by
denying to Brown the possession of any virtues, and who have outstripped his Southern enemies
in applying to him the most opprobrious and the falsest epithets. Now, none of these classes
will Mr. Redpath's book reach with effect. Its tone is such, it is so violent, so extravagant,
that it will offend all right-thinking men. Even those who have known how to hold a steady
and clear opinion, in the midst of the confusion of the popular mind,--who have not applauded
Brown's acts of violence, and have condemned his judgment, but who have, nevertheless, honored
what was noble in him, and sympathized with him in his strong love of liberty,--who, while
acknowledging him guilty under the law, mourned that the law should not be tempered with mercy,--and
who have recognized in him at once the excellences and the errors of an enthusiast,--those
who have most faithfully endeavored to find the truth concerning him, though they will obtain
some interesting information from Mr. Redpath's book, will be the most dissatisfied with it.

It has always been among the offences of the out-and-out Abolitionists, to abuse the force
of words, and to make exclusive pretensions to virtue and the love of liberty. This book is
written in the spirit and style of an Abolition tract. In representing John Brown as little
more than a mere hero of the Abolitionists, the author has done essential disservice to the
cause of freedom, and to the memory of a man who was as free from party-ties as he was from
personal ambitions.

Although John Brown's character was a simple one, a long time must pass before it will be generally
understood, and justice be done to it. The passion and the prejudice which the later acts of
his life have excited cannot die away for years. Mr. Redpath has done his best to perpetuate
them. In seasons of excitement, and amid the struggles of political contention, the men who
use the most extravagant and the most violent words have, for a time, the advantage; but, in
the long run, they damage whatever cause they may adopt; and the truth, which their declamations
have obscured or their falsehoods have violated, finally asserts itself. In our country, the
worth and the strength of temperance and moderation of speech seem to be peculiarly forgotten.
Words, which should stand for things, are too commonly used with no respect to their essential
meaning. Political debates are embittered, personal feeling wounded, the tone of manners lowered,
and national character degraded, by this disregard of words as the symbol and expression of
truth. Moderation is brought into disrepute, and justice, fairness, and honesty of opinion
tendered as rare as they are difficult of attainment. The manner in which John Brown has been
spoken of affords the plainest illustration of these facts. Extravagance in condemnation has
been answered by extravagance in praise of his life and deeds.

The most interesting and the most novel part of Mr. Redpath's book is the letter written by
John Brown in 1857, giving some account of his early life. It is, in all respects, a remarkable
composition. It exhibits the main influences by which his character was formed; it affords
a key to the history of his life; it illustrates the nature of the social institutions under
which such a man could grow up; and it shows his natural traits, before they had become hardened
and trained under the discipline of later experience and circumstance. Nothing has been more
marked in the various exhibitions of his character, as they have come successively to view,
than their complete consistency. This letter, this account of his youth, squares perfectly
with what we know of his manhood. The whole of it should be read by all who would understand
the man, with his native faculty of command, with his mingled sternness and tenderness, with
his large heart, his steadfast will. The base of his soul was truth; and the motive power of
his life, faith in the justice of God.

He was a man of a rare type,--so rare in our times as to seem like a man of another age. He
belonged to the same class with the Scottish Covenanters and the English Regicides. He belonged
to the great company of those who have followed the footsteps of Gideon, and forgot that the
armory of the Lord contained other weapons than the sword. He belonged to those who from time
to time have adopted some cause,--the good old cause,--and have shrunk from no sacrifice which
it required at their hands. "I have now been confined over a month," wrote John Brown to his
children, in one of that most affecting series of letters from his prison, "with a good opportunity
to look the whole thing as fair in the face as I am capable of doing, and I now feel most grateful
that I am counted in the least possible degree worthy to suffer for the truth." "Suffering
is a gift not given to every one," wrote one of the Covenanters, who was hanged in the Grassmarket
in Edinburgh, in 1684,--"and I desire to bless God's name with my whole heart and soul, that
He has counted such a poor thing as I am worthy of the gift of suffering."

That John Brown was wrong in his attempt to break up slavery by violence, few will deny. But
it was a wrong committed by a good man,--by one who dreaded the vengeance of the Almighty and
forgot His long-suffering. His errors were the result of want of patience and want of imagination,
and he paid the penalty for them. He had faith in the Divine ordering of the affairs of this
world; but he forgot that the processes by which evils like that of slavery are done away are
thousand-year-long,--that, to be effectual, they must be slow,--that wrong is no remedy for
wrong. He was an anachronism, and met the fate of all anachronisms that strive to stem and
divert the present current by modes which the world has outgrown. But now that he and those
dearest to him have so bitterly expiated his faults, both charity and justice demand that his
virtues should be honored, and he himself mourned. It will be a gloomy indication of the poor,
low spirit of our days, if fear and falsehood, if passion or indifference, should cause the
lesson of John Brown's life to be neglected, or should check a natural sympathy with the noble
heart of the old man. That lesson is not for any one part of the country more than another;
that sympathy may be given by the South as well as by the North. It is not sympathy for his
acts, but for the spirit of his life and the heroism of his death. The lesson of manliness,
uprightness, and courage, which his life teaches, is to be learned by us, not merely as lovers
of liberty, not as opponents of slavery, but as men who need more manliness, more uprightness,
more courage and simplicity in our common lives.

All that is possible of apology for John Brown is to be found in his letters and in his speech
to the court before his sentence. It is, perhaps, too soon to hope that these letters and this
speech will be read with candor and a feeling of human brotherhood by those who now look with
abhorrence or with indifference on his memory. But the time will come when they will be held
at their true worth by all, as the expressions of a large, tender soul,--when they will be
read with sympathetic pity, even by those who still find it difficult to forgive their author
for his offence against society. These letters appeal to the better nature of every man and
woman in America; and it will be a sad thing, if their appeal be disregarded.

We trust, that, before long, a fairer and fuller biography than that by Mr. Redpath will remove
the obstacle which this book now presents to the general appreciation of the character and
life of John Brown.

_Poems_. By SYDNEY DOBELL. Boston: Ticknor & Fields. 1860.

Many of Mr. Dobell's poems have passages which are musical, vigorous, and peculiar, and hardly
in any part can he be justly charged with prolonging an echo. He is not one of the many mocking-birds
that infest the groves at the foot of Parnassus. Though portions of his songs be wild, fitful,
and incoherent, they gush with the force and feeling of a heart loyal to its intuitions, and
thus many strains captivate and keep the tuneful ear. Yet such charming lines make conspicuous
the want of that high appreciation of form and proportion without which any felicity of touch
in the treatment of details will only cause the consummate master to grieve over glorious forms
that have no effective grouping, and turn away from colors, however exquisite, that are strewn,
as it were, on a palette, rather than wrought into picture and harmonized to the tone of life.
The truth is, that the grandly designing hand is nowhere completely visible in the poetry of
Young England. Many of her more youthful poets show a mass of rich materials, but they appear
to have been upheaved by convulsions, half-blinding us with their splendor, while, like lava
pouring from a volcano's crater, they take no prescribed channel, they flow into no immortal
mould. It is this fiery gleam on the surface of matter hot from chaos, which the multitude
honor as the highest manifestation of genius. But this is to desecrate a word which implies
constructive power of the first order. Form is its highest expression. Without the shaping
faculty, which artistically rounds to perfection, no glitter of decoration, nor even force
and fire of expression, can keep the work from falling into ruins. If the beautiful, as Goethe
said, includes in it the good, then perfect beauty alone is everlasting. This is a rigorous
rule for anything which man has made, but it does not try "Othello" so severely as "Balder";
and "Balder" is not utterly crushed by it. There are scenes in this drama, and also in "The
Roman," which will not soon lose their significance, or easily melt out of the memory.

_A Good Fight, and other Tales_. By CHARLES KEADE. New York: Harper & Brothers. 1859.

About the middle of the fifteenth century, a youth named Gerard, a native of Tergou, in Holland,
loved Margaret, the daughter of Peter, a learned man of the neighboring village of Zevenbergen.
Expecting immediate marriage, their intimacy was restrained by no limits. The interference
of Gerard's relations, however, separated them for a time, during which the young man visited
Rome, and gained some distinction as a transcriber of ancient manuscripts. Learning, after
a while, that he was about to return, his kindred caused a false report of Margaret's death
to be conveyed to him, and, by thus crushing all the hopes of his young life, had the final
satisfaction of seeing him take priestly orders, which threw his patrimony into their hands.
Having broken two hearts, and brought a world of shame upon an innocent girl to get it, it
is only fair to suppose they enjoyed it with tranquillity.

Margaret, left alone, gave birth to a child, the greatness of whose manhood might have softened
the remembrance of her earlier sorrows, had she lived to witness it. But she died when he was
thirteen years old. Gerard, her true husband, who had never rejoined her while living, also
died within a brief space. The son they left was the famous Erasmus.

Mr. Reade has taken this little record, which would never have become historical but for the
accidental consequence of the loves of Gerard and Margaret, and wrought it into a story of
exquisite grace and delicacy. A dead and half-forgotten fact, he has warmed it into fresh life,
and given it all the beauties with which his brilliant imagination could endow it. Though shorter
and simpler than most, it is certainly inferior to none of his other works. Perhaps its simplicity
is its first merit. The extravagant peculiarities of style which overlaid his two longest books
have almost entirely disappeared in this. Here the narration is for the most part as unostentatious
as the events are natural. But its power is remarkable. Although the regularity with which
the incidents follow one another is such that they may all be anticipated, yet the interest
in them never fades. There is nothing startlingly new in the entire story. On the contrary,
it follows pretty closely the old formula of troubled true-love until the closing chapter,
when triumphant virtue sets in. But this takes nothing from the effect. All is so clear and
vivid in description, so glittering with gleams of wit, relieved by soft shadows of purest
pathos, so full of the spirit of tender humanity, that the reader finds no reason to complain,
except that the end is so speedily reached.

The author has sacrificed history, in his conclusion, to satisfy a natural feeling. No one
will object because the "Good Fight" terminates victoriously in the right direction. The parents
of Erasmus suffered; but it would be a pity, if readers, after the lapse of four hundred years,
must mourn their woes to the extent that would inevitably be necessary, if Mr. Reade had not
arranged it otherwise. And his object, which was to prove--if proof were needed--that all human
lives, however obscure, have their own share of romance, is not disturbed by this variation
from the severity of the chronicle.

_The Undergraduate_. Conducted by an Association of Collegiate and Professional Students in
the United States and Europe. [Greek:_'Ekasto onmachoi pantos_]; January, 1860. Printed for
the Association. New Haven, Conn.

We are not unused to the sight of College Periodicals. They have commonly greeted us in the
form of monthly numbers, each containing two or three essays which sounded as if they might
have done duty as themes, a critical article or two, some copies of verses, and winding up
with a few pages in fine print, purporting to be editorial, jaunty and jocular for the most
part, and opulent in local allusions. It would he unnatural, if these juvenile productions
did not often reflect the opinions of favorite instructors and the style of popular authors.
A freshman's first essay is like the short gallop of a colt on trial; its promise is what we
care for, more than its performance. If it had not something of crudeness and imitation, we
should suspect the youth, and be disposed to examine him as the British turfmen have been examining
the American colt Umpire, first favorite for the next Derby. But three or four years' study
and practice teach the young man his paces, so that many Bachelors of Arts have formed the
style already by which they will hereafter be known in the world of letters. We are always
pleased, therefore, to look over a College Periodical, even of the humblest pretensions. The
possibilities of its young writers give an interest and dignity to the least among them which
make its slender presence welcome.

But here we have offered us a more formidable candidate for public favor than our old friends,
the attenuated Monthlies. "The Undergraduate" has almost the dimensions of the "North American
Review," and, like that, promises to visit us quarterly. It is the first fruit of a spirited
and apparently well-matured plan set on foot by students in Yale College, and heartily entered
into by those of several other institutions. Its objects are clearly stilted in the well-written
Prospectus and Introduction. They are briefly these:--"To record the history, promote the intellectual
improvement, elevate the moral aims, liberalize the views, and unite the sympathies of Academical,
Collegiate, and Professional Students, and their Institutions."

The name, "Undergraduate," shows by whom it is to be managed; but its contributors are, and
will doubtless continue to he, in part, of a more advanced standing. There are articles in
the present number which we have read with great interest, and without ever being reminded
that they were contributed to a students' journal. The first paper, for instance, "German Student-Life
and Travel," is not only well written, but full of excellent suggestions, which show that the
writer has reached the age of good sense, whether he count his years by tens or scores. "A
Student's Voyage to Labrador" is a well-told story of scenes and experiences new to most readers.
Not less pleased were we to have an authentic account of the two ancient societies of Yale
College, "Brothers in Unity" and "Linonia," rivals for almost a century, and still maintaining
their protracted struggle for numerical superiority. Articles like this will interest all students,
and many outside of the student-world, "The Undergraduate" would not treat us fairly, if it
did not temper them somewhat, as it has done, with specimens of more distinctly youthful character.
Perhaps it might be safe to lay it down as a law, that, the tenderer the age, the wider the
subject, and, contrariwise, the older the head, the more limited and definite the probable
range of discussion. It is safe to say that a young man's essay is most likely to be interesting
when he writes about something he has seen or experienced, so as to know more about it than
his readers. Disquisitions on "Virtue," "Honesty," "Shakspeare," "Human Nature," and such large
subjects, are valuable chiefly as showing how the colts gallop.

On the whole, "The Undergraduate" is most creditable to the enterprise that gave it birth,
and to the young men who have contributed to it. If we should give any additional hints to
that just whispered, it would be, that more care should be taken in looking over the proofs.
Calvinism should not be spelt Calv_a_nism, Thackeray Thack_a_ray, nor Courvoisier _Corvosier_,--neither
should traveller be spelt _traveler_, nor theatre _theater_. These last provincialisms, particularly,
should not find a place in a journal meant for students all over the English-speaking world;
and if, as we hope, contributions shall hereafter appear in the new Quarterly from any persons
connected with our neighboring University, it should be a condition that the English standard
of spelling should be adopted in preference to any local perversions.

With these suggestions, we give a most cordial welcome to a periodical which we trust will
begin a new period in the literary history of our educational institutions.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The American Almanac and Repository of Useful Knowledge, for the Year 1860. Boston, Crosby,
Nichols, & Co. 12mo. pp. viii., 399. $1.00.

The New American Cyclopedia: a Popular Dictionary of General Knowledge. Edited by George Ripley
and Charles A. Dana. Vol. VIII. Fugger-Haynau. New York. Appleton & Co. 8vo, pp. 788, vii. $3.00.

Life Without and Life Within: or, Reviews, Narratives, Essays, and Poems. By Margaret Fuller
Ossoli, Author of "Woman in the Nineteenth Century," "At Home and Abroad," etc. Edited by her
Brother, Arthur B. Fuller. Boston. Brown, Taggard, & Chase. 12mo. pp. 424. $1.00.

Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World. With Narrative Illustrations. By Robert Dale Owen,
formerly Member of Congress, and American Minister to Naples. Philadelphia. Lippincott & Co.
12mo. pp. 528. $1.25.

Title-Hunting. By E. L. Llewellyn. Philadelphia. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 357. $1.00.

The Rivals. A Tale of the Times of Aaron Burr and Alexander Hamilton. By Hon. Jere. Clemens,
Author of "Bernard Lite" and "Mustang Gray." Philadelphia. Lippincott & Co. 12mo. pp. 286. 75 cts.

Poems. By Sydney Dobell. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 32mo. pp. 544. 75 cts. An Overland Journey
from New York to San Francisco, in the Summer of 1859. By Horace Greeley. New York. Saxton,
Barker, & Co. 12mo. pp. 386. $1.00.

Morphy's Games: a Selection of the Best Games played by the Distinguished Champion in Europe
and America. With Analytical and Critical Notes by J Löwenthal. New York. Appleton & Co. 12mo.
pp. xviii., 473. $1.25.

Compensation: or, Always a Future. By Anne M. H. Brewster. Philadelphia. Lippincott & Co. 12mo.
pp. 297. 75 cts.

The Eighteen Christian Centuries. By the Rev. James White, Author of a "History of France."
With a Copious Index. From the Second Edinburgh Edition. New York. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp.
538. $1.25.

An Appeal to the People in Behalf of their Rights as Authorized Interpreters of the Bible.
By Catherine E. Beecher, Author of "Common Sense Applied to Religion," "Domestic Economy,"
etc. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. x., 380. $1.00.

On the Origin of Species by Means of Natural Selection: or, The Preservation of Favored Races
in the Struggle for Life. By Charles Darwin, M. A., Fellow of the Royal Geological, Linnæan,
etc., Societies; Author of "Journal of Researches during H. M. S. Beagle's Voyage round the
World." New York. Appleton & Co. 12mo. pp. 432. $1.25.

Life in Spain, Past and Present. By Walter Thornbury, Author of "Every Man his own Trumpeter,"
"Art and Nature," etc. With Illustrations. New York. Harper & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 383. $1.00.

Poems. By the Author of "A Life for a Life," "John Halifax, Gentleman," etc. Boston. Ticknor
& Fields. 16mo. pp.270. 75 cts.

The Female Skeptic: or, Faith Triumphant, New York. R. M. DeWitt. 12mo. pp. 449. $1.00.

Report on Weights and Measures, read before the Pharmaceutical Association, at their Eighth
Annual Session, held in Boston, September 15, 1859. By Alfred B. Taylor, of Philadelphia, Chairman
of the Committee of Weights and Measures. Boston. Press of Rand & Avery. 8vo. pamphlet, pp.
104. 50 cts.

The Adopted Heir. By Miss Pardoe, Author of "The Confessions of a Pretty Woman," "Life of Maria
de Medicis." etc. Complete and unabridged. Philadelphia. Peterson & Brothers. 12mo. pp. 360. $1.25.

A Narrative of the Discovery of the Fate of Sir John Franklin and his Companions, by Captain
M'Clintock, R. N., LL.D. With Maps and Illustrations. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. xxiv.,
375. $1.50.

The Path which led a Protestant Lawyer to the Catholic Church. By Peter H. Burnett. New York.
Appleton & Co. 8vo. pp. xiv., 741. $2.50.

Sermons on St. Paul's Epistles to the Corinthians. Delivered at Trinity Chapel, Brighton. By
the late Rev. F. W. Robertson, M.A., the Incumbent. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. xii.,
425. $1.00.

Trinitarianism not the Doctrine of the New Testament. Two Lectures, delivered, partly in Review
of Rev. Dr. Huntington's Discourse on the Trinity, in the Hollis Street Church, January 7 and
14,1860. By T. S. King. Printed by Request. Boston. Crosby, Nichols, & Co. 8vo. pamphlet, pp.
48. 25 cts.

Lyrics and other Poems. By S. J. Donaldson, Jr. Philadelphia. Lindsay & Blakiston. 16mo. pp.
208. 75 cts.

Twenty Years Ago, and Now. By T. S. Arthur. Philadelphia. G. G. Evans. 12mo. pp. 307. $1.00.

The Water Witch: or, The Skimmer of the Seas. A Tale. By J. Fenimore Cooper. Illustrated from
Designs by F. 0. C. Darley. New York. Townsend & Co. 12mo. pp. 462. $1.50.

