I have often been foiled in my endeavours to communicate the cow- pox by inoculation. An inflammation
will sometimes succeed the scratch or puncture, and in a few days disappear without producing
any further effect. Sometimes it will even produce an ichorous fluid, and yet the system will
not be affected. The same thing we know happens with the smallpox virus.

Four or five servants were inoculated at a farm contiguous to this place, last summer, with
matter just taken from an infected cow. A little inflammation appeared on all their arms, but
died away without producing a pustule; yet all these servants caught the disease within a month
afterwards from milking the infected cows, and some of them had it severely. At present no
other mode than that commonly practiced for inoculating the smallpox has been used for giving
the cow-pox; but it is probable this might be varied with advantage. We should imitate the
casual communication more clearly were we first, by making the smallest superficial incision
or puncture on the skin, to produce a little scab, and then, removing it, to touch the abraded
part with the virus. A small portion of a thread imbrued in the virus (as in the old method
of inoculating the smallpox) and laid upon the slightly incised skin might probably prove a
successful way of giving the disease; or the cutis might be exposed in a minute point by an
atom of blistering plaster, and the virus brought in contact with it. In the cases just alluded
to, where I did not succeed in giving the disease constitutionally, the experiment was made
with matter taken in a purulent state from a pustule on the nipple of a cow.

Is PURE PUS, though contained in a smallpox pustule, ever capable of producing the smallpox
perfectly? I suspect it is not. Let us consider that it is always preceded by the limpid fluid,
which, in constitutions susceptible of variolous contagion, is always infectious; and though,
on opening a pustule, its contents may appear perfectly purulent, yet a given quantity of the
limpid fluid may, at the same time, be blended with it, though it would be imperceptible to
the only test of our senses, the eye. The presence, then, of this fluid, or its mechanical
diffusion through pus, may at all times render active what is apparently MERE PUS, while its
total absence (as in stale pustules) may be attended with the imperfect effects we have seen.

It would be digressing too widely to go far into the doctrine of secretion, but as it will
not be quite extraneous, I shall just observe that I consider both the pus and the limpid fluid
of the pustule as secretions, but that the organs established by nature to perform the office
of secreting these fluids may differ essentially in their mechanical structure. What but a
difference in the organization of glandular bodies constitutes the difference in the qualities
of the fluids secreted? From some peculiar derangement in the structure or, in other words,
some deviation in the natural action of a gland destined to create a mild, innoxious fluid,
a poison of the most deadly nature may be created; for example: That gland, which in its sound
state secretes pure saliva, may, from being thrown into diseased action, produce a poison of
the most destructive quality. Nature appears to have no more difficulty in forming minute glands
among the vascular parts of the body than she has in forming blood vessels, and millions of
these can be called into existence, when inflammation is excited, in a few hours. [Footnote:
Mr. Home, in his excellent dissertation on pus and mucus, justifies this assertion.]

In the present early stage of the inquiry (for early it certainly must be deemed), before we
know for an absolute certainty how soon the virus of the cow-pox may suffer a change in its
specific properties, after it has quitted the limpid state it possesses when farming a pustule,
it would be prudent for those who have been inoculated with it to submit to variolous inoculation.
No injury or inconvenience can accrue from this; and were the same method practiced among those
who, from inoculation, have felt the smallpox in an unsatisfactory manner at any period of
their lives, it might appear that I had not been too officious in offering a cautionary, hint
in recommending a second inoculation with matter in its most perfect state.

And here let me suppose, for argument's sake (not from conviction), that one person in an hundred
after having had the cow-pox should be found susceptible of the smallpox, would this invalidate
the utility of the practice? For, waiving all other considerations, who will deny that the
inoculated smallpox, although abstractedly it may be considered as harmless, does not involve
in itself something that in numberless instances proves baneful to the human frame.

That in delicate constitutions it sometimes excites scrofula is a fact that must generally
be subscribed to, as it is so obvious to common observation. This consideration is important.

As the effects of the smallpox inoculation on those who have had the cow-pox will be watched
with the most scrupulous eye by those who prosecute this inquiry, it may be proper to bring
to their recollection some facts relative to the smallpox, which I must consider here as of
consequence, but which hitherto seem not to have made a due impression.

It should be remembered that the constitution cannot, by previous infection, be rendered totally
unsusceptible of the variolous poison; neither the casual nor the inoculated smallpox, whether
it produces the disease in a mild or in a violent way, can perfectly extinguish the susceptibility.
The skin, we know, is ever ready to exhibit, though often in a very limited degree, the effects
of the poison when inserted there; and how frequently do we see, among nurses, when much exposed
to the contagion, eruptions, and these sometimes preceded by sensible illness! yet should any
thing like an eruption appear, or the smallest degree of indisposition, upon the insertion
of the variolous matter on those who have gone through the cow-pox, my assertions respecting
the peculiarities of the disease might be unjustly discredited.

I know a gentleman who, many years ago, was inoculated for the smallpox, but having no pustules,
or scarcely any constitutional affection that was perceptible, he was dissatisfied, and has
since been repeatedly inoculated. A vesicle has always been produced in the arm in consequence,
with axillary swelling and a slight indisposition; this is by no means a rare occurrence. It
is probable that fluid thus excited upon the skin would always produce the smallpox.

On the arm of a person who had gone through the cow-pox many years before I once produced a
vesication by the insertion of variolous matter, and, with a little of the fluid, inoculated
a young woman who had a mild, but very efficacious, smallpox in consequence, although no constitutional
effect was produced on the patient from whom the matter was taken. The following communication
from Mr. Fewster affords a still clearer elucidation of this fact. Mr. Fewster says: "On the
3d of April, 1797, I inoculated Master H--, aged fourteen months, for the smallpox. At the
usual time he sickened, had a plentiful eruption, particularly on his face, and got well. His
nursemaid, aged twenty-four, had many years before gone through the smallpox, in the natural
way, which was evident from her being much pitted with it. She had used the child to sleep
on her left arm, with her left cheek in contact with his face, and during his inoculation he
had mostly slept in that manner. About a week after the child got well she (the nurse) desired
me to look at her face, which she said was very painful. There was a plentiful eruption on
the left cheek, BUT NOT ON ANY OTHER PART OF THE BODY, which went on to maturation.

"On enquiry I found that three days before the appearance of the eruption she was taken with
slight chilly fits, pain in her head and limbs, and some fever. On the appearance of the eruption
these pains went off, and now, the second day of the eruption, she complains of a little sore
throat. Whether the above symptoms are the effects of the smallpox or a recent cold I do not
know. On the fifth day of the eruption I charged a lancet from two of the pustules, and on
the next day I inoculated two children, one two years, the other four months old, with the
matter. At the same time I inoculated the mother and eldest sister with variolous matter taken
from Master H--. On the fifth day of their inoculation ALL their arms were inflamed alike;
and on the eighth day the eldest of those inoculated from the nurse sickened, and the youngest
on the eleventh. They had both a plentiful eruption, from which I inoculated several others,
who had the disease very favourably. The mother and the other child sickened about the same
time, and likewise had a plentiful eruption.

"Soon after, a man in the village sickened with the smallpox and had a confluent kind. To be
convinced that the children had had the disease effectually I took them to his house and inoculated
them in both arms with matter taken from him, but without effect."

These are not brought forward as uncommon occurrences, but as exemplifications of the human
system's susceptibility of the variolous contagion, although it has been previously sensible
of its action.

Happy is it for mankind that the appearance of the small-pox a second time on the same person,
beyond a trivial extent, is so extremely rare that it is looked upon as a phaenomenon! Indeed,
since the publication of Dr. Heberden's paper on the Varicellae, or chicken-pox, the idea of
such an occurrence, in deference to authority so truly respectable, has been generally relinquished.
This I conceive has been without just reason; for after we have seen, among many others, so
strong a case as that recorded by Mr. Edward Withers, Surgeon, of Newbury, Berks, in the fourth
volume of the Memoirs of the Medical Society of London (from which I take the following extracts),
no one, I think, will again doubt the fact.

"Mr. Richard Langford, a farmer of West Shefford, in this county (Berks), about fifty years
of age, when about a month old had the smallpox at a time when three others of the family had
the same disease, one of whom, a servant man, died of it. Mr. Langford's countenance was strongly
indicative of the malignity of the distemper, his face being so remarkably pitted and seamed
as to attract the notice of all who saw him, so that no one could entertain a doubt of his
having had that disease in a most inveterate manner." Mr. Withers proceeds to state that Mr.
Langford was seized a second time, had a bad confluent smallpox, and died on the twenty-first
day from the seizure; and that four of the family, as also a sister of the patient's, to whom
the disease was conveyed by her son's visiting his uncle, falling down with the smallpox, fully
satisfied the country with regard to the nature of the disease, which nothing short of this
would have done; the sister died.

"This case was thought so extraordinary a one as to induce the rector of the parish to record
the particulars in the parish register."

It is singular that in most cases of this kind the disease in the first instance has been confluent;
so that the extent of the ulceration on the skin (as in the cow-pox) is not the process in
nature which affords security to the constitution.

As the subject of the smallpox is so interwoven with that which is the more immediate object
of my present concern, it must plead my excuse for so often introducing it. At present it must
be considered is a distemper not well understood. The inquiry I have instituted into the nature
of the cow-pox will probably promote its more perfect investigation.

The inquiry of Dr. Pearson into the history of the cow-pox having produced so great a number
of attestations in favour of my assertion that it proves a protection to the human body from
the smallpox, I have not been assiduous in seeking for more; but as some of my friends have
been so good as to communicate the following, I shall conclude these observations with their
insertion.

Extract of a letter from Mr. Drake, Surgeon, at Stroud, in this county, and late Surgeon to
the North Gloucester Regiment of Militia:

"In the spring of the year 1796 I inoculated men, women, and children to the amount of about
seventy. Many of the men did not receive the infection, although inoculated at least three
times and kept in the same room with those who actually underwent the disease during the whole
time occupied by them in passing through it. Being anxious they should, in future, be secure
against it, I was very particular in my inquiries to find out whether they ever had previously
had it, or at any time been in the neighbourhood of people labouring under it. But, after all,
the only satisfactory information I could obtain was that they had had the cow-pox. As I was
then ignorant of such a disease affecting the human subject, I flattered myself what they imagined
to be the cow-pox was in reality the smallpox in a very slight degree. I mentioned the circumstance
in the presence of the officers, at the time expressing my doubts if it were not smallpox,
and was not a little surprised when I was told by the Colonel that he had frequently heard
you mention the cow-pox as a disease endemial to Gloucestershire, and that if a person were
ever affected by it, you supposed him afterwards secure from the smallpox. This excited my
curiosity, and when I visited Gloucestershire I was very inquisitive concerning the subject,
and from the information I have since received, both from your publication and from conversation
with medical men of the greatest accuracy in their observations, I am fully convinced that
what the men supposed to be cow-pox was actually so, and I can safely affirm that they effectually
resisted the smallpox."

Mr. Fry, Surgeon, at Dursley in this county, favours me with the following communication:

"During the spring of the year 1797 I inoculated fourteen hundred and seventy-five patients,
of all ages, from a fortnight old to seventy years; amongst whom there were many who had previously
gone through the cow-pox. The exact number I cannot state; but if I say there were nearly thirty,
I am certainly within the number. There was not a single instance of the variolous matter producing
any constitutional effect on these people, nor any greater degree of local inflammation than
it would have done in the arm of a person who had before gone through the smallpox, notwithstanding
it was invariably inserted four, five, and sometimes six different times, to satisfy the minds
of the patients. In the common course of inoculation previous to the general one scarcely a
year passed without my meeting with one or two instances of persons who had gone through the
cow-pox, resisting the action of the variolous contagion. I may fairly say that the number
of people I have seen inoculated with the smallpox who, at former periods, had gone through
the cow-pox, are not less than forty; and in no one instance have I known a patient receive
the smallpox, notwithstanding they invariably continued to associate with other inoculated
patients during the progress of the disease, and many of them purposely exposed themselves
to the contagion of the natural smallpox; whence I am fully convinced that a person who had
fairly had the cow-pox is no longer capable of being acted upon by the variolous matter.

"I also inoculated a very considerable number of those who had had a disease which ran through
the neighbourhood a few years ago, and was called by the common people the swine-pox, not one
of whom received the smallpox. [Footnote: This was that mild variety of the smallpox which
I have noticed in the late Treatise on the Cow-Pox (p. 233).]

"There were about half a dozen instances of people who never had either the cow-or swine-pox,
yet did not receive the smallpox, the system not being in the least deranged, or the arms inflamed,
although they were repeatedly inoculated, and associated with others who were labouring under
the disease; one of them was the son of a farrier."

Mr. Tierny, Assistant Surgeon of the South Gloucester Regiment of Militia, has obliged me with
the following information:

"That in the summer of the year of 1798 he inoculated a great number of the men belonging to
the regiment, and that among them he found eleven who, from having lived in dairies, had gone
through the cow-pox. That all of them resisted the smallpox except one, but that on making
the most rigid and scrupulous enquiry at the farm in Gloucestershire, where the man said he
lived when he had the disease, and among those with whom, at the same time, he declared he
had associated, and particularly of a person in the parish, whom he said had dressed his fingers,
it most clearly appeared that he aimed at an imposition, and that he never had been affected
with the cow-pox." [Footnote: The public cannot be too much upon their guard respecting persons
of this description.] Mr. Tierny remarks that the arms of many who were inoculated after having
had the cow-pox inflamed very quickly, and that in several a little ichorous fluid was formed.

Mr. Cline, who in July last was so obliging at my request as to try the efficacy of the cow-pox
virus, was kind enough to give me a letter on the result of it, from which the following is
an extract:

"My DEAR SIR:

"The cow-pox experiment has succeeded admirably. The child sickened on the seventh day, and
the fever, which was moderate, subsided on the eleventh. The inflammation arising from the
insertion of the virus extended to about four inches in diameter, and then gradually subsided,
without having been attended with pain or other inconvenience. There were no eruptions.

"I have since inoculated him with smallpox matter in three places, which were slightly inflamed
on the third day, and then subsided.

"Dr. Lister, who was formerly physician to the Smallpox Hospital, attended the child with me,
and he is convinced that it is not possible to give him the smallpox. I think the substituting
the cow-pox poison for the smallpox promises to be one of the greatest improvements that has
ever been made in medicine; and the more I think on the subject, the more I am impressed with
its importance.

"With great esteem

"I am, etc.,  "HENRY CLINE.

"Lincoln's Inn Fields, August 2, 1798."

From communications, with which I have been favoured from Dr. Pearson, who has occasionally
reported to me the result of his private practice with the vaccine virus in London, and from
Dr. Woodville, who also has favoured me with an account of his more extensive inoculation with
the same virus at the Smallpox Hospital, it appears that many of their patients have been affected
with eruptions, and that these eruptions have maturated in a manner very similar to the variolous.
The matter they made use of was taken in the first instance from a cow belonging to one of
the great milk farms in London. Having never seen maturated pustules produced either in my
own practice among those who were casually infected by cows, or those to whom the disease had
been communicated by inoculation, I was desirous of seeing the effect of the matter generated
in London, on subjects living in the country. A thread imbrued in some of this matter was sent
to me, and with it two children were inoculated, whose cases I shall transcribe from my notes.

Stephen Jenner, three years and a half old.

3d day: The arm shewed a proper and decisive inflammation.

6th: A vesicle arising.

7th: The pustule of a cherry colour.

8th: Increasing in elevation. A few spots now appear on each arm near the insertion of the
inferior tendons of the biceps muscles. They are very small and of a vivid red colour. The
pulse natural; tongue of its natural hue; no loss of appetite or any symptom of indisposition.

9th: The inoculated pustule on the arm this evening began to inflame, and gave the child uneasiness;
he cried and pointed to the seat of it, and was immediately afterwards affected with febrile
symptoms. At the expiration of two hours after the seizure a plaster of ung. hydrarg. fort,
was applied, and its effect was very quickly perceptible, for in ten minutes he resumed his
usual looks and playfulness. On examining the arm about three hours after the application of
the plaster its effects in subduing the inflammation were very manifest.

10th: The spots on the arms have disappeared, but there are three visible in the face.

11th: Two spots on the face are gone; the other barely perceptible.

13th: The pustule delineated in the second plate in the Treatise on the Variolae Vaccinae is
a correct representation of that on the child's arm as it appears at this time.

14th: Two fresh spots appear on the face. The pustule on the arm nearly converted into a scab.
As long as any fluid remained in it it was limpid.

James Hill, four years old, was inoculated on the same day, and with part of the same matter
which infected Stephen Jenner. It did not appear to have taken effect till the fifth day.

7th: A perceptible vesicle: this evening the patient became a little chilly; no pain or tumour
discoverable in the axilla.

8th: Perfectly well.

9th: The same.

10th: The vesicle more elevated than I have been accustomed to see it, and assuming more perfectly
the variolous character than is common with the cow-pox at this stage.

11th: Surrounded by an inflammatory redness, about the size of a shilling, studded over with
minute vesicles. The pustule contained a limpid fluid till the fourteenth day, after which
it was incrusted over in the usual manner; but this incrustation or scab being accidentally
rubbed off, it was slow in healing.

These children were afterwards fully exposed to the smallpox contagion without effect.

Having been requested by my friend, Mr. Henry Hicks, of Eastington, in this county, to inoculate
two of his children, and at the same time some of his servants and the people employed in his
manufactory, matter was taken from the arm of this boy for the purpose. The numbers inoculated
were eighteen. They all took the infection, and either on the fifth or sixth day a vesicle
was perceptible on the punctured part. Some of them began to feel a little unwell on the eighth
day, but the greater number on the ninth. Their illness, as in the former cases described,
was of short duration, and not sufficient to interrupt, but at very short intervals, the children
from their amusements, or the servants and manufacturers from following their ordinary business.

Three of the children whose employment in the manufactory was in some degree laborious had
an inflammation on their arms beyond the common boundary about the eleventh or twelfth day,
when the feverish symptoms, which before were nearly gone off, again returned, accompanied
with increase of axillary tumour. In these cases (clearly perceiving that the symptoms were
governed by the state of the arms) I applied on the inoculated pustules, and renewed the application
three or four times within an hour, a pledget of lint, previously soaked in aqua lythargyri
acetati [Footnote: Goulard's extract of Saturn.] and covered the hot efflorescence surrounding
them with cloths dipped in cold water.

The next day I found this simple mode of treatment had succeeded perfectly. The inflammation
was nearly gone off, and with it the symptoms which it had produced.

Some of these patients have since been inoculated with variolous matter, without any effect
beyond a little inflammation on the part where it was inserted.

Why the arms of those inoculated with the vaccine matter in the country should be more disposed
to inflame than those inoculated in London it may be difficult to determine. From comparing
my own cases with some transmitted to me by Dr. Pearson and Dr. Woodville, this appears to
be the fact; and what strikes me as still more extraordinary with respect to those inoculated
in London is the appearance of maturating eruptions, In the two instances only which I have
mentioned (the one from the inoculated, the other from the casual, cow-pox) a few red spots
appeared, which quickly went off without maturating. The case of the Rev. Mr. Moore's servant
may, indeed, seem like a deviation from the common appearances in the country, but the nature
of these eruptions was not ascertained beyond their not possessing the property of communicating
the disease by their effluvia. Perhaps the difference we perceive may be owing to some variety
in the mode of action of the virus upon the skin of those who breathe the air of London and
those who live in the country. That the erysipelas assumes a different form in London from
what we see it put on in this country is a fact very generally acknowledged. In calling the
inflammation that is excited by the cow-pox virus erysipelatous, perhaps I may not be critically
exact, but it certainly approaches near to it. Now, as the diseased action going forward in
the part infected with the virus may undergo different modifications according to the peculiarities
of the constitution on which it is to produce its effect, may it not account for the variation
which has been observed?

To this it may probably be objected that some of the patients inoculated, and who had pustules
in consequence, were newly come from the country; but I conceive that the changes wrought in
the human body through the medium of the lungs may be extremely rapid. Yet, after all, further
experiments made in London with vaccine virus generated in the country must finally throw a
light on what now certainly appears obscure and mysterious.

The principal variation perceptible to me in the action of the vaccine virus generated in London
from that produced in the country was its proving more certainly infectious and giving a less
disposition in the arm to inflame. There appears also a greater elevation of the pustule above
the surrounding skin. In my former cases the pustule produced by the insertion of the virus
was more like one of those which are so thickly spread over the body in a bad kind of confluent
smallpox. This was more like a pustule of the distinct smallpox, except that I saw no instance
of pus being formed in it, the matter remaining limpid till the period of scabbing.

Wishing to see the effects of the disease on an infant newly born, my nephew, Mr. Henry Jenner,
at my request, inserted the vaccine virus into the arm of a child about twenty hours old. His
report to me is that the child went through the disease without apparent illness, yet that
it was found effectually to resist the action of variolous matter with which it was subsequently
inoculated.

I have had an opportunity of trying the effects of the cow-pox matter on a boy, who, the day
preceding its insertion, sickened with the measles. The eruption of the measles, attended with
cough, a little pain in the chest; and the usual symptoms accompanying the disease, appeared
on the third day and spread all over him. The disease went through its course without any deviation
from its usual habits; and, notwithstanding this, the cow-pox virus excited its common appearances,
both on the arm and on the constitution, without any febrile interruption; on the sixth day
there was a vesicle.

8th: Pain in the axilla, chilly, and affected with headache.

9th: Nearly well.

12th: The pustule spread to the size of a large split-pea, but without any surrounding efflorescence.
It soon afterwards scabbed, and the boy recovered his general health rapidly. But it should
be observed that before it scabbed the efflorescence which had suffered a temporary suspension
advanced in the usual manner.

Here we see a deflation from the ordinary habits of the smallpox, as it has been observed that
the presence of the measles suspends the action of the variolous matter.

The very general investigation that is now taking place, chiefly through inoculation (and I
again repeat my earnest hope that it may be conducted with that calmness and moderation which
should ever accompany a philosophical research), must soon place the vaccine disease in its
just point of view. The result of all my trials with the virus on the human subject has been
uniform. In every instance the patient who has felt its influence, has completely lost the
susceptibility for the variolous contagion; and as these instances are now become numerous,
I conceive that, joined to the observations in the former part of this paper, they sufficiently
preclude me from the necessity of entering into controversies with those who have circulated
reports adverse to my assertions, on no other evidence than what has been casually collected.

III

A CONTINUATION OF FACTS AND OBSERVATIONS RELATIVE TO THE VARIOUS VACCINES, OR COW-POX. 1800

Since my former publications on the vaccine inoculation I have had the satisfaction of seeing
it extend very widely. Not only in this country is the subject pursued with ardour, but from
my correspondence with many respectable medical gentlemen on the Continent (among whom are
Dr. De Carro, of Vienna, and Dr. Ballhorn, of Hanover) I find it is as warmly adopted abroad,
where it has afforded the greatest satisfaction. I have the pleasure, too, of seeing that the
feeble efforts of a few individuals to depreciate the new practice are sinking fast into contempt
beneath the immense mass of evidence which has arisen up in support of it.

Upwards of six thousand persons have now been inoculated with the virus of cow-pox, and the
far greater part of them have since been inoculated with that of smallpox, and exposed to its
infection in every rational way that could be devised, without effect.

It was very improbable that the investigation of a disease so analogous to the smallpox should
go forward without engaging the attention of the physician of the Smallpox Hospital in London.

Accordingly, Dr. Woodville, who fills that department with so much respectability, took an
early opportunity of instituting an inquiry into the nature of the cow-pox. This inquiry was
begun in the early part of the present year, and in May, Dr. Woodville published the result,
which differs essentially from mine in a point of much importance. It appears that three-fifths
of the patients inoculated were affected with eruptions, for the most part so perfectly resembling
the smallpox as not to be distinguished from them. On this subject it is necessary that I should
make some comments.

When I consider that out of the great number of cases of casual inoculation immediately from
cows which from time to time presented themselves to my observation, and the many similar instances
which have been communicated to me by medical gentlemen in this neighbourhood; when I consider,
too, that the matter with which my inoculations were conducted in the years 1797, '98, and
'99, was taken from some different cows, and that in no instance any thing like a variolous
pustule appeared, I cannot feel disposed to imagine that eruptions, similar to those described
by Dr. Woodville, have ever been produced by the pure uncontaminated cow-pock virus; on the
contrary, I do suppose that those which the doctor speaks of originated in the action of variolous
matter which crept into the constitution with the vaccine. And this I presume happened from
the inoculation of a great number of the patients with variolous matter (some on the third,
others on the fifth, day) after the vaccine had been applied; and it should be observed that
the matter thus propagated became the source of future inoculations in the hands of many medical
gentlemen who appeared to have been previously unacquainted with the nature of the cow-pox.

Another circumstance strongly, in my opinion, supporting this supposition is the following:
The cow-pox has been known among our dairies time immemorial. If pustules, then, like the variolous,
were to follow the communication of it from the cow to the milker, would not such a fact have
been known and recorded at our farms? Yet neither our farmers nor the medical people of the
neighbourhood have noticed such an occurrence.

A few scattered pimples I have sometimes, though very rarely, seen, the greater part of which
have generally disappeared quickly, but some have remained long enough to suppurate at their
apex. That local cuticular inflammation, whether springing up spontaneously or arising from
the application of acrid substances, such for instance, as cantharides, pix Burgundica, antimonium
tartarizatum, etc., will often produce cutaneous affections, not only near the seat of the
inflammation, but on some parts of the skin far beyond its boundary, is a well-known fact.
It is, doubtless, on this principle that the inoculated cow-pock pustule and its concomitant
efflorescence may, in very irritable constitutions, produce this affection. The eruption I
allude to has commonly appeared some time in the third week after inoculation. But this appearance
is too trivial to excite the least regard.

The change which took place in the general appearance during the progress of the vaccine inoculation
at the Smallpox Hospital should likewise be considered.

Although at first it took on so much of the variolous character as to produce pustules in three
cases out of five, yet in Dr. Woodville's last report, published in June, he says: "Since the
publication of my reports of inoculations for the cow-pox, upwards of three hundred cases have
been under my care; and out of this number only thirty-nine had pustules that suppurated; viz.,
out of the first hundred, nineteen had pustules; out of the second, thirteen; and out of the
last hundred and ten, only seven had pustules. Thus it appears that the disease has become
considerably milder; which I am inclined to attribute to a greater caution used in the choice
of the matter, with which the infection was communicated; for, lately, that which has been
employed for this purpose has been taken only from those patients in whom the cow-pox proved
very mild and well characterized." [Footnote: In a few weeks after the cow-pox inoculation
was introduced at the Smallpox Hospital I was favoured with some virus from this stock. In
the first instance it produced a few pustules, which did not maturate; but in the subsequent
cases none appeared.--E. J.]

The inference I am induced to draw from these premises is very different. The decline, and,
finally, the total extinction nearly, of these pustules, in my opinion, are more fairly attributable
to the cow-pox virus, assimilating the variolous, [Footnote: In my first publication on this
subject I expressed an opinion that the smallpox and the cow-pox were the same diseases under
different modifications. In this opinion Dr. Woodville has concurred The axiom of the immortal
Hauter, that two diseased actions cannot take place at the same time in one and the same part,
will not be injured by the admission of this theory.] the former probably being the original,
the latter the same disease under a peculiar, and at present an inexplicable, modification.

One experiment tending to elucidate the point under discussion I had myself an opportunity
of instituting. On the supposition of its being possible that the cow which ranges over the
fertile meadows in the vale of Gloucester might generate a virus differing in some respects
in its qualities from that produced by the animal artificially pampered for the production
of milk for the metropolis, I procured, during my residence there in the spring, some cow pock
virus from a cow at one of the London milk- farms. [Footnote: It was taken by Mr. Tanner, then
a student at the Veterinary College, from a cow at Mr. Clark's farm at Kentish Town.] It was
immediately conveyed into Gloucestershire to Dr. Marshall, who was then extensively engaged
in the inoculation of the cow-pox, the general result of which, and of the inoculation in particular
with this matter, I shall lay before my reader in the following communication from the doctor:

"DEAR SIR:

"My neighbour, Mr. Hicks, having mentioned your wish to be informed of the progress of the
inoculation here for the cow-pox, and he also having taken the trouble to transmit to you my
minutes of the cases which have fallen under my care, I hope you will pardon the further trouble
I now give you in stating the observations I have made upon the subject. When first informed
of it, having two children who had not had the smallpox, I determined to inoculate them for
the cow-pox whenever I should be so fortunate as to procure matter proper for the purpose.
I was, therefore, particularly happy when I was informed that I could procure matter from some
of those whom you had inoculated. In the first instance I had no intention of extending the
disease further than my own family, but the very extensive influence which the conviction of
its efficacy in resisting the smallpox has had upon the minds of the people in general has
rendered that intention nugatory, as you will perceive, by the continuation of my cases enclosed
in this letter, [Footnote: Doctor Marshall has detailed these cases with great accuracy, but
their publication would now be deemed superfluous.--E.J.] by which it will appear that since
the 22d of March I have inoculated an hundred and seven persons; which, considering the retired
situation I resided in, is a very great number. There are also other considerations which,
besides that of its influence in resisting the smallpox, appear to have had their weight; the
peculiar mildness of the disease, the known safety of it, and its not having in any instance
prevented the patient from following his ordinary business. In all the cases under my care
there have only occurred two or three which required any application, owing to erysipelatous
inflammation on the arm, and they immediately yielded to it. In the remainder the constitutional
illness has been slight but sufficiently marked, and considerably less than I ever observed
in the same number inoculated with the smallpox. In only one or two of the cases have any other
eruptions appeared than those around the spot where the matter was inserted, and those near
the infected part. Neither does there appear in the cow-pox to be the least exciting cause
to any other disease, which in the smallpox has been frequently observed, the constitution
remaining in as full health and vigour after the termination of the disease as before the infection.
Another important consideration appears to be the impossibility of the disease being communicated
except by the actual contact of the matter of the pustule, and consequently the perfect safety
of the remaining part of the family, supposing only one or two should wish to be inoculated
at the same time.

"Upon the whole, it appears evident to me that the cow-pox is a pleasanter, shorter, and infinitely
more safe disease than the inoculated smallpox when conducted in the most careful and approved
manner; neither is the local affection of the inoculated part, or the constitutional illness,
near so violent. I speak with confidence on the subject, having had an opportunity of observing
its effects upon a variety of constitutions, from three months old to sixty years; and to which
I have paid particular attention. In the cases alluded to here you will observe that the removal
from the original source of the matter had made no alteration or change in the nature or appearance
of the disease, and that it may be continued, ad infinitum (I imagine), from one person to
another (if care be observed in taking the matter at a proper period) without any necessity
of recurring to the original matter of the cow.

"I should be happy if any endeavours of mine could tend further to elucidate the subject, and
shall be much gratified is sending you any further observations I may be enabled to make.

     "I have the pleasure to subscribe myself,
          "Dear sir, etc.,
              "JOSEPH H. MARSHALL

"EASTINGTON, GLOUCESTERSHIRE, April 26, 1799."

The gentleman who favoured me with the above account has continued to prosecute his inquiries
with unremitting industry, and has communicated the result in another letter, which at his
request I lay before the public without abbreviation.

Dr. Marshall's second letter:

"DEAR SIR:

"Since the date of my former letter I have continued to inoculate with the cow-pox virus. Including
the cases before enumerated, the number now amounts to four hundred and twenty-three. It would
be tedious and useless to detail the progress of the disease in each individual--it is sufficient
to observe that I noticed no deviation in any respect from the cases I formerly adduced. The
general appearances of the arm exactly corresponded with the account given in your first publication.
When they were disposed to become troublesome by erysipelatous inflammation, an application
of equal parts of vinegar and water always answered the desired intention. I must not omit
to inform you that when the disease had duly acted upon the constitution I have frequently
used the vitriolic acid. A portion of a drop applied with the head of a probe or any convenient
utensil upon the pustule, suffered to remain about forty seconds, and afterwards washed off
with sponge and water, never failed to stop its progress and expedite the formation of a scab.

"I have already subjected two hundred and eleven of my patients to the action of variolous
matter, but EVERY ONE RESISTED IT.

"The result of my experiments (which were made with every requisite caution) has fully convinced
me that the TRUE COW-POX is a safe and infallible preventive from the smallpox; that in no
case which has fallen under my observation has it been in any considerable degree troublesome,
much less have I seen any thing like danger; for in no instance were the patients prevented
from following their ordinary employments.

"In Dr. Woodville's publication on the cow-pox I notice an extraordinary fact. He says that
the generality of his patients had pustules. It certainly appears extremely extraordinary that
in all my cases there never was but one pustule, which appeared on a patient's elbow on the
inoculated arm, and maturated. It appeared exactly like that on the incised part.

"The whole of my observations, founded as it appears on an extensive experience, leads me to
these obvious conclusions; that those cases which have been or may be adduced against the preventive
powers of the cow-pox could not have been those of the true kind, since it must appear to be
absolutely impossible that I should have succeeded in such a number of cases without a single
exception if such a preventive power did not exist. I cannot entertain a doubt that the inoculated
cow-pox must quickly supersede that of the smallpox. If the many important advantages which
must result from the new practice are duly considered, we may reasonably infer that public
benefit, the sure test of the real merit of discoveries, will render it generally extensive.

"To you, Sir, as the discoverer of this highly beneficial
practice, mankind are under the highest obligations. As a private
individual I participate in the general feeling; more
particularly as you have afforded me an opportunity of noticing
the effects of a singular disease, and of viewing the progress of
the most curious experiment that ever was recorded in the history
of physiology.
       "I remain, dear sir, etc.,
          "JOSEPH H. MARSHALL."

"P.S. I should have observed that, of the patients I inoculated and enumerated in my letter,
one hundred and twenty-seven were infected with the matter you sent me from the London cow.
I discovered no dissimilarity of symptoms in these cases from those which I inoculated from
matter procured in this country. No pustules have occurred, except in one or two cases, where
a single one appeared on the inoculated arm. No difference was apparent in the local inflammation.
There was no suspension of ordinary employment among the labouring people, nor was any medicine
required.

"I have frequently inoculated one or two in a family, and the remaining part of it some weeks
afterwards. The uninfected have slept with the infected during the whole course of the disease
without being affected; so that I am fully convinced that the disease cannot be taken but by
actual contact with the matter.

"A curious fact has lately fallen under my observation, on which I leave you to comment.

"I visited a patient with the confluent smallpox and charged a lancet with some of the matter.
Two days afterwards I was desired to inoculate a woman and four children with the cow-pox,
and I inadvertently took the vaccine matter on the same lancet which was before charged with
that of smallpox. In three days I discovered the mistake, and fully expected that my five patients
would be infected with smallpox; but I was agreeably surprised to find the disease to be genuine
cow-pox, which proceeded without deviating in any particular from my former cases. I afterwards
inoculated these patients with variolous matter, but all of them resisted its action.

"I omitted mentioning another great advantage that now occurs to me in the inoculated cow-pox;
I mean, the safety with which pregnant women may have the disease communicated to them. I have
inoculated a great number of females in that situation, and never observed their cases to differ
in any respect from those of my other patients. Indeed, the disease is so mild that it seems
as if it might at all times be communicated with the most perfect safety."

I shall here take the opportunity of thanking Dr. Marshall and those other gentlemen who have
obligingly presented me with the result of their inoculations; but, as they all agree in the
same point as that given in the above communication, namely, the security of the patient from
the effects of the smallpox after the cow-pox, their perusal, I presume, would afford us no
satisfaction that has not been amply given already. Particular occurrences I shall, of course,
detail. Some of my correspondents have mentioned the appearance of smallpox-like eruptions
at the commencement of their inoculations; but in these cases the matter was derived from the
original stock at the Smallpox Hospital.

I have myself inoculated a very considerable number from the matter produced by Dr. Marshall's
patients, originating in the London cow, without observing pustules of any kind, and have dispersed
it among others who have used it with a similar effect. From this source Mr. H. Jenner informs
me he has inoculated above an hundred patients without observing eruptions. Whether the nature
of the virus will undergo any change from being farther removed from its original source in
passing successively from one person to another time alone can determine. That which I am now
employing has been in use near eight months, and not the least change is perceptible in its
mode of action either locally or constitutionally. There is, therefore, every reason to expect
that its effects will remain unaltered and that we shall not be under the necessity of seeking
fresh supplies from the cow.

The following observations were obligingly sent me by Mr. Tierny, Assistant Surgeon to the
South Gloucester Regiment of Militia, to whom I am indebted for a former report on this subject:

"I inoculated with the cow-pox matter from the eleventh to the latter part of April, twenty-five
persons, including women and children. Some on the eleventh were inoculated with the matter
Mr. Shrapnell (surgeon to the regiment) had from you, the others with matter taken from these.
The progress of the puncture was accurately observed, and its appearance seemed to differ from
the smallpox in having less inflammation around its basis on the first days--that is, from
the third to the seventh; but after this the inflammation increased, extending on the tenth
or eleventh day to a circle of an inch and a half from its centre, and threatening very sore
arms; but this I am happy to say was not the case; for, by applying mercurial ointment to the
inflamed part, which was repeated daily until the inflammation went off, the arm got well without
any further application or trouble. The constitutional symptoms which appeared on the eighth
or ninth day after inoculation scarcely deserved the name of disease, as they were so slight
as to be scarcely perceptible, except that I could connect a slight headache and languor, with
a stiffness and rather painful sensation in the axilla. This latter symptom was the most striking--it
remained from twelve to forty-eight hours. In no case did I observe the smallest pustule, or
even discolouration of the skin, like an incipient pustule, except about the part where the
virus has been applied.

"After all these symptoms had subsided and the arms were well, I inoculated four of this number
with variolous matter, taken from a patient in another regiment. In each of these it was inserted
several times under the cuticle, producing slight inflammation on the second or third day,
and always disappearing before the fifth or sixth, except in one who had the cow-pox in Gloucestershire
before he joined us, and who also received it at this time by inoculation. In this man the
puncture inflamed and his arm was much sorer than from the insertion of the cow-pox virus;
but there was no pain in the axilla, nor could any constitutional affection be observed.

"I have only to add that I am now fully satisfied of the efficacy of the cow-pox in preventing
the appearance of the smallpox, and that it is a most happy and salutary substitute for it.
I remain, etc.,

"M. J. TIERNY."

Although the susceptibility of the virus of the cow-pox is, for the most part, lost in those
who have had the smallpox, yet in some constitutions it is only partially destroyed, and in
others it does not appear to be in the least diminished.

By far the greater number on whom trials were made resisted it entirely; yet I found some on
whose arm the pustule from inoculation was formed completely, but without producing the common
efflorescent blush around it, or any constitutional illness, while others have had the disease
in the most perfect manner. A case of the latter kind having been presented to me by Mr. Fewster,
Surgeon, of Thornbury, I shall insert it:

"Three children were inoculated with the vaccine matter you obligingly sent me. On calling
to look at their arms three days after I was told that John Hodges, one of the three, had been
inoculated with the smallpox when a year old, and that he had a full burthen, of which his
face produced plentiful marks, a circumstance I was not before made acquainted with. On the
sixth day the arm of the boy appeared as if inoculated with variolous matter, but the pustule
was rather more elevated. On the ninth day he complained of violent pain in his head and back,
accompanied with vomiting and much fever. The next day he was very well and went to work as
usual. The punctured part began to spread, and there was the areola around the inoculated part
to a considerable extent.

"As this is contrary to an assertion made in the Medical and
Physical Journal, No. 8, I thought it right to give you this
information, and remain,
     "Dear sir, etc.,
          "J. FEWSTER."

It appears, then, that the animal economy with regard to the action of this virus is under
the same laws as it is with respect to the variolous virus, after previously feeling its influence,
as far as comparisons can be made between the two diseases.

Some striking instances of the power of the cow-pox in suspending the progress of the smallpox
after the patients had been several days casually exposed to the infection have been laid before
me by Mr. Lyford, Surgeon, of Winchester, and my nephew, the Rev. G. C Jenner. Mr. Lyford,
after giving an account of his extensive and successful practice in the vaccine inoculation
in Hampshire, writes as follows:

"The following case occurred to me a short time since, and may probably be worth your notice.
I was sent for to a patient with the smallpox, and on inquiry found that five days previous
to my seeing him the eruption began to appear. During the whole of this time two children who
had not had the smallpox, were constantly in the room with their father, and frequently on
the bed with him. The mother consulted me on the propriety of inoculating them, but objected
to my taking the matter from their father, as he was subject to erysipelas. I advised her by
all means to have them inoculated at that time, as I could not procure any variolous matter
elsewhere. However, they were inoculated with vaccine matter, but I cannot say I flattered
myself with its proving successful, as they had previously been so long and still continued
to be exposed to the variolous infection. Notwithstanding this I was agreeably surprised to
find the vaccine disease advance and go through its regular course; and, if I may be allowed
the expression, to the total extinction of the smallpox."

Mr. Jenner's cases were not less satisfactory. He writes as follows:

"A son of Thomas Stinchcomb, of Woodford, near Berkeley, was infected with the natural smallpox
at Bristol, and came home to his father's cottage. Four days after the eruptions had appeared
upon the boy, the family (none of which had ever had the smallpox), consisting of the father,
mother, and five children, was inoculated with vaccine virus. On the arm of the mother it failed
to produce the least effect, and she, of course, had the smallpox, [Footnote: Under similar
circumstances I think it would be advisable to insert the matter into each arm, which would
be more likely to insure the success of the operation.--E. J.] but the rest of the family had
the cow-pox in the usual way, and were not affected with the smallpox, although they were in
the same room, and the children slept in the same bed with their brother who was confined to
it with the natural smallpox; and subsequently with their mother.

"I attended this family with my brother, Mr. H. Jenner."

The following cases are of too singular a nature to remain unnoticed.

Miss R--, a young lady about five years old, was seized on the evening of the eighth day after
inoculation with vaccine virus, with such symptoms as commonly denote the accession of violent
fever. Her throat was also a little sore, and there were some uneasy sensations about the muscles
of the neck. The day following a rash was perceptible on her face and neck, so much resembling
the efflorescence of the scarlatina anginosa that I was induced to ask whether Miss R--had
been exposed to the contagion of that disease. An answer in the affirmative, and the rapid
spreading of the redness over the skin, at once relieved me from much anxiety respecting the
nature of the malady, which went through its course in the ordinary way, but not without symptoms
which were alarming both to myself and Mr. Lyford, who attended with me. There was no apparent
deviation in the ordinary progress of the pustule to a state of maturity from what we see in
general; yet there was a total suspension of the areola or florid discolouration around it,
until the scarlatina had retired from the constitution. As soon as the patient was freed from
this disease this appearance advanced in the usual way. [Footnote: I witnessed a similar fact
in a case of measles. The pustule from the cow-pock virus advanced to maturity, while the measles
existed in the constitution, but no EFFLORESCENCE appeared around it until the measles had
ceased to exert its influence.]

The case of Miss H--R--is not less interesting than that of her sister, above related. She
was exposed to the contagion of the scarlatina at the same time, and sickened almost at the
same hour. The symptoms continued severe about twelve hours, when the scarlatina-rash shewed
itself faintly upon her face, and partly upon her neck. After remaining two or three hours
it suddenly disappeared, and she became perfectly free from every complaint. My surprise at
this sudden transition from extreme sickness to health in great measure ceased when I observed
that the inoculated pustule had occasioned, in this case, the common efflorescent appearance
around it, and that as it approached the centre it was nearly in an erysipelatous state. But
the most remarkable part of this history is that, on the fourth day afterwards, so soon as
the efflorescence began to die away upon the arm and the pustule to dry up, the scarlatina
again appeared, her throat became sore, the rash spread all over her. She went fairly through
the disease with its common symptoms.

That these were actually cases of scarlatina was rendered certain by two servants in the family
falling ill at the same time with the distemper, who had been exposed to the infection with
the young ladies.

Some there are who suppose the security from the smallpox obtained through the cow-pox will
be of a temporary nature only. This supposition is refuted not only by analogy with respect
to the habits of diseases of a similar nature, but by incontrovertible facts, which appear
in great numbers against it. To those already adduced in the former part of my first treatise
[Footnote: See pages 217, 218, 219, 221, 223, etc.] many more might be adduced were it deemed
necessary; but among the cases I refer to, one will be found of a person who had the cow-pox
fifty-three years before the effect of the smallpox was tried upon him. As he completely resisted
it, the intervening period I conceive must necessarily satisfy any reasonable mind. Should
further evidence be thought necessary, I shall observe that, among the cases presented to me
by Mr. Fry, Mr. Darke, Mr. Tierny, Mr. H. Jenner, and others, there were many whom they inoculated
ineffectually with variolous matter, who had gone through the cow-pox many years before this
trial was made.

It has been imagined that the cow-pox is capable of being communicated from one person to another
by effluvia without the intervention of inoculation. My experiments, made with the design of
ascertaining this important point, all tend to establish my original position, that it is not
infectious except by contact, I have never hesitated to suffer those on whose arms there were
pustules exhaling the effluvia from associating or even sleeping with others who never had
experienced either the cow-pox or the smallpox. And, further, I have repeatedly, among children,
caused the uninfected to breathe over the inoculated vaccine 'pustules during their whole progress,
yet these experiments were tried without the least effect. However, to submit a matter so important
to a still further scrutiny, I desired Mr. H. Jenner to make any further experiments which
might strike him as most likely to establish or refute what had been advanced on this subject.
He has since informed me "that he inoculated children at the breast, whose mothers had not
gone through either the smallpox or the cow-pox; that he had inoculated mothers whose sucking
infants had never undergone either of these diseases; that the effluvia from the inoculated
pustules, in either case, had been inhaled from day to day during the whole progress of their
maturation, and that there was not the least perceptible effect from these exposures." One
woman he inoculated about a week previous to her accouchement, that her infant might be the
more fully and conveniently exposed to the pustule; but, as in the former instances, no infection
was given, although the child frequently slept on the arm of its mother with its nostrils and
mouth exposed to the pustule in the fullest state of maturity. In a word, is it not impossible
for the cow-pox, whose ONLY manifestation appears to consist in the pustules CREATED BY CONTACT,
to produce ITSELF by effluvia?

In the course of a late inoculation I observed an appearance which it may be proper here to
relate. The punctured part on a boy's arm (who was inoculated with fresh limpid virus) on the
sixth day, instead of shewing a beginning vesicle, which is usual in the cow-pox at that period,
was encrusted over with a rugged, amber-coloured scab. The scab continued to spread and increase
in thickness for some days, when, at its edges, a vesicated ring appeared, and the disease
went through its ordinary course, the boy having had soreness in the axilla and some slight
indisposition. With the fluid matter taken from his arm five persons were inoculated. In one
it took no effect. In another it produced a perfect pustule without any deviation from the
common appearance; but in the other three the progress of the inflammation was exactly similar
to the instance which afforded the virus for their inoculation; there was a creeping scab of
a loose texture, and subsequently the formation of limpid fluid at its edges. As these people
were all employed in laborious exercises, it is possible that these anomalous appearances might
owe their origin to the friction of the clothes on the newly inflamed part of the arm. I have
not yet had an opportunity of exposing them to the smallpox.

In the early part of this inquiry I felt far more anxious respecting the inflammation of the
inoculated arm than at present; yet that this affection will go on to a greater extent than
could be wished is a circumstance sometimes to be expected. As this can be checked, or even
entirely subdued, by very simple means, I see no reason why the patient should feel an uneasy
hour because an application may not be absolutely necessary. About the tenth or eleventh day,
if the pustule has proceeded regularly, the appearance of the arm will almost to a certainty
indicate whether this is to be expected or not. Should it happen, nothing more need be done
than to apply a single drop of the aqua lythargyri acetati [Footnote: Extract of Saturn.] upon
the pustule, and, having suffered it to remain two or three minutes, to cover the efflorescence
surrounding the pustule with a piece of linen dipped in the aqua lythargyri compos. [Footnote:
Goulard water. For further information on this subject see the first Treatise on the Var. Vac.,
Dr. Marshall's letters, etc.] The former may be repeated twice or thrice during the day, the
latter as often as it may feel agreeable to the patient.

When the scab is prematurely rubbed off (a circumstance not unfrequent among children and working
people), the application of a little aqua lythargyri acet. to the part immediately coagulates
the surface, which supplies its place, and prevents a sore.

In my former treatises on this subject I have remarked that the human constitution frequently
retains its susceptibility to the smallpox contagion (both from effluvia and contact) after
previously feeling its influence. In further corroboration of this declaration many facts have
been communicated to me by various correspondents. I shall select one of them.

"DEAR SIR:

"Society at large must, I think, feel much indebted to you for
your Inquiries and Observations on the Nature and Effects of the
Variolae Vaccinae, etc., etc. As I conceive what I am now about
to communicate to be of some importance, I imagine it cannot be
uninteresting to you, especially as it will serve to corroborate
your assertion of the susceptibility of the human system of the
variolous contagion, although it has previously been made
sensible of its action. In November, 1793, I was desired to
inoculate a person with the smallpox. I took the variolous matter
from a child under the disease in the natural way, who had a
large burthen of distinct pustules. The mother of the child being
desirous of seeing my method of communicating the disease by
inoculation, after having opened a pustule, I introduced the
point of my lancet in the usual way on the back part of my own
hand, and thought no more of it until I felt a sensation in the
part which reminded me of the transaction. This happened upon the
third day; on the fourth there were all the appearances common to
inoculation, at which I was not at all surprised, nor did I feel
myself uneasy upon perceiving the inflammation continue to
increase to the sixth and seventh day, accompanied with a very
small quantity of fluid, repeated experiments having taught me it
might happen so with persons who had undergone the disease, and
yet would escape any constitutional affection; but I was not so
fortunate; for on the eighth day I was seized with all the
symptoms of the eruptive fever, but in a much more violent degree
than when I was before inoculated, which was about eighteen years
previous to this, when I had a considerable number of pustules. I
must confess I was now greatly alarmed, although I had been much
engaged in the smallpox, having at different times inoculated not
less than two thousand persons. I was convinced my present
indisposition proceeded from the insertion of the variolous
matter, and, therefore, anxiously looked for an eruption. On the
tenth day I felt a very unpleasant sensation of stillness and
heat on each side of my face near my ear, and the fever began to
decline. The affection in my face soon terminated in three or
four pustules attended with inflammation, but which did not
maturate, and I was presently well.
      "I remain, dear sir, etc.,
          "THOMAS MILES."

This inquiry is not now so much in its infancy as to restrain me from speaking more positively
than formerly on the important point of scrophula as connected with the smallpox.

Every practitioner in medicine who has extensively inoculated with the smallpox, or has attended
many of those who have had the distemper in the natural way, must acknowledge that he has frequently
seen scrophulous affections, in some form or another, sometimes rather quickly shewing themselves
after the recovery of the patients. Conceiving this fact to be admitted, as I presume it must
be by all who have carefully attended to the subject, may I not ask whether it does not appear
probable that the general introduction of the smallpox into Europe has not been among the most
conductive means in exciting that formidable foe to health? Having attentively watched the
effects of the cow-pox in this respect, I am happy in being able to declare that the disease
does not appear to have the least tendency to produce this destructive malady.

The scepticism that appeared, even among the most enlightened of medical men when my sentiments
on the important subject of the cow-pox were first promulgated, was highly laudable. To have
admitted the truth of a doctrine, at once so novel and so unlike any thing that ever had appeared
in the annals of medicine, without the test of the most rigid scrutiny, would have bordered
upon temerity; but now, when that scrutiny has taken place, not only among ourselves, but in
the first professional circles in Europe, and when it has been uniformly found in such abundant
instances that the human frame, when once it has felt the influence of the genuine cow-pox
in the way that has been described, is never afterwards at any period of its existence assailable
by the smallpox, may I not with perfect confidence congratulate my country and society at large
on their beholding, in the mild form of the cow-pox, an antidote that is capable of extirpating
from the earth a disease which is every hour devouring its victims; a disease that has ever
been considered as the severest scourge of the human race!

THE CONTAGIOUSNESS OF PUERPERAL FEVER BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Oliver Wendell Holmes was born in Cambridge, Massachusetts, August 29, 1809, and educated at
Phillips Academy, Andover, and Harvard College. After graduation, he entered the Law School,
but soon gave up law for medicine. He studied first in Boston, and later spent two years in
medical schools in Europe, mainly in Paris. On his return he began to practise in Boston, but
in two years he was appointed professor of anatomy at Dartmouth College, a position which he
held from 1838 to 1840, when he again took up his Boston practise. It was soon after this,
in 1843, that he published his essay on the "Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever," his only contribution
of high distinction to medical science. From 1847 to 1882 he was Parkman professor of anatomy
and physiology in the Harvard Medical School. He died in Boston, October 7, 1894.

In spite of the importance of the paper here printed, Holmes's reputation as a scientist was
overshadowed by that won by him as a wit and a man of letters. When he was only twenty-one
his "Old Ironsides" brought him into notice; and through his poetry and fiction, and the sparkling
talk of the "Breakfast Table" series, he took a high place among the most distinguished group
of writers that America has yet produced.

THE CONTAGIOUSNESS OF PUERPERAL FEVER

Note.--This essay appeared first in 1843, in The New England Quarterly Journal of Medicine,
and was reprinted in the "Medical Essays" in 1855.

In collecting, enforcing and adding to the evidence accumulated upon this most serious subject,
I would not be understood to imply that there exists a doubt in the mind of any well-informed
member of the medical profession as to the fact that puerperal fever is sometimes communicated
from one person to another, both directly and indirectly. In the present state of our knowledge
upon this point I should consider such doubts merely as a proof that the sceptic had either
not examined the evidence, or, having examined it, refused to accept its plain and unavoidable
consequences. I should be sorry to think, with Dr. Rigby, that it was a case of "oblique vision";
I should be unwilling to force home the argumentum ad hominem of Dr. Blundell, but I would
not consent to make a question of a momentous fact which is no longer to be considered as a
subject for trivial discussions, but to be acted upon with silent promptitude. It signifies
nothing that wise and experienced practitioners have sometimes doubted the reality of the danger
in question; no man has the right to doubt it any longer. No negative facts, no opposing opinions,
be they what they may, or whose they may, can form any answer to the series of cases now within
the reach of all who choose to explore the records of medical science.

If there are some who conceive that any important end would be answered by recording such opinions,
or by collecting the history of all the cases they could find in which no evidence of the influence
of contagion existed, I believe they are in error. Suppose a few writers of authority can be
found to profess a disbelief in contagion,--and they are very few compared with those who think
differently,--is it quite clear that they formed their opinions on a view of all the facts,
or is it not apparent that they relied mostly on their own solitary experience? Still further,
of those whose names are quoted, is it not true that scarcely a single one could, by any possibility,
have known the half or the tenth of the facts bearing on the subject which have reached such
a frightful amount within the last few years? Again, as to the utility of negative facts, as
we may briefly call them,--instances, namely, in which exposure has not been followed by disease,--although,
like other truths, they may be worth knowing, I do not see that they are like to shed any important
light upon the subject before us. Every such instance requires a good deal of circumstantial
explanation before it can be accepted. It is not enough that a practitioner should have had
a single case of puerperal fever not followed by others. It must be known whether he attended
others while this case was in progress, whether he went directly from one chamber to others,
whether he took any, and what, precautions. It is important to know that several women were
exposed to infection derived from the patient, so that allowance may be made for want of predisposition.
Now, if of negative facts so sifted there could be accumulated a hundred for every one plain
instance of communication here recorded, I trust it need not be said that we are bound to guard
and watch over the hundredth tenant of our fold, though the ninety and nine may be sure of
escaping the wolf at its entrance. If any one is disposed, then, to take a hundred instances
of lives, endangered or sacrificed out of those I have mentioned, and make it reasonably clear
that within a similar time and compass TEN THOUSAND escaped the same exposure, I shall, thank
him for his industry, but I must be permitted to hold to my own practical conclusions, and
beg him to adopt or at least to examine them also. Children that walk in calico before open
fires are not always burned to death; the instances to the contrary may be worth recording;
but by no means if they are to be used as arguments against woollen frocks and high fenders.

I am not sure that this paper will escape another remark which it might be wished were founded
in justice. It may be said that the facts are too generally known and acknowledged to require
any formal argument or exposition, that there is nothing new in the positions advanced, and
no need of laying additional statements before the profession. But on turning to two works,
one almost universally, and the other extensively, appealed to as authority in this country,
I see ample reason to overlook this objection. In the last edition of Dewees's Treatise on
the "Diseases of Females" it is expressly said, "In this country, under no circumstance that
puerperal fever has appeared hitherto, does it afford the slightest ground for the belief that
it is contagious." In the "Philadelphia Practice of Midwifery" not one word can be found in
the chapter devoted to this disease which would lead the reader to suspect that the idea of
contagion had ever been entertained. It seems proper, therefore, to remind those who are in
the habit of referring to the works for guidance that there may possibly be some sources of
danger they have slighted or omitted, quite as important as a trifling irregularity of diet,
or a confined state of the bowels, and that whatever confidence a physician may have in his
own mode of treatment, his services are of questionable value whenever he carries the bane
as well as the antidote about his person.

The practical point to be illustrated is the following: THE DISEASE KNOWN AS PUERPERAL FEVER
IS SO FAR CONTAGIOUS AS TO BE FREQUENTLY CARRIED FROM PATIENT TO PATIENT BY PHYSICIANS AND NURSES.

Let me begin by throwing out certain incidental questions, which, without being absolutely
essential, would render the subject more complicated, and by making such concessions and assumptions
as may be fairly supposed to be without the pale of discussion.

1. It is granted that all the forms of what is called puerperal fever may not be, and probably
are not, equally contagious or infectious. I do not enter into the distinctions which have
been drawn by authors, because the facts do not appear to me sufficient to establish any absolute
line of demarcation between such forms as may be propagated by contagion and those which are
never so propagated. This general result I shall only support by the authority of Dr. Ramsbotham,
who gives, as the result of his experience, that the same symptoms belong to what he calls
the infectious and the sporadic forms of the disease, and the opinion of Armstrong in his original
Essay. If others can show any such distinction, I leave it to them to do it. But there are
cases enough that show the prevalence of the disease among the patients of a single practitioner
when it was in no degree epidemic; in the proper sense of the term. I may refer to those of
Mr. Roberton and of Dr. Peirson, hereafter to be cited, as examples.

2. I shall not enter into any dispute about the particular MODE of infection, whether it be
by the atmosphere the physician carries about him into the sick-chamber, or by the direct application
of the virus to the absorbing surfaces with which his hand comes in contact. Many facts and
opinions are in favour of each of these modes of transmission. But it is obvious that, in the
majority of cases, it must be impossible to decide by which of these channels the disease is
conveyed, from the nature of the intercourse between the physician and the patient.

3. It is not pretended that the contagion of puerperal fever must always be followed by the
disease. It is true of all contagious diseases that they frequently spare those who appear
to be fully submitted to their influence. Even the vaccine virus, fresh from the subject, fails
every day to produce its legitimate effect, though every precaution is taken to insure its
action. This is still more remarkably the case with scarlet fever and some other diseases.

4. It is granted that the disease may be produced and variously modified by many causes besides
contagion, and more especially by epidemic and endemic influences. But this is not peculiar
to the disease in question. There is no doubt that smallpox is propagated to a great extent
by contagion, yet it goes through the same records of periodical increase and diminution which
have been remarked in puerperal fever. If the question is asked how we are to reconcile the
great variations in the mortality of puerperal fever in different seasons and places with the
supposition of contagion, I will answer it by another question from Mr. Farr's letter to the
Registrar-General. He makes the statement that "FIVE die weekly of smallpox in the metropolis
when the disease is not epidemic," and adds, "The problem for solution is, Why do the five
deaths become 10, 15, 20, 31, 58, 88, weekly, and then progressively fall through the same
measured steps?"

5. I take it for granted that if it can be shown that great numbers of lives have been and
are sacrificed to ignorance or blindness on this point, no other error of which physicians
or nurses may be occasionally suspected will be alleged in palliation of this; but that whenever
and wherever they can be shown to carry disease and death instead of health and safety, the
common instincts of humanity will silence every attempt to explain away their responsibility.

The treatise of Dr. Gordon, of Aberdeen, was published in the year 1795, being among the earlier
special works upon the disease. A part of his testimony has been occasionally copied into other
works, but his expressions are so clear, his experience is given with such manly distinctness
and disinterested honesty, that it may be quoted as a model which might have been often followed
with advantage.

"This disease seized such women only as were visited or delivered by a practitioner, or taken
care of by a nurse, who had previously attended patients affected with the disease."

"I had evident proofs of its infectious nature, and that the infection was as readily communicated
as that of the smallpox or measles, and operated more speedily than any other infection with
which I am acquainted."

"I had evident proofs that every person who had been with a patient in the puerperal fever
became charged with an atmosphere of infection, which was communicated to every pregnant woman
who happened to come within its sphere. This is not an assertion, but a fact, admitting of
demonstration, as may be seen by a perusal of the foregoing table"--referring to a table of
seventy-seven cases, in many of which the channel of propagation was evident.

He adds: "It is a disagreeable declaration for me to mention, that I myself was the means of
carrying the infection to a great number of women." He then enumerates a number of instances
in which the disease was conveyed by midwives and others to the neighboring villages, and declares
that "these facts fully prove that the cause of the puerperal fever, of which I treat, was
a specific contagion, or infection, altogether unconnected with a noxious constitution of the
atmosphere."

But his most terrible evidence is given in these words: "I ARRIVED AT THAT CERTAINTY IN THE
MATTER THAT I COULD VENTURE TO FORETELL WHAT WOMEN WOULD BE AFFECTED WITH THE DISEASE, UPON
HEARING BY WHAT MIDWIFE THEY WERE TO BE DELIVERED, OR BY WHAT NURSE THEY WERE TO BE ATTENDED,
DURING THEIR LYING-IN: AND ALMOST IN EVERY INSTANCE MY PREDICTION WAS VERIFIED."

Even previously to Gordon, Mr. White, of Manchester, had said: "I am acquainted with two gentlemen
in another town, where the whole business of midwifery is divided betwixt them, and it is very
remarkable that one of them loses several patients every year of the puerperal fever, and the
other never so much as meets with the disorder"--a difference which he seems to attribute to
their various modes of treatment. [Footnote: On the Management of Lying-in Women. p. 120.]

Dr. Armstrong has given a number of instances in his Essay on Puerperal Fever of the prevalence
of the disease among the patients of a single practitioner. At Sunderland, "in all, forty-
three cases occurred from the 1st of January to the 1st of October, when the disease ceased;
and of this number, forty were witnessed by Mr. Gregson and his assistant, Mr. Gregory, the
remainder having been separately seen by three accoucheurs." There is appended to the London
edition of this Essay a letter from Mr. Gregson, in which that gentleman says, in reference
to the great number of cases occurring in his practice, "The cause of this I cannot pretend
fully to explain, but I should be wanting in common liberality if I were to make any hesitation
in asserting that the disease which appeared in my practice was highly contagious, and communicable
from one puerperal woman to another." "It is customary among the lower and middle ranks of
people to make frequent personal visits to puerperal women resident in the same neighborhood,
and I have ample evidence for affirming that the infection of the disease was often carried
about in that manner; and, however painful to my feelings, I must in candour declare that it
is very probable the contagion was conveyed, in some instances, by myself, though I took every
possible care to prevent such a thing from happening the moment that I ascertained that the
distemper was infectious." Dr. Armstrong goes on to mention six other instances within his
knowledge, in which the disease had at different times and places been limited, in the same
singular manner, to the practice of individuals, while it existed scarcely, if at all, among
the patients of others around them. Two of the gentlemen became so convinced of their conveying
the contagion that they withdrew for a time from practice.

I find a brief notice, in an American journal, of another series of cases, first mentioned
by Mr. Davies, in the "Medical Repository." This gentleman stated his conviction that the disease
is contagious.

"In the autumn of 1822 he met with twelve cases, while his medical friends in the neighbourhood
did not meet with any, 'or at least very few.' He could attribute this circumstance to no other
cause than his having been present at the examination after death, of two cases, some time
previous, and of his having imparted the disease to his patients, notwithstanding every precaution."
[Footnote: Philad. Med. Journal for 1825, p. 408.]

Dr. Gooch says: "It is not uncommon for the greater number of cases to occur in the practice
of one man, whilst the other practitioners of the neighborhood, who are not more skilful or
more busy, meet with few or none. A practitioner opened the body of a woman who had died of
puerperal fever, and continued to wear the same clothes. A lady whom he delivered a few days
afterwards was attacked with and died of a similar disease; two more of his lying-in patients,
in rapid succession, met with the same fate; struck by the thought that he might have carried
contagion in his clothes, he instantly changed them, and met with no more cases of the kind.
[Footnote: A similar anecdote is related by Sir Benjamin Brodie, of the late Dr. John Clark,
Lancet, May 2, 1840.] A woman in the country who was employed as washerwoman and nurse washed
the linen of one who had died of puerperal fever; the next lying-in patient she nursed died
of the same disease; a third nursed by her met the same fate, till the neighbourhood, getting
afraid of her, ceased to employ her." [Footnote: An Account of Some of the Most Important Diseases
Peculiar to Women, p. 4].

In the winter of the year 1824, "several instances occurred of its prevalence among the patients
of particular practitioners, whilst others who were equally busy met with few or none. One
instance of this kind was very remarkable. A general practitioner, in large midwifery practice,
lost so many patients from puerperal fever that he determined to deliver no more for some time,
but that his partner should attend in his place. This plan was pursued for one month, during
which not a case of the disease occurred in their practice. The elder practitioner, being then
sufficiently recovered, returned to his practice, but the first patient he attended was attacked
by the disease and died. A physician who met him in consultation soon afterwards, about a case
of a different kind, and who knew nothing of his misfortune, asked him whether puerperal fever
was at all prevalent in his neighbourhood, on which he burst into tears, and related the above
circumstances.

"Among the cases which I saw this season in consultation, four occurred in one month in the
practice of one medical man, and all of them terminated fatally." [Footnote: Gooch, op. cit.,
p. 71.]

Dr. Ramsbotham asserted, in a lecture at the London Hospital, that he had known the disease
spread through a particular district, or be confined to the practice of a particular person,
almost every patient being attacked with it, while others had not a single case. It seemed
capable, he thought, of conveyance, not only by common modes, but through the dress of the
attendants upon the patient. [Footnote: Lond. Med. Gaz., May 2, 1835.]

In a letter to be found in the "London Medical Gazette" for January, 1840, Mr. Roberton, of
Manchester, makes the statement which I here give in a somewhat condensed form.

A midwife delivered a woman on the 4th of December, 1830, who died soon after with the symptoms
of puerperal fever. In one month from this date the same midwife delivered thirty women, residing
in different parts of an extensive suburb, of which number sixteen caught the disease and all
died. These were the only cases which had occurred for a considerable time in Manchester. The
other midwives connected with the same charitable institution as the woman already mentioned
are twenty-five in number, and deliver, on an average, ninety women a week, or about three
hundred and eighty a month. None of these women had a case of puerperal fever. "Yet all this
time this woman was crossing the other midwives in every direction, scores of the patients
of the charity being delivered by them in the very same quarters where her cases of fever were
happening."

Mr. Roberton remarks that little more than half the women she delivered during this month took
the fever; that on some days all escaped, on others only one or more out of three or four;
a circumstance similar to what is seen in other infectious maladies.

Dr. Blundell says: "Those who have never made the experiment can have but a faint conception
how difficult it is to obtain the exact truth respecting any occurrence in which feelings and
interests are concerned. Omitting particulars, then, I content myself with remarking, generally,
that from more than one district I have received accounts of the prevalence of puerperal fever
in the practice of some individuals, while its occurrence in that of others, in the same neighborhood,
was not observed. Some, as I have been told, have lost ten, twelve, or a greater number of
patients, in scarcely broken succession; like their evil genius, the puerperal fever has seemed
to stalk behind them wherever they went. Some have deemed it prudent to retire for a time from
practice. In fine, that this fever may occur spontaneously, I admit; that its infectious nature
may be plausibly disputed, I do not deny; but I add, considerately, that in my own family I
had rather that those I esteemed the most should be delivered, unaided, in a stable, by the
mangerside, than that they should receive the best help, in the fairest apartment, but exposed
to the vapors of this pitiless disease. Gossiping friends, wet-nurses, monthly nurses, the
practitioner himself, these are the channels by which, as I suspect, the infection is principally
conveyed." [Footnote: Lect. on Midwifery, p. 395.]

At a meeting of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society Dr. King. mentioned that some years
since a practitioner at Woolwich lost sixteen patients from puerperal fever in the same year.
He was compelled to give up practice for one or two years, his business being divided among
the neighboring practitioners. No case of puerperal fever occurred afterwards, neither had
any of the neighboring surgeons any cases of this disease.

At the same meeting Mr. Hutchinson mentioned the occurrence of three consecutive cases of puerperal
fever, followed subsequently by two others, all in the practice of one accoucheur. [Footnote:
Lancet, May 3, 1840.] Dr. Lee makes the following statement: "In the last two weeks of September,
1827, five fatal cases of uterine inflammation came under our observation. All the individuals
so attacked had been attended in labor by the same midwife, and no example of a febrile or
inflammatory disease of a serious nature occurred during that period among the other patients
of the Westminster General Dispensary, who had been attended by the other midwives belonging
to that institution." [Footnote: Lond. Cyc. of Pract. Med., art., "Fever, Puerperal"]

The recurrence of long series of cases like those I have cited, reported by those most interested
to disbelieve in contagion, scattered along through an interval of half a century, might have
been thought sufficient to satisfy the minds of all inquirers that here was something more
than a singular coincidence. But if, on a more extended observation, it should be found that
the same ominous groups of cases clusterings about individual practitioners were observed in
a remote country, at different times, and in widely separated regions, it would seem incredible
that any should be found too prejudiced or indolent to accept the solemn truth knelled into
their ears by the funeral bells from both sides of the ocean--the plain conclusion that the
physician and the disease entered, hand in hand, into the chamber of the unsuspecting patient.

That such series of cases have been observed in this country, and in this neighborhood, I proceed
to show.

In Dr. Francis's "Notes to Denman's Midwifery" a passage is cited from Dr. Hosack in which
he refers to certain puerperal cases which proved fatal to several lying-in women, and in some
of which the disease was supposed to be conveyed by the accoucheurs themselves. [Footnote:
Denman's Midwifery, p. 673, third Am. ed.]

A writer in the "New York Medical and Physical Journal" for October, 1829, in speaking of the
occurrence of puerperal fever confined to one man's practice, remarks: "We have known cases
of this kind occur, though rarely, in New York."

I mention these little hints about the occurrence of such cases partly because they are the
first I have met with in American medical literature, but more especially because they serve
to remind us that behind the fearful array of published facts there lies a dark list of similar
events, unwritten in the records of science, but long remembered by many a desolated fireside.

Certainly nothing can be more open and explicit than the account given by Dr. Peirson, of Salem,
of the cases seen by him. In the first nineteen days of January, 1829, he had five consecutive
cases of puerperal fever, every patient he attended being attacked, and the three first cases
proving fatal. In March of the same year he had two moderate cases, in June, another case,
and in July, another, which proved fatal. "Up to this period," he remarks, "I am not informed
that a single case had occurred in the practice of any other physician. Since that period I
have had no fatal case in my practice, although I have had several dangerous cases. I have
attended in all twenty cases of this disease, of which four have been fatal. I am not aware
that there has been any other case in the town of distinct puerperal peritonitis, although
I am willing to admit my information may be very defective on this point. I have been told
of some 'mixed cases,' and 'morbid affections after delivery.'" [Footnote: Remarks on Puerperal
Fever, pp. 12 and 13.]

In the "Quarterly Summary of the Transactions of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia"
[Footnote: For May, June, and July, 1842.] may be found some most extraordinary developments
respecting a series of cases occurring in the practice of a member of that body.

Dr. Condie called the attention of the Society to the prevalence, at the present time, of puerperal
fever of a peculiarly insidious and malignant character. "In the practice of one gentleman
extensively engaged as an obstetrician nearly every female he has attended in confinement,
during several weeks past, within the above limits" (the southern sections and neighboring
districts), "had been attacked by the fever."

"An important query presents itself, the doctor observed, in reference to the particular form
of fever now prevalent. Is it, namely, capable of being propagated by contagion, and is a physician
who has been in attendance upon a case of the disease warranted in continuing, without interruption,
his practice as an obstetrician? Dr. C., although not a believer in the contagious character
of many of those affections generally supposed to be propagated in this manner, has, nevertheless,
become convinced by the facts that have fallen under his notice that the puerperal fever now
prevailing is capable of being communicated by contagion. How, otherwise, can be explained
the very curious circumstance of the disease in one district being exclusively confined to
the practice of a single physician, a Fellow of this College, extensively engaged in obstetrical
practice, while no instance of the disease has occurred in the patients under the care of any
other accoucheur practising within the same district; scarcely a female that has been delivered
for weeks past has escaped an attack?"

Dr. Rutter, the practitioner referred to, "observed that, after the occurrence of a number
of cases of the disease in his practice, he had left the city and remained absent for a week,
but, on returning, no article of clothing he then wore having been used by him before, one
of the very first cases of parturition he attended was followed by an attack of the fever and
terminated fatally; he cannot readily, therefore, believe in the transmission of the disease
from female to female in the person or clothes of the physician."

The meeting at which these remarks were made was held on the 3d of May, 1842. In a letter dated
December 20, 1842, addressed to Dr. Meigs, and to be found in the "Medical Examiner," [Footnote:
For January 21, 1843.] he speaks of "those horrible cases of puerperal fever, some of which
you did me the favor to see with me during the past summer," and talks of his experience in
the disease, "now numbering nearly seventy cases, all of which have occurred within less than
a twelve-month past."

And Dr. Meigs asserts, on the same page, "Indeed, I believe that his practice in that department
of the profession was greater than that of any other gentleman, which was probably the cause
of his seeing a greater number of the cases." This from a professor of midwifery, who some
time ago assured a gentleman whom he met in consultation that the night on which they met was
the eighteenth in succession that he himself had been summoned from his repose, [Footnote:
Medical Examiner for December 10, 1842.] seems hardly satisfactory.

I must call the attention of the inquirer most particularly to the Quarterly Report above referred
to, and the letters of Dr. Meigs and Dr. Rutter, to be found in the "Medical Examiner." Whatever
impression they may produce upon his mind, I trust they will at least convince him that there
is some reason for looking into this apparently uninviting subject.

At a meeting of the College of Physicians just mentioned Dr. Warrington stated that a few days
after assisting at an autopsy of puerperal peritonitis, in which he laded out the contents
of the abdominal cavity with his hands, he was called upon to deliver three women in rapid
succession. All of these women were attacked with different forms of what is commonly called
puerperal fever. Soon after these he saw two other patients, both on the same day, with the
same disease. Of these five patients, two died.

At the same meeting Dr. West mentioned a fact related to him by Dr. Samuel Jackson, of Northumberland.
Seven females, delivered by Dr. Jackson in rapid succession, while practising in Northumberland
County, were all attacked with puerperal fever, and five of them died. "Women," he said, "who
had expected me to attend upon them, now becoming alarmed, removed out of my reach, and others
sent for a physician residing several miles distant. These women, as well as those attended
by midwives, all did well; nor did we hear of any deaths in child-bed within a radius of fifty
miles, excepting two, and these I afterwards ascertained to have been caused by other diseases."
He underwent, as he thought, a thorough purification, and still his next patient was attacked
with the disease and died. He was led to suspect that the contagion might have been carried
in the gloves which he had worn in attendance upon the previous cases. Two months or more after
this he had two other cases. He could find nothing to account for these unless it were the
instruments for giving enemata, which had been used in two of the former cases and were employed
by these patients. When the first case occurred, he was attending and dressing a limb extensively
mortified from erysipelas, and went immediately to the accouchement with his clothes and gloves
most thoroughly imbued with its effluvia. And here I may mention that this very Dr. Samael
Jackson, of Northumberland, is one of Dr. Dewees's authorities against contagion.

The three following statements are now for the first time given to the public. All of the cases
referred to occurred within this State, and two of the three series in Boston and its immediate
vicinity.

I. The first is a series of cases which took place during the last spring in a town at some
distance from this neighborhood. A physician of that town, Dr. C, Had the following consecutive
cases:

 No. 1, delivered March 20, died March 24.
   " 2,  "         April 9,  "   April 14.
   " 3,  "            " 10,  "       " 14.
   " 4,  "            " 11,  "       " 18.
   " 5,  "            " 27,  "      May 3.
   " 6,  "            " 28,  had some symptoms, recovered.
   " 7,  "           May 8,  had some symptoms, also recovered.

These were the only cases attended by this physician during the period referred to, "They were
all attended by him until their termination, with the exception of the patient No. 6, who fell
into the hands of another physician on the 2d of May." (Dr. C. left town for a few days at
this time.) Dr. C. attended cases immediately before and after the above-named periods, none
of which, however, presented any peculiar symptoms of the disease.

About the 1st of July he attended another patient in a neighboring village, who died two or
three days after delivery.

The first patient, it is stated, was delivered on the 20th of March. "On the 19th Dr. C. made
the autopsy of a man who had died suddenly, sick only forty-eight hours; had oedema of the
thigh and gangrene extending from a little above the ankle into the cavity of the abdomen."
Dr. C. wounded himself very slightly in the right hand during the autopsy. The hand was quite
painful the night following, during his attendance on the patient No. 1. He did not see this
patient after the 20th, being confined to the house, and very sick from the wound just mentioned,
from this time until the 3d of April.

Several cases of erysipelas occurred in the house where the autopsy mentioned above took place,
soon after the examination. There were also many cases of erysipelas in town at the time of
the fatal puerperal cases which have been mentioned.

The nurse who laid out the body of the patient No. 3 was taken on the evening of the same day
with sore throat and erysipelas, and died in ten days from the first attack.

The nurse who laid out the body of the patient No. 4 was taken on the day following with symptoms
like those of this patient, and died in a week, without any external marks of erysipelas.

"No other cases of similar character with those of Dr. C. occurred in the practice of any of
the physicians in the town or vicinity at the time. Deaths following confinement have occurred
in the practice of other physicians during the past year, but they were not cases of puerperal
fever. No post-mortem examinations were held in any of these puerperal cases."

Some additional statements in this letter are deserving of insertion:

"A physician attended a woman in the immediate neighborhood of the cases numbered 2, 3, and
4. This patient was confined the morning of March 1st, and died on the night of Match 7th.
It is doubtful whether this should be considered a case of puerperal fever. She had suffered
from canker, indigestion, and diarrhoea for a year previous to her delivery. Her complaints
were much aggravated for two or three months previous to delivery; she had become greatly emaciated,
and weakened to such an extent that it had not been expected that she would long survive her
confinement, if indeed she reached that period. Her labor was easy enough; she flowed a good
deal, seemed exceedingly prostrated, had ringing in her ears, and other symptoms of exhaustion;
the pulse was quick and small. On the second and third day there was some tenderness and tumefaction
of the abdomen, which increased somewhat on the fourth and fifth. He had cases in midwifery
before and after this, which presented nothing peculiar.

It is also mentioned in the same letter that another physician had a case during the last summer
and another last fall, both of which recovered.

Another gentleman reports a case last December, a second case five weeks, and another three
weeks, since. All these recovered, A case also occurred very recently in the practice of a
physician in the village where the eighth patient of Dr. C. resides, which proved fatal "This
patient had some patches of erysipelas on the legs and arms. The same physician has delivered
three cases since, which have all done well. There have been no other cases in this town or
its vicinity recently. There have been some few cases of erysipelas." It deserves notice that
the partner of Dr. C, who attended the autopsy of the man above mentioned and took an active
part in it, who also suffered very slightly from a prick under the thumb-nail received during
the examination, had twelve cases of midwifery between March 26th and April 12th, all of which
did well, and presented no peculiar symptoms. It should also be stated that during these seventeen
days he was in attendance on all the cases of erysipelas in the house where the autopsy had
been performed. I owe these facts to the prompt kindness of a gentleman whose intelligence
and character are sufficient guaranty for their accuracy.

The two following letters were addressed to my friend Dr. Storer by the gentleman in whose
practice the cases of puerperal fever occurred. His name renders it unnecessary to refer more
particularly to these gentlemen, who on their part have manifested the most perfect freedom
and courtesy in affording these accounts of their painful experience.

"January 38, 1843.

II ... "The time to which you allude was in 1830. The first case was in February, during a
very cold time. She was confined the 4th, and died the 12th. Between the 10th and 28th of this
month I attended six women in labor, all of whom did well except the last, as also two who
were confined March 1st and 5th. Mrs. E., confined February 28th, sickened, and died March
8th. The next day, 9th, I inspected the body, and the night after attended a lady, Mrs. B.,
who sickened, and died 16th. The 10th, I attended another, Mrs. G., who sickened, but recovered.
March 16th I went from Mrs. G.'s room to attend a Mrs. H., who sickened, and died 21st. The
17th, I inspected Mrs. B. On the 19th, I went directly from Mrs. H.'s room to attend another
lady, Mrs. G., who also sickened, and died 22d. While Mrs. B. was sick, on 15th, I went directly
from her room a few rods, and attended another woman, who was not sick. Up to 20th of this
month I wore the same clothes. I now refused to attend any labor, and did not till April 21st,
when, having thoroughly cleansed myself, I resumed my practice, and had no more puerperal fever.

"The cases were not confined to a narrow space. The two nearest were half a mile from each
other, and half that distance from my residence. The others were from two to three miles apart,
and nearly that distance from my residence. There were no other cases in their immediate vicinity
which came to my knowledge. The general health of all the women was pretty good, and all the
labors as good as common, except the first. This woman, in consequence of my not arriving in
season, and the child being half-born at some time before I arrived, was very much exposed
to the cold at the time of confinement, and afterwards, being confined in a very open, cold
room. Of the six cases, you perceive only one recovered.

"In the winter of 1817 two of my patients had puerperal fever, one very badly, the other not
so badly. Both recovered. One other had swelled leg or phlegmasia dolens, and one or two others
did not recover as well as usual.

"In the summer of 1835 another disastrous period occurred in my practice. July 1st I attended
a lady in labor, who was afterwards quite ill and feverish; but at the time I did not consider
her case a decided puerperal fever. On the 8th I attended one who did well. On the 12th, one
who was seriously sick. This was also an equivocal case, apparently arising from constipation
and irritation of the rectum. These women were ten miles apart and five from my residence.
On 15th and 2Oth two who did well. On 25th I attended another. This was a severe labor, and
followed by unequivocal puerperal fever, or peritonitis. She recovered. August 2nd and 3rd,
in about twenty-four hours, I attended four persons. Two of them did very well; one was attacked
with some of the common symptoms, which, however, subsided in a day or two, and the other had
decided puerperal fever, but recovered. This woman resided five miles from me. Up to this time
I wore the same coat. All my other clothes had frequently been changed. On 6th, I attended
two women, one of whom was not sick at all; but the other, Mrs. L., was afterwards taken ill.
On 10th, I attended a lady, who did very well. I had previously changed all my clothes, and
had no garment on which had been in a puerperal room. On 12th, I was called to Mrs. S., in
labor. While she was ill, I left her to visit Mrs. L., one of the ladies who was confined on
6th. Mrs. L. had been more unwell than usual, but I had not considered her case anything more
than common till this visit. I had on a surtout at this visit, which, on my return to Mrs.
S., I left in another room. Mrs. S. was delivered on 13th with forceps. These women both died
of decided puerperal fever.

"While I attended these women in their fevers I changed my clothes, and washed my hands in
a solution of chloride of lime after each visit. I attended seven women in labor during this
period, all of whom recovered without sickness.

"In my practice I have had several single cases of puerperal fever, some of whom have died
and some have recovered. Until the year 1830 I had no suspicion that the disease could be communicated
from one patient to another by a nurse or midwife; but I now think the foregoing facts strongly
favor that idea. I was so much convinced of this fact that I adopted the plan before related.

"I believe my own health was as good as usual at each of the above periods. I have no recollection
to the contrary.

"I believe I have answered all your questions. I have been more particular on some points perhaps
than necessary; but I thought you could form your own opinion better than to take mine. In
1830 I wrote to Dr. Channing a more particular statement of my cases. If I have not answered
your questions sufficiently, perhaps Dr. C. may have my letter to him, and you can find your
answer there." [Footnote: In a letter to myself this gentleman also stated," I do not recollect
that there was any erysipelas or any other disease particularly prevalent at the time."]

"Boston, February 3, 1843.

III. "My Dear Sir: I received a note from you last evening requesting me to answer certain
questions therein proposed, touching the cases of puerperal fever which came under my observation
the past summer. It gives me pleasure to comply with your request, so far as it is in my power
so to do, but, owing to the hurry in preparing for a journey, the notes of the cases I had
then taken were lost or mislaid. The principal facts, however, are too vivid upon my recollection
to be soon forgotten. I think, therefore, that I shall be able to give you all the information
you may require.

"All the cases that occurred in my practice took place between the 7th of May and the 17th
of June, 1842.

They were not confined to any particular part of the city. The first two cases were patients
residing at the South End, the next was at the extreme North End, one living in Sea Street
and the other in Roxbury. The following is the order in which they occurred:

"CASE 1.--Mrs.-- was confined on the 7th of May, at 5 o'clock, P. M., after a natural labor
of six hours. At 12 o'clock at night, on the 9th (thirty-one hours after confinement), she
was taken with severe chill, previous to which she was as comfortable as women usually are
under the circumstances. She died on the 10th.

"CASE 2.--Mrs.-- was confined on the 10th of June (four weeks after Mrs. C), at 11 A. M., after
a natural, but somewhat severe, labor of five hours. At 7 o'clock, on the morning of the 11th,
she had a chill. Died on the 12th.

"CASE 3.--Mrs.--, confined on the 14th of June, was comfortable until the 18th, when symptoms
of puerperal fever were manifest. She died on the 20th.

"CASE 4.--Mrs.--, confined June 17th, at 5 o'clock, A. M., was doing well until the morning
of the 19th. She died on the evening of the 21st.

"CASE 5.--Mrs.--was confined with her FIFTH child on the 17th of June, at 6 o'clock in the
evening. This patient had been attacked with puerperal fever, at three of her previous confinements,
but the disease yielded to depletion and other remedies without difficulty. This time, I regret
to say, I was not so fortunate. She was not attacked, as were the other patients, with a chill,
but complained of extreme pain in the abdomen, and tenderness on pressure, almost from the
moment of her confinement. In this, as in the other cases, the disease resisted all remedies,
and she died in great distress on the 22d of the same month. Owing to the extreme heat of the
season and my own indisposition, none of the subjects were examined after death. Dr. Channing,
who was in attendance with me on the three last cases, proposed to have a post-mortem examination
of the subject of case No. 5, but from some cause which I do not now recollect it was not obtained.

"You wish to know whether I wore the same clothes when attending the different cases. I cannot
positively say, but I should think I did not, as the weather became warmer after, the first
two cases; I therefore think it probable that I made a change of at least a PART of my dress.
I have had no other case of puerperal fever in my own practice for three years, save those
above related, and I do not remember to have lost a patient before with this disease. While
absent, last July, I visited two patients sick with puerperal fever, with a friend of mine
in the country. Both of them recovered.

"The cases that I have recorded were not confined to any particular constitution or temperament,
but it seized upon the strong and the weak, the old and the young--one being over forty years,
and the youngest under eighteen years of age... If the disease is of an erysipelatous nature,
as many suppose, contagionists may perhaps find some ground for their belief in the fact that,
for two weeks previous to my first case of puerperal fever, I had been attending a severe case
of erysipelas, and the infection may have been conveyed through me to the patient; but, on
the other hand, why is not this the case with other physicians, or with the same physician
at all times, for since my return from the country I have had a more inveterate case of erysipelas
than ever before, and no difficulty whatever has attended any of my midwifery cases?"

I am assured, on unquestionable authority, that "about three years since a gentleman in extensive
midwifery business, in a neighboring State, lost in the course of a few weeks eight patients
in child-bed, seven of them being undoubted cases of puerperal fever. No other physician of
the town lost a single patient of this disease during the same period." And from what I have
heard in conversation with some of our most experienced practitioners, I am inclined to think
many cases of the kind might be brought to light by extensive inquiry.

This long catalogue of melancholy histories assumes a still darker aspect when we remember
how kindly nature deals with the parturient female, when she is not immersed in the virulent
atmosphere of an impure lying-in hospital, or poisoned in her chamber by the unsuspected breath
of contagion. From all causes together not more than four deaths in a thousand births and miscarriages
happened in England and Wales during the period embraced by the first Report of the Registrar-General.
[Footnote: First Report, p. 105.] In the second Report the mortality was shown to be about
five in one thousand. [Footnote: Second Report, p. 73.] In the Dublin Lying-in Hospital, during
the seven years of Dr. Collins's mastership, there was one case of puerperal fever to 178 deliveries,
or less than six to the thousand, and one death from this disease in 278 cases, or between
three and four to the thousand. [Footnote: Collins's Treatise on Midwifery, p. 228, etc.] Yet
during this period the disease was endemic in the hospital, and might have gone on to rival
the horrors of the pestilence of the Maternite, had not the poison been destroyed by a thorough
purification.

In private practice, leaving out of view the cases that are to be ascribed to the self-acting
system of propagation, it would seem that the disease must be far from common. Mr. White, of
Manchester, says: "Out of the whole number of lying-in patients whom I have delivered (and
I may safely call it a great one), I have never lost one, nor to the best of my recollection
has one been greatly endangered, by the puerperal, miliary, low nervous, putrid malignant,
or milk fever." [Footnote: Op. cit., p. 115.] Dr. Joseph Clarke informed Dr. Collins that in
the course of FORTY-FIVE years' most extensive practice he lost but FOUR patients from this
disease. [Footnote: Op. cit., p.228.] One of the most eminent practitioners of Glasgow who
has been engaged in very extensive practice for upwards of a quarter of a century testifies
that he never saw more than twelve cases of real puerperal fever. [Footnote: Lancet, May 4, 1833.]

I have myself been told by two gentlemen practicing in this city, and having for many years
a large midwifery business, that they had neither of them lost a patient from this disease,
and by one of them that he had only seen it in consultation with other physicians. In five
hundred cases of midwifery, of which Dr. Storer has given an abstract in the first number of
this journal, there was only one instance of fatal puerperal peritonitis.

In the view of these facts it does appear a singular coincidence that one man or woman should
have ten, twenty, thirty, or seventy cases of this rare disease following his or her footsteps
with the keenness of a beagle, through the streets and lanes of a crowded city, while the scores
that cross the same paths on the same errands know it only by name. It is a series of similar
coincidences which has led us to consider the dagger, the musket, and certain innocent-looking
white powders as having some little claim to be regarded as dangerous. It is the practical
inattention to similar coincidences which has given rise to the unpleasant but often necessary
documents called INDICTMENTS, which has sharpened a form of the cephalotome sometimes employed
in the case of adults, and adjusted that modification of the fillet which delivers the world
of those who happen to be too much in the way while such striking coincidences are taking place.

I shall now mention a few instances in which the disease appears to have been conveyed by the
process of direct inoculation.

Dr. Campbell, of Edinburgh, states that in October, 1821, he assisted at the post-mortem examination
of a patient who died with puerperal fever. He carried the pelvic viscera in his pocket to
the class-room. The same evening he attended a woman in labor without previously changing his
clothes; this patient died. The next morning he delivered a woman with the forceps; she died
also, and of many others who were seized with the disease within a few weeks, three shared
the same fate in succession.

In June, 1823, he assisted some of his pupils at the autopsy of a case of puerperal fever.
He was unable to wash his hands with proper care, for want of the necessary accommodations.
On getting home he found that two patients required his assistance. He went without further
ablution or changing his clothes; both these patients died with puerperal fever. [Footnote:
Lond. Med. Gazette, December 10, 1831.] This same Dr. Campbell is one of Dr. Churchill's authorities
against contagion.

Mr. Roberton says that in one instance within his knowledge a practitioner passed the catheter
for a patient with puerperal fever late in the evening; the same night he attended a lady who
had the symptoms of the disease on the second day. In another instance a surgeon was called
while in the act of inspecting the body of a woman who had died of this fever, to attend a
labor; within forty-eight hours this patient was seized with the fever [Footnote: Ibid. for
January 1832].

On the 16th of March, 1831, a medical practitioner examined the body of a woman who had died
a few days after delivery, from puerperal peritonitis. On the evening of the 17th he delivered
a patient, who was seized with puerperal fever on the 19th, and died on the 24th. Between this
period and the 6th of April the same practitioner attended two other patients, both of whom
were attacked with the same disease and died. [Footnote: London Cyc. of Pract. Med., art.,
"Fever, Puerperal."]

In the autumn of 1829 a physician was present at the examination of a case of puerperal fever,
dissected out the organs, and assisted in sewing up the body. He had scarcely reached home
when he was summoned to attend a young lady in labor. In sixteen hours she was attacked with
the symptoms of puerperal fever, and narrowly escaped with her life. [Footnote: Ibid.]

In December, 1830, a midwife, who had attended two fatal cases of puerperal fever at the British
Lying-in Hospital, examined a patient who had just been admitted, to ascertain if labor had
commenced. This patient remained two days in the expectation that labor would come on, when
she returned home and was then suddenly taken in labor and delivered before she could set out
for the hospital. She went on favorably for two days, and was then taken with puerperal fever
and died in thirty-six hours. [Footnote: Ibid.]

A young practitioner, contrary to advice, examined the body of a patient who had died from
puerperal fever; there was no epidemic at the time; the case appeared to be purely sporadic.
He delivered three other women shortly afterwards; they all died with puerperal fever, the
symptoms of which broke out very soon after labor. The patients of his colleague did well,
except one, where he assisted to remove some coagula from the uterus; she was attacked in the
same manner as those whom he had attended, and died also." The writer in the "British and Foreign
Medical Review," from whom I quote this statement,--and who is no other than Dr. Rigby,--adds:
"We trust that this fact alone will forever silence such doubts, and stamp the well-merited
epithet of 'criminal,' as above quoted, upon such attempts [Footnote: Brit. and For. Medical
Review for January, 1842, p. 112.]

From the cases given by Mr. Ingleby I select the following: Two gentlemen, after having been
engaged in conducting the post- mortem examination of a case of puerperal fever, went in the
same dress, each respectively, to a case of midwifery. "The one patient was seized with the
rigor about thirty hours afterwards. The other patient was seized with a rigor the third morning
after delivery. ONE RECOVERED, ONE DIED." [Footnote: Edin. Med. and Surg. Journal, April 1838.]
One of these same gentlemen attended another woman in the same clothes two days after the autopsy
referred to. "The rigor did not take place until the evening of the fifth day from the first
visit. RESULT FATAL." These cases belonged to a series of seven, the first of which was thought
to have originated in a case of erysipelas. "Several cases of a mild character followed the
foregoing seven, and their nature being now most unequivocal, my friend declined visiting all
midwifery cases for a time, and there was no recurrence of the disease." These cases occurred
in 1833. Five of them proved fatal. Mr. Ingleby gives another series of seven cases which occurred
to a practitioner in 1836, the first of which was also attributed to his having opened several
erysipelatous abscesses a short time previously.

I need not refer to the case lately read before this society, in which a physician went, soon
after performing an autopsy of a case of puerperal fever, to a woman in labor, who was seized
with the same disease and perished. The forfeit of that error has been already paid.

At a meeting of the Medical and Chirurgical Society before referred to, Dr. Merriman related
an instance occurring in his own practice, which excites a reasonable suspicion that two lives
were sacrificed to a still less dangerous experiment. He was at the examination of a case of
puerperal fever at two o'clock in the afternoon. HE TOOK CARE NOT TO TOUCH THE BODY. At nine
o'clock the same evening he attended a woman in labor; she was so nearly delivered that he
had scarcely anything to do. The next morning she had severe rigors, and in forty-eight hours
she was a corpse. Her infant had erysipelas and died in two days. [Footnote: Lancet, May 2, 1840.]

In connection with the facts which have been stated it seems proper to allude to the dangerous
and often fatal effects which have followed from wounds received in the post-mortem examination
of patients who have died of puerperal fever. The fact that such wounds are attended with peculiar
risk has been long noticed. I find that Chaussier was in the habit of cautioning his students
against the danger to which they were exposed in these dissections. [Footnote: Stein, L'Art
d'Accoucher, 1794; Dict. des Sciences Medicales, art., "Puerperal."] The head pharmacien of
the Hotel Dieu, in his analysis of the fluid effused in puerperal peritonitis, says that practitioners
are convinced of its deleterious qualities, and that it is very dangerous to apply it to the
denuded skin. [Footnote: Journal de Pharmacie, January 1836.] Sir Benjamin Brodie speaks of
it as being well known that the inoculation of lymph or pus from the peritoneum of a puerperal
patient is often attended with dangerous and even fatal symptoms. Three cases in confirmation
of this statement, two of them fatal, have been reported to this society within a few months.

Of about fifty cases of injuries of this kind, of various degrees of severity, which I have
collected from different sources, at least twelve were instances of infection from puerperal
peritonitis. Some of the others are so stated as to render it probable that they may have been
of the same nature. Five other cases were of peritoneal inflammation; three in males. Three
were what was called enteritis, in one instance complicated with erysipelas; but it is well
known that this term has been often used to signify inflammation of the peritoneum covering
the intestines. On the other hand, no case of typhus or typhoid fever is mentioned as giving
rise to dangerous consequences, with the exception of the single instance of an undertaker
mentioned by Mr. Travers, who seems to have been poisoned by a fluid which exuded from the
body. The other accidents were produced by dissection, or some other mode of contact with bodies
of patients who had died of various affections. They also differed much in severity, the cases
of puerperal origin being among the most formidable and fatal. Now a moment's reflection will
show that the number of cases of serious consequences ensuing from the dissection of the bodies
of those who had perished of puerperal fever is so vastly disproportioned to the relatively
small number of autopsies made in this complaint as compared with typhus or pneumonia (from
which last disease not one case of poisoning happened), and still more from all diseases put
together, that the conclusion is irresistible that a most fearful morbid poison is often generated
in the course of this disease. Whether or not it is sui generis confined to this disease, or
produced in some others, as, for instance, erysipelas, I need not stop to inquire.

In connection with this may be taken the following statement of Dr. Rigby: "That the discharges
from a patient under puerperal fever are in the highest degree contagious we have abundant
evidence in the history of lying-in hospitals. The puerperal abscesses are also contagious,
and may be communicated to healthy lying-in women by washing with the same sponge; this fact
has been repeatedly proved in the Vienna Hospital; but they are equally communicable to women
not pregnant; on more than one occasion the women engaged in washing the soiled bed-linen of
the General Lying-in Hospital have been attacked with abscesses in the fingers or hands, attended
with rapidly spreading inflammation of the cellular tissue."[Footnote: System of Midwifery, p. 292]

Now add to all this the undisputed fact that within the walls of lying-in hospitals there is
often generated a miasm, palpable as the chlorine used to destroy it, tenacious so as in some
cases almost to defy extirpation, deadly in some institutions as the plague; which has killed
women in a private hospital of London so fast that they were buried two in one coffin to conceal
its horrors; which enabled Tonnelle to record two hundred and twenty- two autopsies at the
Maternite of Paris; which has led Dr. Lee to express his deliberate conviction that the loss
of life occasioned by these institutions completely defeats the objects of their founders;
and out of this train of cumulative evidence, the multiplied groups of cases clustering about
individuals, the deadly results of autopsies, the inoculation by fluids from the living patient,
the murderous poison of hospitals--does there not result a conclusion that laughs all sophistry
to scorn, and renders all argument an insult?

I have had occasion to mention some instances in which there was an apparent relation between
puerperal fever and erysipelas. The length to which this paper has extended does not allow
me to enter into the consideration of this most important subject. I will only say that the
evidence appears to me altogether satisfactory that some most fatal series of puerperal fever
have been produced by an infection originating in the matter or effluvia of erysipelas. In
evidence of some connection between the two diseases, I need not go back to the older authors,
as Pouteau or Gordon, but will content myself with giving the following references, with their
dates; from which it will be seen that the testimony has been constantly coming before the
profession for the last few years:

"London Cyclopaedia of Practical Medicine," article "Puerperal Fever," 1833.

Mr. Ceeley's Account of the Puerperal Fever at Aylesbury, "Lancet," 1835.

Dr. Ramsbotham's Lecture, "London Medical Gazette," 1835.

Mr. Yates Ackerly's Letter in the same journal, 1838.

Mr. Ingleby on Epidemic Puerperal Fever, "Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal," 1838.

Mr. Paley's Letter, "London Medical Gazette," 1839.

Remarks at the Medical and Chirurgical Society, "Lancet," 1840.

Dr. Rigby's "System of Midwifery," 1841.

"Nunneley on Erysipelas," a work which contains a large number of references on the subject, 1841.

"British and Foreign Quarterly Review," 1842.

Dr. S. Jackson, of Northumberland, as already quoted from the Summary of the College of Physicians,
1842.

And, lastly, a startling series of cases by Mr. Storrs, of Doncaster, to be found in the "American
Journal of the Medical Sciences" for January, 1843.

The relation of puerperal fever with other continued fevers would seem to be remote and rarely
obvious. Hey refers to two cases of synochus occurring in the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh,
in women who had attended upon puerperal patients. Dr. Collins refers to several instances
in which puerperal fever has appeared to originate from a continued proximity to patients suffering
with typhus. [Footnote: Treatise on Midwifery, p. 228.]

Such occurrences as those just mentioned, though most important to be remembered and guarded
against, hardly attract our notice in the midst of the gloomy facts by which they are surrounded.
Of these facts, at the risk of fatiguing repetitions, I have summoned a sufficient number,
as I believe, to convince the most incredulous that every attempt to disguise the truth which
underlies them all is useless.

It is true that some of the historians of the disease, especially Hulme, Hull, and Leake, in
England; Tonnelle, Duges, and Baudelocque, in France, profess not to have found puerperal fever
contagious. At the most they give us mere negative facts, worthless against an extent of evidence
which now overlaps the widest range of doubt, and doubles upon itself in the redundancy of
superfluous demonstration. Examined in detail, this and much of the show of testimony brought
up to stare the daylight of conviction out of countenance, proves to be in a great measure
unmeaning and inapplicable, as might be easily shown were it necessary. Nor do I feel the necessity
of enforcing the conclusion which arises spontaneously from the facts which have been enumerated
by formally citing the opinions of those grave authorities who have for the last half-century
been sounding the unwelcome truth it has cost so many lives to establish.

"It is to the British practitioner," says Dr. Rigby, "that we are indebted for strongly insisting
upon this important and dangerous character of puerperal fever." [Footnote: British and Foreign
Med. Rev. for January, 1842.]

The names of Gordon, John Clarke, Denman, Burns, Young, [Footnote: Encyc. Britannica, xiii,
467, art., "Medicine."] Hamilton,[Footnote: Outlines of Midwifery, p. 109.] Haighton, [Footnote:
Oral Lectures, etc.] Good, [Footnote: Study of Medicine, ii, 195.] Waller, [Footnote: Medical
and Physical Journal, July, 1830.] Blundell, Gooch, Ramsbotham, Douglas, [Footnote: Dublin
Hospital Reports for 1822.] Lee, Ingleby, Locock, [Footnote: Library of Practical Medicine,
I. 373], Abercrombie [Footnote: Researches on Diseases of the Stomach, etc. p. 1841], Alison
[Footnote: Library of Practical Medicine, i, 95.], Travers, [Footnote: Further Researches on
Constitutional Irritation, p. 128], Rigby, and Watson [Footnote: London Medical Gazette, February,
1842] many of whose writings I have already referred to, may have some influence with those
who prefer the weight of authorities to the simple deductions of their own reason from the
facts aid before them. A few Continental writers have adopted similar conclusions [Footnote:
See British and Foreign Medical Review, vol. iil, p. 525, and vol. iv, p. 517. Also Ed. Med.
and Surg. Journal for July 1824, and American Journal of Med. Sciences for January, 1841.]
It gives me pleasure to remember that, while the doctrine has been unceremoniously discredited
in one of the leading journals [Footnote: PIsid. Med. Journal, vol. xii, p. 364], and made
very light of by teachers in two of the principal medical schools of this country, Dr. Channing
has for many years inculcated, and enforced by examples, the danger to be apprehended and the
precautions to be taken in the disease under consideration.

I have no wish to express any harsh feeling with regard to the painful subject which has come
before us. If there are any so far excited by the story of these dreadful events that they
ask for some word of indignant remonstrance to show that science does not turn the hearts of
its followers into ice or stone, let me remind them that such words have been uttered by those
who speak with an authority I could not claim [Footnote: Dr. Blundell and Dr. Bigby in the
works already cited.] It is as a lesson rather than as a reproach that I call up the memory
of these irreparable errors and wrongs. No tongue can tell the heart-breaking calamity they
have caused; they have closed the eyes just opened upon a new world of love and happiness;
they have bowed the strength of manhood into the dust; they have cast the helplessness of infancy
into the stranger's arms, or bequeathed it, with less cruelty, the death of its dying parent.
There is no tone deep enough for regret, and no voice loud enough for warning. The woman about
to become a mother. or with her new-born infant upon her bosom, should be the object of trembling
care and sympathy wherever she bears her tender burden or stretches her aching limbs. The very
outcast of the streets has pity upon her sister in degradation when the seal of promised maternity
is impressed upon her. The remorseless vengeance of the law, brought down upon its victim by
a machinery as sure as destiny, is arrested in its fall at a word which reveals her transient
claim for mercy. The solemn prayer of the liturgy singles out her sorrows from the multiplied
trials of life, to plead for her in the hour of peril. God forbid that any member of the profession
to which she trusts her life, doubly precious at that eventful period, should hazard it negligently,
unadvisedly, or selfishly!

There may be some among those whom I address who are disposed to ask the question, What course
are we to follow in relation to this matter? The facts are before them, and the answer must
be left to their own judgment and conscience. If any should care to know my own conclusions,
they are the following; and in taking the liberty to state them very freely and broadly, I
would ask the inquirer to examine them as freely in the light of the evidence which has been
laid before him.

1. A physician holding himself in readiness to attend cases of midwifery should never take
any active part in the post-mortem examination of cases of puerperal fever.

2. If a physician is present at such autopsies, he should use thorough ablution, change every
article of dress, and allow twenty-four hours or more to elapse before attending to any case
of midwifery. It may be well to extend the same caution to cases of simple peritonitis.

3. Similar precautions should be taken after the autopsy or surgical treatment of cases of
erysipelas, if the physician is obliged to unite such offices with his obstetrical duties,
which is in the highest degree inexpedient.

4. On the occurrence of a single case of puerperal fever In his practice, the physician is
bound to consider the next female he attends in labor, unless some weeks at least have elapsed,
as in danger of being infected by him, and it is his duty to take every precaution to diminish
her risk of disease and death.

5. If within a short period two cases of puerperal fever happen close to each other, in the
practice of the same physician, the disease not existing or prevailing in the neighborhood,
he would do wisely to relinquish his obstetrical practice for at least one month, and endeavor
to free himself by every available means from any noxious influence he may carry about with him.

6. The occurrence of three or more closely connected cases, in the practice of one individual,
no others existing in the neighborhood, and no other sufficient cause being alleged for the
coincidence, is prima facie evidence that he is the vehicle of contagion.

7. It is the duty of the physician to take every precaution that the disease shall not be introduced
by nurses or other assistants, by making proper inquiries concerning them, and giving timely
warning of every suspected source of danger.

8. Whatever indulgence may be granted to those who have heretofore been the ignorant causes
of so much misery, the time has come when the existence of a private pestilence in the sphere
of a single physician should be looked upon, not as a misfortune, but a crime; and in the knowledge
of such occurrences the duties of the practitioner to his profession should give way to his
paramount obligations to society.

ADDITIONAL REFERENCES AND CASES.

Fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General of England, 1843, Appendix. Letter from William
Fair, Esq.--Several new series of cases are given in the letter of Mr. Storrs, contained in
the appendix to this report. Mr. Storrs suggests precautions similar to those I have laid down,
and these precautions are strongly enforced by Mr. Farr, who is, therefore, obnoxious to the
same criticisms as myself.

Hall and Dexter, in Am. Journal of Med. Sc. for January, 1844.-- Cases of puerperal fever seeming
to originate in erysipelas.

Elkington, of Birmingham, in Provincial Med. Journal, cited in Am. Journ. Med. Sc. for April,
1844.--Six cases in less than a fortnight, seeming to originate in a case of erysipelas.

West's Reports, in Brit. and For. Med. Review for October, 1845, and January, 1847.--Affection
of the arm, resembling malignant pustule, after removing the placenta of a patient who died
from puerperal fever. Reference to cases at Wurzburg, as proving contagion, and to Keiller's
cases in the Monthly Journal for February, 1846, as showing connection of puerperal fever and
erysipelas.

Kneeland.--Contagiousness of Puerperal Fever. Am. Jour. Med. Sc., January, 1846. Also, Connection
between Puerperal Fever Epidemic Erysipelas. Ibid., April, 1846.

Robert Storrs.-Contagious Effects of Puerperal Fever on the Male Subject; or on Persons not
Child-bearing. (From Provincial Med. and Surg. Journal.) Am. Jour. Med. Sc., January, 1846.
Numerous cases. See also Dr. Reid's case in same journal for April, 1846.

Routh's paper in Proc. of Royal Med. Chir. Soc., Am. Jour. Med. Sc., April, 1849, also in B.
and F. Med. Chir. Review, April, 1850.

Hill, of Leuchars.--A Series of Cases Illustrating the Contagious Nature of Erysipelas and
Puerperal Fever, and their Intimate Pathological Connection. (From Monthly Journal of Med.
Sc.) Am. Jour. Med. Sc., July, 1850.

Skoda on the Causes of Puerperal Fever. (Peritonitis in rabbits, from inoculation with different
morbid secretions.) Am. Jour. Med. Sc., October, 1850.

Arneth.--Paper read before the National Academy of Medicine. Annales d'Hygiene, Tome LXV. 2e
Partie. ("Means of Disinfection proposed by M. Semmelweis." Semmelweiss.) Lotions of chloride
of lime and use of nail-brush before admission to lying-in wards, Alleged sudden and great
decrease of mortality from puerperal fever. Cause of disease attributed to inoculation with
cadaveric matters.) See also Routh's paper, mentioned above.

Moir.--Remarks at a meeting of the Edinburgh Medico-chirurgical Society. Refers to cases of
Dr. Kellie, of Leith. Sixteen in succession, all fatal. Also to several instances of individual
pupils having had a succession of cases in various quarters of the town, while others, practising
as extensively in the same localities, had none. Also to several special cases not mentioned
elsewhere. Am. Jour. Med. Sc. for October, 1851. (From New Monthly Journal of Med. Science.)

Simpson.--Observations at a Meeting of the Edinburgh Obstetrical Society. (An "eminent gentleman,"
according to Dr. Meigs, whose "name is as well known in America as in (his) native land," Obstetrics,
Phil., 1852, pp. 368, 375.) The student is referred to this paper for a valuable resume of
many of the facts, and the necessary inferences, relating to this subject. Also for another
series of cases, Mr. Sidey's, five or six in rapid succession. Dr. Simpson attended the dissection
of two of Dr. Sidey's cases, and freely handled the diseased parts. His next four child-bed
patients were affected with puerperal fever, and it was the first time he had seen it in practice.
As Dr. Simpson is a gentleman (Dr. Meigs, as above), and as "a gentleman's hands are clean"
(Dr. Meigs' sixth letter), it follows that a gentleman with clean hands may carry the disease.
Am. Jour. Med. Sc., October, 1851.

Peddie.--The five or six cases of Dr. Sidey, followed by the four of Dr. Simpson, did not end
the series. A practitioner in Leith having examined in Dr. Simpson's house, a portion of the
uterus obtained from one of the patients, had immediately afterwards three fatal cases of puerperal
fever. Dr. Peddie referred to two distinct series of consecutive cases in his own practice.
He had since taken precautions, and not met with any such cases. Am. Jour. Med October, 1851.

Copland.--Considers it proved that puerperal fever may be propagated by the hands and the clothes,
or either, of a third person, the bed-clothes or body-clothes of a patient. Mentions a new
series of cases, one of which he saw, with the practitioner who had attended them. She was
THE SIXTH he had had within a few days. ALL DIED. Dr. Copland insisted that contagion had caused
these cases; advised precautionary measures, and the practitioner had no other cases for a
considerable time. Considers it CRIMINAL, after the evidence adduced,--which be could have
quadrupled,--and the weight of authority brought forward, for a practitioner to be the medium
of transmitting contagion and death to his patients. Dr. Copland lays down rules similar to
those suggested by myself, and is therefore entitled to the same epithet for so doing. Medical
Dictionary, New York, 1853. Article, Puerperal States and Diseases.

If there is any appetite for facts so craving as to be yet unappeased,--lassata, necdum satiata,--more
can be obtained. Dr. Hodge remarks that "the frequency and importance of this singular circumstance
that the disease is occasionally more prevalent with one practitioner than another, has been
exceedingly overrated." More than thirty strings of cases, more than two hundred and fifty
sufferers from puerperal fever, more than one hundred and thirty deaths, appear as the results
of a sparing estimate of such among the facts I have gleaned as could be numerically valued.
These facts constitute, we may take it for granted, but a small fraction of those that have
actually occurred. The number of them might be greater, but "'t is enough, 't will serve,"
in Mercutio's modest phrase, so far as frequency is concerned. For a just estimate of the importance
of the singular circumstance, it might be proper to consult the languid survivors, the widowed
husbands, and the motherless children, as well as "the unfortunate accoucheur."

ON THE ANTISEPTIC PRINCIPLE OF THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY BY JOSEPH LISTER

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Joseph Lister was born at Upton, Essex, England, in 1827, and received Aw general education
at the University of London. After graduation he studied medicine in London and Edinburgh,
and became lecturer in surgery at the University in the latter city. Later he was professor
of surgery at Glasgow, at Edinburgh, and at King's College Hospital, London, and surgeon to
Queen Victoria. He was made a baronet in 1883; retired from teaching in 1893; and was raised
to the peerage in 1897, with the title of Baron Lister.

Even before the work of Pasteur on fermentation and putrefaction, Lister had been convinced
of the importance of scrupulous cleanliness and the usefulness of deodorants in the operating
room; and when, through Pasteur's researches, he realised that the formation of PUS was due
to bacteria, he proceeded to develop his antiseptic surgical methods. The immediate success
of the new treatment led to its general adoption, with results of such beneficence as to make
it rank as one of the great discoveries of the age.

ON THE ANTISEPTIC PRINCIPLE OF THE PRACTICE OF SURGERY (1867)

In the course of an extended investigation into the nature of inflammation, and the healthy
and morbid conditions of the blood in relation to it, I arrived several years ago at the conclusion
that the essential cause of suppuration in wounds is decomposition brought about by the influence
of the atmosphere upon blood or serum retained within them, and, in the case of contused wounds,
upon portions of tissue destroyed by the violence of the injury.

To prevent the occurrence of suppuration with all its attendant risks was an object manifestly
desirable, but till lately apparently unattainable, since it seemed hopeless to attempt to
exclude the oxygen which was universally regarded as the agent by which putrefaction was effected.
But when it had been shown by the researches of Pasteur that the septic properties of the atmosphere
depended not on the oxygen, or any gaseous constituent, but on minute organisms suspended in
it, which owed their energy to their vitality, it occurred to me that decomposition in the
injured part might be avoided without excluding the air, by applying as a dressing some material
capable of destroying the life of the floating particles. Upon this principle I have based
a practice of which I will now attempt to give a short account.

The material which I have employed is carbolic or phenic acid, a volatile organic compound,
which appears to exercise a peculiarly destructive influence upon low forms of life, and hence
is the most powerful antiseptic with which we are at present acquainted.

The first class of cases to which I applied it was that of compound fractures, in which the
effects of decomposition in the injured part were especially striking and pernicious. The results
have been such as to establish conclusively the great principle that all local inflammatory
mischief and general febrile disturbances which follow severe injuries are due to the irritating
and poisonous influence of decomposing blood or sloughs. For these evils are entirely avoided
by the antiseptic treatment, so that limbs which would otherwise be unhesitatingly condemned
to amputation may be retained, with confidence of the best results.

In conducting the treatment, the first object must be the destruction of any septic germs which
may have been introduced into the wounds, either at the moment of the accident or during the
time which has since elapsed. This is done by introducing the acid of full strength into all
accessible recesses of the wound by means of a piece of rag held in dressing forceps and dipped
into the liquid. [Footnote: The addition of a few drops of water to a considerable quantity
of the acid, induces it to assume permanently the liquid form.] This I did not venture to do
in the earlier cases; but experience has shown that the compound which carbolic acid forms
with the blood, and also any portions of tissue killed by its caustic action, including even
parts of the bone, are disposed of by absorption and organisation, provided they are afterwards
kept from decomposing. We are thus enabled to employ the antiseptic treatment efficiently at
a period after the occurrence of the injury at which it would otherwise probably fail. Thus
I have now under my care, in Glasgow Infirmary, a boy who was admitted with compound fracture
of the leg as late as eight and one-half hours after the accident, in whom, nevertheless, all
local and constitutional disturbance was avoided by means of carbolic acid, and the bones were
soundly united five weeks after his admission.

The next object to be kept in view is to guard effectually against the spreading of decomposition
into the wound along the stream of blood and serum which oozes out during the first few days
after the accident, when the acid originally applied has been washed out or dissipated by absorption
and evaporation. This part of the treatment has been greatly improved during the past few weeks.
The method which I have hitherto published (see Lancet for Mar. 16th, 23rd, 30th, and April
27th of the present year) consisted in the application of a piece of lint dipped in the acid,
overlapping the sound skin to some extent and covered with a tin cap, which was daily raised
in order to touch the surface of the lint with the antiseptic. This method certainly succeeded
well with wounds of moderate size; and indeed I may say that in all the many cases of this
kind which have been so treated by myself or my house-surgeons, not a single failure has occurred.
When, however, the wound is very large, the flow of blood and serum is so profuse, especially
during the first twenty-four hours, that the antiseptic application cannot prevent the spread
of decomposition into the interior unless it overlaps the sound skin for a very considerable
distance, and this was inadmissible by the method described above, on account of the extensive
sloughing of the surface of the cutis which it would involve. This difficulty has, however,
been overcome by employing a paste composed of common whiting (carbonate of lime), mixed with
a solution of one part of carbolic acid in four parts of boiled linseed oil so as to form a
firm putty. This application contains the acid in too dilute a form to excoriate the skin,
which it may be made to cover to any extent that may be thought desirable, while its substance
serves as a reservoir of the antiseptic material. So long as any discharge continues, the paste
should be changed daily, and, in order to prevent the chance of mischief occurring during the
process, a piece of rag dipped in the solution of carbolic acid in oil is put on next the skin,
and maintained there permanently, care being taken to avoid raising it along with the putty.
This rag is always kept in an antiseptic condition from contact with the paste above it, and
destroys any germs which may fall upon it during the short time that should alone be allowed
to pass in the changing of the dressing. The putty should be in a layer about a quarter of
an inch thick, and may be advantageously applied rolled out between two pieces of thin calico,
which maintain it in the form of a continuous sheet, which may be wrapped in a moment round
the whole circumference of a limb if this be thought desirable, while the putty is prevented
by the calico from sticking to the rag which is next the skin.[Footnote: In order to prevent
evaporation of the acid, which passes readily through any organic tissue, such as oiled silk
or gutta percha, it is well to cover the paste with a sheet of block tin. or tinfoil strengthened
with adhesive plaster. The tin sheet lead used for lining tea chests will also answer the purpose,
and may be obtained from any wholesale grocer.] When all discharge has ceased, the use of the
paste is discontinued, but the original rag is left adhering to the skin till healing by scabbing
is supposed to be complete. I have at present in the hospital a man with severe compound fracture
of both bones of the left leg, caused by direct violence, who, after the cessation of the sanibus
discharge under the use of the paste, without a drop of pus appearing, has been treated for
the last two weeks exactly as if the fracture was a simple one. During this time the rag, adhering
by means of a crust of inspissated blood collected beneath it, has continued perfectly dry,
and it will be left untouched till the usual period for removing the splints in a simple fracture,
when we may fairly expect to find a sound cicatrix beneath it. We cannot, however, always calculate
on so perfect a result as this. More or less pus may appear after the lapse of the first week,
and the larger the wound, the more likely this is to happen. And here I would desire earnestly
to enforce the necessity of persevering with the antiseptic application in spite of the appearance
of suppuration, so long as other symptoms are favorable. The surgeon is extremely apt to suppose
that any suppuration is an indication that the antiseptic treatment has failed, and that poulticing
or water dressing should be resorted to. But such a course would in many cases sacrifice a
limb or a life. I cannot, however, expect my professional brethren to follow my advice blindly
in such a matter, and therefore I feel it necessary to place before them, as shortly as I can,
some pathological principles intimately connected, not only with the point we are immediately
considering, but with the whole subject of this paper. If a perfectly healthy granulating sore
be well washed and covered with a plate of clean metal, such as block tin, fitting its surface
pretty accurately, and overlapping the surrounding skin an inch or so in every direction and
retained in position by adhesive plaster and a bandage, it will be found, on removing it after
twenty-four or forty-eight hours, that little or nothing that can be called pus is present,
merely a little transparent fluid, while at the same time there is an entire absence of the
unpleasant odour invariably perceived when water dressing is changed. Here the clean metallic
surface presents no recesses like those of porous lint for the septic germs to develope in,
the fluid exuding from the surface of the granulations has flowed away undecomposed, and the
result is the absence of suppuration. This simple experiment illustrates the important fact
that granulations have no inherent tendency to form pus, but do so only when subjected to preternatural
stimulus. Further, it shows that the mere contact of a foreign body does not of itself stimulate
granulations to suppurate; whereas the presence of decomposing organic matter does. These truths
are even more strikingly exemplified by the fact that I have elsewhere recorded (Lancet, March
23rd, 1867), that a piece of dead bone free from decomposition may not only fail to induce
the granulations around it to suppurate, but may actually be absorbed by them; whereas a bit
of dead bone soaked with putrid pus infallibly induces suppuration in its vicinity.

Another instructive experiment is, to dress a granulating sore with some of the putty above
described, overlapping the sound skin extensively; when we find, in the course of twenty-four
hours, that pus has been produced by the sore, although the application has been perfectly
antiseptic; and, indeed, the larger the amount of carbolic acid in the paste, the greater is
the quantity of pus formed, provided we avoid such a proportion as would act as a caustic.
The carbolic acid, though it prevents decomposition, induces suppuration--obviously by acting
as a chemical stimulus; and we may safely infer that putrescent organic materials (which we
know to be chemically acrid) operate in the same way.

In so far, then, carbolic acid and decomposing substances are alike; viz., that they induce
suppuration by chemical stimulation, as distinguished from what may be termed simple inflammatory
suppuration, such as that in which ordinary abscesses originate--where the pus appears to be
formed in consequence of an excited action of the nerves, independently of any other stimulus.
There is, however, this enormous difference between the effects of carbolic acid and those
of decomposition; viz., that carbolic acid stimulates only the surface to which it is at first
applied, and every drop of discharge that forms weakens the stimulant by diluting it; but decomposition
is a self-propagating and self-aggravating poison, and, if it occur at the surface of a severely
injured limb, it will spread into all its recesses so far as any extravasated blood or shreds
of dead tissue may extend, and lying in those recesses, it will become from hour to hour more
acrid, till it requires the energy of a caustic sufficient to destroy the vitality of any tissues
naturally weak from inferior vascular supply, or weakened by the injury they sustained in the
accident.

Hence it is easy to understand how, when a wound is very large, the crust beneath the rag may
prove here and there insufficient to protect the raw surface from the stimulating influence
of the carbolic acid in the putty; and the result will be first the conversion of the tissues
so acted on into granulations, and subsequently the formation of more or less pus. This, however,
will be merely superficial, and will not interfere with the absorption and organisation of
extravasated blood or dead tissues in the interior. But, on the other hand, should decomposition
set in before the internal parts have become securely consolidated, the most disastrous results
may ensue.

I left behind me in Glasgow a boy, thirteen years of age, who, between three and four weeks
previously, met with a most severe injury to the left arm, which he got entangled in a machine
at a fair. There was a wound six inches long and three inches broad, and the skin was very
extensively undermined beyond its limits, while the soft parts were generally so much lacerated
that a pair of dressing forceps introduced at the wound and pushed directly inwards appeared
beneath the skin at the opposite aspect of the limb. From this wound several tags of muscle
were hanging, and among them was One consisting of about three inches of the triceps in almost
Its entire thickness; while the lower fragment of the bone, which was broken high up, was protruding
four inches and a half, stripped of muscle, the skin being tucked in under it. Without the
assistance of the antiseptic treatment, I should certainly have thought of nothing else but
amputation at the shoulder-joint; but, as the radial pulse could be felt and the fingers had
sensation, I did not hesitate to try to save the limb and adopted the plan of treatment above
described, wrapping the arm from the shoulder to below the elbow in the antiseptic application,
the whole interior of the wound, together with the protruding bone, having previously been
freely treated with strong carbolic acid. About the tenth day, the discharge, which up to that
time had been only sanious and serous, showed a slight admixture of slimy pus; and this increased
till (a few days before I left) it amounted to about three drachms in twenty-four hours. But
the boy continued as he had been after the second day, free from unfavorable symptoms, with
pulse, tongue, appetite, and sleep natural and strength increasing, while the limb remained
as it had been from the first, free from swelling, redness, or pain. I. therefore, persevered
with the antiseptic dressing; and, before I left, the discharge was already somewhat less,
while the bone was becoming firm. I think it likely that, in that boy's case, I should have
found merely a superficial sore had I taken off all the dressings at the end of the three weeks;
though, considering the extent of the injury, I thought it prudent to let the month expire
before disturbing the rag next the skin. But I feel sure that, if I had resorted to ordinary
dressing when the pus first appeared, the progress of the case would have been exceedingly
different.

The next class of cases to which I have applied the antiseptic treatment is that of abscesses.
Here also the results have been extremely satisfactory, and in beautiful harmony with the pathological
principles indicated above. The pyogenic membrane, like the granulations of a sore, which it
resembles in nature, forms pus, not from any inherent disposition to do so, but only because
it is subjected to some preternatural stimulation. In an ordinary abscess, whether acute or
chronic, before it is opened the stimulus which maintains the suppuration is derived from the
presence of pus pent up within the cavity. When a free opening is made in the ordinary way,
this stimulus is got rid of, but the atmosphere gaining access to the contents, the potent
stimulus of decomposition comes into operation, and pus is generated in greater abundance than
before. But when the evacuation is effected on the antiseptic principle, the pyogenic membrane,
freed from the influence of the former stimulus without the substitution of a new one, ceases
to suppurate (like the granulations of a sore under metallic dressing), furnishing merely a
trifling amount of clear serum, and, whether the opening be dependent or not, rapidly contracts
and coalesces. At the same time any constitutional symptoms previously occasioned by the accumulation
of the matter are got rid of without the slightest risk of the irritative fever or hectic hitherto
so justly dreaded in dealing with large abscesses.

In order that the treatment may be satisfactory, the abscess must be seen before it is opened.
Then, except in very rare and peculiar cases [Footnote: As an instance of one of these exceptional
cases, I may mention that of an abscess in the vicinity of the colon, and afterwords proved
by post-mortem examination to have once communicated with it. Here the pus was extremely offensive
when evacuated, and exhibited vibros under the microscope.], there are no septic organisms
in the contents, so that it is needless to introduce carbolic acid into the interior. Indeed,
such a procedure would be objectionable, as it would stimulate the pyogenic membrane to unnecessary
suppuration. All that is requisite is to guard against the introduction of living atmospheric
germs from without, at the same time that free opportunity is afforded for the escape of the
discharge from within.

I have so lately given elsewhere a detailed account of the method by which this is effected
(Lancet, July 27th, 1867), that I shall not enter into it at present further than to say that
the means employed are the same as those described above for the superficial dressing of compound
fractures; viz., a piece of rag dipped into the solution of carbolic add in oil to serve as
an antiseptic curtain, under cover of which the abscess is evacuated by free incision, and
the antiseptic paste to guard against decomposition occurring in the stream of pus that flows
out beneath it; the dressing being changed daily until the sinus is closed.

The most remarkable results of this practice in a pathological point of view have been afforded
by cases where the formation of pus depended on disease of bone. Here the abscesses, instead
of forming exceptions to the general class in the obstinacy of the suppuration, have resembled
the rest in yielding in a few days only a trifling discharge, and frequently the production
of pus has ceased from the moment of the evacuation of the original contents. Hence it appears
that caries, when no longer labouring as heretofore under the irritation of decomposing matter,
ceases to be an opprobrium of surgery, and recovers like other inflammatory affections. In
the publication before alluded to, I have mentioned the case of a middle-aged man with a psoas
abscess depending in diseased bone, in whom the sinus finally closed after months of patient
perseverance with the antiseptic treatment. Since that article was written I have had another
instance of abscess equally gratifying, but the differing in the circumstance that the disease
and the recovery were more rapid in their course. The patient was a blacksmith, who had suffered
four and a half months before I saw him from symptoms of ulceration of cartilage in the left
elbow. These had latterly increased in severity so as to deprive him entirely of his night's
rest and of appetite. I found the region of the elbow greatly swollen, and on careful examination
found a fluctuating point at the outer aspect of the articulation. I opened it on the antiseptic
principle, the incision evidently penetrating to the joint, giving exit to a few drachms of
pus. The medical gentleman under whose care he was (Dr. Macgregor, of Glasgow) supervised the
daily dressing with the carbolic acid paste till the patient went to spend two or three weeks
at the coast, when his wife was entrusted with it. Just two months after I opened the abscess,
he called to show me the limb, stating that the discharge had been, for at least two weeks,
as little as it was then, a trifling moisture upon the paste, such as might be accounted for
by the little sore caused by the incision. On applying a probe guarded with an antiseptic rag,
I found that the sinus was soundly closed, while the limb was free from swelling or tenderness;
and, although he had not attempted to exercise it much, the joint could already be moved through
a considerable angle. Here the antiseptic principle had effected the restoration of a joint,
which, on any other known system of treatment, must have been excised.

Ordinary contused wounds are, of course, amenable to the same treatment as compound fractures,
which are a complicated variety of them. I will content myself with mentioning a single instance
of this class of cases. In April last, a volunteer was discharging a rifle when it burst, and
blew back the thumb with its metacarpal bone, so that it could be bent back as on a hinge at
the trapezial joint, which had evidently been opened, while all the soft parts between the
metacarpal bones of the thumb and forefinger were torn through. I need not insist before my
present audience on the ugly character of such an injury. My house- surgeon, Mr. Hector Cameron,
applied carbolic acid to the whole raw surface, and completed the dressing as if for compound
fracture. The hand remained free from pain, redness or swelling, and with the exception of
a shallow groove, all the wound consolidated without a drop of matter, so that if it had been
a clean cut, it would have been regarded as a good example of primary union. The small granulating
surface soon healed, and at present a linear cicatrix alone tells of the injury he has sustained,
while his thumb has all its movements and his hand a fine grasp.

If the severest forms of contused and lacerated wounds heal thus kindly under the antiseptic
treatment, it is obvious that its application to simple incised wounds must be merely a matter
of detail. I have devoted a good deal of attention to this class, but I have not as yet pleased
myself altogether with any of the methods I have employed. I am, however, prepared to go so
far as to say that a solution of carbolic acid in twenty parts of water, while a mild and cleanly
application, may be relied on for destroying any septic germs that may fall upon the wound
during the performance of an operation; and also that, for preventing the subsequent introduction
of others, the paste above described, applied as for compound fractures, gives excellent results.
Thus I have had a case of strangulated inguinal hernia in which it was necessary to take away
half a pound of thickened omentum, heal without any deep-seated suppuration or any tenderness
of the sac or any fever; and amputations, including one immediately below the knee, have remained
absolutely free from constitutional symptoms.

Further, I have found that when the antiseptic treatment is efficiently conducted, ligatures
may be safely cut short and left to be disposed of by absorption or otherwise. Should this
particular branch of the subject yield all that it promises, should it turn out on further
trial that when the knot is applied on the antiseptic principle, we may calculate as securely
as if it were absent on the occurrence of healing without any deep- seated suppuration, the
deligation of main arteries in their continuity will be deprived of the two dangers that now
attend it, viz., those of secondary haemorrhage and an unhealthy state of the wound. Further,
it seems not unlikely that the present objection to tying an artery in the immediate vicinity
of a large branch may be done away with; and that even the innominate, which has lately been
the subject of an ingenious experiment by one of the Dublin surgeons, on account of its well-known
fatality under the ligature for secondary haemorrhage, may cease to have this unhappy character
when the tissues in the vicinity of the thread, instead of becoming softened through the influence
of an irritating decomposing substance, are left at liberty to consolidate firmly near an unoffending
though foreign body.

It would carry me far beyond the limited time which, by the rules of the Association, is alone
at my disposal, were I to enter into the various applications of the antiseptic principle in
the several special departments of surgery.

There is, however, one point more that I cannot but advert to, viz., the influence of this
mode of treatment upon the general healthiness of an hospital. Previously to its introduction
the two large wards in which most of my cases of accident and of operation are treated were
among the unhealthiest in the whole surgical division of the Glasgow Royal Infirmary, in consequence
apparently of those wards being unfavorably placed with reference to the supply of fresh air;
and I have felt ashamed when recording the results of my practice, to have so often to allude
to hospital gangrene or pyaemia. It was interesting, though melancholy, to observe that whenever
all or nearly all the beds contained cases with open sores, these grievous complications were
pretty sure to show themselves; so that I came to welcome simple fractures, though in themselves
of little interest either for myself or the students, because their presence diminished the
proportion of open sores among the patients. But since the antiseptic treatment has been brought
into full operation, and wounds and abscesses no longer poison the atmosphere with putrid exhalations,
my wards, though in other respects under precisely the same circumstances as before, have completely
changed their character; so that during the last nine months not a single instance of pysemia,
hospital gangrene, or erysipelas has occurred in them.

As there appears to be no doubt regarding the cause of this change, the importance of the fact
can hardly be exaggerated.

           THE PHYSIOLOGICAL THEORY OF FERMENTATION
                     BY LOUIS PASTEUR
                       TRANSLATED BY
                 F. FAULKNER AND D. C. ROBB
                       AND REVISED

 THE GERM THEORY AND ITS APPLICATIONS TO MEDICINE AND SURGERY
           BY MM. PASTEUR, JOURBERT, AND CHAMBERLAND
                       TRANSLATED BY
                     H. C. ERNST, M. D.
   PROFESSOR OF BACTERIOLOGY IN THE HARVARD MEDICAL SCHOOL

ON THE EXTENSION OF THE GERM THEORY TO THE ETIOLOGY OF CERTAIN
                      COMMON DISEASES
                     BY LOUIS PASTEUR
             TRANSLATED BY H. C. ERNST, M. D.

INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Louis Pasteur was born at Dole, Jura, France, December 27, 1822, and died near Saint-Cloud,
September 28, 1895. His interest in science, and especially in chemistry, developed early,
and by the time he was twenty-six he was professor of the physical sciences at Dijon. The most
important academic positions held by him later were those as professor of chemistry at Strasburg,
1849; dean of the Faculty of Sciences at Lille, 1854; science director of the Ecole Normale
Superieure, Paris, 1857; professor of geology, physics, and chemistry at the Ecole des Beaux
Arts; Professor of chemistry at the Sorbonne, 1867. After 1875 he carried on his researches
at the Pasteur Institute. He was a member of the Institute, and received many honors from learned
societies at home and abroad.

In respect of the number and importance, practical as well as scientific, of his discoveries,
Pasteur has hardly a rival in the history of science. He may be regarded as the founder of
modern stereo-chemistry; and his discovery that living organisms are the cause of fermentation
is the basis of the whole modern germ- theory of disease and of the antiseptic method of treatment.
His investigations of the diseases of beer and wine; of pebrine, a disease affecting silk-worms;
of anthrax, and of fowl cholera, were of immense commercial importance and led to conclusions
which have revolutionised physiology, pathology, and therapeutics. By his studies in the culture
of bacteria of attenuated virulence he extended widely the practise of inoculation with a milder
form of various diseases, with a view to producing immunity.

The following papers present some of the most important of his contributions, and exemplify
his extraordinary powers of lucid exposition and argument.

TO THE MEMORY OF MY FATHER FORMERLY A SOLDIER UNDER THE FIRST EMPIRE CHEVALIER OF THE LEGION
OF HONOR

The longer I live, the better I understand the kindness of thy heart and the high quality of
thy mind.

The efforts which I have devoted to these Studies, as well as those which preceded them, are
the fruit of thy counsel and example.

Desiring to honor these filial remembrances, I dedicate this work to thy memory.

L. PASTEUR.

AUTHOR'S PREFACE

Our misfortunes inspired me with the idea of these researches. I undertook them immediately
after the war of 1870, and have since continued them without interruption, with the determination
of perfecting them, and thereby benefiting a branch of industry wherein we are undoubtedly
surpassed by Germany.

I am convinced that I have found a precise, practical solution of the arduous problem which
I proposed to myself--that of a process of manufacture, independent of season and locality,
which should obviate the necessity of having recourse to the costly methods of cooling employed
in existing processes, and at the same time secure the preservation of its products for any
length of time.

These new studies are based on the same principles which guided me in my researches on wine,
vinegar, and the silkworm disease-- principles, the applications of which are practically unlimited.
The etiology of contagious diseases may, perhaps, receive from them an unexpected light.

I need not hazard any prediction concerning the advantages likely to accrue to the brewing
industry from the adoption of such a process of brewing as my study of the subject has enabled
me to devise, and from an application of the novel facts upon which this process is founded.
Time is the best appraiser of scientific work, and I am not unaware that an industrial discovery
rarely produces all its fruit in the hands of its first inventor.

I began my researches at Clermont-Ferrand, in the laboratory, and with the help, of my friend
M. Duclaux, professor of chemistry at the Faculty of Sciences of that town. I continued them
in Paris, and afterwards at the great brewery of Tourtel Brothers, of Tantonville, which is
admitted to be the first in France. I heartily thank these gentlemen for their extreme kindness.
I owe also a public tribute of gratitude to M. Kuhn, a skillful brewer of Chamalieres, near
Clermont-Ferrand, as well as to M. Velten of Marseilles, and to MM. de Tassigny, of Reims,
who have placed at my disposal their establishments and their products, with the most praiseworthy
eagerness.

L. PASTEUR.

Paris, June 1, 1879.

THE PHYSIOLOGICAL THEORY OF FERMENTATION

I. ON THE RELATIONS EXISTING BETWEEN OXYGEN AND YEAST

It is characteristic of science to reduce incessantly the number of unexplained phenomena.
It is observed, for instance, that fleshy fruits are not liable to fermentation so long as
their epidermis remains uninjured. On the other hand, they ferment very readily when they are
piled up in heaps more or less open, and immersed in their saccharine juice. The mass becomes
heated and swells; carbonic acid gas is disengaged, and the sugar disappears and is replaced
by alcohol. Now, as to the question of the origin of these spontaneous phenomena, so remarkable
in character as well as usefulness for man's service, modern knowledge has taught us that fermentation
is the consequence of a development of vegetable cells the germs of which do not exist in the
saccharine juices within fruits; that many varieties of these cellular plants exist, each giving
rise to its own particular fermentation. The principal products of these various fermentations,
although resembling each other in their nature, differ in their relative proportions and in
the accessory substances that accompany them, a fact which alone is sufficient to account for
wide differences in the quality and commercial value of alcoholic beverages.

Now that the discovery of ferments and their living nature, and our knowledge of their origin,
may have solved the mystery of the spontaneous appearance of fermentations in natural saccharine
juices, we may ask whether we must still regard the reactions that occur in these fermentations
as phenomena inexplicable by the ordinary laws of chemistry. We can readily see that fermentations
occupy a special place in the series of chemical and biological phenomena. What gives to fermentations
certain exceptional characters of which we are only now beginning to suspect the causes, is
the mode of life in the minute plants designated under the generic name of ferments, a mode
of life which is essentially different from that in other vegetables, and from which result
phenomena equally exceptional throughout the whole range of the chemistry of living beings.

The least reflection will suffice to convince us that the alcoholic ferments must possess the
faculty of vegetating and performing their functions out of contact with air. Let us consider,
for instance, the method of vintage practised in the Jura. The bunches are laid at the foot
of the vine in a large tub, and the grapes there stripped from them. When the grapes, some
of which are uninjured, others bruised, and all moistened by the juice issuing from the latter,
fill the tub--where they form what is called the vintage--they are conveyed in barrels to large
vessels fixed in cellars of a considerable depth. These vessels are not filled to more than
three-quarters of their capacity. Fermentation soon takes place in them, and the carbonic acid
gas finds escape through the bunghole, the diameter of which, in the case of the largest vessels,
is not more than ten or twelve centimetres (about four inches). The wine is not drawn off before
the end of two or three months. In this way it seems highly probable that the yeast which produces
the wine under such conditions must have developed, to a great extent at least, out of contact
with oxygen. No doubt oxygen is not entirely absent from the first; nay, its limited presence
is even a necessity to the manifestation of the phenomena which follow. The grapes are stripped
from the bunch in contact with air, and the must which drops from the wounded fruit takes a
little of this gas into solution. This small quantity of air so introduced into the must, at
the commencement of operations, plays a most indispensable part, it being from the presence
of this that the spores of ferments which are spread over the surface of the grapes and the
woody part of the bunches derive the power of starting their vital phenomena [Footnote: It
has been marked in practice that fermentation is facilitated by leaving the grapes on the bunches.
The reason of this has not yet been discovered. Still we have no doubt that it may be attributed,
principally, to the fact that the interatices between the grapes, and the spaces between the
bunch leaves throughout, considerably increase the volume of air placed at the service of the
germs of ferment.]. This air, however, especially when the grapes have been stripped from the
bunches, is in such small proportion, and that which is in contact with the liquid mass is
so promptly expelled by the carbonic acid gas, which is evolved as soon as a little yeast has
formed, that it will readily be admitted that most of the yeast is produced apart from the
influence of oxygen, whether free or in solution. We shall revert to this fact, which is of
great importance. At present we are only concerned in pointing out that, from the mere knowledge
of the practices of certain localities, we are induced to believe that the cells of yeast,
after they have developed from their spores, continue to live and multiply without the intervention
of oxygen, and that the alcoholic ferments have a mode of life which is probably quite exceptional,
since it is not generally met with in other species, vegetable or animal.

Another equally exceptional characteristic of yeast and fermentation in general consists in
the small proportion which the yeast that forms bears to the sugar that decomposes. In all
other known beings the weight of nutritive matter assimilated corresponds with the weight of
food used up, any difference that may exist being comparatively small. The life of yeast is
entirely different. For a certain weight of yeast formed, we may have ten times, twenty times,
a hundred times as much sugar, or even more decomposed, as we shall experimentally prove by-and-
bye; that is to say, that whilst the proportion varies in a precise manner, according to conditions
which we shall have occasion to specify, it is also greatly out of proportion to the weight
of the yeast. We repeat, the life of no other being, under its normal physiological conditions,
can show anything similar. The alcoholic ferments, therefore, present themselves to us as plants
which possess at least two singular properties: they can live without air, that is without
oxygen, and they can cause decomposition to an amount which, though variable, yet, as estimated
by weight of product formed, is out of all proportion to the weight of their own substance.
These are facts of so great importance, and so intimately connected with the theory of fermentation,
that it is indispensable to endeavour to establish them experimentally, with all the exactness
of which they will admit.

The question before us is whether yeast is in reality an anaerobian [Footnote: Capable of living
without free oxygen--a term invented by Pasteur.--En.] plant, and what quantities of sugar
it may cause to ferment, under the various conditions under which we cause it to act.

The following experiments were undertaken to solve this double problem:--We took a double-necked
flask, of three litres (five pints) capacity, one of the tubes being curved and forming an
escape for the gas; the other one, on the right hand side (Fig. 1), being furnished with a
glass tap. We filled this flask with pure yeast water, sweetened with 5 per cent, of sugar
candy, the flask being so full that there was not the least trace of air remaining above the
tap or in the escape tube; this artificial wort had, however, been itself aerated. The curved
tube was plunged in a porcelain vessel full of mercury, resting on a firm support. In the small
cylindrical funnel above the tap, the capacity of which was from 10 cc. to 15 cc. (about half
a fluid ounce) we caused to ferment, at a temperature of 20 degrees or 25 degrees C. (about
75 degrees F.), five or six cubic centimetres of the saccharine liquid, by means of a trace
of yeast, which multiplied rapidly, causing fermentation, and forming a slight deposit of yeast
at the bottom of the funnel above the tap. We then opened the tap, and some of the liquid in
the funnel entered the flask, carrying with it the small deposit of yeast, which was sufficient
to impregnate the saccharine liquid contained in the flask. In this manner it is possible to
introduce as small a quantity of yeast as we wish, a quantity the weight of which, we may say,
is hardly appreciable. The yeast sown multiplies rapidly and produces fermentation, the carbonic
gas from which is expelled into the mercury. In less than twelve days all the sugar had disappeared,
and the fermentation had finished. There was a sensible deposit of yeast adhering to the sides
of the flask; collected and dried it weighed 2.25 grammes (34 grains). It is evident that in
this experiment the total amount of yeast formed, if it required oxygen to enable it to live,
could not have absorbed, at most, more than the volume which was originally held in solution
in the saccharine liquid, when that was exposed to the air before being introduced into the flask.

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 1]

Some exact experiments conducted by M. Raulin in our laboratory have established the fact that
saccharine worts, like water, soon become saturated when shaken briskly with an excess of air,
and also that they always take into solution a little less air than saturated pure water contains
under the same conditions of temperature and pressure. At a temperature of 25 degrees C. (77
degrees F.), therefore, if we adopt the coefficient of the solubility of oxygen in water given
in Bunsen's tables, we find that 1 litre (1 3/4 pints) of water saturated with air contains
5.5 cc. (0.3 cubic inch) of oxygen. The three litres of yeast- water in the flask, supposing
it to have been saturated, contains less than 16.5 cc. (1 cubic inch) of oxygen, or, in weight,
less than 23 milligrammes (0.35 grains). This was the maximum amount of oxygen, supposing the
greatest possible quantity to have been absorbed, that was required by the yeast formed in
the fermentation of 150 grammes (4.8 Troy ounces) of sugar. We shall better understand the
significance of this result later on. Let us repeat the foregoing experiment, but under altered
conditions. Let us fill, as before, our flask with sweetened yeast-water, but let this first
be boiled, so as to expel all the air it contains. To effect this we arrange our apparatus
as represented in the accompanying sketch. (Fig 2.) We place our flask, A, on a tripod above
a gas flame, and in place of the vessel of mercury substitute a porcelain dish, under which
we can put a gas flame, and Which contains some fermentable, saccharine liquid, similar to
that with which the flask is filled. We boil the liquid in the flask and that in the basin
simultaneously, and then let them cool down together, so that as the liquid in the flask cools
some of the liquid is sucked from the basin into the flask. From a trial experiment which we
conducted, determining the quantity of oxygen that remained in solution in the liquid after
cooling, according to M. Schutzenberger's valuable method, by means of hydrosulphite of soda
[Footnote: NaHSO2, now called sodium hyposulphite.--D.C.R.], we found that the three litres
in the flask, treated as we have described, contained less than one milligramme (0.015 grain)
of oxygen. At the same time we conducted another experiment, by way of comparison (Fig. 3).
We took a flask, B, of larger capacity than the former one, which we filled about half with
the same volume as before of a saccharine liquid of identically the same composition. This
liquid had been previously freed from alterative germs by boiling. In the funnel surmounting
A, we put a few cubic centimetres of saccharine liquid in a state of fermentation, and when
this small quantity of liquid was in full fermentation, and the yeast in it was young and vigorous,
we opened the tap, closing it again immediately, so that a little of the liquid and yeast still
remained in the funnel. By this means we caused the liquid in A to ferment. We also impregnated
the liquid in B with some yeast taken from the funnel of A. We then replaced the porcelain
dish in which the curved escape tube of A had been plunged, by a vessel filled with mercury.
The following is a description of two of these comparative fermentations and the results they gave.

[Illustration with caption: Fig 2]

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 3]

The fermentable liquid was composed of yeast-water sweetened with 5 per cent, of sugar--candy;
the ferment employed was sacchormyces pastorianus.

The impregnation took place on January 20th. The flasks were placed in an oven at 25 degrees
(77 degrees F.).

FLASK A, WITHOUT AIR.

January 21st.--Fermentation commenced; a little frothy liquid issued from the escape tube and
covered the mercury.

The following days, fermentation was active. Examining the yeast mixed with the froth that
was expelled into the mercury by the evolution of carbonic acid gas, we find that it was very
fine, young, and actively budding.

February 3rd.--Fermentation still continued, showing itself by a number of little bubbles rising
from the bottom of the liquid, which had settled bright. The yeast was at the bottom in the
form of a deposit.

February 7th.--Fermentation still continued, but very languidly.

February 9th.--A very languid fermentation still went on, discernible in little bubbles rising
from the bottom of the flask.

FLASK B, WITH AIR.

January 21st.--A sensible development of yeast.

The following days, fermentation was active, and there was an abundant froth on the surface
of the liquid.

February 1st.--All symptoms of fermentation had ceased.

As the fermentation in A would have continued a long time, being so very languid, and as that
in B had been finished for several days, we brought to a close our two experiments on February
9th. To do this we poured off the liquids in A and B, collecting the yeasts on tared filters.
Filtration was an easy matter, more especially in the case of A. Examining the yeasts under
the microscope, immediately after decantation, we found that both of them remained very pure.
The yeast in A was in little clusters, the globules of which were collected together, and appeared
by their well-defined borders to be ready for an easy revival in contact with air.

As might have been expected, the liquid in flask B did not contain the least trace of sugar;
that in the flask A still contained some, as was evident from the non-completion of fermentation,
but not more than 4.6 grammes (71 grains). Now, as each flask originally contained three litres
of liquid holding in solution 5 per cent of sugar, it follows that 150 grammes (2,310 grains)
of sugar had fermented in the flask B, and 145.4 grammes (2,239.2 grains) in the flask A. The
weights of yeast after drying at 100 degrees C. (212 degrees F.) were--

For the flask B, with air. ... ..1,970 grammes (30.4 grains). For the flask A, without air
... 1,368 grammes [Footnote: This appears to be a misprint for 1.638 grammes=25.3 grains.--D.
C. R.].

The proportions were 1 of yeast to 76 of fermented sugar in the first case, and 1 of yeast
to 89 of fermented sugar in the second.

From these facts the following consequences may be deduced:

1. The fermentable liquid (flask B), which since it had been in contact with air, necessarily
held air in solution, although not to the point of saturation, inasmuch as it had been once
boiled to free it from all foreign germs, furnished a weight of yeast sensibly greater than
that yielded by the liquid which contained no air at all (flask A) or, at least, which could
only have contained an exceedingly minute quantity.

2. This same slightly aerated fermentable liquid fermented much more rapidly than the other.
In eight or ten days it contained no more sugar; while the other, after twenty days, still
contained an appreciable quantity.

Is this last fact to be explained by the greater quantity of yeast formed in B? By no means.
At first, when the air has access to the liquid, much yeast is formed and little sugar disappears,
as we shall prove immediately; nevertheless the yeast formed in contact with the air is more
active than the other. Fermentation is correlative first to the development of the globules,
and then to the continued life of those globules once formed. The more oxygen these last globules
have at their disposal during their formation, the more vigorous, transparent, and turgescent,
and, as a consequence of this last quality, the more active they are in decomposing sugar.
We shall hereafter revert to these facts.

3. In the airless flask the proportion of yeast to sugar was 1/59; it was only 1/79 in the
flask which had air at first.

The proportion that the weight of yeast bears to the weight of the sugar is, therefore, variable,
and this variation depends, to a certain extent, upon the presence of air and the possibility
of oxygen being absorbed by the yeast. We shall presently show that yeast possesses the power
of absorbing that gas and emitting carbonic acid, like ordinary fungi, that even oxygen may
be reckoned amongst the number of food-stuffs that may be assimilated by this plant, and that
this fixation of oxygen in yeast, as well as the oxidations resulting from it, have the most
marked effect on the life of yeast, on the multiplication of its cells, and on their activity
as ferments acting upon sugar, whether immediately or afterwards, apart from supplies of oxygen
or air.

In the preceding experiment, conducted without the presence of air, there is one circumstance
particularly worthy of notice. This experiment succeeds, that is to say, the yeast sown in
the medium deprived of oxygen develops, only when this yeast is in a state of great vigour.
We have already explained the meaning of this last expression. But we wish now to call attention
to a very evident fact in connection with this point. We impregnate a fermentable liquid; yeast
develops and fermentation appears. This lasts for several days and then ceases. Let us suppose
that, from the day when fermentation first appears in the production of a minute froth, which
gradually increases until it whitens the surface of the liquid, we take, every twenty-four
hours, or at longer intervals, a trace of the yeast deposited on the bottom of the vessel and
use it for starting fresh fermentations. Conducting these fermentations all under precisely
the same conditions of temperature, character and volume of liquid, let us continue this for
a prolonged time, even after the original fermentation is finished. We shall have no difficulty
in seeing that the first signs of action in each of our series of second fermentations appear
always later and later in proportion to the length of time that has elapsed from the commencement
of the original fermentation. In other words, the time necessary for the development of the
germs and the production of that amount of yeast sufficient to cause the first appearance of
fermentation varies with the state of the impregnating cells, and is longer in proportion as
the cells are further removed from the period of their formation. It is essential, in experiments
of this kind, that the quantities of yeast successively taken should be as nearly as possible
equal in weight or volume, since, celeris paribus, fermentations manifest themselves more quickly
the larger the quantity of yeast employed in impregnation.

If we compare under the microscope the appearance and character of the successive quantities
of yeast taken, we shall see plainly that the structure of the cells undergoes a progressive
change. The first sample which we take, quite at the beginning of the original fermentation,
generally gives us cells rather larger than those later on, and possessing a remarkable tenderness.
Their walls are exceedingly thin, the consistency and softness of their protoplasm is akin
to fluidity, and their granular contents appear in the form of scarcely visible spots. The
borders of the cells soon become more marked, a proof that their walls undergo a thickening;
their protoplasm also becomes denser, and the granulations more distinct. Cells of the same
organ, in the states of infancy and old age, should not differ more than the cells of which
we are speaking, taken in their extreme states. The progressive changes in the cells, after
they have acquired their normal form and volume, clearly demonstrate the existence of a chemical
work of a remarkable intensity, during which their weight increases, although in volume they
undergo no sensible change, a fact that we have often characterized as "the continued life
of cells already formed." We may call this work a process of maturation on the part of the
cells, almost the same that we see going on in the case of adult beings in general, which continue
to live for a long time, even after they have become incapable of reproduction, and long after
their volume has become permanently fixed.

This being so, it is evident, we repeat, that, to multiply in a fermentable medium, quite out
of contact with oxygen, the cells of yeast must be extremely young, full of life and health,
and still under the influence of the vital activity which they owe to the free oxygen which
has served to form them, and which they have perhaps stored up for a time. When older, they
reproduce themselves with much difficulty when deprived of air, and gradually become more languid;
and if they do multiply, it is in strange and monstrous forms. A little older still, they remain
absolutely inert in a medium deprived of free oxygen. This is not because they are dead; for
in general they may be revived in a marvellous manner in the same liquid if it has been first
aerated before they are sown. It would not surprise us to learn that at this point certain
preconceived ideas suggest themselves to the mind of an attentive reader on the subject of
the causes that may serve to account for such strange phenomena in the life of these beings
which our ignorance hides under the expressions of YOUTH and AGE; this, however, is a subject
which we cannot pause to consider here.

At this point we must observe--for it is a matter of great importance--that in the operations
of the brewer there is always a time when the yeasts are in this state of vigorous youth of
which we have been speaking, acquired under the influence of free oxygen, since all the worts
and the yeasts of commerce are necessarily manipulated in contact with air, and so impregnated
more or less with oxygen. The yeast immediately seizes upon this gas and acquires a state of
freshness and activity, which permits it to live afterwards out of contact with air, and to
act as a ferment. Thus, in ordinary brewery practice, we find the yeast already formed in abundance
even before the earliest external signs of fermentation have made their appearance. In this
first phase of its existence, yeast lives chiefly like an ordinary fungus.

From the same circumstances it is clear that the brewer's fermentations may, speaking quite
strictly, last for an indefinite time, in consequence of the unceasing supply of fresh wort,
and from the fact, moreover, that the exterior air is constantly being introduced during the
work, and that the air contained in the fresh worts keeps up the vital activity of the yeast,
as the act of breathing keeps up the vigour and life of cells in all living beings. If the
air could not renew itself in any way, the vital activity which the cells originally received,
under its influence, would become more and more exhausted, and the fermentation eventually
come to an end.

We may recount one of the results obtained in other experiments similar to the last, in which,
however, we employed yeast which was still older than that used for our experiment with flask
A (Fig. 2), and moreover took still greater precautions to prevent the presence of air. Instead
of leaving the flask, as well as the dish, to cool slowly, after having expelled all air by
boiling, we permitted the liquid in the dish to continue boiling whilst the flask was being
cooled by artificial means; the end of the escape tube was then taken out of the still boiling
dish and plunged into the mercury trough. In impregnating the liquid, instead of employing
the contents of the small cylindrical funnel whilst still in a state of fermentation, we waited
until this was finished. Under these conditions, fermentation was still going on in our flask,
after a lapse of three months. We stopped it and found that 0.255 gramme (3.9 grains) of yeast
had been formed, and that 45 grammes (693 grains) of sugar had fermented, the ratio between
the weights of yeast and sugar being thus 0.255 divided by 45 = 1 divided by 176. In this experiment
the yeast developed with much difficulty, by reason of the conditions to which it had been
subjected. In appearance the cells varied much, some were to be found large, elongated, and
of tubular aspect, some seemed very old and were extremely granular, whilst others were more
transparent. All of them might be considered abnormal cells.

In such experiments we encounter another difficulty. If the yeast sown in the non-aerated fermentable
liquid is in the least degree impure, especially if we use sweetened yeast-water, we may be
sure that alcoholic fermentation will soon cease, if, indeed, it ever commences, and that accessory
fermentations will go on. The vibrios of butyric fermentation, for instance, will propagate
with remarkable facility under these circumstances. Clearly then, the purity of the yeast at
the moment of impregnation, and the purity of the liquid in the funnel, are conditions indispensable
to success.

To secure the latter of these conditions, we close the funnel, as shown in FIG. 2, by means
of a cork pierced with two holes, through one of which a short tube passes, to which a short
length of india-rubber tubing provided with a glass stopper is attached; through the other
hole a thin curved tube is passed. Thus fitted, the funnel can answer the same purposes as
our double-necked flasks. A few cubic centimetres of sweetened yeast-water are put in it and
boiled, so that the steam may destroy any germs adhering to the sides; and when cold the liquid
is impregnated by means of a trace of pure yeast, introduced through the glass- stoppered tube.
If these precautions are neglected, it is scarcely possible to secure a successful fermentation
in our flasks, because the yeast sown is immediately held in check by a development of anaerobian
vibrios. For greater security, we may add to the fermentable liquid, at the moment when it
is prepared, a very small quantity of tartaric acid, which will prevent the development of
butyric vibrios.

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 4.]

The variation of the ratio between the weight of the yeast and that of the sugar decomposed
by it now claims special attention. Side by side with the experiments which we have just described,
we conducted a third lot by means of the flask C (Fig. 4), holding 4.7 litres (8 1/2 pints),
and fitted up like the usual two-necked flasks, with the object of freeing the fermentable
liquid from foreign germs, by boiling it to begin with, so that we might carry on our work
under conditions of purity. The volume of yeast-water (containing 5 per cent. of sugar) was
only 200 cc. (7 fl. oz.), and consequently, taking into account the capacity of the flask,
It formed but a very thin layer at the bottom. On the day after impregnation the deposit of
yeast was already considerable, and forty-eight hours afterwards the fermentation was completed.
On the third day we collected the yeast after having analyzed the gas contained in the flask.
This analysis was easily accomplished by placing the flask in a hot-water bath, whilst the
end of the curved tube was plunged under a cylinder of mercury. The gas contained 41.4 per
cent. of carbonic acid, and, after the absorption, the remaining air contained:--

Oxygen . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... ... 19.7

Nitrogen . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... . ... . 80.3

                                                     100.0

Taking into consideration the volume of this flask, this shows a minimum of 50 cc. (3.05 cub.
in.) of oxygen to have been absorbed by the yeast. The liquid contained no more sugar, and
the weight of the yeast, dried at a temperature of 100 degrees C (212 degrees F.), was 0.44
grammes. The ratio between the weights of yeast and sugar is 0.44/10=1/22.7 [Footnote: 200
cc. of liquid were used, which, as containing 3 per cent., had in solution 10 grammes of sugar.--D.C.R.].
On this occasion, where we had increased the quantity of oxygen held in solution, so as to
yield itself for assimilation at the beginning and during the earlier developments of the yeast,
we found instead of the previous ratio of 1/76 that of 1/23.

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 5]

The next experiment was to increase the proportion of oxygen to a still greater extent, by
rendering the diffusion of gas a more easy matter than in a flask, the air in which is in a
state of perfect quiescence. Such a state of matters hinders the supply of oxygen, inasmuch
as the carbonic acid, as soon as it is liberated, at once forms an immovable layer on the surface
of the liquid, and so separates off the oxygen. To effect the purpose of our present experiment,
we used flat basins having glass bottoms and low sides, also of glass, in which the depth of
the liquid is not more than a few millimetres (less than 1/4 inch) (Fig. 5). The following
is one of our experiments so conducted:--On April 16th, 1860, we sowed a trace of beer yeast
("high" yeast) in 200 cc. (7 fl. oz.) of a saccharine liquid containing 1.720 grammes (26.2
grains) of sugar-candy. From April 18th our yeast was in good condition and well developed.
We collected it, after having added to the liquid a few drops of concentrated sulphuric acid,
with the object of checking the fermentation to a great extent, and facilitating filtration.
The sugar remaining in the filtered liquid, determined by Fehling's solution, showed that 1.04
grammes (16 grains) of sugar had disappeared. The weight of the yeast, dried at 100 degrees
C. (212 degrees F.), was 0.127 gramme (2 grains), which gives us the ratio between the weight
of the yeast and that of the fermented sugar 0.123/1.04=1/8.1, which is considerably higher
than the preceding ones.

We may still further increase this ratio by making our estimation as soon as possible after
the impregnation, or the addition of the ferment. It will be readily understood why yeast,
which is composed of cells that bud and subsequently detach themselves from one another, soon
forms a deposit at the bottom of the vessels. In consequence of this habit of growth, the cells
constantly covering each other prevents the lower layers from having access to the oxygen held
in solution in the liquid, which is absorbed by the upper ones. Hence, these which are covered
and deprived of this gas act on the sugar without deriving any vital benefit from the oxygen--a
circumstance which must tend to diminish the ratio of which we are speaking. Once more repeating
the preceding experiment, but stopping it as soon as we think that the weight of yeast formed
may be determined by the balance (we find that this may be done twenty-four hours after impregnation
with an inappreciable quantity of yeast), in this case the ratio between the weights of yeast
and sugar is gr/024 yeast/0 gr. 09 sugar=1/4. This is the highest ratio we have been able to
obtain.

Under these conditions the fermentation of sugar is extremely languid: the ratio obtained is
very nearly the same that ordinary fungoid growths would give. The carbonic acid evolved is
principally formed by the decompositions which result from the assimilation of atmospheric
oxygen. The yeast, therefore, lives and performs its functions after the manner of ordinary
fungi: so far it is no longer a ferment, so to say; moreover, we might expect to find it to
cease to be a ferment at all if we could only surround each cell separately with all the air
that it required. This is what the preceding phenomena teach us; we shall have occasion to
compare them later on with others which relate to the vital action exercised on yeast by the
sugar of milk.

We may here be permitted to make a digression.

In his work on fermentations, which M. Schutzenberger has recently published, the author criticises
the deductions that we have drawn from the preceding experiments, and combats the explanation
which we have given of the phenomena of fermentation. [Footnote: International Science Series,
vol. xx, pp. 179-182. London, 1876.--D. C. R.] It is an easy matter to show the weak point
of M. Schutzenberger's reasoning. We determined the power of the ferment by the relation of
the weight of sugar decomposed to the weight of the yeast produced. M. Schutzenberger asserts
that in doing this we lay down a doubtful hypothesis, and he thinks that this power, which
he terms FERMENTATIVE ENERGY, may be estimated more correctly by the quantity of sugar decomposed
by the unit-weight of yeast in unit-time; moreover, since our experiments show that yeast is
very vigorous when it has a sufficient supply of oxygen, and that, in such a case, it can decompose
much sugar in a little time, M. Schutzenberger concludes that it must then have great power
as a ferment, even greater than when it performs its functions without the aid of air, since
under this condition it decomposes sugar very slowly. In short, he is disposed to draw from
our observations the very opposite conclusion to that which we arrived at.

M, Schutzenberger has failed to notice that the power of a ferment is independent of the time
during which it performs its functions. We placed a trace of yeast in one litre of saccharine
wort; it propagated, and all the sugar was decomposed. Now, whether the chemical action involved
in this decomposition of sugar had required for its completion one day, or one month, or one
year, such a factor was of no more importance in this matter than the mechanical labour required
to raise a ton of materials from the ground to the top of a house would be affected by the
fact that it had taken twelve hours instead of one. The notion of time has nothing to do with
the definition of work. M. Schutzenberger has not perceived that in introducing the consideration
of time into the definition of the power of a ferment, he must introduce at the same time,
that of the vital activity of the cells which is independent of their character as a ferment.
Apart from the consideration of the relation existing between the weight of fermentable substance
decomposed and that of ferment produced, there is no occasion to speak of fermentations or
of ferments. The phenomena of fermentation and of ferments have been placed apart from others,
precisely because, in certain chemical actions, that ratio has been out of proportion; but
the time that these phenomena require for their accomplishment has nothing to do with either
their existence proper, or with their power. The cells of a ferment may, under some circumstances,
require eight days for revival and propagation, whilst, under other conditions, only a few
hours are necessary; so that, if we introduce the notion of time into our estimate of their
power of decomposition, we may be led to conclude that in the first case that power was entirely
wanting, and that in the second case it was considerable, although all the time we are dealing
with the same organism--the identical ferment.

M. Schutzenberger is astonished that fermentation can take place in the presence of free oxygen,
if, as we suppose, the decomposition of the sugar is the consequence of the nutrition of the
yeast, at the expense of the combined oxygen, which yields itself to the ferment. At all events,
he argues, fermentation ought to be slower in the presence of free oxygen. But why should it
be slower? We have proved that in the presence of oxygen the vital activity of the cells increases,
so that, as far as rapidity of action is concerned, its power cannot be diminished. It might,
nevertheless, be weakened as a ferment, and this is precisely what happens. Free oxygen imparts
to the yeast a vital activity, but at the same time impairs its power as yeast--qua yeast,
inasmuch as under this condition it approaches the state in which it can carry on its vital
processes after the manner of an ordinary fungus; the mode of life, that is, in which the ratio
between the weight of sugar decomposed and the weight of the new cells produced will be the
same as holds generally among organisms which are not ferments. In short, varying our form
of expression a little, we may conclude with perfect truth, from the sum total of observed
facts, that the yeast which lives in the presence of oxygen and can assimilate as much of that
gas as is necessary to its perfect nutrition, ceases absolutely to be a ferment at all. Nevertheless,
yeast formed under these conditions and subsequently brought into the presence of sugar, OUT
OF THE INFLUENCE OF AIR, would decompose more IN A GIVEN TIME than in any other of its states.
The reason is that yeast which has formed in contact with air, having the maximum of free oxygen
that it can assimilate is fresher and possessed of greater vital activity than that which has
been formed without air or with an insufficiency of air. M. Schutzenberger would associate
this activity with the notion of time in estimating the power of the ferment; but he forgets
to notice that yeast can only manifest this maximum of energy under a radical change of its
life conditions; by having no more air at its disposal and breathing no more free oxygen. In
other words, when its respiratory power becomes null, its fermentative power is at its greatest.
M. Schutzenberger asserts exactly the opposite (p. 151 of his work-- Paris, 1875) [Footnote:
Page 182, English edition], and so gratuitously places himself in opposition to facts.

In presence of abundant air supply, yeast vegetates with extraordinary activity. We see this
in the weight of new yeast, comparatively large, that may be formed in the course of a few
hours. The microscope still more clearly shows this activity in the rapidity of budding, and
the fresh and active appearance of all the cells. Fig. 6 represents the yeast of our last experiment
at the moment when we stopped the fermentation. Nothing has been taken from imagination, all
the groups have been faithfully sketched as they were. [Footnote: This figure is on a scale
of 300 diameters, most of the figures in this work being of 400 diameters].

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 6]

In passing it is of interest to note how promptly the preceding results were turned to good
account practically. In well-managed distilleries, the custom of aerating the wort and the
juices to render them more adapted to fermentation, has been introduced. The molasses mixed
with water, is permitted to run in thin threads through the air at the moment when the yeast
is added. Manufactories have been erected in which the manufacture of yeast is almost exclusively
carried on. The saccharine worts, after the addition of yeast, are left to themselves, in contact
with air, in shallow vats of large superficial area, realizing thus on an immense scale the
conditions of the experiments which we undertook in 1861, and which we have already described
in determining the rapid and easy multiplication of yeast in contact with air.

The next experiment was to determine the volume of oxygen absorbed by a known quantity of yeast,
the yeast living in contact with air, and under such conditions that the absorption of air
was comparatively easy and abundant.

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 7]

With this object we repeated the experiment that we performed with the large-bottomed flask
(Fig. 4), employing a vessel shaped like Fig. B (Fig. 7), which is, in point of fact, the flask
A with its neck drawn out and closed in a flame, after the introduction of a thin layer of
some saccharine juice impregnated with a trace of pure yeast. The following are the data and
results of an experiment of this kind.

We employed 60 cc. (about 2 fluid ounces) of yeast-water, sweetened with two percent. of sugar
and impregnated with a trace of yeast. After having subjected our vessel to a temperature of
25 degrees C. (77 degrees F.) in an oven for fifteen hours, the drawn-out point was brought
under an inverted jar filled with mercury and the point broken off. A portion of the gas escaped
and was collected in the jar. For 25 cc. of this gas we found, after absorption by potash 20.6,
and after absorption by pyrogallic acid, 17.3. Taking into account the volume which remained
free in the flask, which held 315 cc., there was a total absorption of 14.5 cc. (0.83 cub.
in.) of oxygen. [Footnote: It may be useful for the non-scientific reader to put it thus: that
the 25 cc. which escaped, being a fair sample of the whole gas in the flask, and containing
(1) 25-20.6=4.4 cc., absorbed by potash and therefore due to carbonic acid, and (2) 20.6-17.3=3.3
cc., absorbed by pyrogallate, and therefore due to oxygen, and the remaining 17.3 cc. being
nitrogen, the whole gas in the flask, which has a capacity of 312 cc., will contain oxygen
in the above portion and therefore its amount may be determined provided we know the total
gas in the flask before opening. On the other hand we know that air normally contains approximately,
1-5 its volume of oxygen, the rest being nitrogen, so that, by ascertaining the diminution
of the proportion in the flask, we can find how many cubic centimeters have been absorbed by
the yeast. The author, however, has not given all the data necessary for accurate calculation.--D.C.R.]
The weight of the yeast, in a state of dryness, was 0.035 gramme.

It follows that in the production of 35 milligrammes (0.524 grain) of yeast there was an absorption
of 14 or 15 cc. (about 7/8 cub. in.) of oxygen, even supposing that the yeast was formed entirely
under the influence of that gas: this is equivalent to not less than 414 cc. for 1 gramme of
yeast (or about 33 cubic inches for every 20 grains). [Footnote: This number is probably too
small; it is scarcely possible that the increase of weight in the yeast, even under the exceptional
conditions of the experiment described, was not to some extent at least due to oxidation apart
from free oxygen, inasmuch as some of the cells were covered by others. The increased weight
of the yeast is always due to the action of two distant modes of vital energy-- activity, namely,
in presence and activity in absence of air. We might endeavor to shorten the duration of the
experiment still further, in which case we would still more assimilate the life of the yeast
to that of ordinary moulds.]

Such is the large volume of oxygen necessary for the development of one gramme of yeast when
the plant can assimilate this gas after the manner of an ordinary fungus.

Let us now return to the first experiment described in the paragraph on page 292 in which a
flask of three litres capacity was filled with fermentable liquid, which, when caused to ferment,
yielded 2.25 grammes of yeast, under circumstances where it could not obtain a greater supply
of free oxygen than 16.5 cc. (about one cubic inch). According to what we have just stated,
if this 2.25 grammes (34 grains) of yeast had not been able to live without oxygen, in other
words, if the original cells had been unable to multiply otherwise than by absorbing free oxygen,
the amount of that gas required could not have been less than 2.25 X 4l4 cc., that is, 931.5
cc. (56.85 cubic inches). The greater part of the 2.25 grammes, therefore, had evidently been
produced as the growth of an anaerobian plant.

Ordinary fungi likewise require large quantities of oxygen for their development, as we may
readily prove by cultivating any mould in a closed vessel full of air, and then taking the
weight of plant formed and measuring the volume of oxygen absorbed. To do this, we take a flask
of the shape shown in Fig. 8, capable of holding about 300 cc. (10 1/2 fluid ounces), and containing
a liquid adapted to the life of moulds. We boil this liquid, and seal the drawn-out point after
the steam has expelled the air wholly or in part; we then open the flask in a garden or in
a room. Should a fungus-spore enter the flask, as will invariably be the case in a certain
number of flasks out of several used in the experiment, except under special circumstances,
it will develop there and gradually absorb all the oxygen contained in the air of the flask.
Measuring the volume of this air, and weighing, after drying, the amount of plant formed, we
find that for a certain quantity of oxygen absorbed we have a certain weight of mycelium, or
of mycelium together with its organs of fructification. In an experiment of this kind, in which
the plant was weighed a year after its development, we found for 0.008 gramme (0.123 gram)
of MYCELIUM, dried at 100 degrees C. (212 degrees F.), an absorption that amounted to not less
than 43 cc. (2.5 cubic inches) of oxygen at 25 degrees. These numbers, however, must vary sensibly
with the nature of the mould employed, and also with the greater or less activity of its development,
because the phenomena is complicated by the presence of accessory oxidations, such as we find
in the case of mycoderma vini and aceti, to which cause the large absorption of oxygen in our
last experiment may doubtless be attributed. [Footnote: In these experiments, in which the
moulds remain for a long time in contact with a saccharine wort out of contact with oxygen--the
oxygen being promptly absorbed by the vital action of the plant (see our Memoire sur les Generations
dites Spontanees, p. 54. note)--there is no doubt that an appreciable quantity of alcohol is
formed because the plant does not immediately lose vital activity after the absorption of oxygen.

A 300 cc. (10-oz.) flask, containing 100 cc. of must, after the air in it had been expelled
by boiling, was open and immediately re-closed on August 15th, 1873. A fungoid growth--a unique
one, of greenish-grey colour--developed from spontaneous impregnation, and decolourized the
liquid, which originally was of a yellowish- brown. Some large crystals, sparkling like diamonds,
of neutral tartrate of lime, were precipitated, about a year afterwards, long after the death
of the plant, we examined this liquid. It contained 0.3 gramme (4.6 grains) of alcohol, and
0.053 gramme (0.8 grain) of vegetable matter, dried at 100 degrees C. (212 degrees F.). We
ascertained that the spores of the fungus were dead at the moment when the flask was opened.
When sown, they did not develop in the least degree.]

The conclusions to be drawn from the whole of the preceding facts can scarcely admit of doubt.
As for ourselves, we have no hesitation in finding them the foundation of the true theory of
fermentation. In the experiments which we have described, fermentation by yeast, that is to
say, by the type of ferments properly so called, is presented to us, in a word, as the direct
consequence of the processes of nutrition, assimilation and life, when these are carried on
without the agency of free oxygen. The heat required in the accomplishment of that work must
necessarily have been borrowed from the decomposition of the fermentable matter, that is from
the saccharine substance which, like other unstable substances, liberates heat in undergoing
decomposition. Fermentation by means of yeast appears, therefore, to be essentially connected
with the property possessed by this minute cellular plant of performing its respiratory functions,
somehow or other, with oxygen existing combined in sugar. Its fermentative power--which power
must not be confounded with the fermentative activity or the intensity of decomposition in
a given time--varies considerably between two limits, fixed by the greatest and least possible
access to free oxygen which the plant has in the process of nutrition. If we supply it with
a sufficient quantity of free oxygen for the necessities of its life, nutrition, and respiratory
combustions, in other words, if we cause it to live after the manner of a mould, properly so
called, it ceases to be a ferment, that is, the ratio between the weight of the plant developed
and that of the sugar decomposed, which forms its principal food, is similar in amount to that
in the case of fungi. [Footnote: We find in M. Raulin's note that "the minimum ratio between
the weight of sugar and the weight of organized matter, that is, the weight of fungoid growth
which it helps to form, may be expressed as 10/3.2=3.1." JULES RAULIN, Etudes chimiques sur
la vegetation. Recherches sur le developpement d'une mucedinee dans un milieu artificiel, p.
192, Paris, 1870. We have seen in the case of yeast that this ratio may be as low as [Proofers
note: unreadable symbol]] On the other hand, if we deprive the yeast of air entirely, or cause
it to develop in a saccharine medium deprived of free oxygen, it will multiply just as if air
were present, although with less activity, and under these circumstances its fermentative character
will be most marked; under these circumstances, moreover, we shall find the greatest disproportion,
all other conditions being the same, between the weight of yeast formed and the weight of sugar
decomposed. Lastly, if free oxygen occurs in varying quantities, the ferment-power of the yeast
may pass through all the degrees comprehended between the two extreme limits of which we have
just spoken. It seems to us that we could not have a better proof of the direct relation that
fermentation bears to life, carried on in the absence of free oxygen, or with a quantity of
that gas insufficient for all the acts of nutrition and assimilation.

Another equally striking proof of the truth of this theory is the fact previously demonstrated
that the ordinary moulds assume the character of a ferment when compelled to live without air,
or with quantities of air too scant to permit of their organs having around them as much of
that element as is necessary for their life as aerobian plants. Ferments, therefore, only possess
in a higher degree a character which belongs to many common moulds, if not to all, and which
they share, probably, more or less, with all living cells, namely the power of living either
an aerobian or anaerobian life, according to the conditions under which they are placed.

It may be readily understood how, in their state of aerobian life, the alcoholic ferments have
failed to attract attention. These ferments are only cultivated out of contract with air, at
the bottom of liquids which soon become saturated with carbonic acid gas. Air is only present
in the earlier developments of their germs, and without attracting the attention of the operator,
whilst in their state of anaerobian growth their life and action are of prolonged duration.
We must have recourse to special experimental apparatus to enable us to demonstrate the mode
of life of alcoholic ferments under the influence of free oxygen; it is their state of existence
apart from air, in the depths of liquids, that attracts all our attention. The results of their
action are, however, marvellous, if we regard the products resulting from them, in the important
industries of which they are the life and soul. In the case of ordinary moulds, the opposite
holds good. What we want to use special experimental apparatus for with them, is to enable
us to demonstrate the possibility of their continuing to live for a time out of contact with
air, and all our attention, in their case, is attracted by the facility with which they develop
under the influence of oxygen. Thus the decomposition of saccharine liquids, which is the consequence
of the life of fungi without air, is scarcely perceptible, and so is of no practical importance.
Their aerial life, on the other hand, in which they respire and accomplish their process of
oxidation under the influence of free oxygen is a normal phenomenon, and one of prolonged duration
which cannot fail to strike the least thoughtful of observers. We are convinced that a day
will come when moulds will be utilised in certain industrial operations, on account of their
power in destroying organic matter. The conversion of alcohol into vinegar in the process of
acetification and the production of gallic acid by the action of fungi on wet gall nuts, are
already connected with this kind of phenomena. [Footnote: We shall show, some day, that the
processes of oxidation due to growth of fungi cause, in certain decompositions, liberation
of ammonia to a considerable extent, and that by regulating their action we might cause them
to extract the nitrogen from a host of organic debris, as also, by checking the production
of such organisms, we might considerably increase the proportion of nitrates in the artificial
nitrogenous substances. By cultivating the various moulds on the surface of damp bread in a
current of air we have obtained an abundance of ammonia, derived from the decomposition of
the albuminoids effected by the fungoid life. The decomposition of asparagus and several other
animal or vegetable substances has similar results.] On this last subject, the important work
of M. Van Tieghem (Annales Scientifiques de l'Ecole Normale, Vol. vi.) may be consulted.

The possibility of living without oxygen, in the case of ordinary moulds, is connected with
certain morphological modifications which are more marked in proportion as this faculty is
itself more developed. These changes in the vegetative forms are scarcely perceptible, in the
case of penicillium and mycoderma vini, but they are very evident in the case of aspergillus,
consisting of a marked tendency on the part of the submerged mycelial filaments to increase
in diameter, and to develop cross partitions at short intervals, so that they sometimes bear
a resemblance to chains of conidia. In mucor, again, they are very marked, the inflated filaments
which, closely interwoven, present chains of cells, which fall off and bud, gradually producing
a mass of cells. If we consider the matter carefully, we shall see that yeast presents the
same characteristics. * * * *

It is a great presumption in favor of the truth of theoretical ideas when the results of experiments
undertaken on the strength of those ideas are confirmed by various facts more recently added
to science, and when those ideas force themselves more and more on our minds, in spite of a
prima facie improbability. This is exactly the character of those ideas which we have just
expounded. We pronounced them in 1861, and not only have they remained unshaken since, but
they have served to foreshadow new facts, so that it is much easier to defend them in the present
day than it was to do so fifteen years ago. We first called attention to them in various notes,
which we read before the Chemical Society of Paris, notably at its meetings of April 12th and
June 28th, 1861, and in papers in the Comtes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences. It may be of
some interest to quote here, in its entirety, our communication of June 28th, 1861, entitled,
"Influences of Oxygen on the Development of Yeast and on Alcoholic Fermentation," which we
extract from the Bulletin de la Societe Chimique de Paris:--

"M. Pasteur gives the result of his researches on the fermentation of sugar and the development
of yeast-cells, according as that fermentation takes place apart from the influence of free
oxygen or in contact with that gas. His experiments, however, have nothing in common with those
of Gay- Lussac, which were performed with the juice of grapes crushed under conditions where
they would not be affected by air, and then brought into contact with oxygen.

"Yeast, when perfectly developed, is able to bud and grow in a saccharine and albuminous liquid,
in the complete absence of oxygen or air. In this case but little yeast is formed, and a comparatively
large quantity of sugar disappears--sixty or eighty parts for one of yeast formed. Under these
conditions fermentation is very sluggish.

"If the experiment is made in contact with the air, and with a great surface of liquid, fermentation
is rapid. For the same quantity of sugar decomposed much more yeast is formed. The air with
which the liquid is in contact is absorbed by the yeast. The yeast develops very actively,
but its fermentative character tends to disappear under these conditions; we find, in fact,
that for one part of yeast formed, not more than from four to ten parts of sugar are transformed.
The fermentative character of this yeast nevertheless, continues, and produces even increased
effects, if it is made to act on sugar apart from the influence of free oxygen.

"It seems, therefore, natural to admit that when yeast functions as a ferment by living apart
from the influence of air, it derives oxygen from the sugar, and that this is the origin of
its fermentative character.

"M. Pasteur explains the fact of the immense activity at the commencement of fermentations
by the influence of the oxygen of the air held in solution in the liquids, at the time when
the action commences. The author has found, moreover, that the yeast of beer sown in an albuminous
liquid, such as yeast-water, still multiplies, even when there is not a trace of sugar in the
liquid, provided always that atmospheric oxygen is present in large quantities. When deprived
of air, under these conditions, yeast does not germinate at all. The same experiments may be
repeated with albuminous liquid, mixed with a solution of non- fermentable sugar, such as ordinary
crystallized milk-sugar. The results are precisely the same.

"Yeast formed thus in the absence of sugar does not change its nature; it is still capable
of causing sugar to ferment, if brought to bear upon that substance apart from air. It must
be remarked, however, that the development of yeast is effected with great difficulty when
it has not a fermentable substance for its food. In short, the yeast of beer acts in exactly
the same manner as an ordinary plant, and the analogy would be complete if ordinary plants
had such an affinity for oxygen as permitted them to breathe by appropriating this element
from unstable compounds, in which case, according to M. Pasteur, they would appear as ferments
for those substances.

"M. Pasteur declares that he hopes to be able to realize this result, that is to say, to discover
the conditions under which certain inferior plants may live apart from air in the presence
of sugar, causing that substance to ferment as the yeast of beer would do."

This summary and the preconceived views that it set forth have lost nothing of their exactness;
on the contrary, time has strengthened them. The surmises of the last two paragraphs have received
valuable confirmation from recent observations made by Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy, as well
as by ourselves, an account of which we must put before our readers. It is necessary, however,
before touching upon this curious feature in connection with fermentations to insist on the
accuracy of a passage in the preceding summary; the statement, namely, that yeast could multiply
in an albuminous liquid, in which it found a non- fermentable sugar, milk-sugar, for example.
The following is an experiment on this point:--On August 15th, 1875, we sowed a trace of yeast
in 150 cc. (rather more than 5 fluid ounces) of yeast-- water, containing 2 1/2 per cent, of
milk-sugar. The solution was prepared in one of our double-necked flasks, with the necessary
precautions to secure the absence of germs, and the yeast sown was itself perfectly pure. Three
months afterwards, November 15th, 1875, we examined the liquid for alcohol; it contained only
the smallest trace; as for the yeast (which had sensibly developed), collected and dried on
a filter paper, it weighed 0.050 gramme (0.76 grain). In this case we have the yeast multiplying
without giving rise to the least fermentation, like a fungoid growth, absorbing oxygen, and
evolving carbonic acid, and there is no doubt that the cessation of its development in this
experiment was due to the progressive deprivation of oxygen that occurred. As soon as the gaseous
mixture in the flask consisted entirely of carbonic acid and nitrogen, the vitality of the
yeast was dependent on, and in proportion to, the quantity of air which entered the flask in
consequence of variations of temperature. The question now arose, was this yeast, which had
developed wholly as an ordinary fungus, still capable of manifesting the character of a ferment?
To settle this point we had taken the precaution on August 15th, 1875, of preparing another
flask, exactly similar to the preceding one in every respect, and which gave results identical
with those described. We decanted this November 15th, pouring some wort on the deposit of the
plant, which remained in the flask. In less than five hours from the time we placed it in the
oven, the plant started fermentation in the wort, as we could see by the bubbles of gas rising
to form patches on the surface of the liquid. We may add that yeast in the medium which we
have been discussing will not develop at all without air.

The importance of these results can escape no one; they prove clearly that the fermentative
character is not an invariable phenomenon of yeast-life, they show that yeast is a plant which
does not differ from ordinary plants, and which manifests its fermentative power solely in
consequence of particular conditions under which it is compelled to live. It may carry on its
life as a ferment or not, and after having lived without manifesting the slightest symptom
of fermentative character, it is quite ready to manifest that character when brought under
suitable conditions. The fermentative property, therefore, is not a power peculiar to cells
of a special nature. It is not a permanent character of a particular structure, like, for instance,
the property of acidity or alkalinity. It is a peculiarity dependent on external circumstances
and on the nutritive conditions of the organism.

II. FERMENTATION IN SACCHARINE FRUITS IMMERSED IN CARBONIC ACID GAS

The theory which we have, step by step, evolved, on the subject of the cause of the chemical
phenomena of fermentation, may claim a character of simplicity and generality that is well
worthy of attention. Fermentation is no longer one of those isolated and mysterious phenomena
which do not admit of explanation. It is the consequence of a peculiar vital process of nutrition
which occurs tinder certain conditions, differing from those which characterize the life of
all ordinary beings, animal or vegetable, but by which the latter may be affected, more or
less, in a way which brings them, to some extent within the class of ferments, properly so
called. We can even conceive that the fermentative character may belong to every organized
form, to every animal or vegetable cell, on the sole condition that the chemico-vital acts
of assimilation and excretion must be capable of taking place in that cell for a brief period,
longer or shorter it may be, without necessity for recourse to supplies of atmospheric oxygen;
in other words, the cell must be able to derive its needful heat from the decomposition of
some body which yields a surplus of heat in the process.

As a consequence of these conclusions it should be an easy matter to show, in the majority
of living beings, the manifestation of the phenomena of fermentation; for there are, probably,
none in which all chemical action entirely disappears, upon the sudden cessation of life. One
day, when we were expressing these views in our laboratory, in the presence of M. Dumas, who
seemed inclined to admit their truth, we added: "We should like to make a wager that if we
were to plunge a bunch of grapes into carbonic acid gas, there would be immediately produced
alcohol and carbonic acid gas, in consequence of a renewed action starting in the interior
cells of the grapes, in such a way that these cells would assume the functions of yeast cells.
We will make the experiment, and when you come to-morrow--it was our good fortune to have M.
Dumas working in our laboratory at that time--we will give you an account of the result." Our
predictions were realized. We then endeavoured to find, in the presence of M. Dumas, who assisted
us in our endeavour, cells of yeast in the grapes; but it was quite impossible to discover
any. [Footnote: To determine the absence of cells of ferment in fruits that have been immersed
in carbonic acid gas, we must first of all carefully raise the pellicle of the fruit, taking
care that the subjacent parenchyma does not touch the surface of the pellicle, since the organized
corpuscles existing on the exterior of the fruit might introduce an error into our miscroscopical
observations. Experiments on grapes have given us an explanation of a fact generally known,
the cause of which, however, had hitherto escaped our knowledge. We all know that the taste
and aroma of the vintage, that is, of the grapes stripped from the bunches and thrown into
tubs, where they get soaked in the juice that issues from the wounded specimens, are very different
from the taste and aroma of an uninjured bunch. Now grapes that have been immersed in an atmosphere
of carbonic acid gas have exactly the flavour and smell of the vintage; the reason is that,
in the vintage tub, the grapes are immediately surrounded by an atmosphere of carbonic acid
gas, and undergo, in consequence, the fermentation peculiar to grapes that have been plunged
into this gas. These facts deserve to be studied from a practical point of view. It would be
interesting, for example, to learn what difference there would be in the quality of two wines,
the grapes of which, in the once case, had been perfectly crushed, so as to cause as great
a separation of the cells of the parenchyma as possible; in the other case, left, for the most
part, whole, as in the case in the ordinary vintage. The first wine would be deprived of those
fixed and fragrant principles produced by the fermentation of which we have just spoken, when
the grapes are immersed in carbonic acid gas, by such a comparison as that which we suggest
we should be able to form a priori judgment on the merits of the new system, which had not
been carefully studied, although already widely adopted, of milled, cylindrical crushers, for
pressing the vintage.]

Encouraged by this result, we undertook fresh experiments on grapes, on a melon, on oranges,
on plums, and on rhubarb leaves, gathered in the garden of the Ecole Normale, and, in every
case, our substance, when immersed in carbonic acid gas, gave rise to the production of alcohol
and carbonic acid. We obtained the following surprising results from some prunes de Monsieur:[Footnote:
We have sometimes found small quantities of alcohol in fruits and other vegetable organs, surrounded
with ordinary air, but always in small proportion, and in a manner which suggested its accidental
character. It is east to understand how, in the thickness of certain fruits, certain parts
of those fruits might be deprived of air, under which circumstances they would have been acting
under conditions similar to those under which fruits act when wholly immersed in the carbonic
acid gas. Moreover, it would be useful to determine whether alcohol is not a normal product
of vegatation.]--On July 21, 1872, we placed twenty-four of these plums under a glass bell,
which we immediately filled with carbonic acid gas. The plums had been gathered on the previous
day. By the side of the bell we placed other twenty-four plums, which were left there uncovered.
Eight days afterwards, in the course of which time there had been a considerable evolution
of carbonic acid from the bell, we withdrew the plums and compared them with those which had
been left exposed to the air. The difference was striking, almost incredible. Whilst the plums
which had been surrounded with air (the experiments of Berard have long since taught us that,
under this latter condition, fruits absorb oxygen from the air and emit carbonic acid gas in
almost equal volume) had become very soft and watery and sweet, the plums taken from under
the jar had remained very firm and hard, the flesh was by no means watery, but they had lost
much sugar. Lastly, when submitted to distillation, after crushing, they yielded 6.5 grammes
(99.7 grains) of alcohol, more than 1 per cent, of the total weight of the plums. What better
proof than these facts could we have of the existence of a considerable chemical action in
the interior of fruit, an action which derives the heat necessary for its manifestation from
the decomposition of the sugar present in the cells? Moreover, and this circumstance is especially
worthy of our attention, in all these experiments we found that there was a liberation of heat,
of which the fruits and other organs were the seat, as soon as they were plunged in the carbonic
acid gas. This heat is so considerable that it may at times be detected by the hand, if the
two sides of the bell, one of which is in contact with the objects, are touched alternately.
It also makes itself evident in the formation of little drops on those parts of the bell which
are less directly exposed to the influence of the heat resulting from the decomposition of
the sugar of the cells. [Footnote: In these studies of plants living immersed in carbonic acid
gas, we have come across a fact which corroborated those which we have already given in reference
to the facility with which lactic and viscous ferments, and generally speaking, those which
we have termed the disease ferments or beer, develop when deprived of air, and which shows,
consequently, how very marked their aerobian character is. If we immerse beet-roots or turnips
in carbonic acid gas, we produce well-defined fermentations in those roots. Their whole surface
readily permits the escape of the highly acid liquids, and they become filled with lactic,
viscous, and other ferments, This shows us the great danger which may result from the use of
pits, in which the beet-roots are preserved, when the air is not renewed, and that the original
oxygen is expelled by the vital processes of fungi or other deoxidizing chemical actions. We
nave directed the attention of the manufacturers of beet-root sugar to this point.]

In short, fermentation is a very general phenomenon. It is life without air, or life without
free oxygen, or, more generally still, it is the result of a chemical process accomplished
on a fermentable substance capable of producing heat by its decomposition, in which process
the entire heat used up is derived from a part of the heat that the decomposition of the fermentable
substance sets free. The class of fermentations properly so called, is, however, restricted
by the small number of substances capable of decomposing with the production of heat, and at
the same time of serving for the nourishment of lower forms of life, when deprived of the presence
and action of air. This, again, is a consequence of our theory, which is well worthy of notice,

The facts that we have just mentioned in reference to the formation of alcohol and carbonic
acid in the substance of ripe fruits, under special conditions, and apart from the action of
ferment, are already known to science. They were discovered in 1869 by M. Lechartier, formerly
a pupil in the Ecole Normale Superieure, and his coadjutor, M. Bellamy. [Footnote: Lechartier
and Bellamy, Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences, vol. lxix., pp., 366 and 466, 1869.]
In 1821, in a very remarkable work, especially when we consider the period when it appeared,
Berard demonstrated several important propositions in connection with the maturation of fruits:

I. All fruits, even those that are still green, and likewise even those that are exposed to
the sun, absorb oxygen and set free an almost equal volume of carbonic acid gas. This is a
condition of their proper ripening.

II. Ripe fruits placed in a limited atmosphere, after having absorbed all the oxygen and set
free an almost equal volume of carbonic acid, continue to emit that gas in notable quantity,
even when no bruise is to be seen--"as though by a kind of fermentation," as Berard actually
observes--and lose their saccharine particles, a circumstance which causes the fruits to appear
more acid, although the actual weight of their acid may undergo no augmentation whatever.

In this beautiful work, and in all subsequent ones of which the ripening of fruits has been
the subject, two facts of great theoretical value have escaped the notice of the authors; these
are the two facts which Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy pointed out for the first time, namely,
the production of alcohol and the absence of cells of ferments. It is worthy of remark that
these two facts, as we have shown above, were actually fore-shadowed in the theory of fermentation
that we advocated as far back as 1861, and we are happy to add that Messrs. Lechartier and
Bellamy, who at first had prudently drawn no theoretical conclusions from their work, now entirely
agree with the theory we have advanced. [Footnote: Those gentlemen express themselves thus:
"In a note presented to the Academy in November, 1872, we published certain experiments which
showed that carbonic acid and alcohol may be produced in fruits kept in a closed vessel, out
of contact with atmospheric oxygen, without our being able to discover alcoholic ferment in
the interior of those fruits.

"M. Pasteur, as a logical deduction from the principle which he has established in connection
with the theory of fermentation, considers that THE FORMATION OF ALCOHOL MAY BE ATTRIBUTED
TO THE FACT THAT THE PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PRECESSES OF LIFE IN THE CELLS OF FRUIT CONTINUE
UNDER NEW CONDITIONS, IN A MANNER SIMILAR TO THOSE OF THE CELLS OF FERMENT. Experiments, continued
during 1872, 1873, and 1874, on different fruits have furnished results all of which seem to
us to harmonize with this proposition, and to establish it on a firm basis of proof."--Comptes
rendus, t. lxxix., p. 949, 1874.] Their mode of reasoning is very different from that of the
savants with whom we discussed the subject before the Academy, on the occasion when the communication
which we addressed to the Academy in October, 1872, attracted attention once more to the remarkable
observations of Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy. [Footnote: PASTEUR, Faites nouveaux pour servir
a la connaissance de la theorie des fermentations proprement dites. (Comptes rendus de l'Academie
des Sciences, t. lxxv., p. 784.) See in the same volume the discussion that followed; also,
PASTEUR, Note sur la production de l'alcool par les fruits, same volume, p. 1054, in which
we recount the observations anterior to our own, made by Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy in
1869.] M. Fremy, in particular, was desirous of finding in these observations a confirmation
of his views on the subject of hemi- organism, and a condemnation of ours, notwithstanding
the fact that the preceding explanations, and, more particularly our Note of 1861, quoted word
for word in the preceding section, furnish the most conclusive evidence in favor of those ideas
which we advocate. Indeed, as far back as 1861 we pointed out very clearly that if we could
find plants able to live when deprived of air, in the presence of sugar, they would bring about
a fermentation of that substance, in the same manner that yeast does. Such is the case with
the fungi already studied; such, too, is the case with the fruits employed in the experiments
of Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy, and in our own experiments, the results of which not only
confirm those obtained by these gentlemen, but even extend them, in so far as we have shown
that fruits, when surrounded with carbonic acid gas immediately produce alcohol. When surrounded
with air, they live in their aerobian state and we have no fermentation; immersed immediately
afterwards in carbonic acid gas, they now assume their anaerobian state, and at once begin
to act upon the sugar in the manner of ferments, and emit heat. As for seeing in these facts
anything like a confirmation of the theory of hemi-organism, imagined by M. Fremy, the idea
of such a thing is absurd. The following, for instance, is the theory of the fermentation of
the vintage, according to M. Fremy. [Footnote: Comptes rendus, meeting of January 15th, 1872.]

"To speak here of alcoholic fermentation alone," our author says, "I hold that in the production
of wine it is the juice of the fruit itself that, in contact with air, produces grains of ferment,
by the transformation of the albuminous matter; Pasteur, on the other hand, maintains that
the fermentation is produced by germs existing outside of the grapes." [Footnote: As a matter
of fact, M. Fremy applies his theory of hemi-organism, not only to the alcoholic fermentation
of grape juice, but to all other fermentations. The following passage occurs in one of his
notes (Comptes rendus de l'Academie, t. lxxv., p. 979, October 28th, 1872):

"Experiments on Germinated Barley.--The object of these was to show that when barley, left
to itself in sweetened water, produces in succession alcoholic, lactic, butyric, and acetic
fermentations, these modifications are brought about by ferments which are produced inside
the grains themselves, and not by atmospheric germs. More than forty different experiments
were devoted to this part of my work."

Need we add that this assertion is based on no substantial foundation? The cells belonging
to the grains of barley, or their albuminous contents, never do produce cells of alcoholic
ferment, or of lactic ferment, or butyric vibrios. Whenever those ferments appear, they may
be traced to germs of those organisms, diffused throughout the interior of the grains, or adhering
to the exterior surface, or existing in the water employed, or on the side of the vessels used.
There are many ways of demonstrating this, of which the following is one: Since the results
of our experiments have shown that sweetened water, phosphates, and chalk very readily give
rise to lactic and butyric fermentations, what reason is there for supposing that if we substitute
grains of barley for chalk, the lactic and butyric ferments will spring from those grains,
in consequence of a transformation of their cells and albuminous substances? Surely there is
no ground for maintaining that they are produced by hemi-organism, since a medium composed
of sugar, or chalk, or phosphates of ammonia, potash, or magnesia contains no albuminous substances.
This is an indirect but irresistible argument against the hemi-organism theory.]

Now what bearing on this purely imaginary theory can the fact have, that a whole fruit, immersed
in carbonic acid gas, immediately produces alcohol and carbonic acid? In the preceding passage
which we have borrowed from M. Fremy, an indispensable condition of the transformation of the
albuminous matter is the contact with air and the crushing of the grapes. Here, however, we
are dealing with UNINJURED FRUITS IN CONTACT WITH CARBONIC ACID GAS. Our theory, on the other
hand, which, we may repeat, we have advocated since 1861, maintains that all cells become fermentative
when their vital action is protracted in the absence of air, which are precisely the conditions
that hold in the experiments on fruits immersed in carbonic acid gas. The vital energy is not
immediately suspended in their cells, and the latter are deprived of air. Consequently, fermentation
must result. Moreover, we may add, if we destroy the fruit, or crush it before immersing it
in the gas, it no longer produces alcohol or fermentation of any kind, a circumstance that
may be attributed to the fact of the destruction of vital action in the crushed fruit. On the
other hand, in what way ought this crushing to affect the hypothesis of hemi-organism? The
crushed fruit ought to act quite as well, or even better than that which is uncrushed. In short,
nothing can be more directly opposed to the theory of the mode of manifestation of that hidden
force to which the name of hemi-organism has been given, than the discovery of the production
of these phenomena of fermentation in fruits surrounded with carbonic acid gas; whilst the
theory, which sees in fermentation a consequence of vital energy in absence of air, finds in
these facts the strictest confirmation of an express prediction, which from the first formed
an integral part of its statement.

We should not be justified in devoting further time to opinions which are not supported by
any serious experiment. Abroad, as well as in France, the theory of the transformation of albuminous
substances into organized ferments had been advocated long before it had been taken up by M.
Fremy. It no longer commands the slightest credit, nor do any observers of note any longer
give it the least attention; it might even be said that it has become a subject of ridicule.

An attempt has also been made to prove that we have contradicted ourselves, inasmuch as in
1860 we published our opinion that alcoholic fermentation can never occur without a simultaneous
occurrence of organization, development, and multiplication of globules; or continued life,
carried on from globules already formed. [Footnote: PASTEUR, Memoire sur la fermentation alcoolique,
1860: Annales de Chimie et de Physique. The word globules is here used for cells. In our researches
we have always endeavoured to prevent any confusion of ideas. We stated at the beginning of
our Memoir of 1860 that: "We apply the term alcoholic to that fermentation which sugar undergoes
under the influence of the ferment known as BEER YEAST." This is, the fermentation which produces
wine and all alcoholic beverages. This, too, is regarded as the type for a host of similar
phenomena designated, by general usage, under the generic name of fermentation, and qualified
by the name of one of the essential products of the special phenomenon under observation. Bearing
in mind this fact in reference to the nomenclature that we have adopted it will be seen that
the expression ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION cannot be applied to every phenomenon of fermentation
in which alcohol is produced, inasmuch as there may be a number of phenomena having this character
in common. If we had not at starting defined that particular one amongst the number of very
distinct phenomena, which, to the exclusion of the others, should bear the name of alcoholic
fermentation, we should inevitably have given rise to a confusion of language that would soon
pass from words to ideas, and tend to introduce unnecessary complexity into researches which
are already, in themselves, sufficiently complex to necessitate the adoption of scrupulous
care to prevent their becoming still more involved. It seems to us that any further doubt as
to the meaning of the words ALCOHOLIC FERMENTATION, and the sense in which they are employed,
is impossible, inasmuch as Lavoisier, Gay-Lussac, and Thenard have applied this term to the
fermentation of sugar by means of beer yeast. It would be both dangerous and unprofitable to
discard the example set by these illustrious masters, to whom we are indebted for our earliest
knowledge of this subject.] Nothing, however, can be truer than that opinion, and at the present
moment, after fifteen years of study devoted to the subject since the publication to which
we have referred, we need no longer say, "we think," but instead, "we affirm," that it is correct.
It is, as a matter of fact, to alcoholic fermentation, properly so called, that the charge
to which we have referred relates--to that fermentation which yields, besides alcohol, carbonic
acid, succinic acid, glycerine, volatile acids, and other products. This fermentation undoubtedly
requires the presence of yeast--cells under the conditions that we have named. Those who have
contradicted us have fallen into the error of supposing that the fermentation of fruits is
an ordinary alcoholic fermentation, identical with that produced by beer yeast, and that, consequently,
the cells of that yeast must, according to own theory, be always present. There is not the
least authority for such a supposition. When we come to exact quantitative estimations--and
these are to be found in the figures supplied by Messrs. Lechartier and Bellamy--it will be
seen that the proportions of alcohol and carbonic acid gas produced in the fermentation of
fruits differ widely from those that we find in alcoholic fermentations properly so called,
as must necessarily be the case since in the former the fermentaction is effected by the cells
of a fruit, but in the latter by cells of ordinary alcoholic ferment. Indeed we have a strong
conviction that each fruit would be found to give rise to special action, the chemical equation
of which would be different from that in the case of other fruits. As for the circumstance
that the cells of these fruits cause fermentation without multiplying, this comes under the
kind of activity which we have already distinguished by the expression CONTINUOUS LIFE IN CELLS
ALREADY FORMED.

We will conclude this section with a few remarks on the subject of equations of fermentations,
which have been suggested to us principally in attempts to explain the results derived from
the fermentation of fruits immersed in carbonic acid gas.

Originally, when fermentations were put amongst the class of decompositions by contact-action,
it seemed probable, and, in fact, was believed, that every fermentation has its own well- defined
equation which never varied. In the present day, on the contrary, it must be borne in mind
that the equation of a fermentation varies essentially with the conditions under which that
fermentation is accomplished, and that a statement of this equation is a problem no less complicated
than that in the case of the nutrition of a living being. To every fermentation may be assigned
an equation in a general sort of way, an equation, however, which, in numerous points of detail,
is liable to the thousand variations connected with the phenomena of life. Moreover, there
will be as many distinct fermentations brought about by one ferment as there are fermentable
substances capable of supplying the carbon element of the food of that same ferment, in the
same way that the equation of the nutrition of an animal will vary with the nature of the food
which it consumes. As regards fermentation producing alcohol, which may be effected by several
different ferments, there will be as in the case of a given sugar, as many general equations
as there are ferments, whether they be ferment-cells properly so called, or cells of the organs
of living beings functioning as ferments. In the same way the equation of nutrition varies
in the case of different animals nourished on the same food. And it is from the same reason
that ordinary wort produces such a variety of beers when treated with the numerous alcoholic
ferments which we have described. These remarks are applicable to all ferments alike; for instance,
butyric ferment is capable of producing a host of distinct fermentations, in consequence of
its ability to derive the carbonaceous part of its food from very different substances, from
sugar, or lactic acid, or glycerine, or mannite, and many others.

When we say that every fermentation has its own peculiar ferment, it must be understood that
we are speaking of the fermentation considered as a whole, including all the accessory products.
We do not mean to imply that the ferment in question is not capable of acting on some other
fermentable substance and giving rise to fermentation of a very different kind. Moreover, it
is quite erroneous to suppose that the presence of a single one of the products of a fermentation
implies the co-existence of a particular ferment. If, for example, we find alcohol among the
products of a fermentation, or even alcohol and carbonic acid gas together, this does not prove
that the ferment must be an alcoholic ferment, belonging to alcoholic fermentations, in the
strict sense of the term. Nor, again, does the mere presence of lactic acid necessarily imply
the presence of lactic ferment. As a matter of fact, different fermentations may give rise
to one or even several identical products. We could not say with certainty, from a purely chemical
point of view, that we were dealing, for example, with an alcoholic fermentation properly so
called, and that the yeast of beer must be present in it, if we had not first determined the
presence of all the numerous products of that particular fermentation under conditions similar
to those under which the fermentation in question had occurred. In works on fermentation the
reader will often find those confusions against which we are now attempting to guard him. It
is precisely in consequence of not having had their attention drawn to such observations that
some have imagined that the fermentation in fruits immersed in carbonic acid gas is in contradiction
to the assertion which we originally made in our Memoir on alcoholic fermentation published
in 1860, the exact words of which we may here repeat:--"The chemical phenomena of fermentation
are related essentially to a vital activity, beginning and ending with the latter; we believe
that alcoholic fermentation never occurs"--we were discussing the question of ordinary alcoholic
fermentation produced by the yeast of beer--"without the simultaneous occurrence of organization,
development, and multiplication of globules, or continued life, carried on by means of the
globules already formed. The general results of the present Memoir seem to us to be it direct
opposition to the opinions of MM. Liebig and Berzelius." These conclusions, we repeat, are
as true now as they ever were, and are as applicable to the fermentation of fruits, of which
nothing was known in 1860, as they are to the fermentation produced by the means of yeast.
Only, in the case of fruits, it is the cells of the parenchyma that function as ferment, by
a continuation of their activity in carbonic acid gas whilst in the other case the ferment
consists of cells of yeast.

There should be nothing very surprising in the fact that fermentation can originate in fruits
and form alcohol without the presence of yeast, if the fermentation of fruits were not confounded
completely with alcoholic fermentation yielding the same products and in the same proportions.
It is through the misuse of words that the fermentation of fruits has been termed alcoholic,
in a way which has misled many persons. [Footnote: See, for example, the communications of
MM. Colin and Poggiale, and the discussion on them. In the Bulletin de l'Academie de Medecine,
March 2d, 9th, and 30th, and February 16th and 23rd, 1875.] In this fermentation, neither alcohol
nor carbonic acid gas exists in those proportions in which they are found in fermentation produced
by yeast; and, although we may determine in it the presence of succinic acid, glycerine, and
a small quantity of volatile acids [Footnote: We have elsewhere determined the formation of
minute quantities of volatile acids in alcoholic fermentation. M. Bechamp, who studied these,
recognized several belonging to the series of fatty acids, acetic acid, butyric acid &c. "The
presence of succinic acid is not accidental, but constant; if we put aside volatile acids that
form in quantities which we may call infinitely small, we may say that succinic acid is the
only normal acid of alcoholic fermentation."--PASTEUR, Comptes rendus de l' Academie, t. xlvii.,
P. 224, 1858] the relative proportions of these substances will be different from what they
are in the case of alcoholic fermentation.

III. REPLY TO CERTAIN CRITICAL OBSERVATIONS OF THE GERMAN NATURALISTS, OSCAR BREFELD AND MORITZ
TRAUBE.

The essential point of the theory of fermentation which we have been concerned in proving in
the preceding paragraphs may be briefly put in the statement that ferments properly so called
constitute a class of beings possessing the faculty of living out of contact with free oxygen;
or, more concisely still, we may say that fermentation is a result of life without air.

If our affirmation were inexact, if ferment cells did require for their growth or for their
increase in number or weight, as all other vegetable cells do, the presence of oxygen, whether
gaseous or held in solution in liquids, this new theory would lose all value, its very raison
d'etre would be gone, at least as far as the most important part of fermentations is concerned.
This is precisely what M. Oscar Brefeld has endeavoured to prove in a Memoir read to the Physico-Medical
Society of Wurzburg on July 26th, 1873, in which, although we have ample evidence of the great
experimental skill of its author, he has nevertheless, in our opinion, arrived at conclusions
entirely opposed to fact.

"From the experiments which I have just described," he says, "it follows, in the most indisputable
manner, that A FERMENT CANNOT INCREASE WITHOUT FREE OXYGEN. Pasteur's supposition that a ferment,
unlike all other living organisms, can live and increase at the expense of oxygen held in combination,
is, consequently, altogether wanting in any solid basis of experimental proof. Moreover, since,
according to the theory of Pasteur, it is precisely this faculty of living and increasing at
the expense of the oxygen held in combination that constitutes the phenomenon of fermentation,
it follows that the whole theory, commanding though it does such general assent, is shown to
be untenable; it is simply inaccurate."

The experiments to which Dr. Brefeld alludes, consisted in keeping under continued study with
the microscope, in a room specially prepared for the purpose, one or more cells of ferment
in wort in an atmosphere of carbonic acid gas free from the least traces of free oxygen. We
have, however, recognized the fact that the increase of a ferment out of contact with air is
only possible in the case of a very young specimen; but our author employed brewer's yeast
taken after fermentation, and to this fact we may attribute the non-success of his growths.
Dr. Brefeld, without knowing it, operated on yeast in one of the states in which it requires
gaseous oxygen to enable it to germinate again. A perusal of what we have previously written
on the subject of the revival of yeast according to its age will show how widely the time required
for such revival may vary in different cases. What may be perfectly true of the state of a
yeast to-day may not be so to-morrow, since yeast is continually undergoing modifications.
We have already shown the energy and activity with which a ferment can vegetate in the presence
of free oxygen, and we have pointed out the great extent to which a very small quantity; of
oxygen held in solution in fermenting liquids can operate at the beginning of fermentation.
It is this oxygen that produces revival in the cells of the ferment and enables them to resume
the faculty of germinating and continuing their life, and of multiplying when deprived of air.

In our opinion, a simple reflection should have guarded Dr. Brefeld against the interpretation
which he has attached to his observations. If a cell of ferment cannot bud or increase without
absorbing oxygen, either free or held in solution in the liquid, the ratio between the weight
of the ferment formed during fermentation and that of oxygen used up must be constant. We had,
however, clearly established, as far back as 1861, the fact that this ratio is extremely variable,
a fact, moreover, which is placed beyond doubt by the experiments described in the preceding
section. Though but small quantities of oxygen are absorbed, a considerable weight of ferment
may be generated; whilst if the ferment has abundance of oxygen at its disposal, it will absorb
much, and the weight of yeast formed will be still greater. The ratio between the weight of
ferment formed and that of sugar decomposed may pass through all stages within certain very
wide limits, the variations depending on the greater or less absorption of free oxygen. And
in this fact, we believe, lies one of the most essential supports of the theory which we advocate.
In denouncing the impossibility, as he considered it, of a ferment living without air or oxygen,
and so acting in defiance of that law which governs all living beings, animal or vegetable,
Dr. Brefeld ought also to have borne in mind the fact which we have pointed out, that alcoholic
yeast is not the only organized ferment which lives in an anaerobian state. It is really a
small matter that one more ferment should be placed in a list of exceptions to the generality
of living beings, for whom there is a rigid law in their vital economy which requires for continued
life a continuous respiration, a continuous supply of free oxygen. Why, for instance, has Dr.
Brefeld omitted the facts bearing on the life of the vibrios of butyric fermentation? Doubtless
he thought we were equally mistaken in these: a few actual experiments would have put him right.

These remarks on the criticisms of Dr. Brefeld are also applicable to certain observations
of M. Moritz Traube's, although, as regards the principal object of Dr. Brefeld's attack, we
are indebted to M. Traube for our defence. This gentleman maintained the exactness of our results
before the Chemical Society of Berlin, proving by fresh experiments that yeast is able to live
and multiply without the intervention of oxygen. "My researches," he said, "confirm in an indisputable
manner M. Pasteur's assertion that the multiplication of yeast can take place in media which
contain no trace of free oxygen. ... M. Brefeld's assertion to the contrary is erroneous."
But immediately afterwards M. Traube adds: "Have we here a confirmation of Pasteur's theory?
By no means. The results of my experiments demonstrate on the contrary that this theory has
no true foundation." What were these results? Whilst proving that yeast could live without
air, M. Traube, as we ourselves did, found that it had great difficulty in living under these
conditions; indeed he never succeeded in obtaining more than the first stages of true fermentation.
This was doubtless for the two following reasons: first, in consequence of the accidental production
of secondary and diseased fermentations which frequently prevent the propagation of alcoholic
ferment; and, secondly, in consequence of the original exhausted condition of the yeast employed.
As long ago as 1861, we pointed out the slowness and difficulty of the vital action of yeast
when deprived of air; and a little way back, in the preceding section, we have called attention
to certain fermentations that cannot be completed under such conditions without going into
the causes of these peculiarities. M. Traube expresses himself thus: "Pasteur's conclusion,
that yeast in the absence of air is able to derive the oxygen necessary for its development
from sugar, is erroneous; its increase is arrested even when the greater part of the sugar
still remains undecomposed. IT IS IN A MIXTURE OF ALBUMINOUS SUBSTANCES THAT YEAST, WHEN DEPRIVED
OF AIR, FINDS THE MATERIALS FOR ITS DEVELOPMENT." This last assertion of M. Traube's is entirely
disproved by those fermentation experiments in which, after suppressing the presence of albuminous
substances, the action, nevertheless, went on in a purely inorganic medium, out of contact
with air, a fact, of which we shall give irrefutable proofs. [Footnote: Traube's conceptions
are governed by a theory of fermentation entirely his own, a hypothetical one, as he admits,
of which the following is a brief summary: "We have no reason to doubt," Traube says, "that
the protoplasm of vegetable cells is itself, or contains within it, a chemical ferment which
causes the alcoholic fermentation of sugar; its efficacy seems closely connected with the presence
of the cell, inasmuch as, up to the present time, we have discovered no means of isolating
it from the cells with success. In the presence of air this ferment oxidizes sugar by bringing
oxygen to bear upon it; in the absence of air it decomposes the sugar by taking away oxygen
from one group of atoms of the molecule of sugar and bringing it to act upon other atoms; on
the one hand yielding a product of alcohol by reduction, on the other hand a product of carbonic
acid gas by oxidation."

Traube supposes that this chemical ferment exists in yeast and in all sweet fruits, but only
when the cells are intact, for he has proved for himself that thoroughly crushed fruits give
rise to no fermentation whatever in carbonic acid gas. In this respect this imaginary chemical
ferment would differ entirely from those which we call SOLUBLE FERMENTS, since diastase, emulsine,
&c., may be easily isolated.

For a full account of the views of Brefeld and Traube, and the discussion which they carried
on on the subject of the results of our experiments, our readers may consult the Journal of
the Chemical Society of Berlin, vii., p. 872. The numbers for September and December, 1874,
in the same volume, contain the replies of the two authors.]

IV. FERMENTATION OF DEXTRO-TARTRATE OF LIME.

[Footnote: See PASTEUR, Comptes rendus de l'Academie des Sciences, t. lvi., p. 416.]

Tartrate of lime, in spite of its insolubility in waters is capable of complete fermentation
in a mineral medium.

If we put some pure tartrate of lime, in the form of a granulated, crystalline powder, into
pure water, together with some sulphate of ammonia and phosphates of potassium and magnesium,
in very small proportions, a spontaneous fermentation will take place in the deposit in the
course of a few days, although no germs of ferment have been added. A living, organized ferment,
of the vibrionic type, filiform, with tortuous motions, and often of immense length, forms
spontaneously by the development of some germs derived in some way from the inevitable particles
of dust floating in the air or resting on the surface of the vessels or material which we employ.
The germs of the vibrios concerned in putrefaction are diffused around us on every side, and,
in all probability, it is one or more of these germs that develop in the medium in question.
In this way they effect the decomposition of the tartrate, from which they must necessarily
obtain the carbon of their food without which they cannot exist, while the nitrogen is furnished
by the ammonia of the ammoniacal salt, the mineral principles by the phosphate of potassium
and magnesium, and the sulphur by the sulphate of ammonia. How strange to see organization,
life, and motion originating under such conditions! Stranger still to think that this organization,
life, and motion are effected without the participation of free oxygen. Once the germ gets
a primary impulse on its living career by access of oxygen, it goes on reproducing indefinitely,
absolutely without atmospheric air. Here then we have a fact which it is important to establish
beyond the possibility of doubt, that we may prove that yeast is not the only organized ferment
able to live and multiply when out of the influence of free oxygen.

Into a flask, like that represented in FIG. 9, of 2.5 litres (about four pints) in capacity,
we put:

     Pure, crystallized, neutral tartrate of lime. .. 100 grammes
     Phosphate of ammonia. ... . ... .  .. ... . ...  1 grammes
     Phosphate of magnesium. ... . ... . ... . ... .. 1 grammes
     Phosphate of potassium. ... . ... . ... . ..   0.5 grammes
     Sulphate of ammonia. ... . ... . ... . ...  .. 0.5 grammes
     (1 gramme = 15.43 grains)

To this we added pure distilled water, so as entirely to fill the flask.

In order to expel all the air dissolved in the water and adhering to the solid substances,
we first placed our flask in a bath of chloride of calcium in a large cylindrical white iron
pot set over a flame. The exit tube of the flask was plunged in a test tube of Bohemian glass
three-quarters full of distilled water, and also heated by a flame. We boiled the liquids in
the flask and test-tube for a sufficient time to expel all the air contained in them. We then
withdrew the heat from under the test- tube, and immediately afterwards covered the water which
it contained with a layer of oil and then permitted the whole apparatus to cool down.

[Illustration with caption: Fig. 9]

Next day we applied a finger to the open extremity of the exit- tube, which we then plunged
in a vessel of mercury. In this particular experiment which we are describing, we permitted
the flask to remain in this state for a fort-night. It might have remained there for a century
without ever manifesting the least sign of fermentation, the fermentation of the tartrate being
a consequence of life, and life after boiling no longer existed in the flask. When it was evident
that the contents of the flask were perfectly inert, we impregnated them rapidly, as follows:
all the liquid contained in the exit-tube was removed by means of a fine caoutchouc tube, and
replaced by about 1 c. (about 17 minims) of liquid and deposit from another flask, similar
to the one we have just described, but which had been fermenting spontaneously for twelve days;
we lost no time in refilling completely the exit tube with water which had been first boiled
and then cooled down in carbonic acid gas. This operation lasted only a few minutes. The exit-tube
was again plunged under mercury. Subsequently the tube was not moved from under the mercury,
and as it formed part of the flask, and there was neither cork nor india-rubber, any introduction
of air was consequently impossible. The small quantity of air introduced during the impregnation
was insignificant and it might even be shown that it injured rather than assisted the growth
of the organisms, inasmuch as these consisted of adult individuals which had lived without
air and might be liable to be damaged or even destroyed by it. Be this as it may, in a subsequent
experiment we shall find the possibility removed of any aeration taking place in this way,
however infinitesimal, so that no doubts may linger on this subject.

