BLACKWOOD'S

EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO. CCCXLVI.   AUGUST, 1844.   VOL. LVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

AFFGHANISTAN

ETCHED THOUGHTS BY THE ETCHING CLUB

A LOVE CHASE--IN PROSE

ANCIENT CANAL--THE NILE AND THE RED SEA

THE OLD SCOTTISH CAVALIER

TRADITIONS AND TALES OF UPPER LUSATIA. NO. III. THE DWARF'S WELL

SOME REMARKS ON SCHILLER'S MAID OF ORLEANS

THE STOLEN CHILD

M. GIRARDIN

LORD ELDON

       *       *       *       *       *

EDINBURGH:

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS; 45, GEORGE STREET; AND 22, PALL-MALL, LONDON.

_To whom all Communications (post paid) must be addressed_

SOLD BY ALL THE BOOKSELLERS IN THE UNITED KINGDOM.

       *       *       *       *       *

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE AND HUGHES, EDINBURGH.

BLACKWOOD'S

EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO. CCCXLVI.     AUGUST, 1844.     VOL. LVI.

       *       *       *       *       *

AFFGHANISTAN.

There are those persons now living who would give their own weight in sovereigns, though drawing
against thirteen to sixteen stone, that all of this dreadful subject might be swallowed up
by Lethe; that darkness might settle for ever upon the insanities of Cabool; and the grave
close finally over the carnage of Tezeen. But it will not be. Blood will have blood, they say.
The madness which could sport in levity with a trust of seventeen thousand lives, walks upon
the wind towards heaven, coming round by gusts innumerable of angry wailings in the air; voices
from nobody knows where are heard clamouring for vengeance; and the caves of Jugdulloc, gorged
with the "un-coffined slain," will not rest from the litanies which day and night they pour
forth for retribution until this generation shall have passed away.

Are we to have justice or not?--not that justice which executes the sentence, but which points
the historical verdict, and distributes the proportions of guilt. The government must now be
convinced, by the unceasing succession of books on this subject, which sleeps at intervals,
but continually wakens up again to new life, that it has not died out, nor is likely to do
so. And for _that_ there is good reason: a sorrow which is past decays gradually, and hushes
itself to sleep; not so a sorrow which points too ominously to the future. The last book on
this horrible tragedy is that of Mr Lushington;[1] and in point of ability the best; the best
in composition; the best for nobility of principle, for warning, for reproach. But, for all
that, we do not agree with him: we concede all his major propositions; we deny most of his
minors. As for the other and earlier discussions upon this theme, whether by boots, by pamphlets,
by journals, English and Indian, or by Parliamentary speeches, they now form a library; and,
considering the vast remoteness of the local interest, they express sublimely the paramount
power of what is moral over the earthy and the physical. A battle of Paniput is fought, which
adds the carnage of Leipsic to that of Borodino, and, numerically speaking, heaps Pelion upon
Ossa; but who cares? No principle is concerned: it is viewed as battle of wolves with tiger-cats;
and Europe heeds it not. But let a column of less than 5000, from a nation moving by moral
forces, and ploughing up for ever new soils of moral promise, betray itself, by folly or by
guilt, into the meshes of a frightful calamity, and the earth listens for the details from
the tropics to the arctic circle. Not Moscow and Smolensko, through all the wilderness of their
afflictions, ever challenged the gaze of Christendom so earnestly as the Coord Cabool. And
why? The pomp, the procession of the misery, lasted through six weeks in the Napoleon case,
through six days in the English case. Of the French host there had been originally 450,000
fighting men; of the English, exactly that same amount read as the numerator of a fraction
whose denominator was 100. Forty-five myriads had been the French; forty-five hundreds the
English. And yet so mighty is the power of any thing moral, because shadowy and illimitable,
so potent to magnify and unvulgarize any interest, that more books have been written upon Cabool,
and through a more enduring tract of time, than upon Moscow. Great was the convulsion in either
case; but that caused by Cabool has proved the less transitory. The vast _anabasis_ to Moscow
had emanated from a people not conspicuously careful of public morality. But that later _anabasis_,
which ascended to the shining pinnacles of Candahar, and which stained with blood of men the
untrodden snows of the Hindoo Koosh, was the work of a nation--no matter whether more moral
in a practical sense, upon that we do not here dispute--but undeniably fermenting with the
anxieties and jealousies of moral aspirations beyond any other people whatever. Some persons
have ascribed to Blumenbach (heretofore the great Goettingen naturalist) an opinion as to the
English which we have good reason to think that he never uttered--viz. that the people of this
island are the most voluptuous of nations, and that we bear it written in our national countenance.
But suppose him to have said this, and secondly, (which is a trifle more important,) suppose
it to be true, not the less we assert the impassioned predominance of a moral interest in this
nation. The intensity of this principle is such, that it works with the fury and agitation
of an appetite. It urges us to the very brink of civil war. Two centuries back--yes, exactly
to a month, two centuries--we were all at Marston Moor, cutting throats upon the largest scale.
And why? under the coercion of principles equally sublime on _both_ sides. Then it _did_ urge
us into war. Now it does not--because the resistance is stronger, and by no means because the
impulse is less. On a May morning in 1844, a question arises in the senate as to factory labour.
On one side it shows an aspect critical for the interests of human nature in its widest stratum--viz.
amongst the children of toil. Immediately, as at the sound of a signal-gun, five hundred of
our fervent journals open their batteries this way and that upon an inquest of truth. "All
the people quake like dew." The demoniacs of Palestine were not more shaken of old by internal
possessions, than the heart of England is swayed to and fro under the action of this or similar
problems. Epilepsy is not more overmastering than is the tempest of moral strife in England.
And a new dawn is arising upon us in the prospect, that henceforth the agitations of peace
will be more impassioned for the coming generation than the agitations of war for the last.
But that sympathy, almost morbid, which England feels with the condition of social man, other
nations echo by a reflex sympathy with England; not always by a friendly sympathy. Like the
[Greek: aerobatentes] and _funambuli_ of ancient days, equally when keeping the difficult line
of advance, or when losing it, England is regarded with a searching gaze that might seem governed
by the fabulous fascination of the rattlesnake. Does she ascend on her proper line of advance?
There is heard the murmur of reluctant applause. Does she trip? There arises the yell of triumph.
Is she seen purchasing the freedom of a negro nation? The glow of admiration suffuses the countenance
of Christendom. Is she descried entering on wars of unprovoked aggression? All faces in Europe
are illuminated with smiles of prosperous malice. It is a painful preeminence which England
occupies--hard to keep, dangerous to forfeit. Hit, and a million of hearts are tainted with
jealousy; fail, and a million revel in malignity. Therefore it was that Cabool and its disasters
drew an attention so disproportioned to their military importance. Cabool was one chapter in
a transaction which, truly or not, had come to be reputed incompatible with those august principles
of public justice professed and worn amongst the phylacteries of Great Britain. Therefore also
it was that on this subject, as we have already said, a library of works has been accumulated.

[1] _A Great Country's Little Wars_. By HENRY LUSHINGTON. London: Parker, 1844.

Of these works we assert, fearlessly but not arrogantly, that all are partially in error. They
are in fact, one and all, controversial works; often without the design of the writers, and
not always perhaps with their consciousness--but the fact is such. Not one of them but has
a purpose to serve for or against Lord Auckland, or Dost Mahommed, or the East India Company,
or the government at home and at Calcutta, which replaced that of the Whigs. Some even go into
such specialties of partisanship as to manage the cause chiefly as a case depending against
the political agents--Mr Ross Bell, Mr Loveday, Captain Outram, or Sir Alexander Burnes. Whilst
others, which might seem a service of desperation, hold their briefs as the apologists of that
injured young gentleman, Akbar Khan. All, in short, are controversial for a _personal_ interest;
and, in that sense, to be controversial is to be partial. Now we, who take our station in the
centre, and deliver our shot all round the horizon, by intervals damaging every order of men
concerned as parties to the Affghan affair, whether by action, by sanction, by counsel, or
by subsequent opinion, may claim to be indifferent censors. We _have_ political attachments:
we do not deny it; but our own party is hardly touched by the sting of the case.

We therefore can be neutral, and we shall pursue our enquiry thus:--_First_, What was the original
motive for the Affghan expedition? We insist upon it, that the motive generally assumed and
reasoned upon was absurd, in a double sense puerile, as arguing a danger not possible, and
(if it had been possible) not existing, and yet, after all, not open to much condemnation from
most of those who _did_ condemn it. They might object to the particular mode of execution,
but they were pledged to the principle of a war in that direction.

_Secondly_, When the amended form was put forward, a rational form and the true form of the
motive for this expedition, in what respect was that open to criticism? Far enough are we from
going along with the views of the Auckland cabinet at this juncture; but these two things we
are sure of--that those views were unsound, not by any vice which has yet been exposed, and
that the vice alleged argues gross ignorance of every thing oriental. Lord Auckland might err,
as heavily we believe him to have done, in his estimate of Affghanistan and the Affghan condition:
he had untrue notions of what the Affghans needed, and what it was that they could bear: but
his critics, Indian and domestic, were not in error by default merely of philosophic views
as to the state of society in Affghanistan; they erred by want of familiarity with the most
prominent usages of eastern economy. Lord Auckland was wrong, only as whole masses of politicians
are wrong in Europe; viz. by applying European principles to communities under feelings and
prejudices systematically different. But his antagonists were wrong as to palpable facts.

_Thirdly_, If we pass from the motive to the execution of the motive, from the purpose to the
means of effecting it, we are compelled to say that Lord Auckland's government adopted for
its primary means the most extravagant that could have been devised; viz. the making itself
a party to the financial torture of the land.

_Fourthly_, When local insurrection had arisen, whether directed (as every body assumes) against
the abuses of a system introduced by ourselves, or (as _we_ assert) proper to the land, and
hereditary to the morbid condition of Affghan society--we shall expose the feeble and inadequate
solution yet offered by any military guide for the tragical issue of these calamities. Kohistan,
or particular cases, need not detain us; but, coming at once _in medias res_ as to Cabool itself,
we shall undertake to show, that as yet we have no true or rational account of the causes which
led to the fatal result. What! four thousand five hundred regular troops, officered by Englishmen--a
number which, in the last eighty years, had shown itself repeatedly able to beat armies of
sixty thousand men, armies having all the appurtenances and equipments of regular warfare--was
this strong column actually unable to fight its way, with bayonet and field artillery, to a
fortress distant only eighty miles, through a tumultuary rabble never mustering twenty thousand
heads?[1] Times are altered with us if this was inevitable. But the Affghans, you will say,
are brave men, stout and stout-hearted, not timid Phrygian Bengalees. True--but at Plassy,
and again, forty years after, at Assye, it was not merely Bengalees, or chiefly such, whom
we fought--they were Rohillas, Patans, Goorkhas, and Arabs; the three first being of Affghan
blood, quite as good as any Barukzye or Ghilzye, and the last better. No, no--there is more
to tell. The calamity ascends to some elder source than the imbecility of General Elphinstone,
or the obstinacy of Brigadier Shelton. Others than the direct accomplices in that disaster
are included in its guilt; some of the hitherto known only as the slain who have suffered by
the insurrection, and as the survivors who have denounced it. Amongst _them_ lie some of those
impeached by the circumstances. So far we might add little to the satisfaction of the public;
to see the rolls of the guilty widening would but aggravate the sorrow of a calamity which
now it could do nothing to diminish. But oftentimes to know the persons concerned in a great
disaster, is a step to knowing something of its causes. And this we will venture to say--that,
in defiance of all professional pedantry incident to military men and engineers, the reader
is likely to be of opinion that we, at a distance of 7000 miles, have pointed out capital blunders,
ensuring ruin and forming temptations to conspiracy, which Lieutenant Eyre, a principal artillery
officer on the spot, has failed to notice; and if he failed to notice them in his book _à fortiori_,
he must have failed to notice them officially, whilst yet it would have been in time. There
were those things done in Cabool by the "fantastic tricks" of men dressed in authority, which,
placed in their proper light, go far to explain all the horrors that ensued. We know not whether
they made "the angels weep," or rather made the devils laugh, when hovering over Coord Cabool:
but this we know, that they are likely to make the hair stand on end of all considerate men
in this land of energetic foresight.

[1] "_Heads_," we say, because it is one amongst the grievous neglects of the military writers,
that they have made it impossible for us to describe the Affghan soldiery under any better
representative term, by giving no circumstantial account of the arms or discipline prevailing
through the Affghan forces, the tenure of their service, &c. Many had matchlocks; but many,
we presume, had only swords; and artillery the Affghans had none, but what they had been suffered
to steal in Cabool.

_Fifthly_, It may be asked, What is the moral of this dreadful affair? What inferences in the
way of warning are to be drawn from it? This is a topic untouched by all the writers on the
Affghan war. But undoubtedly the Cabool reverse was not more fitted to fix attention as a judgment
for the past than as a warning for the future; not more as being (or being thought) the reaction
from a public wrong, authorized by English councils, than as a premonitory case, showing us
what may be expected under the recurrence of similar circumstances. Circumstances altogether
similar are not likely to recur in two centuries; but circumstances only in part similar, a
commander-in-chief incapacitated by illness, or a second-in-command blind with infatuation,
might easily recur in critical or dreadful emergencies. Such circumstances _did_ happen in
the Nepaul campaigns; imbecility in more leaders than one, as abject as that at Cabool. And
though it could not lead to the same awful results where there had not been the same elaborate
_preparation_ of folly, and upon ground so much nearer to the means of rectification, still
it was then sufficient to tarnish the lustre of our arms for the time, and, under worse circumstances,
would menace worse misfortunes. Neither is this all; there are other infirmities in our eastern
system than the vicious selection of generals.

But all the topics proper to this fifth head will fall more naturally under a paper expressly
applying itself to India; and for the present we shall confine ourselves to the previous four.

I. And _first_, then, as regards the original motive assigned for the Affghan expedition. What
profit in prospect, or what danger in reversion, moved us to so costly an enterprise? We insist
singly on its cost, which usually proves a sufficient _sufflamen_ in these days to the belligerent
propensities of nations. Cicero mentions the advocate by name who first suggested the question
of _Cui bono_, as a means of feeling backwards in a case of murder for the perpetrator. Who
was it that had been interested in the murder? But the same question must be equally good as
a means of feeling forwards to the probable wisdom of a war. What was the nature of the benefit
apprehended, and who was to reap it? The answer to this very startling question, in the case
of the Affghan expedition, stood thus for a long time on the part of our own unofficial press--that
the object had been to forestall Russia, driving with headlong malice _en route_ for the Indus,
by surprising her advanced guard in Kohistan. Certainly, if the surprise were all, there might
be something plausible in the idea. If the Russians should ever reach Kohistan, we will answer
for their being exceedingly surprised at finding an English camp in that region for the purpose
of entertaining themselves. In reality no lunatic projector, not Cleombrotus leaping into the
sea for the sake of Plato's Elysium, not Erostratus committing arson at Ephesus for posthumous
fame, not a sick Mr Elwes ascending the Himalaya, in order to use the rarity of the atmosphere
as a ransom from the expense of cupping in Calcutta, ever conceived so awful a folly. Oh, playful
Sir John Mandeville, sagacious Don Quixote, modest and ingenious Baron Munchausen!--ye were
sober men, almost dull men, by comparison with the _tête exaltée_ from some upper element of
fire, or limbo of the moon, who conceived this sublime idea of leaping forward by a thousand
miles, to lay salt on the tail of a possible or a conceivable enemy. The enemy--the tail--the
salt--these were all _in nubibus_; the only thing certain was the leap, and the thousand miles.
And then, having achieved this first stage on the road, why not go on to St Petersburg, and
take the Czar by the beard? The enormity of this extravagance showed from what mint it came.
Ever since we have harboured the Czar's rebels in England, there has been a craze possessing
our newspaper press, that Russia was, or might be, brewing evil against India. We can all see
the absurdity of such reveries when exemplified by our quicksilver neighbour France, bouncing
for ever in her dreams about insults meditated from the perfidious England; but we are blind
to the image which this French mirror reflects of our own attitude towards Russia. One hundred
and fifty years ago, the _incubus_ which lay heavy on the slumbers of England was the Pope;
of whom Swift remarked, that constantly his holiness was seen _incog_. under one disguise or
other, drinking at gin-shops in Wapping, and clearly proved to be spying out the nakedness
of the land. In our days the Pope has vanished to the rear of the English phantasmagoria, and
now lies amongst the [Greek: neknôn amenêna kasêna]. But not, therefore, is England without
her pet nightmare; and that nightmare is now the Czar, who doubtless had his own reasons lately
for examining the ground about Windsor and Ascot Heath--fine ground for the Preobasinsky dragoons.
How often in this journal have we been obliged to draw upon these blockheads, and disperse
them sword in hand! How, gentlemen, (we have said to them in substance,) if you must play the
fool as alarmists, can you find no likelier towers for menacing Calcutta with thunder storms
than those of arctic St Petersburg; between which cities lies an interspace equal to both tropics?
We remember, as applicable to this case, a striking taunt reported by Dampier, that when one
bucanier, on the west coast of Peru, was sailing away from the oppression of another to some
East Indian port, with a weak crew in a crazy vessel, the ruffian from whom he fled told him
at parting, that, by the time he saw green fields again, the boys in his vessel would be greyheaded.
And we suspect that the Russian drummer-boys, by the time they reach the Khyber pass, will
all have become field-marshals, seeing that, after three years' marching, they have not yet
reached Khiva. But were the distance, the snows, the famine, and thirst nothing, is the bloodshed
nothing? Russia is a colossus, and Bokhara, Khiva, Kokan, &c., are dwarfs. But the finger of
a colossus may be no match for the horny heels of a dwarf. The Emperor Tiberius could fracture
a boy's skull with a _talitrum_, (or fillip of his middle finger;) but it is not every middle
finger that can do that; and a close kick from a khan of Toorkistan might leave an uglier scar
than a fillip at arm's length from the Czar. Assuredly his imperial majesty would be stopped
at many toll-bars before he would stable his horses in an Affghan caravansery; and would have
more sorts of boxes than diamond snuff-boxes to give and take in approaching the Hindoo Koosh.
But suppose him there, and actually sitting astride of the old Koosh in boots and spurs, what
next? In our opinion, the best thing he could do, in case, he desired any sleep for the next
three months, would be to stay where he was; for should he come down stairs into Affghanistan,
we English can by this time give some account of the shocking roads and bad entertainment for
man and horse, all the way to the Indus. Little to choose between the Khyber Pass or the Bolan:
more kicks perhaps on the first, but worse, dinners on the other. And then, finally, about
the costs, the reckoning, the "little account" which will be presented for payment on the banks
of the Indus. _Us_ it cost forty thousand camels, which for years could not be replaced at
any price, and nine millions sterling, for a _part_ of our time. But the Czar, who might wish
to plant a still larger army on the Indus, say thirty thousand, and would have six times our
length of march, could not expect to suffer by less than three times the money, and by the
total generation of camels from Mecca to "Samarcand, by Oxus--Temir's throne."

Could any man rationally believe of a governor-general, left at large by his council, that,
under the terrors of a phantom invasion such as this, visionary as a dream, and distant as
heaven is distant, he could seriously have organized an armament which, merely by its money
costs, would be likely to shake the foundations of the empire which he administered? Yet if
Lord Auckland _had_ moved upon the impulse of a panic so delirious, under what colour of reason
could he have been impeached by the English press, of which the prevailing section first excited,
and to this day nurses intermittingly, that miserable Russian superstition?[1] The Polish craze,
adopted by the press of England and France, and strengthened by the conviction that in Russia
lay the great antagonist balance to the disorganizing instincts of Western Europe, had made
the Czar an object of hatred to the Liberal leaders. But to improve this hatred into a _national_
sentiment in England, it was requisite to connect him by some relation with English "interests."
Hence the idea of describing him as a vulture, (or as Sinbad's roc,) constantly hovering over
our sheep-folds in India. Gog and Magog are not more shadowy and remote as objects for Indian
armies, artillery, and rockets, than that great prince who looks out upon Europe and Asia through
the loopholes of polar mists. Anti-Gog will probably synchronize with the two Gogs. And Lord
Auckland would have earned the title of Anti-Gog, had he gone out to tilt on an Affghan process
of the Himalaya, with--what? With a reed shaken by the wind? With a ghost, as did the grandfather
of Ossian? With an _ens rationis_, or logical abstraction? Not even with objects so palpable
as these, but with a Parisian lie and a London craze; with a word, with a name, nay, with a
_nominis umbra_. And yet we repeat a thousand times, that, if Lord Auckland had been as mad
as this earliest hypothesis of the Affghan expedition would have made him, the bulk of the
English journals could have had no right to throw the first stone against a policy which, at
great cost of truth and honesty, they had been promoting for years.

[1] "_Miserable Russian superstition_."--This is now, we believe, decaying. But why? Not from
sounder politics, but from more accurate geography. The Affghan campaigns, with the affairs
of Bokhara, of Khiva, and Khoondooz, have lighted up as with torches those worlds of wilderness
and obstruction; so that, in any practical sense, people are ashamed _now_ to talk of St Petersburg
as threatening Delhi or Calcutta.

