On the other hand, its advantages and attractions for employees and aspirants of every kind
and degree are not mediocre. There is no separation between the stories, no insurmountable
barrier or enclosure between large and small apartments; all, from the least to the finest,
from the outside as well as from the inside, have free access. Spacious entrances around the
exterior terminate in broad, well-lighted staircases open to the public; everybody can clamber
up that pleases, and to mount these one must clamber; from top to bottom there is no other
communication than that which they present. There is no concealed and privileged passage, no
private stairway or false door; glancing along the whole rectilinear, uniform flight, we behold
the innumerable body of clerks, functionaries, supernumeraries, and postulants, an entire multitude,
ranged tier beyond tier and attentive; nobody advances except at the word and in his turn.--Nowhere
in Europe are human lives so well regulated, within lines of demarcation so universal, so simple,
and so satisfactory to the eye and to logic: the edifice in which Frenchmen are henceforth
to move and act is regular from top to bottom, in its entirety as well as in its details, outside
as well as inside; its stories, one above the other, are adjusted with exact symmetry; its
juxtaposed masses form pendants and counterpoise; all its lines and forms, every dimension
and proportion, all its props and buttresses combine, through their mutual dependencies, to
compose a harmony and to maintain an equilibrium. In this respect the structure is classic,
belonging to the same family of productions which the same spirit, guided by the same method,
had produced in Europe for the previous one hundred and fifty years.[2329] Its analogues, in
the physical order of things, are the architectural productions of Mansard, Le Notre, and their
successors, from the structures and gardens of Versailles down to and embracing the Madeleine
and the Rue de Rivoli. In the intellectual order, its analogues consist of the literary forms
of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, the superb oratorical prose and correct, eloquent
poetry, especially epics and tragedies, including those still manufactured according to rule
about the year 1810. It corresponds to these and forms their pendant in the political and social
order of things, because it emanates from the same deliberate purpose. Four constitutions,
in the same style, preceded it; but these were good only on paper, while this one stands firm
on the ground. For the first time in modern history we see a society due to ratiocination and,
at the same time, substantial; the new France, under these two heads, is the masterpiece of
the classic spirit.

V. Modeled after Rome.

     Its analogue in the antique world.--The Roman State from
     Diocletian to Constantine.--Causes and bearing of this
     analogy.--Survival of the Roman idea in Napoleon's mind.
     --The new Empire of the West.

Nevertheless, if we go back in time, beyond modern times, beyond the Middle Ages, as far as
the antique world, we encounter during the Roman emperors Diocletian's and Constantine's era
another monument whose architecture, equally regular, is developed on a still grander scale:
back then we are in the natal atmosphere and stand on the natal soil of the classic spirit.--At
this time, the human material, more reduced and better prepared than in France, existed similarly
in the requisite condition. At this date, we likewise see at work the prearranging reasoning-faculty

* which simplifies in order to deduce,

* which leaves out historic customs and local diversities,

* which considers the basic human being,

* which treats individuals as units and the people as totals,

* which forcibly applies its general outlines to all special lives, and

* which glories in constituting, legislating, and administering by rule according to the measurements
of square and compass.

At this date, in effect, the turn of mind, the talent, the ways of the Roman architect, his
object, his resources and his means of execution, are already those of his French successor;
the conditions around him in the Roman world are equivalent; behind him in Roman history the
precedents, ancient and recent, are almost the same.

In the first place,[2330] there is, since emperor Augustus, the absolute monarchy, and, since
the Antonines, administrative centralization the result of which is that

* all the old national and municipal communities are broken up or crushed out,

* all collective existences chilled or extinguished,

* local patriotism slowly worn away,

* an increasing diminution of individual initiative,

and, under the invasive interference, direction, and providence of the State, one hundred millions
of men become more and more passive and separated from each other.[2331]

And as a result, in full enjoyment of peace and internal prosperity under the appearances of
union, force, and health, latent feebleness, and, as in France on the approach of 1789, a coming
dissolution.

There is next, as after 1789 in France, the total collapse, not from below and among the people,
but from above and through the army, a worse collapse than in France, prolonged for fifty years
of anarchy, civil wars, local usurpations, ephemeral tyrannies, urban seditions, rural jacqueries,
brigandage, famines, and invasions along the whole frontier, with such a ruin of agriculture
and other useful activities, with such a diminution of public and private capital, with such
a destruction of human lives that, in twenty years, the number of the population seems to have
diminished one half.[2332] There is, finally, as after 1799, in France, the re-establishment
of order brought about more slowly, but by the same means, the army and a dictatorship, in
the rude hands of three or four great military parvenus, Pannonians or Dalmatians, Bonapartes
of Sirmium or of Scutari, they too, of a new race or of intact energy, adventurers and children
of their own deeds, the last Diocletian, like Napoleon, a restorer and an innovator. Around
them, as around Napoleon, to aid them in their civil undertakings, is a crowd of expert administrators
and eminent jurisconsults, all practitioners, statesmen, and businessmen, and yet men of culture,
logicians, and philosophers. They were imbued with the double governmental and humanitarian
view, which for three centuries Greek speculation and Roman practice had introduced into minds
and imaginations. This view, at once leveling and authoritative, tending to exaggerate the
attributes of the State and the supreme power of the prince,[2333] was nevertheless inclined

* to put natural right in the place of positive law,[2334]

* to preferring equity and logic to antiquity and to custom,

* to reinstate the dignity of man among the qualities of mankind,

* to enhance the condition of the slave, of the provincial, of the debtor, of the bastard,
of woman, of the child, and

* to recover for the human community all its inferior members, foreign or degraded, which the
ancient constitution of the family and of the city had excluded from it.

Therefore Napoleon could find the outlines of his construction in the political, legislative,
and judicial organizations extending from Diocletian to Constantine, and beyond these down
to Theodosius. At the base, popular sovereignty;[2335] the powers of the people delegated unconditionally
to one man. This omnipotence conferred, theoretically or apparently, through the free choice
of citizens, but really through the will of the army. No protection against the Prince's arbitrary
edict, except a no less arbitrary rescript from the same hand. His successor designated, adopted,
and qualified by himself. A senate for show, a council of state for administration; all local
powers conferred from above; cities under tutelage. All subjects endowed with the showy title
of citizen, and all citizens reduced to the humble condition of taxpayers and of people under
control. An administration of a hundred thousand officials taking all services into its hands,
comprising public instruction, public succor, and public supplies of food, together with systems
of worship. This was at first pagan cults, and after Constantine, the Christian cult. All these
services were classified, ranked, co-coordinated, carefully defined in such a way as not to
encroach on each other, and carefully combined in such a way as to complete each other. An
immense hierarchy of transferable functionaries was kept at work from above on one hundred
and eighty square leagues of territory; thirty populations of different race and language-Syrians,
Egyptians, Numidians, Spaniards, Gauls, Britons, Germans, Greeks, Italians--subject to the
same uniform Régime. The territory was divided like a checker-board, on arithmetical and geometrical
principles, into one hundred or one hundred and twenty small provinces; old nations or States
dismembered and purposely cut up so as to put an end forever to natural, spontaneous, and viable
groups. A minute and verified census taking place every fifteen years to correctly assign land
taxes. An official and universal language; a State system of worship, and, very soon, a Church
and State orthodoxy. A systematic code of laws, full and precise, admirable for the rule of
private life, a sort of moral geometry in which the theorems, rigorously linked together, are
attached to the definitions and axioms of abstract justice. A scale of grades, one above the
other, which everybody may ascend from the first to the last; titles of nobility more and more
advanced, suited to more and more advanced functions; spectabiles, illustres, clarissimi, perfectissimi,
analogous to Napoleon's Barons, Counts, Dukes, and Princes. A programme of promotion once exhibiting,
and on which are still seen, common soldiers, peasants, a shepherd, a barbarian, the son of
a cultivator (colon), the grandson of a slave, mounting gradually upward to the highest dignities,
becoming patrician, Count, Duke, commander of the cavalry, Cæsar, Augustus, and donning the
imperial purple, enthroned amid the most sumptuous magnificence and the most elaborate ceremonial
prostrations, a being called God during his lifetime, and after death adored as a divinity,
and dead or alive, a complete divinity on earth.[2336]

So colossal an edifice, so admirably adjusted, so mathematical, could not wholly perish; its
hewn stones were too massive, too nicely squared; too exactly fitted, and the demolisher's
hammer could not reach down to its deepest foundations.--This one, through its shaping and
its structure, through its history and its duration, resembles the stone edifices which the
same people at the same epoch elevated on the same soil, the aqueducts, amphitheatres, and
triumphal arches, the Coliseum, the baths of Diocletian and of Caracalla.

The medieval man, using their intact foundations and their shattered fragments, built here
and there, haphazard, according to the necessities of the moment, planting his Gothic towers
between Corinthian columns against the panels of walls still standing.[2337] But, under his
incoherent masonry, he observed the beautiful forms, the precious marbles, the architectural
combinations, the symmetrical taste of an anterior and superior art; he felt that his own work
was rude. The new world, to all thinking minds, was miserable compared with the old one; its
languages seemed a patois (crude dialect), its literature mere stammering or driveling, its
law a mass of abuses or a mere routine, its feudality anarchy, and its social arrangements,
disorder.--In vain had the medieval man striven to escape through all issues, by the temporal
road and by the spiritual road, by the universal and absolute monarchy of the German Cesars,
and by the universal and absolute monarchy of the Roman pontiffs. At the end of the fifteenth
century the Emperor still possessed the golden globe, the golden crown, the scepter of Charlemagne
and of Otho the Great, but, after the death of Frederick II., he was nothing more than a majesty
for show; the Pope still wore the tiara, still held the pastoral staff and the keys of Gregory
VII. and of Innocent III., but, after the death of Boniface VIII., he was nothing more than
a majesty of the Church. Both abortive restorations had merely added ruins to ruins, while
the phantom of the ancient empire alone remained erect amid so many fragments. Grand in its
outlines and decorations, it stood there, august, dazzling, in a halo, the unique masterpiece
of art and of reason, as the ideal form of human society. For ten centuries this specter haunted
the medieval epoch, and nowhere to such an extent as in Italy.[2338]

It reappears the last time in 1800, starting up in and taking firm hold of the magnificent,
benighted imagination of the great Italian,[2339] to whom the opportunity afforded the means
for executing the grand Italian dream of the Middle Ages; it is according to this retrospective
vision that the Diocletian of Ajaccio, the Constantine of the Concordat, the Justinian of the
Civil Code, the Theodosius of the Tuileries and of St. Cloud reconstructed France.

This does not mean that he copies--he restores; his conception is not plagiarism, but a case
of atavism; it comes to him through the nature of his intellect and through racial traditions.
In the way of social and political conceptions, as in literature and in art, his spontaneous
taste is ultra-classic. We detect this in his mode of comprehending the history of France;
State historians, "encouraged by the police," must make it to order; they must trace it "from
the end of Louis XIV. to the year VIII," and their object must be to show how superior the
new architecture is to the old one.[2340] "The constant disturbance of the finances must be
noted, the chaos of the provincial assemblies,... the pretensions of the parliaments, the lack
of energy and order in the administration, that parti-colored France with no unity of laws
or of administration, being rather a union of twenty kingdoms than one single State, so that
one breathes on reaching the epoch in which people enjoy the benefits of the unity of the laws,
of the administration, and of the territory." In effect, he breathes; in thus passing from
the former to the latter spectacle, he finds real intellectual pleasure; his eyes, offended
with Gothic disorder, turn with relief and satisfaction to majestic simplicity and classic
regularity; his eyes are those of a Latin architect brought up in the "École de Rome."

This is so true that, outside of this style, he admits of no other. Societies of a different
type seem to him absurd. He misconceives their local propriety and the historical reasons for
their existence. He takes no account of their solidity. He is going to dash himself against
Spain and against Russia, and he has no comprehension whatever of England.[2341]--This is so
true that, wherever he places his hand he applies his own social system; he imposes on annexed
territories and on vassal[2342] countries the same uniform arrangements, his own administrative
hierarchy, his own territorial divisions and sub-divisions, his own conscription, his civil
code, his constitutional and ecclesiastical system, his university, his system of equality
and promotion, the entire French system, and, as far as possible, the language, literature,
drama, and even the spirit of his France,--in brief, civilization as he conceives it, so that
conquest becomes propaganda, and, as with his predecessors, the Cesars of Rome, he sometimes
really fancies that the establishment of his universal monarchy is a great benefit to Europe.

*****

[Footnote 2301: De Tocqueville, "L'Ancien régime et la Revolution." p. 64 and following pages,
also p.354 and following pages.--"The Ancient Régime," p. 368.]

[Footnote 2302: "The Revolution," I., book I., especially pp. 16, 17, 55, 61, 62-65. (Laffont
I., 326, 354, 357 to 360.)]

[Footnote 2303: "The Ancient Regime," pp.--36-59. (Laff. I. pp. 33-48.)]

[Footnote 2304: Ibid., pp. 72-77. (Laff. I. pp. 59 to 61.)]

[Footnote 2305: Ibid., pp. 78-82. (Laff. I. pp. 50-52)]

[Footnote 2306: Cf. Frédéric Masson, "Le Marquis de Grignan," vol. I.]

[Footnote 2307: "The Revolution," I., p. 161 and following pages; II., book VI., ch. I., especially
p. 80 and following pages. (Laffont I. 428 to 444, 632 and II 67 to 69.)]

[Footnote 2308: Ibid., I., P.193 and following pages, and p.226 and following pages.(Ed. Laffont.
I. 449 to 452, 473 to 481.)]

[Footnote 2309: "Souvenirs", by PASQUIER (Etienne-Dennis, duc), chancelier de France. in VI
volumes, Librarie Plon, Paris 1893. I., 148 (in relation to the institution prefects and sub-prefects):
"The perceptible good resulting from this change was the satisfaction arising from being delivered
in one day from a herd of insignificant men, mostly without any merit or shadow of capacity
and to who the administration of department and arrondissement had been surrendered for the
past ten years. As nearly all of them sprung from the lowest ranks in society, they were only
the more disposed to make the weight of their authority felt."]

[Footnote 2310: Guyot, "Répertoire de jurisprudence" (1785), article King: "It is a maxim of
feudal law that the veritable ownership of lands, the domain, directum dominium, is vested
in the dominant seignior or suzerain. The domain in use, belonging to the vassal or tenant,
affords him really no right except to its produce."]

[Footnote 2311: Luchaire," Histoire des institutions monarchiques de la France sous les premiers
Capétiens," I., 28, 46. (Texts of Henry I., Philip I., Louis VI., and Louis VII.) "A divine
minister."--(Kings are) "servants of the kingdom of God."--"Gird on the ecclesiastical sword
for the punishment of the wicked."--"Kings and priests alone, by ecclesiastical ordination,
are made sacred by the anointing of holy oils."]

[Footnote 2312: "The Revolution," III., p.94. (Laffont II, p. 75)]

[Footnote 2313: Janssen, "L'Allemagne à la fin du moyen âge" (French translation), I., 457.
(On the introduction of Roman law into Germany.)--Declaration of the jurists at the Diet of
Roncaglia: "Quod principi placuit, legis habet vigorem."--Edict of Frederick I., 1165: "Vestigia
praedecessorum suorum, divorum imperatorum, magni Constantini scilicet et Justiniani et Valentini,...
sacras eorum leges,... divina oracula.... Quodcumque imperator constituerit, vel cognoscens
decreverit, vel edicto praeceperit, legem esse constat."--Frederick II.: "Princeps legibus
solutus est."--Louis of Bavaria: "Nos qui sumus supra jus."]

[Footnote 2314: Guyot, ibid., article Régales. "The great 'régales,' majora regalia, are those
which belong to the King, jure singulari et proprio, and which are incommunicable to another,
considering that they cannot be divorced from the scepter, being the attributes of sovereignty,
such as... the making of laws, the interpretation or change of these, the last appeal from
the decisions of magistrates, the creation of offices, the declaration of war or of peace,...
the coining of money, the augmentation of titles or of values, the imposition of taxes on the
subjects,... the exemption of certain persons from these, the award of pardon for crimes,...
the creation of nobles, the foundation of universities,... the assembling of the états-généraux
or provinciaux, etc."--Bossuet, "Politique tirée de l'Écriture sainte": The entire state exists
in the person of the prince."--Louis XIV., "æuvres," I., 50 (to his son): "You should be aware
that kings can naturally dispose fully and freely of all possessions belonging as well to persons
of the church as to laymen, to make use of at all times with wise economy, that is to say,
according to the general requirements of their government."--Sorel, "L'Europe et la Révolution
française," I., 231 (Letter of the "intendant" Foucault): "It is an illusion, which cannot
proceed from anything but blind preoccupation, that of making any distinction between obligations
of conscience and the obedience which is due to the King."]

[Footnote 2315: "The Ancient Régime," p.9 and following pages.--"Correspondance de Mirabeau
et du Comte de le Marck," II., 74 (Note by Mirabeau, July 3, 1790): "Previous to the present
revolution, royal authority was incomplete: the king was compelled to humor his nobles, to
treat with the parliaments,, to be prodigal of favors to the court."]

[Footnote 2316: "The Revolution," III., p.318. (Laff.II. p. 237-238).--" The Ancient Régime,"
p. 10 (Laff. I. 25n.) Speech by the Chancellor Séguier, 1775: "Our kings have themselves declared
that they are fortunately powerless to attack property."]

[Footnote 2317: Rousseau's text in the "Contrat Social."--On the meaning and effect of this
principle cf "The Revolution," I., 217 and following pages, and III., book VI., ch. I. Laff.
182-186 et II. 47 to 74).]

[Footnote 2318: The opinion, or rather the resignation which confers omnipotence on the central
power, goes back to the second half of the fifteenth century, after the Hundred Years' war,
and is due to that war; the omnipotence of the king was then the only refuge against the English
invaders, and the ravages of the Écorcheurs.--Cf. Fortescue, "In leges Angliæ," and" "The Difference
between an Absolute and a Limited Monarchy" (end of the fifteenth century), on the difference
at this date between the English and the French government.--The same decision is found in
the dispatches of the Venetian ambassadors of this date: "In France everything is based on
the will of the king. Nobody, whatever might be his conscientious scruples, would dare express
an opinion opposed to his. The French respect their king to such an extent that they would
not only sacrifice their property for him, but again their souls." (Janssen, "L'Allemagne à
la fin du moyen âge. I. 484.)--As to the passage of the monarchical to the democratic idea,
we see it plainly in the following quotations from Restif de la Bretonne: "I entertained no
doubt that the king could legally oblige any man to give me his wife or his daughter, and everybody
in my village (Sacy in Burgundy) thought so too." ("Monsieur Nicolas," I., 443.)--In relation
to the September massacres: "No, I do not pity them, those fanatical priests... When a community
or its majority wants anything, it is right. The minority is always culpable, even when right
morally. Common sense is that is needed to appreciate that truth. It is indisputable that the
nation has the power to sacrifice even an innocent person." ("Nuits de Paris," XVth, p.377.)]

[Footnote 2319: "The Revolution," III., 393. (Laff. II. p. 291)]

[Footnote 2320: "Contrat Social," book 1st, ch. III.: "It is accordingly essential that, for
the enunciation of the general will, no special organization should exist in the State, and
that the opinion of each citizen should accord with that. Such was the unique and sublime law
of the great Lycurgus."]

[Footnote 2321: "The Revolution," I., 170. (Laff. I. 433.)]

[Footnote 2322: Ibid., II., 93; III., 78-82. (Laff. I. p. 632 and II. pp. 65-68.)]

[Footnote 2323: "Correspondance de Mirabeau et du Comte de la Marck,"II., 74 (Letter of Mirabeau
to the King, July 3, 1790): "Compare the new state of things with the ancient régime.... One
portion of the acts of the national assembly (and that the largest) is evidently favorable
to monarchical government. Is it to have nothing, then, to have no parliaments, no provincial
governments, no privileged classes, no clerical bodies, no nobility? The idea of forming one
body of citizens would have pleased Richelieu: this equalized surface facilitates the exercise
of power. Many years of absolute rule could not have done so much for royal authority as this
one year of revolution."--Sainte-Beuve, "Port-Royal," V., 25 (M. Harlay conversing with the
supérieure of Port-Royal): "People are constantly talking about Port-Royal, about these Port-Royal
gentlemen: the King dislikes whatever excites talk. Only lately he caused M. Arnaud to be informed
that he did not approve of the meetings at his house; that there is no objection to his seeing
all sorts of people indifferently like everybody else, but why should certain persons always
be found in his rooms and such an intimate association among these gentlemen?... The King does
not want any rallying point; a headless assemblage in a State is always dangerous."--Ibid.,
p.33: "The reputation of this establishment was too great. People were anxious to put their
children in it. Persons of rank sent theirs there. Everybody expressed satisfaction with it.
This provided it with friends who joined those of the establishment and who together formed
a platoon against the State. The King would not consent to this: he regarded such unions as
dangerous in a State."]

[Footnote 2324: "Napoleon Ire et ses lois civiles," by Honoré Pérouse, 280: Words of Napoleon:
"I have for a long time given a great deal of thought and calculation to the re-establishment
of the social edifice. I am to-day obliged to watch over the maintenance of public liberty.
I have no idea of the French people becoming serfs."--"The prefects are wrong in straining
their authority."--"The repose and freedom of citizens should not depend on the exaggeration
or arbitrariness of a mere administrator."--"Let authority be felt by the people as little
as possible and not bear down on them needlessly."--(Letters of January 15, 1806, March 6,
1807, January 12, 1809, to Fouché, and of March 6, 1807, to Regnault.)--Thibaudeau, "Mémoires
sur le Consulat," P. 178 (Words of the first consul before the council of state): "True civil
liberty depends on the security of property. In no country can the rate of the tax-payer be
changed every year. A man with 3000 francs income does not know how much he will have left
to live on the following year; his entire income may be absorbed by the assessment on it...
A mere clerk, with a dash of his pen, may overcharge you thousands of francs... Nothing has
ever been done in France in behalf of real estate. Whoever has a good law passed on the cadastre
(official valuation of all the land in France) will deserve a statue."]

[Footnote 2325: Honoré Pérouse, Ibid, 274 (Speech of Napoleon to the council of state on the
law on mines):" "Myself, with many armies at my disposition, I could not take possession of
any one's field, for the violation of the right of property in one case would be violating
it in all. The secret is to have mines become actual property, and hence sacred in fact and
by law."--Ibid., 279:" "What is the right of property? It is not only the right of using but,
again, of abusing it. ... One must always keep in mind the advantage of owning property. The
best protection to the owner of property is the interest of the individual; one may always
rely on his activity.... A government makes a great mistake in trying to be too paternal; liberty
and property are both ruined by over-solicitude."--"If the government prescribes the way in
which property shall be used it no longer exists.".--Ibid., 284 (Letters of Aug.21 and Sept.
7, 1809, on expropriations by public authority): "It is indispensable that the courts should
supervise, stop expropriation, receive complaints of and guarantee property-owners against
the enterprises of our prefects, our prefecture councils and all other agents.... Expropriation
is a judicial proceeding.... I cannot conceive how France can have proprietors if anybody can
be deprived of his field simply by an administrative decision."--In relation to the ownership
of mines, to the cadastre, to expropriation, and to the portion of property which a man might
bequeath, Napoleon was more liberal than his jurists. Madame de Staël, "Dix années d'exil,"
ch. XVIII. (Napoleon conversing with the tribune Gallois): "Liberty consists of a good civil
code, while modern nations care for nothing but property."--"Correspondance," letter to Fouché,
Jan. 15, 1805. (This letter gives a good summary of his ideas on government.) "In France, whatever
is not forbidden is allowed, and nothing can be forbidden except by the laws, by the courts,
or police measures in all matters relating to public order and morality."]

[Footnote 2326: Roederer, "æuvres complètes," III., 339 (Speech by the First Consul, October
21, 1800): "Rank, now, is a recompense for every faithful service--the great advantage of equality,
which has converted 20,000 lieutenancies, formerly useless in relation to emulation, into the
legitimate ambition and honorable reward of 400,000 soldiers."--Lafayette, "Mémoires," V.,
350: "Under Napoleon, the soldiers said, he has been promoted King of Naples, of Holland, of
Sweden, or of Spain, as formerly it was said that a than had been promoted sergeant in this
or that company."]

[Footnote 2327: "The Ancient Régime," book I., ch.2, the Structure of Society, especially pp.19-21.
(Laff. I. p. 21-22)]

[Footnote 2328: Mémorial de Sainte-Hélène"--Napoleon, speaking of his imperial organization,
said that he had made the most compact government, one with the quickest circulation and the
most nervous energy, that ever existed. And, he remarked, nothing but this would have answered
in overcoming the immense difficulties around us, and for effecting the wonderful things we
accomplished. The organization of prefectures, their action, their results, were admirable
and prodigious. The same impulsion affected at the same time more than forty millions of men,
and, aided by centers of local activity, the action was as rapid at every extremity as at the
heart."]

[Footnote 2329: "The Ancient Régime," book III., chs. 2 and 3. (Laff. I, pp. 139 to 151 and
pp. 153 to 172.)]

[Footnote 2330: Gibbon, "Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire," chs. I, 2, 3, and 13.--Duruy,
"Histoire des Romains" (illustrated edition), tenth period, chs. 82, 83, 84, and 85; twelfth
period, chs. 95 and 99; fourteenth period, ch. 104.--(The reader will find in these two excellent
works the texts and monuments indicated to which it is necessary to resort for a direct and
satisfactory impression.)]

[Footnote 2331: See in Plutarch (Principles of Political Government) the situation of a Greek
city under the Antonines.]

[Footnote 2332: Gibbon, ch. 10.--Duruy, ch. 95. (Decrease of the population of Alexandria under
Gallien, according to the registers of the alimentary institution, letter of the bishop Dionysius.)]

