As a military man, I wish to point out what seems to me to be military errors in the conduct
of the campaign which we have just been considering.  I have seen active service in the field,
and it was in the actualities of war that I acquired my training and my right to speak. I served
two weeks in the beginning of our Civil War, and during all that tune commanded a battery of
infantry composed of twelve men.  General Grant knew the history of my campaign, for I told
it him.  I also told him the principle upon which I had conducted it; which was, to tire the
enemy.  I tired out and disqualified many battalions, yet never had a casualty myself nor lost
a man.  General Grant was not given to paying compliments, yet he said frankly that if I had
conducted the whole war much bloodshed would have been spared, and that what the army might
have lost through the inspiriting results of collision in the field would have been amply made
up by the liberalizing influences of travel.  Further endorsement does not seem to me to be
necessary.

Let us now examine history, and see what it teaches.  In the 4 battles fought in 1881 and the
two fought by Jameson, the British loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners, was substantially
1,300 men; the Boer loss, as far as is ascertainable, eras about 30 men.  These figures show
that there was a defect somewhere.  It was not in the absence of courage.  I think it lay in
the absence of discretion.  The Briton should have done one thing or the other: discarded British
methods and fought the Boer with Boer methods, or augmented his own force until--using British
methods--it should be large enough to equalize results with the Boer.

To retain the British method requires certain things, determinable by arithmetic.  If, for
argument's sake, we allow that the aggregate of 1,716 British soldiers engaged in the 4 early
battles was opposed by the same aggregate of Boers, we have this result: the British loss of
700 and the Boer loss of 23 argues that in order to equalize results in future battles you
must make the British force thirty times as strong as the Boer force.  Mr. Garrett shows that
the Boer force immediately opposed to Jameson was 2,000, and that there were 6,000 more on
hand by the evening of the second day.  Arithmetic shows that in order to make himself the
equal of the 8,000 Boers, Jameson should have had 240,000 men, whereas he merely had 530 boys.
From a military point of view, backed by the facts of history, I conceive that Jameson's military
judgment was at fault.

Another thing.--Jameson was encumbered by artillery, ammunition, and rifles.  The facts of
the battle show that he should have had none of those things along.  They were heavy, they
were in his way, they impeded his march.  There was nothing to shoot at but rocks--he knew
quite well that there would be nothing to shoot at but rocks--and he knew that artillery and
rifles have no effect upon rocks.  He was badly overloaded with unessentials.  He had 8 Maxims--a
Maxim is a kind of Gatling, I believe, and shoots about 500 bullets per minute; he had one
12 1/2-pounder cannon and two 7-pounders; also, 145,000 rounds of ammunition. He worked the
Maxims so hard upon the rocks that five of them became disabled--five of the Maxims, not the
rocks.  It is believed that upwards of 100,000 rounds of ammunition of the various kinds were
fired during the 21 hours that the battles lasted.  One man killed.  He must have been much
mutilated.  It was a pity to bring those futile Maxims along. Jameson should have furnished
himself with a battery of Pudd'nhead Wilson maxims instead, They are much more deadly than
those others, and they are easily carried, because they have no weight.

Mr. Garrett--not very carefully concealing a smile--excuses the presence of the Maxims by saying
that they were of very substantial use because their sputtering disordered the aim of the Boers,
and in that way saved lives.

Three cannon, eight Maxims, and five hundred rifles yielded a result which emphasized a fact
which had already been established--that the British system of standing out in the open to
fight Boers who are behind rocks is not wise, not excusable, and ought to be abandoned for
something more efficacious.  For the purpose of war is to kill, not merely to waste ammunition.

If I could get the management of one of those campaigns, I would know what to do, for I have
studied the Boer.  He values the Bible above every other thing.  The most delicious edible
in South Africa is "biltong." You will have seen it mentioned in Olive Schreiner's books. 
It is what our plainsmen call "jerked beef."  It is the Boer's main standby.  He has a passion
for it, and he is right.

If I had the command of the campaign I would go with rifles only, no cumbersome Maxims and
cannon to spoil good rocks with.  I would move surreptitiously by night to a point about a
quarter of a mile from the Boer camp, and there I would build up a pyramid of biltong and Bibles
fifty feet high, and then conceal my men all about.  In the morning the Boers would send out
spies, and then the rest would come with a rush. I would surround them, and they would have
to fight my men on equal terms, in the open.  There wouldn't be any Amajuba results.

--[Just as I am finishing this book an unfortunate dispute has sprung up between Dr. Jameson
and his officers, on the one hand, and Colonel Rhodes on the other, concerning the wording
of a note which Colonel Rhodes sent from Johannesburg by a cyclist to Jameson just before hostilities
began on the memorable New Year's Day.  Some of the fragments of this note were found on the
battlefield after the fight, and these have been pieced together; the dispute is as to what
words the lacking fragments contained.  Jameson says the note promised him a reinforcement
of 300 men from Johannesburg.  Colonel Rhodes denies this, and says he merely promised to send
out "some" men "to meet you."]

[It seems a pity that these friends should fall out over so little a thing.  If the 300 had
been sent, what good would it have done?  In 21 hours of industrious fighting, Jameson's 530
men, with 8 Maxims, 3 cannon, and 145,000 rounds of ammunition, killed an aggregate of 1. Boer.
These statistics show that a reinforcement of 300 Johannesburgers, armed merely with muskets,
would have killed, at the outside, only a little over a half of another Boer.  This would not
have saved the day. It would not even have seriously affected the general result.  The figures
show clearly, and with mathematical violence, that the only way to save Jameson, or even give
him a fair and equal chance with the enemy, was for Johannesburg to send him 240 Maxims, 90
cannon, 600 carloads of ammunition, and 240,000 men.  Johannesburg was not in a position to
do this.  Johannesburg has been called very hard names for not reinforcing Jameson.  But in
every instance this has been done by two classes of persons--people who do not read history,
and people, like Jameson, who do not understand what it means, after they have read it.]

CHAPTER LXVIII.

None of us can have as many virtues as the fountain-pen, or half its
cussedness; but we can try.
                                  --Pudd'nhead Wilson's New Calendar.

