Their naked, pure, and grave, unbroken silence Filled the soft air as gleaming, limpid water
Fills a spring sky those days when rain is lying In shattered bright pools on the wind-dried
roads, And their sweet bodies were wind-purified.

One held a shell unto his shell-like ear And there was music carven in his face, His eyes half-closed,
his lips just breaking open To catch the lulling, mazy, coralline roar Of numberless caverns
filled with singing seas.

And all of them were hearkening as to singing Of far-off voices thin and delicate, Voices too
fine for any mortal wind To blow into the whorls of mortal ears-- And yet those sounds flowed
from their grave, sweet faces.

And as I looked I heard that delicate music, And I became as grave, as calm, as still As those
carved boys. I stood upon that shore, I felt the cool sea dream around my feet, My eyes were
staring at the far horizon:

And the wind came and purified my limbs, And the stars came and set within my eyes, And snowy
clouds rested upon my shoulders, And the blue sky shimmered deep within me, And I sang like
a carven pipe of music.

MAGIC

I love a still conservatory
  That's full of giant, breathless palms,
Azaleas, clematis and vines,
  Whose quietness great Trees becalms
Filling the air with foliage,
  A curved and dreamy statuary.

I like to hear a cold, pure rill
  Of water trickling low, afar
With sudden little jerks and purls
  Into a tank or stoneware jar,
The song of a tiny sleeping bird
  Held like a shadow in its trill.

I love the mossy quietness
  That grows upon the great stone flags,
The dark tree-ferns, the staghorn ferns,
  The prehistoric, antlered stags
That carven stand and stare among
  The silent, ferny wilderness.

And are they birds or souls that flit
  Among the trees so silently,
And are they fish or ghosts that haunt
  The still pools of the rockery!--
For I am but a sculptured rock
  As in that magic place I sit.

Still as a great jewel is the air
  With boughs and leaves smooth-carved in it,
And rocks and trees and giant ferns,
  And blooms with inner radiance lit,
And naked water like a nymph
  That dances tireless slim and bare.

I watch a white Nyanza float
  Upon a green, untroubled pool,
A fairyland Ophelia, she
  Has cast herself in water cool,
And lies while fairy cymbals ring
  Drowned in her fairy castle moat.

The goldfish sing a winding song
  Below her pale and waxen face,
The water-nymph is dancing by
  Lifting smooth arms with mournful grace,
A stainless white dream she floats on
  While fairies beat a fairy gong.

Silent the Cattleyas blaze
  And thin red orchid shapes of Death
Peer savagely with twisted lips
  Sucking an eerie, phantom breath
With that bright, spotted, fever'd lust
  That watches lonely travellers craze.

Gigantic, mauve and hairy leaves
  Hang like obliterated faces
Full of dim unattained expression
  Such as haunts virgin forest places
When Silence leaps among the trees
  And the echoing heart deceives.

THE HUNTER

"But there was one land he dared not enter."

Beyond the blue, the purple seas, Beyond the thin horizon's line, Beyond Antilla, Hebrides,
Jamaica, Cuba, Caribbees, There lies the land of Yucatan.

The land, the land of Yucatan, The low coast breaking into foam, The dim hills where my thoughts
shall roam The forests of my boyhood's home, The splendid dream of Yucatan!

I met thee first long, long ago Turning a printed page, and I Stared at a world I did not know
And felt my blood like fire flow At that strange name of Yucatan.

O those sweet, far-off Austral days When life had a diviner glow, When hot Suns whipped my
blood to know Things all unseen, then I could go Into thy heart O Yucatan!

I have forgotten what I saw, I have forgotten what I knew, And many lands I've set sail for
To find that marvellous spell of yore, Never to set foot on thy shore O haunting land of Yucatan!

But sailing I have passed thee by, And leaning on the white ship's rail Watched thy dim hills
till mystery Wrapped thy far stillness close to me And I have breathed ''tis Yucatan!

''Tis Yucatan, 'tis Yucatan!' The ship is sailing far away, The coast recedes, the dim hills
fade, A bubble-winding track we've made, And thou'rt a Dream O Yucatan!

THE SKY-SENT DEATH

"A German aeroplane flew over Greek territory dropping a bomb which killed a shepherd."

'Sitting on a stone a Shepherd, Stone and Shepherd sleeping, Under the high blue Attic sky;
Along the green monotony Grey sheep creeping, creeping'.

Deep down on the hill and valley, At the bottom of the sunshine, Like great Ships in clearest
water, Water holding anchored Shadows, Water without wave or ripple, Sunshine deep and clear
and heavy, Sunshine like a booming bell Made of purest golden metal, White Ships heavy in the
sky Sleep with anchored shadow.

Pipe a song in that still air And the song would be of crystal Snapped in silence, or a bronze
vase Smooth and graceful, curved and shining. Tell an old tale or a history; It would seem
a slow Procession Full of gestures; limbs and torso White and rounded in the sunlight.

'Sitting on a stone a Shepherd, Stone and Shepherd sleeping, Like a fragment of old marble
Dug up from the hillside shadow'.

In the sunshine deep and soundless Came a faint metallic humming; In the sunshine clear and
heavy Came a speck, a speck of shadow-- Shepherd lift your head and listen, Listen to that
humming Shadow!

'Sitting on a stone the Shepherd, Stone and Shepherd sleeping In a sleep dreamless as water,
Water in a white glass beaker, Clear, pellucid, without shadow; Underneath a sky-blue crystal
Sees his grey sheep creeping'.

In the sunshine clear and heavy Shadow-fled a dark hand downward: In the sunshine deep and
soundless Burst a star-dropt thing of thunder-- Smoked the burnt blue air's torn veiling Drooping
softly round the hillside.

Boomed the silence in returning To the crater in the hillside, To the red earth fresh and bleeding,
To the mangled heap remaining: Far away that humming Shadow Vanished in the azure distance.

'Sitting on a stone no Shepherd, Stone and Shepherd sleeping, But across the hill and valley
Grey sheep creeping, creeping, Standing carven on the sky-line, Scattering in the open distance,
Free, in no man's keeping'.

THE CAVES OF AUVERGNE

He carved the red deer and the bull
  Upon the smooth cave rock,
Returned from war with belly full,
  And scarred with many a knock,
He carved the red deer and the bull
  Upon the smooth cave rock.

The stars flew by the cave's wide door,
  The clouds wild trumpets blew,
Trees rose in wild dreams from the floor,
  Flowers with dream faces grew
Up to the sky, and softly hung
  Golden and white and blue.

The woman ground her heap of corn,
  Her heart a guarded fire;
The wind played in his trembling soul
  Like a hand upon a lyre,
The wind drew faintly on the stone
  Symbols of his desire:

The red deer of the forest dark,
  Whose antlers cut the sky,
That vanishes into the mirk
  And like a dream flits by,
And by an arrow slain at last
  Is but the wind's dark body.

The bull that stands in marshy lakes
  As motionless and still
As a dark rock jutting from a plain
  Without a tree or hill,
The bull that is the sign of life,
  Its sombre, phallic will.

And from the dead, white eyes of them
  The wind springs up anew,
It blows upon the trembling heart,
  And bull and deer renew
Their flitting life in the dim past
  When that dead Hunter drew.

I sit beside him in the night,
  And, fingering his red stone,
I chase through endless forests dark
  Seeking that thing unknown,
That which is not red deer or bull,
  But which by them was shown:

By those stiff shapes in which he drew
  His soul's exalted cry,
When flying down the forest dark
  He slew and knew not why,
When he was filled with song, and strength
  Flowed to him from the sky.

The wind blows from red deer and bull,
  The clouds wild trumpets blare,
Trees rise in wild dreams from the earth,
  Flowers with dream faces stare,
'O Hunter, your own shadow stands
  Within your forest lair!'

       *       *       *       *       *

JAMES STEPHENS

THE FIFTEEN ACRES

  I cling and swing
  On a branch, or sing
Through the cool, clear hush of
       Morning, O:
  Or fling my wing
  On the air, and bring
To sleepier birds a warning, O:
  That the night's in flight,
  And the sun's in sight,
And the dew is the grass adorning, O:
  And the green leaves swing
  As I sing, sing, sing,
    Up by the river,
      Down the dell,
    To the little wee nest,
      Where the big tree fell,
    So early in the morning, O.

  I flit and twit
  In the sun for a bit
When his light so bright is shining, O:
  Or sit and fit
  My plumes, or knit
Straw plaits for the nest's nice lining, O:
  And she with glee
  Shows unto me
Underneath her wings reclining, O:
  And I sing that Peg
  Has an egg, egg, egg,
    Up by the oat-field,
    Round the mill,
  Past the meadow,
    Down the hill,
  So early in the morning, O.

  I stoop and swoop
  On the air, or loop
Through the trees, and then go soaring, O:
  To group with a troop
  On the gusty poop
While the wind behind is roaring, O:
  I skim and swim
  By a cloud's red rim
And up to the azure flooring, O:
  And my wide wings drip
  As I slip, slip, slip
    Down through the rain-drops,
      Back where Peg
    Broods in the nest
      On the little white egg,
    So early in the morning, O.

CHECK

The night was creeping on the ground; She crept and did not make a sound Until she reached
the tree, and then She covered it, and stole again Along the grass beside the wall.

I heard the rustle of her shawl As she threw blackness everywhere Upon the sky and ground and
air, And in the room where I was hid: But no matter what she did To everything that was without,
She could not put my candle out.

So I stared at the night, and she Stared back solemnly at me.

WESTLAND ROW

Every Sunday there's a throng Of pretty girls, who trot along In a pious, breathless state
(They are nearly always late) To the Chapel, where they pray For the sins of Saturday.

They have frocks of white and blue, Yellow sashes they have too, And red ribbons show each
head Tenderly is ringleted; And the bell rings loud, and the Railway whistles urgently.

After Chapel they will go, Walking delicately slow, Telling still how Father John Is so good
to look upon, And such other grave affairs As they thought of during prayers.

THE TURN OF THE ROAD

I was playing with my hoop along the road
  Just where the bushes are, when, suddenly,
There came a shout,--I ran away and stowed
  Myself beneath a bush, and watched to see
What made the noise, and then, around the bend,
  I saw a woman running. She was old
And wrinkle-faced, and had big teeth.--The end
  Of her red shawl caught on a bush and rolled
Right off her, and her hair fell down.--Her face
  Was awful white, and both her eyes looked sick,
And she was talking queer. 'O God of Grace!'
  Said she, 'where is the child?' and flew back quick
The way she came, and screamed, and shook her hands;
... Maybe she was a witch from foreign lands.

A VISIT FROM ABROAD

A speck went blowing up against the sky
  As little as a leaf: then it drew near
And broadened.--'It's a bird,' said I,
  And fetched my bow and arrows. It was queer!
It grew from up a speck into a blot,
And squattered past a cloud; then it flew down
All crumply, and waggled such a lot
  I thought the thing would fall.--It was a brown
Old carpet where a man was sitting snug
  Who, when he reached the ground, began to sew
A big hole in the middle of the rug,
  And kept on peeping everywhere to know
Who might be coming--then he gave a twist
  And flew away.... I fired at him but missed.

       *       *       *       *       *

J.C. SQUIRE

A HOUSE

Now very quietly, and rather mournfully,
  In clouds of hyacinth the sun retires,
And all the stubble-fields that were so warm to him
  Keep but in memory their borrowed fires.

And I, the traveller, break, still unsatisfied,
  From that faint exquisite celestial strand,
And turn and see again the only dwelling-place
  In this wide wilderness of darkening land.

The house, that house, O now what change has come to it.
  Its crude red-brick facade, its roof of slate;
What imperceptible swift hand has given it
  A new, a wonderful, a queenly state?

No hand has altered it, that parallelogram,
  So inharmonious, so ill-arranged;
That hard blue roof in shape and colour's what it was;
  No, it is not that any line has changed.

Only that loneliness is now accentuate
  And, as the dusk unveils the heaven's deep cave,
This small world's feebleness fills me with awe again,
  And all man's energies seem very brave.

And this mean edifice, which some dull architect
  Built for an ignorant earth-turning hind,
Takes on the quality of that magnificent
  Unshakable dauntlessness of human kind.

Darkness and stars will come, and long the night will be,
  Yet imperturbable that house will rest,
Avoiding gallantly the stars' chill scrutiny,
  Ignoring secrets in the midnight's breast.

Thunders may shudder it, and winds demoniac
  May howl their menaces, and hail descend;
Yet it will bear with them, serenely, steadfastly,
  Not even scornfully, and wait the end.

And all a universe of nameless messengers
  From unknown distances may whisper fear,
And it will imitate immortal permanence,
  And stare and stare ahead and scarcely hear.

It stood there yesterday; it will to-morrow, too,
  When there is none to watch, no alien eyes
To watch its ugliness assume a majesty
  From this great solitude of evening skies.

So lone, so very small, with worlds and worlds around,
  While life remains to it prepared to outface
Whatever awful unconjectured mysteries
  May hide and wait for it in time and space.

TO A BULL-DOG

(W. H. S., Capt. [Acting Major] R. F. A.; killed, April 12, 1917)

We shan't see Willy any more, Mamie,
  He won't be coming any more:
He came back once and again and again,
  But he won't get leave any more.

We looked from the window and there was his cab,
  And we ran downstairs like a streak,
And he said, 'Hullo, you bad dog,' and you crouched to the floor,
  Paralysed to hear him speak,

And then let fly at his face and his chest
  Till I had to hold you down,
While he took off his cap and his gloves and his coat,
  And his bag and his thonged Sam Browne.

We went upstairs to the studio,
  The three of us, just as of old,
And you lay down and I sat and talked to him
  As round the room he strolled.

Here in the room where, years ago
  Before the old life stopped,
He worked all day with his slippers and his pipe,
  He would pick up the threads he'd dropped,

Fondling all the drawings he had left behind,
  Glad to find them all still the same,
And opening the cupboards to look at his belongings
  ... Every time he came.

But now I know what a dog doesn't know,
  Though you'll thrust your head on my knee,
And try to draw me from the absent-mindedness
  That you find so dull in me.

And all your life you will never know
  What I wouldn't tell you even if I could,
That the last time we waved him away
  Willy went for good.

But sometimes as you lie on the hearthrug
  Sleeping in the warmth of the stove,
Even through your muddled old canine brain
  Shapes from the past may rove.

You'll scarcely remember, even in a dream,
  How we brought home a silly little pup,
With a big square head and little crooked legs
  That could scarcely bear him up,

But your tail will tap at the memory
  Of a man whose friend you were,
Who was always kind though he called you a naughty dog
  When he found you on his chair;

Who'd make you face a reproving finger
  And solemnly lecture you
Till your head hung downwards and you looked very sheepish:
  And you'll dream of your triumphs too,

Of summer evening chases in the garden
  When you dodged us all about with a bone:
We were three boys, and you were the cleverest,
  But now we're two alone.

When summer comes again,
  And the long sunsets fade,
We shall have to go on playing the feeble game for two
  That since the war we've played.

And though you run expectant as you always do
  To the uniforms we meet,
You'll never find Willy among all the soldiers
  In even the longest street,

Nor in any crowd; yet, strange and bitter thought,
  Even now were the old words said,
If I tried the old trick and said 'Where's Willy?'
  You would quiver and lift your head,

And your brown eyes would look to ask if I was serious,
  And wait for the word to spring.
Sleep undisturbed: I shan't say 'that' again,
  You innocent old thing.

I must sit, not speaking, on the sofa,
  While you lie asleep on the floor;
For he's suffered a thing that dogs couldn't dream of,
  And he won't be coming here any more.

THE LILY OF MALUD

The lily of Malud is born in secret mud. It is breathed like a word in a little dark ravine
Where no bird was ever heard and no beast was ever seen, And the leaves are never stirred by
the panther's velvet sheen.

It blooms once a year in summer moonlight, In a valley of dark fear full of pale moonlight:
It blooms once a year, and dies in a night, And its petals disappear with the dawn's first
light; And when that night has come, black small-breasted maids, With ecstatic terror dumb,
steal fawn-like through the shades To watch, hour by hour, the unfolding of the flower.

When the world is full of night, and the moon reigns alone And drowns in silver light the known
and the unknown, When each hut is a mound, half blue-silver and half black, And casts upon
the ground the hard shadow of its back, When the winds are out of hearing and the tree-tops
never shake, When the grass in the clearing is silent but awake 'Neath a moon-paven sky: all
the village is asleep And the babes that nightly cry dream deep:

      From the doors the maidens creep,
Tiptoe over dreaming curs, soft, so soft, that not one stirs,
And stand curved and a-quiver, like bathers by a river,
Looking at the forest wall, groups of slender naked girls,
Whose black bodies shine like pearls where the moonbeams fall.

They have waked, they knew not why, at a summons from the night, They have stolen fearfully
from the dark to the light, Stepping over sleeping men, who have moved and slept again: And
they know not why they go to the forest, but they know, As their moth-feet pass to the shore
of the grass And the forest's dreadful brink, that their tender spirits shrink: They would
flee, but cannot turn, for their eyelids burn With still frenzy, and each maid, ere she leaves
the moonlit space, If she sees another's face is thrilled and afraid.

Now like little phantom fawns they thread the outer lawns Where the boles of giant trees stand
about in twos and threes, Till the forest grows more dense and the darkness more intense, And
they only sometimes see in a lone moon-ray A dead and spongy trunk in the earth half-sunk,
Or the roots of a tree with fungus grey, Or a drift of muddy leaves, or a banded snake that heaves.

And the towering unseen roof grows more intricate, and soon It is featureless and proof to
the lost forgotten moon. But they could not look above as with blind-drawn feet they move Onwards
on the scarce-felt path, with quick and desperate breath, For their circling fingers dread
to caress some slimy head, Or to touch the icy shape of a hunched and hairy ape, And at every
step they fear in their very midst to hear A lion's rending roar or a tiger's snore.... And
when things swish or fall, they shiver but dare not call.

O what is it leads the way that they do not stray? What unimagined arm keeps their bodies from
harm? What presence concealed lifts their little feet that yield Over dry ground and wet till
their straining eyes are met With a thinning of the darkness?

And the foremost faintly cries in awed surprise: And they one by one emerge from the gloom
to the verge Of a small sunken vale full of moonlight pale. And they hang along the bank, clinging
to the branches dank, A shadowy festoon out of sight of the moon; And they see in front of
them, rising from the mud, A single straight stem and a single pallid bud In that little lake
of light from the moon's calm height.

A stem, a ghostly bud, on the moon-swept mud That shimmers like a pond; and over there beyond
The guardian forest high, menacing and strange, Invades the empty sky with its wild black range.

And they watch hour by hour that small lonely flower In that deep forest place that hunter
never found.

It shines without sound, as a star in space.

And the silence all around that solitary place Is like silence in a dream; till a sudden flashing
gleam Down their dark faces flies; and their lips fall apart And their glimmering great eyes
with excitement dart And their fingers, clutching the branches they were touching, Shake and
arouse hissing leaves on the boughs.

And they whisper aswoon: Did it move in the moon?

O it moved as it grew! It is moving, opening, with calm and gradual will And their bodies where
they cling are shadowed and still, And with marvel they mark that the mud now is dark, For
the unfolding flower, like a goddess in her power, Challenges the moon with a light of her
own, That lovelily grows as the petals unclose, Wider, more wide with an awful inward pride
Till the heart of it breaks, and stilled is their breath, For the radiance it makes is as wonderful
as death.

The morning's crimson stain tinges their ashen brows
As they part the last boughs and slowly step again
On to the village grass, and chill and languid pass
Into the huts to sleep.
                       Brief slumber, yet so deep
That, when they wake to day, darkness and splendour seem
Broken and far-away, a faint miraculous dream;
And when those maidens rise they are as they ever were
Save only for a rare shade of trouble in their eyes.
And the surly thick-lipped men, as they sit about their huts
Making drums out of guts, grunting gruffly now and then,
Carving sticks of ivory, stretching shields of wrinkled skin,
Smoothing sinister and thin squatting gods of ebony,
Chip and grunt and do not see.
                        But each mother, silently,
Longer than her wont stays shut in the dimness of her hut,
For she feels a brooding cloud of memory in the air,
A lingering thing there that makes her sit bowed
With hollow shining eyes, as the night-fire dies,
And stare softly at the ember, and try to remember,
Something sorrowful and far, something sweet and vaguely seen
Like an early evening star when the sky is pale green:
A quiet silver tower that climbed in an hour,
Or a ghost like a flower, or a flower like a queen:
Something holy in the past that came and did not last....
But she knows not what it was.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIEGFRIED SASSOON

A LETTER HOME

('To Robert Graves')

I

Here I'm sitting in the gloom Of my quiet attic room. France goes rolling all around, Fledged
with forest May has crowned. And I puff my pipe, calm-hearted, Thinking how the fighting started,
Wondering when we'll ever end it, Back to Hell with Kaiser send it, Gag the noise, pack up
and go, Clockwork soldiers in a row. I've got better things to do Than to waste my time on you.

II

Robert, when I drowse to-night, Skirting lawns of sleep to chase Shifting dreams in mazy light,
Somewhere then I'll see your face Turning back to bid me follow Where I wag my arms and hollo,
Over hedges hasting after Crooked smile and baffling laughter, Running tireless, floating,
leaping, Down your web-hung woods and valleys, Garden glooms and hornbeam alleys, Where the
glowworm stars are peeping, Till I find you, quiet as stone On a hill-top all alone, Staring
outward, gravely pondering Jumbled leagues of hillock-wandering.

III

You and I have walked together In the starving winter weather. We've been glad because we knew
Time's too short and friends are few. We've been sad because we missed One whose yellow head
was kissed By the gods, who thought about him Till they couldn't do without him. Now he's here
again; I've seen Soldier David dressed in green, Standing in a wood that swings To the madrigal
he sings. He's come back, all mirth and glory, Like the prince in a fairy story. Winter called
him far away; Blossoms bring him home with May.

IV

Well, I know you'll swear it's true That you found him decked in blue Striding up through morning-land
With a cloud on either hand. Out in Wales, you'll say, he marches Arm-in-arm with oaks and
larches; Hides all night in hilly nooks, Laughs at dawn in tumbling brooks. Yet, it's certain,
here he teaches Outpost-schemes to groups of beeches. And I'm sure, as here I stand, That he
shines through every land, That he sings in every place Where we're thinking of his face.

V

Robert, there's a war in France; Everywhere men bang and blunder, Sweat and swear and worship
Chance, Creep and blink through cannon thunder. Rifles crack and bullets flick, Sing and hum
like hornet-swarms. Bones are smashed and buried quick. Yet, through stunning battle storms,
All the while I watch the spark Lit to guide me; for I know Dreams will triumph, though the
dark Scowls above me where I go. _You_ can hear me; _you_ can mingle Radiant folly with my
jingle. War's a joke for me and you While we know such dreams are true!

THE KISS

To these I turn, in these I trust; Brother Lead and Sister Steel. To his blind power I make
appeal; I guard her beauty clean from rust.

He spins and burns and loves the air, And splits a skull to win my praise; But up the nobly
marching days She glitters naked, cold and fair.

Sweet Sister, grant your soldier this; That in good fury he may feel The body where he sets
his heel Quail from your downward darting kiss.

THE DRAGON AND THE UNDYING

All night the flares go up; the Dragon sings And beats upon the dark with furious wings; And,
stung to rage by his own darting fires, Reaches with grappling coils from town to town; He
lusts to break the loveliness of spires, And hurls their martyred music toppling down.

Yet, though the slain are homeless as the breeze, Vocal are they, like storm-bewilder'd seas.
Their faces are the fair, unshrouded night, And planets are their eyes, their ageless dreams.
Tenderly stooping earthward from their height, They wander in the dusk with chanting streams;
And they are dawn-lit trees, with arms up-flung, To hail the burning heavens they left unsung.

TO VICTORY

Return to greet me, colours that were my joy, Not in the woeful crimson of men slain, But shining
as a garden; come with the streaming Banners of dawn and sundown after rain.

I want to fill my gaze with blue and silver, Radiance through living roses, spires of green
Rising in young-limbed copse and lovely wood, Where the hueless wind passes and cries unseen.

I am not sad; only I long for lustre,-- Tired of the greys and browns and the leafless ash.
I would have hours that move like a glitter of dancers Far from the angry guns that boom and flash.

Return, musical, gay with blossom and fleetness, Days when my sight shall be clear and my heart
rejoice; Come from the sea with breadth of approaching brightness, When the blithe wind laughs
on the hills with up-lifted voice.

'THEY'

The Bishop tells us: 'When the boys come back They will not be the same; for they'll have fought
In a just cause: they lead the last attack On Anti-Christ; their comrades' blood has bought
New right to breed an honourable race. They have challenged Death and dared him face to face.'

'We're none of us the same!' the boys reply. For George lost both his legs; and Bill's stone
blind; Poor Jim's shot through the lungs and like to die; And Bert's gone syphilitic; you'll
not find A chap who's served that hasn't found _some_ change.' And the Bishop said: 'The ways
of God are strange!'

'IN THE PINK'

So Davies wrote: 'This leaves me in the pink.' Then scrawled his name: 'Your loving sweet-heart,
Willie' With crosses for a hug. He'd had a drink Of rum and tea; and, though the barn was chilly,
For once his blood ran warm; he had pay to spend. Winter was passing; soon the year would mend.

He couldn't sleep that night. Stiff in the dark He groaned and thought of Sundays at the farm,
When he'd go out as cheerful as a lark In his best suit to wander arm-in-arm With brown-eyed
Gwen, and whisper in her ear The simple, silly things she liked to hear.

And then he thought: to-morrow night we trudge Up to the trenches, and my boots are rotten.
Five miles of stodgy clay and freezing sludge, And everything but wretchedness forgotten. To-night
he's in the pink; but soon he'll die. And still the war goes on; _he_ don't know why.

HAUNTED

Evening was in the wood, louring with storm. A time of drought had sucked the weedy pool And
baked the channels; birds had done with song. Thirst was a dream of fountains in the moon,
Or willow-music blown across the water Leisurely sliding on by weir and mill.

Uneasy was the man who wandered, brooding, His face a little whiter than the dusk. A drone
of sultry wings flicker'd in his head.

The end of sunset burning thro' the boughs Died in a smear of red; exhausted hours Cumber'd,
and ugly sorrows hemmed him in.

He thought: 'Somewhere there's thunder,' as he strove To shake off dread; he dared not look
behind him, But stood, the sweat of horror on his face.

He blundered down a path, trampling on thistles, In sudden race to leave the ghostly trees.
And: 'Soon I'll be in open fields,' he thought, And half remembered starlight on the meadows,
Scent of mown grass and voices of tired men, Fading along the field-paths; home and sleep And
cool-swept upland spaces, whispering leaves, And far off the long churring night-jar's note.

But something in the wood, trying to daunt him, Led him confused in circles through the brake.
He was forgetting his old wretched folly, And freedom was his need; his throat was choking;
Barbed brambles gripped and clawed him round his legs, And he floundered over snags and hidden
stumps. Mumbling: 'I will get out! I must get out!' Butting and thrusting up the baffling gloom,
Pausing to listen in a space 'twixt thorns, He peers around with boding, frantic eyes. An evil
creature in the twilight looping Flapped blindly in his face. Beating it off, He screeched
in terror, and straightway something clambered Heavily from an oak, and dropped, bent double,
To shamble at him zigzag, squat and bestial.

Headlong he charges down the wood, and falls With roaring brain--agony--the snapt spark-- And
blots of green and purple in his eyes. Then the slow fingers groping on his neck, And at his
heart the strangling clasp of death.

THE DEATH-BED

He drowsed and was aware of silence heaped Round him, unshaken as the steadfast walls; Aqueous
like floating rays of amber light, Soaring and quivering in the wings of sleep,-- Silence and
safety; and his mortal shore Lipped by the inward, moonless waves of death.

