"Why are we all standing outside in the heat?" cried the hostess. "Let us go into the arbor,
there is plenty of room to move about there, we have had a dozen together in it many a time."
She passed in under the arch as she spoke, and the others followed her. There in her own way
which was not so very witty or wise, and yet was very charming, she held her little court,
and the three men who had been in love with her at the beginning of the hour were still more
in love at the end of it. And Elizabeth who watched her with an admiration as deep as their's,
if more tranquil, did not wonder that it was so. Katie did not forget her, nor did the gentlemen,
or at least two of them, forget to be courteous, but if she had known what became of the spray
of clematis which being in the way as she turned her head, she had soon unfastened and let
slip to the ground, she would not have wondered, nor would she have cared. If she had seen
Archdale's heel crush it unheedingly as he passed out of the arbor, the beat of her pulses
would never have varied.

CHAPTER V.

ANTICIPATIONS.

It was early in December. The months had brought serious changes to all but one of the group
that the August morning had found in Mr. Archdale's garden. Two had disappeared from the scene
of their defeat, and to two of them the future seemed opening up vistas of happiness as deep
as the present joy. Elizabeth Royal alone was a spectator in the events of the past months,
and even in her mind was a questioning that was at least wonderment, if not pain.

Kenelm Waldo was in the West Indies, trying to escape from his pain at Katie Archdale's refusal,
but carrying it everywhere with him, as he did recollections of her; to have lost them would
have been to have lost his memory altogether.

Ralph Harwin also had gone. His money was still in the firm of John Archdale & Co., which it
had made one of the richest in the Colonies; its withdrawal was now to be expected at any moment,
for Harwin did not mean to return, and Archdale, while endeavoring to be ready for this, saw
that it would cripple him. Harwin had been right in believing that he should make himself very
useful and very acceptable to Katie's father. For Archdale who was more desious of his daughter's
happiness than of anything else in the world, was disappointed that this did not lie in the
direction which, on the whole, would have been for his greatest advantage. Harwin and he could
have done better for Katie in the way of fortune than Stephen Archdale with his distaste for
business would do. The Archdale connection had always been a dream of his, until lately when
this new possibility had superseded his nephew's interest in his thoughts. There was an address
and business keenness about Harwin that, if Stephen possessed at all, was latent in him. The
Colonel was wealthy enough to afford the luxury of a son who was only a fine gentleman. Stephen
was a good fellow, he was sure, and Katie would be happy with him. And yet--but even these
thoughts left him as he leaned back in his chair that day, sitting alone after dinner, and
a mist came over his eyes as he thought that in less than a fortnight his home would no longer
be his little daughter's.

"It will be all right," he said to himself with that sigh of resignation with which we yield
to the inevitable, as if there were a certain choice and merit in doing it. "It is well that
the affairs of men are in higher hands than ours." John Archdale's piety was of the kind that
utters itself in solitude, or under the breath.

Katie at the moment was upstairs with her mother examining a package of wedding gear that had
arrived that day. She had no hesitation as to whom her choice should have been. Yet, as she
stood holding a pair of gloves, measuring the long wrists on her arm and then drawing out the
fingers musingly, it was not of Stephen that she was thinking, or of him that she spoke at
last, as she turned away to lay down the gloves and take up a piece of lace.

"Mother," she said, "I do sometimes feel badly for Master Harwin; he is the only man in all
the world that I ever had anything like fear of, and now and then I did of him, such a fierceness
would come over him once in a while, not to me, but about me, I know, about losing me. He was
terribly in earnest. Stephen never gets into these moods, he is always kind and lovable, just
as he has been to me as far back as I can remember, only, of course more so now."

"But things have gone differently with him and with poor Master Harwin," answered Mrs. Archdale.
"If you had said 'no' to Stephen, you would have seen the dark moods in him, too."

The young girl looked at her mother and smiled, and blushed a little in a charming acknowledgment
of feminine power to sway the minds of the sterner half of humanity. Then she grew thoughtful
again, not even flattery diverting her long from her subject.

"But Stephen never could be like that," she said. "Stephen couldn't be dark in that desperate
sort of way. I can't describe it in Master Harwin, but I feel it. Somehow, he would rather
Stephen would die, or I should, than have us marry."

"Did he ever say so?"

"Why, no, but you can feel things that nobody says. And, then, there is something else, too.
I am quite sure that sometime in his life he did something, well, perhaps something wicked,
I don't know what, but I do know that a load lies on his conscience; for one day he told me
as much. It was just as he was going away, the day after I had refused him and he knew of my
engagement. He asked permission to come and bid me goodby. Don't you remember?"

"Yes," said Mrs. Archdale.

"He looked at me and sighed. 'I've paid a heavy price,' he said half to himself, 'to lose.'
Then he added, 'Mistress Archdale, will you always believe that I loved you devotedly, and
always have loved you from the hour I first saw you? If I could undo'--then he waited a moment
and grew dreadfully pale, and I think he finished differently from his first intention--'If
I could undo something in the past,' he said, 'I would give my life to do it, but my life would
be of no use.'"

"That looks as if it was something against you, Katie."

"Oh, no, I don't think so. Besides, he wouldn't have given his life at all; that's only the
way men talk, you know, when they want to make an impression of their earnestness on women
and they always think they do it that way. But the men that are the readiest to give up their
lives don't say anything about it beforehand. Stephen would die for me, I'm sure, but he never
told me so in his life. He don't make many protestations; he takes a great deal for granted.
Why shouldn't he; we've known one another from babyhood? But Master Harwin knew, somehow, the
minute after he spoke, if he didn't at the time, that he wouldn't die for his fault at all,
whatever it was. And then, after he spoke it seemed to me as if he had changed his mind and
didn't care about it in any way, he only cared that I had refused him, and that he was not
going to see me any more. I am sorry for a man like that, and if he were going to stay here
I should be afraid of him, afraid for Stephen. But he sails in a few days. I don't wonder he
couldn't wait here for the next ship, wait over the wedding, and whatever danger from him there
may have been sails with him. Poor man, I don't see what he liked me for." And with a sigh,
Katie dismissed the thought of him and his grief and evil together, and turned her attention
again to the wedding finery.

"Only see what exquisite lace," she cried, throwing it out on the table to examine the web.
"Where did Elizabeth get it, I wonder? She begged to be allowed to give me my bridal veil,
and she has certainly done it handsomely, just as she always does everything, dear child. I
suppose it came out in one of her father's ships."

"Everything Master Royal touches turns into gold," said Mrs. Archdale, after a critical examination
of the lace had called forth her admiration. "It's Mechlin, Katie. There is nobody in the Colonies
richer than he," she went on, "unless, possibly, the Colonel."

"I dare say I ought to pretend not to care that Stephen will have ever so much money," returned
the girl, taking up a broad band of India muslin wrought with gold, and laying it over her
sleeve to examine the pattern, at which she smiled approvingly. "But then I do care. Stephen
is a great deal more interesting rich than he would be poor; he is not made for a grub, neither
am I, and living is much better fun when one has laces like cobwebs, and velvets and paduasoys,
and diamonds, mother, to fill one's heart's desire."

As she spoke she looked an embodiment of fair youth and innocent pleasure, and her mother,
with a mother's admiration and sympathy in her heart, gave her a lingering glance before she
put on a little sternness, and said, "My child, I don't like to hear you talk in that light
way. Your heart's desires, I trust, are set upon better things, those of another world."

"Yes, mother, of course. But, then you know, we are to give our mind faithfully to the things
next to us, in order to get to those beyond them, and that's what I am doing now, don't you
see? O, mother, dear, how I shall miss you, and all your dear, solemn talks, and your dear,
smiling looks." And winding her arms about her mother, Katie kissed her so affectionately that
Mrs. Archdale felt quite sure that the laces and paduasoys had not yet spoilt her little daughter.

"Now, for my part," she said a few minutes later as she laid down a pair of dainty white kid
shoes, glittering with spangles from the tip of their peaked toes to their very heels,--high
enough for modern days,--"These fit you to perfection, my dear. For my part," she repeated,
"you know that I have always hoped you would marry Stephen, yet my sympathies go with Master
Waldo in his loss, instead of with the other one, whom I think your father at last grew to
like best of the three; it was strange that such a man could have gotten such an influence,
but then, they were in business together, and there is always something mysterious about business.
Master Waldo is a fine, open-hearted young man, and he was very fond of you."

"Yes, I suppose so," answered the girl, with an effort to merge a smile into the expression
accompanying a sympathetic sigh. "It's too bad. But, then, men must look out for themselves,
women have to, and Kenelm Waldo probably thinks he is worth any woman's heart."

"So he is, Katie."

"Um!" said the girl. "Well, he'd be wiser to be a little humble about it. It takes better."

"Do you call Stephen humble?"

Katie laughed merrily. "But," she said, at last, "Stephen is Stephen, and humility wouldn't
suit him. He would look as badly without his pride as without his lace ruffles."

"Is it his lace ruffles you're in love with, my child?"

"I don't know, mother," and she laughed again. "When should a young girl laugh if not on the
eve of her marriage with the man of her choice, when friends and wealth conspire to make the
event auspicious?"

"I shall not write to thank Elizabeth for her gift," she said, "for she will be here before
a letter can reach her. She leaves Boston to-morrow, that's Tuesday, and she must be here by
Friday, perhaps Thursday night, if they start very early."

"I thought Master Royal's letter said Monday?"

"Tuesday," repeated Katie, "if the weather be suitable for his daughter. Look at this letter
and you'll see; his world hinges on his daughter's comfort, he is father and mother both to
her. Elizabeth needs it, too; she can't take care of herself well. Perhaps she could wake up
and do it for somebody else. But I am not sure. She's a dear child, though she seems to me
younger than I am. Isn't it funny, mother, for she knows a good deal more, and she's very bright
sometimes? But she never makes the best of anything, especially of herself."

It was the day before the wedding. The great old house was full of bustle from its gambrel
roof to its very cellar in which wines were decanted to be in readiness, and into which pastries
and sweetmeats were carried from the pantry shelves overloaded with preparations for the next
day's festivities. Servants ran hither and thither, full of excitement and pleasant anticipations.
They all loved Katie who had grown up among them. And, besides, the morrow's pleasures were
not to be enjoyed by them wholly by proxy, for if there was to be only wedding enough for one
pair, at least the remains of the feast would go round handsomely. Two or three black faces
were seen among the English ones, but though they were owned by Mr. Archdale, the disgrace
and the badge of servitude had fallen upon them lightly, and the shining of merry eyes and
the gleam of white teeth relieved a darkness that nature, and not despair, had made. In New
England, masters were always finding reasons why their slaves should be manumitted. How could
slavery flourish in a land where the wind of freedom was so strong that it could blow a whole
cargo of tea into the ocean?

But there were not only servants going back and forth through the house, for it was full of
guests. The Colonel's family living so near, would not come until the morning of the ceremony,
but other relatives were there in force. Mrs. Archdale's brother,--a little patronizing but
very rich and gracious, and his family who having been well patronized, were disposed to be
humble and admiring, and her sister who not having fed on the roses of life, had a good deal
of wholesome strength about her, together with a touch of something which, if it were wholesome,
was not exactly grateful. Cousins of Mr. Archdale were there also. Elizabeth Royal, at Katie's
special request, had been her guest for the last ten days. Her father had gone home again the
day he brought her and was unable to return for the wedding and to take his daughter home afterward,
as he had intended; but he had sent Mrs. Eveleigh, his cousin and housekeeper. It seemed strange
that the father and daughter were so companionable, for superficially they were entirely unlike.
Mr. Royal was considered stern and shrewd, and, though a well-read man, eminently practical,
more inclined to business than scholarship, while Elizabeth was dreamy, generous, wholly unacquainted
with business of any kind, and it seemed too much uninterested in it ever to be acquainted.
To most people the affection between them seemed only that of nature and circumstances, Elizabeth
being an only child, and her mother having died while she was very young. It is the last analysis
of character that discovers the same trait under different forms. None of her friends carried
analysis so far, and it was possible that no effort could have discovered subtle likeness then.
Perhaps it was still latent and would only hereafter find some outward expression for itself.
It sometimes happens that physical likeness comes out only after death, mental not until late
in life, and likeness of character in the midst of unlikeness is revealed usually only in the
crucible of events.

