said the Little, Small, Wee Bear, in his little, small, wee voice.

The little old Woman had heard in her sleep the great, rough, gruff voice of the Great, Huge
Bear; but she was so fast asleep that it was no more to her than the roaring of wind, or the
rumbling of thunder. And she had heard the middle voice of the Middle Bear, but it was only
as if she had heard some one speaking in a dream. But when she heard the little, small, wee
voice of the Little, Small, Wee Bear, it was so sharp, and so shrill, that it awakened her
at once. Up she started; and when she saw the Three Bears on one side of the bed, she tumbled
herself out at the other, and ran to the window. Now the window was open, because the Bears,
like good, tidy Bears, as they were, always opened their bed-chamber window when they got up
in the morning. Out the little old Woman jumped; and whether she broke her neck in the fall;
or ran into the wood and was lost there; or found her way out of the wood, and was taken up
by the constable and sent to the House of Correction for a vagrant as she was, I cannot tell.
But the Three Bears never saw anything more of her.

ABOUT MINDING QUICKLY.

Emma was one day sitting by the fire, on a little stool. She was trying to cut a mouse out
of a piece of paper. She had a pair of scissors, with round ends. Her mother had given her
these scissors for her own, because they were safer for her to use than scissors with pointed ends.

Presently, her Mother said, "Come here to me, Emma."

"Wait a minute, Mother," said Emma.

"Do you know," said her Mother, "that it was naughty for you to say that?"

"Why, you can wait a _little_ minute," said Emma; "I am very busy. Don't you see that I am
making a mouse?"

"Emma," replied her Mother, "do you know that I ought to punish you, because you do not mind?"

"I am coming directly," cried Emma, dropping her scissors and her paper mouse, and running
up to her Mother.

Her Mother took her up on her lap, and said, "My little girl, this will _never_ do. You must
learn to come at once when you are called; you _must_ obey quickly. If you continue in this
very naughty habit of not minding until you are told to do a thing two or three times, you
will grow up a very disagreeable girl, and nobody will love you."

Emma looked up mournfully into her Mother's face, and said, "Mother, I will try to do better."

She was a good-tempered child, and was seldom cross or sullen; but she had this one bad habit,
and it was a very bad habit indeed--she waited to be told twice, and sometimes oftener, and
many times she made her kind Mother very unhappy.

For a few days after this Emma remembered what her Mother had said to her, and always came
the first time she was called. She came pleasantly, for it is very important to mind pleasantly,
and did everything she was told to do immediately; and her Mother loved her dearly, and hoped
she was quite cured of her naughty ways.

But I am very sorry to have to say that a time came when Emma entirely forgot her promise.
You shall hear how it happened.

One morning Emma's Mother said to her, "Emma, it is time for you to get up, and put on your
stockings and shoes."

Emma did not move. She lay with her eyes wide open, watching a fly on the wall, that was scrubbing
his thin wings with his hind legs.

"Did you hear me, Emma? Put on your stockings and shoes!"

Emma got up very slowly. She put one foot out of bed, and then looked again at the fly. This
time he was scrubbing his face with his fore legs. So she sat there, and said to herself, "I
wonder how that funny little fly can stay upon the wall. I can't walk up the wall as the fly
can. What a little round black head he has got!"

"Emma!" said her Mother, and this time she spoke in a very severe tone.

Emma started, and put her other foot out of bed, and took up one of her stockings.

Her Mother got out of her bed, which was close to Emma's crib, and began to dress herself.
When she was dressed, she looked round, and saw Emma, with one stocking half on, and the other
rolled up in a little ball, which she was throwing up in the air.

Her Mother was angry with her. She went up to her, and took her stocking away from her, and
told her to get into bed again; for if she would not dress herself when her Mother bid her,
she should be punished by being made to lie in bed. She shut up the window shutters, and took
all the books out of the room, and telling Emma not to get up until she gave her leave, she
went down stairs to breakfast.

Now children don't like to be in bed in the daytime,--at least I have never heard of any one
that did; and Emma was soon tired of lying in a dark room wide awake, with nothing to do, and
no pleasant thoughts, for she could think of nothing but her naughty behaviour. So this was
a very severe punishment, and she began to cry, and wish she had minded quickly, and then she
would have been down stairs, where the sun was shining brightly into the windows. She would
have been sitting in her chair, with her dear little kitten in her lap, and a nice bowl of
bread and milk for her breakfast. She always saved a little milk in the bottom of the bowl
for Daisy her kitten, and after she had done, she would give the rest to Daisy. So you see
that Emma lost much pleasure by not minding quickly; and, what was worse than all, she had
displeased her Mother, and made her unhappy.

Oh, how weary she got! how she longed to get up! She did not dare to disobey her Mother, and
she lay in her crib a long, long time, and thought she never could be so naughty again.

At last her Mother came into the room. She opened the shutters, and said, "Emma, you may get
up and put on your stockings and shoes."

Emma jumped up quickly, and had them on in two minutes, and then she took off her night-gown
and put on her day-clothes, which hung over the back of the chair by her crib, and went to
her Mother to have them fastened, for she could not fasten them herself. Her Mother fastened
her clothes, and then, taking her little girl's hand, she said, "My dear little Emma, you have
made me feel very unhappy this morning. I do not like to punish you, but it is my duty to try
to cure you of all your naughty ways, and it is your duty to try to overcome them. If you do
not, some day you may meet with some terrible misfortune, like that which happened to a boy
I used to know when I was young. I will tell you the story. This boy, like you, grieved his
parents often, by not minding quickly; and he suffered for it in a way that he will never forget
as long as he lives. He was one day standing on the steps of the house where he lived, and
I was standing at the window of the house opposite, where I lived. I was watching some men
that were on the top of this boy's house, fixing the slates on the roof. The roof was covered
with loose pieces of slate, and nails, and rubbish.

"Presently one of the men on the roof cried out, 'Go in, little boy; go in.' But the boy was
looking at a kite that some other boys had in the street, and he did not choose to go in. The
man thought that he had minded what he told him, and without looking again he tumbled down
a great heap of slates and rubbish. The house was quite high, and a large and sharp piece of
slate came down very swiftly, and struck the boy on the side of his head, and cut off nearly
the whole of his ear. In a moment the blood poured down his neck and over his clothes, and
I thought he would bleed to death. Oh, Emma! what a dreadful punishment for not minding quickly!

"For a long time he went about with his head bound up, and when he got well again the side
of his face looked very bad indeed, for where his ear had been there was a dreadful scar that
never went away. Now he is a man, and he often tells children how he got this dreadful scar,
and all because he did not mind quickly."

The tears had rolled down Emma's face while her Mother was telling her this story. When she
had finished it, Emma put her arms around her Mother's neck, and told her that indeed she would
try to obey at once, and be a good little girl, so that her dear Mother would never be unhappy
about her again.

Her Mother kissed her, and took her down stairs, and gave her some breakfast, and all this
day, and ever after, she did try very hard to be good. Whenever she felt herself going about
anything slowly, the thought of the poor boy who had lost his ear would come into her mind,
and she would jump up at once, when her Mother called her, and do whatever she wanted her to
do, pleasantly and quickly.

THE TWINS.

"Well, Susan," said her Father one day, as she came home from school, "I am glad to see you;
I wish to inform you that two young gentlemen arrived here to-day."

"What are their names, Father?" asked Susan.

"I do not know," answered her Father; "I do not believe they have got any names. They are very
small--so small that at this moment they are both asleep in the great chair."

"Both asleep in the great chair?" cried Susan, astonished at what her Father had said, "I do
believe you have been buying two little monkeys."

"No, I have not," said her Father, laughing. "Now come with me, and I will show you these strangers,
and then see if you will say they are monkeys."

Susan went with her Father. He took her hand, and led her into her Mother's room. The room
was dark, and her Mother was lying in the bed. Susan was afraid that she was sick. She went
to her and said,--

"Dear Mother, are you sick? You look very pale."

Her Mother kissed her, and said, "I am very weak, my dear child; but do you not want to see
your little brothers?"

"Brothers?--where?" cried Susan. "Have I a brother?"

"Two of them," said her Father. "Come here, Susan, here they both are, fast asleep."

Susan went up to the great easy chair, and on the cushion she saw, all tucked up warm, two
little round fat faces lying close together. Their noses nearly touched each other, and they
looked funny enough.

"Well, Susan," said her Father, "do you like the monkeys?"

"Oh, Father!" answered the little girl, clasping her hands, "I am so glad--I am so happy! They
are exactly alike,--how I shall love them, the dear little toads!"

"Toads!" said her Father, laughing; "they don't look a bit like toads."

"Well, I said that because I loved them so," replied Susan, "just as you sometimes call me
your little mouse."

For two weeks the little twins slept together in the great chair, and there was no end to Susan's
wonder and delight. Her Mother had to tie a bit of red silk around the wrist of one of them,
to tell them apart. They grew very fast, and were the dearest little fellows in the world,
they had such bright, merry, black eyes, and were always ready to have a frolic with Susan.
As they grew up, they were so good and so pretty, that everybody loved them, and a great many
people came to see them. I forgot to tell you that one was named George, and the other James.

One day, when the twins were three years old, they were left alone in the breakfast-room. The
things on the breakfast-table had been cleared away, except a bowl nearly full of sugar, which
was standing on the table.

Presently the little fellows spied the bowl of sugar. "George," said James, "if you will help
me with this chair, I will give you some sugar."

So both the boys took hold of the heavy chair, and dragged it to the table. Then James helped
George to climb upon it, and from that he scrambled up on the table. He walked across, to where
the sugar was, and sat down on the table, and took the sugar-bowl in his lap.

"Now, you get the stool," said George.

So James got the stool, and put it close to the side of the table where George was, and stood
upon it.

You should have seen how their merry black eyes sparkled, at the fine feast they were going
to have. They did not think that they were doing wrong, for their Mother had often given them
a little sugar.

So George took the spoon that was in the sugar, and helped James to a spoonful, and then took
one himself. He was very particular to give James exactly as many spoonfuls as he took himself.

They were having such a delightful time, that for some moments they did not speak a single
word. George began first,--

"This is nice," said George.

"I like sugar," said James.

"It is so sweet," said George.

"And so good," said James.

"We will eat it all up," said George.

"We won't leave a bit," said James.

"It is almost all gone," said George.

"There is hardly any left," said James.

All the time they were talking George had been stuffing his brother and himself with the sugar.

Just then their Mother opened the door. She had opened it softly, and the little boys had not
heard her. When she saw them so busy--with their round faces stuck all over with crumbs of
sugar, and George sitting on the table, dealing it out so fairly--she could not keep from laughing.

The twins heard her laugh, so they laughed too; and George cried out, "Mother, this sugar is
nice--I like it."

"And so do I," said James.

Their Mother lifted George from the table, and told them they must not do so again, for so
much sugar would make them sick. She washed their faces, and sent them to play in the garden.
There was a fine large garden at the back of the house, where they could play without danger.

Three years after this, the twins were sent to school, where they soon became great favourites,
because they were amiable and good, and always willing to do as they were told. They looked
so exactly alike, and were dressed so exactly alike, that often very funny mistakes were made.
I will tell you something that happened, that was not funny, but it will show you how hard
it was to tell which was George, and which was James.

One day, the teacher gave the twins a spelling lesson, and told them that they must know it
perfectly that morning.

Now George, for the first time, was naughty, and instead of learning the lesson, he was making
elephants and giraffes on his slate; but James studied his lesson, and soon knew it. Presently
the teacher said, "James, do you know your lesson?"

"Yes, sir," said James. He went up to the desk and said it very well.

"You know it perfectly," said his teacher; "you are a good boy. Now go to your seat."

In a few moments he said, "George, come and say your lesson."

But George did not know a word of it; and James whispered to him, "I don't want you to be punished,
brother; I will go for you and say it again."

So James went and repeated his lesson. The teacher thought of course it was George; he said,
"Very well, indeed, George; you know it just as well as James: you are _both_ good boys."

When George heard this praise, which he did not deserve, he was troubled. He had been taught
never to deceive. He did not think at first how wrong he had been; _now_, he saw plainly, that
it was very wrong; that he and his brother had been _acting_ a lie.

He whispered to James, "Brother, I can't bear to cheat, so I will go and tell the teacher."

So he went directly up to the desk, and said, "Sir, I have not yet said my lesson."

"Why, yes you have," replied the teacher; "I have just heard you say it."

"No, sir, if you please," said George; "I do not know it at all. James said it twice, to save
me from being punished."

