Joseph Mainzer was born, on the 21st October 1801, at Trêves, of parents in the middle rank
of life. When quite a child, the predominating taste of his life was so strongly developed,
that in spite of harsh masters he learned to play on the piano, violin, bassoon, and several
wind-instruments; and at the age of twelve could read at sight the most difficult music, and
even attempted composition. Music, however, was not intended to be his profession, and was
only carried on as a relaxation from the severer studies to which Mainzer devoted himself at
the university of Trêves, where he took the highest degree in general merit, and the first
prize for natural science. At the age of twenty-one, he left college to descend into the heart
of the Saarbruck Mountains as an engineer of mines, where, according to custom, he had to commence
with the lowest grade of labour, and for months drag a heavy wheel-barrow, and wield the pickaxe.
Yet here, in reality, dawned his mission as the apostle of popular music: he relieved the tedium
of those interminable nights of toil--for days there were none--by composing and teaching choruses,
thus leading the miners both in labour and in song. This underground life, however, was too
severe for his constitution; and he was obliged to return home in impaired health. He now studied
divinity and music; and, after a time, was advised to travel in order to perfect himself in
the latter branch of art. Under Rinck at Darmstadt, and at Vienna and Rome, he enjoyed every
advantage; and, on leaving the Eternal City, was invited to a farewell _fête_ by Thorwaldsen,
where all the eminent artists of the day were present, and joined in singing his compositions.
On returning home, after two years' absence, he adopted music as his vocation, and published
his first elementary work--the _Singschule_, which was introduced in Prussia and Germany as
the _méthode_ in schools; and soon after, the king of Prussia sent him the gold medal awarded
to men eminent in the arts and sciences. Paris, however, soon offered more attractions to Mainzer
than his native place, and thither he repaired and pitched his tent for ten years. During this
period, he established his reputation as a composer of dramatic, sacred, and domestic music,
and as an acute and elegant writer and critic. His opera of _La Jacquerie_ had a run of seventeen
nights consecutively at the theatre. He was soon welcomed into the literary and artistic circles
of Paris; and one evening, at an elegant _réunion_, being invited to play, he _improvised_
a piece, which was taken for a composition of Palestrina's. Many were moved to tears, one pair
of pre-eminently bright eyes especially; and the consequence was, that the composer and the
bright eyes were soon after united in marriage!

But amid these captivating _salons_ and congenial occupations, what had become of the apostle
of popular music? He was not asleep; only digesting and preparing a system which should, by
its simplicity and clearness, bring scientific music within the reach of the humblest as well
as the highest classes of society. At last it was matured, and the working-classes were invited
to come and test it--gratuitously of course. A few accepted the invitation; but their success
and delight in the new art thus opened up to them, was so great, that the 'two or three' pioneers
soon swelled into an army of 3000 _ouvriers_! But a band of 3000 workmen in Paris was considered
dangerous: it could not be credited that they met merely for social improvement and relaxation;
some political design must surely lurk under it: government was alarmed, the police threatened;
and it was left to Mainzer's choice either to remain in Paris without his artisan classes,
or to seek elsewhere a field for his popular labours. He decided at once on the latter alternative,
and departed for England, amidst the heartfelt regrets of those whom he had attached so strongly
to himself, while he inculcated peace, order, and every social virtue. On his revisiting Paris
long after, his old pupils serenaded him unmolested; and in 1849, the Institute of France voluntarily
placed his name on their list for the membership vacant by the death of Donizetti; yet he would
not accept the proposal of a later French government to return and establish his system: he
preferred the freedom of action which he enjoyed in Britain.

In London, a period of arduous labour commenced. Mainzer arrived without patronage, without
the _prestige_ that his name had earned abroad, and, what was a greater drawback, without any
knowledge of English! But, nothing daunted, with his usual energy he set about the task of
acquiring the language, which he did in an incredibly short time--commencing, like a child,
by naming all familiar objects, and going on, until, without perplexing himself with rules
or their exceptions, he had acquired facility enough to lecture in public. His work on _Music
and Education_ shows with what force and purity of style he could afterwards write in English.
It was the same principle--that of commencing with practice and letting theory follow--which
he carried out in his system of 'Singing for the Million.' He argued, that as children learn
to speak before they can read or construct language grammatically, so they ought to be taught
vocal music in such a way as to introduce the rules of harmony gradually, and prepare them
for the manipulation of an instrument, if it is intended they should learn one; while for the
great masses of both children and adults, _the voice_ is the best and only instrument, and
one that can be trained, with _very few exceptions_, to take part in choral, if not in solo
singing, and at the same time be made a powerful and pleasing agent in moral culture. On this
subject, we shall quote Dr Mainzer's own words, when speaking of the compositions introduced
into his classes, he says: 'Besides religious compositions, there are others, which refer to
the Creator, by calling attention to the beauty and grandeur of his works. Songs, shewing in
a few touching lines the wondrous instinct of the sparrow, the ant, the bee, and cultivating
a feeling of respect for all nature's children. Besides these, there are songs intended to
promote social and domestic virtues--order, cleanliness, humility, contentment, unity, temperance,
etc.; thus impressing, not the letter of the law of charity on immature minds, but the spirit
of it in the memory, and so identifying them with the very fibres of the heart.'

With such views and principles, Mainzer arrived in England, to propagate his humanising art;
and London soon became the centre of a series of lectures and classes, held in the principal
towns accessible by railway--such as Brighton, Oxford, Reading, etc. But this divided work
was not satisfactory, and the national schools and popular field in London were preoccupied
by Hullah, who had some time previously introduced Wilhem's system, under the sanction of government.
There was room and to spare, however, for every system, and Mainzer wished every man good-speed
who advanced the cause; but as a fresh field for his own exertions, after two years spent in
England, he turned his thoughts towards Edinburgh, where he had been invited by requisition,
and warmly received in 1842.

On his return to Scotland, he found his cause somewhat damaged in his absence, by the attempt
of precentors to teach his system in congregational classes. Unlike the church-organists of
England, the Scotch precentors are not educated musicians--a naturally good voice and ear is
their only pre-requisite. Dr Mainzer soon repaired this mistake in those congregations which
invited his personal superintendence; and in one church (Free St Andrew's) the good effects
of his system are still to be heard, in a congregation forming their own choir, and singing
in _four parts_.

To restore this country to the standard of musical eminence which we know from old authorities
that it held in the sixteenth century, was the object of Dr Mainzer's energetic endeavours.
The elements, he believed, were not wanting. In Scotland, the musical capacity of the people
he found to be above rather than below the average of other nations: all that was wanting was
to convince the people of this by the cultivation of their neglected powers. As a preliminary
step, he excited those friendly to the object to found the 'Association for the Revival of
Sacred Music in Scotland,' of which he was the director and moving spring; and under its auspices
he commenced a course of _gratuitous_ teaching to classes formed of pupils from the parish
and district schools of Edinburgh, precentors, teachers, and operatives. The success of these
normal classes was so great and so rapid, that at the end of the first year the pupils were
able to become teachers in their turn in their own schools or homes; and at the close of the
second and third sessions, concerts and rural fêtes were held, at which many hundreds of young
voices joined in giving true and powerful expression to such works of the great masters as
_Judas Maccabæus_; while for the delight of their parents' firesides, and their own moral improvement,
the children carried home with them those simple but touching and expressive melodies, composed
by Mainzer for their use. At the same time, Mr Mainzer carried on classes for the upper ranks,
especially for young children; gave lectures on the history of music from the earliest times
and in all countries; and published a talented work on _Music and Education_, of which very
favourable reviews appeared at the time.[1] Mainzer had a peculiar predilection for Scotland:
its scenery, its history, its music, all supplied food for his various tastes. With a poetic
appreciation of the beauties of nature, he desired no greater pleasure than to wander in perfect
freedom among our lochs and hills; and his descriptions of Edinburgh, the Highlands, and Western
Islands, which appeared in the _Augsburg Gazette_, have brought some and inspired more with
the wish to visit the Switzerland of Britain. The history and music of Scotland threw fresh
light upon each other under his researches. He delighted to trace the reciprocal influence
of national events and national music, from the time of the Culdee establishments of the sixth
century, when 'Iona was the Rome of the north,' down to the _Covenanter's Lament_, and the
Jacobite songs of the last century. Since these days, the spirit that invented and handed down
popular song has passed away with the national and clannish feuds which gave rise to the gathering
song and the lament. The age of peace has been heralded in by the songs of Burns and Lady Nairne,
the authoress of _The Land o' the Leal_, who has done much to restore the taste for our beautiful
old melodies, by wedding them to pure and appropriate verse.[2]

In such pursuits, Mainzer--by this time dubbed doctor by a German university--passed five years
very pleasantly, but, in a worldly point of view, very unprofitably. He had failed on first
coming to Edinburgh in obtaining the musical chair, which seemed so appropriate a niche for
him; and however reluctant to leave his favourite normal classes and his adopted home, still
when he looked to the future, he was compelled to think of leaving Edinburgh--for the German
proverb still held true: 'Kunst geht nach brod;' and if man cannot live by bread _alone_, neither
can the artist live _without_ bread! At this juncture, the Chevalier Neukomm, of European celebrity
as a composer and organist, and a valued friend of Dr Mainzer, came to Edinburgh to inspect
his friend's normal classes. He was so much delighted with them, and considered Dr Mainzer
so little appreciated by the general public, that he persuaded him to try Manchester as his
future field of exertion.

In the autumn of 1848, accordingly, Neukomm introduced Mainzer to the leading men of that city,
who received him so cordially, that he at once took his proper position, and entered on a career
both useful and profitable, and which continued to be increasingly successful, until at Christmas
1850, he was laid aside by ill-health. Over-exertion had brought on a complication of diseases,
to which he was a martyr for ten months, and which terminated fatally on the 10th November
1851. During that long period of intense suffering, his active mind was never clouded nor repining,
and at every interval of comparative ease, he read or listened to reading with avidity. During
the first months of his illness, he superintended the publication of a new musical work, called
_The Orpheon_, two numbers of which appeared; and his last exertion in this way was arranging
two songs: _The Sigh_ of Charles Swain, and Longfellow's _Footsteps of Angels_, adapted to
Weber's last song. Prophetic requiems both!

A few weeks after his death, the hall which had been built in Edinburgh for the classes of
the Association which he founded, was opened by an amateur concert given as a tribute to his
memory. He had promised to preside on this occasion; but his place was filled by his aged,
but still vigorous friend, the Chevalier Neukomm, who had come to Edinburgh, at the request
of the Association, to compose a series of psalms, one of which was sung by the pupils. Music
for the Psalms, _adapted to the varying meaning of each verse_, has hitherto been a desideratum
in the musical world; now being supplied in Chevalier Neukomm's work, and already subscribed
for by no mean judges--the Queen and Prince Albert, the king of Prussia, &c. It was touching,
and yet gratifying, to see one of Dr Mainzer's oft-cherished hopes realised for the first time
that evening--that of the _musical union_ of accomplished amateurs of private life with the
pupils of the normal classes.

Having thus briefly traced Dr Mainzer's life, it now remains to offer a few remarks on his
general character. His talents were of a diversified and high order; and those who knew him
only as the author of 'Singing for the Million,' were not aware of his general cultivation
of mind. In the dead and living languages, he was equally at home: now he would be speculating
on the formation of the Greek chorus, and again mastering some dialect of modern Europe, in
order to elucidate the history of the people or their music and poetry. His literary articles
were sought after by all the leading journals in Germany and Paris; and his volumes of _Sketches
of Travel_, and of _The Lower Orders in Paris_, are graphic and entertaining. A year or two
ago, a _Notice Bibliographique_ of his works appeared in Paris, which contained a list of above
thirty publications. Great diligence, joined to enthusiasm, enabled him to accomplish so much
in these various departments of literature. His manners, too, were of that frank, cordial,
and agreeable tone which inspires confidence, and prepossessed every one in his favour; so
that from all he could obtain the information which he wished, and they could afford. Over
his pupils, his influence was immense. He had the rare art of engaging the entire attention
of children; and while he maintained strict discipline, he gained their warmest affection:
his own earnestness was reflected on the countenances of his pupils.

Those alone who knew him in private life could thoroughly estimate that purity of mind and
heart which eminently characterised him, along with a childlike simplicity and unworldliness,
which often, indeed, made him the prey of designing persons, but which, joined to his general
information and cheerfulness, made his society most attractive. His personal appearance was
indicative of a delicate and nervous organisation: slight and fragile in figure, with an intellectual
forehead and eye, that spoke of the preponderance of the _spirituelle_ in his idiosyncrasy;
one of those minds which are ever working beyond the powers of the body; ever planning new
achievements and new labours of love, and which too often, alas! go out at noonday, while half
their fond projects are unaccomplished, yet not before they have made a name to live, and left
the world their debtors!

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See _Chambers's Journal_, No. 226, New Series.

[2] See _Lays from Strathearn_, 4to.

A NEWCASTLE PAPER IN 1765-6.

There is scarcely anything more entertaining and instructive than a leisurely look over an
old newspaper file. A newspaper of any age is an attraction, and the current newspaper something
more, for it is now a necessity. But the next place to it in point of interest is perhaps due
to the journal half a century, or two-thirds of a century old. It introduces us, if we be youthful,
to the habits of our grandsires; and if we be in 'the sere, the yellow leaf,' to the habits
of our fathers, more fully than the pleasantest novel or most elaborate essay, and far more
intimately than the most correct and complete historical records. It enables us to observe
freely the position and avocations of the denizens of the past, and catch hasty, but most suggestive
glances at bygone days; it 'shews the very age and body of the time, its form and pressure.'
It is a milestone from which we may reckon our progress, and must delight as well as surprise
us by the advancement it shews us to have made in social and political life, particularly with
regard to those 'triumphs of mind over matter,' for which recent times have been pre-eminently
distinguished.

The writer of this article had lately an opportunity of inspecting a file of the _Newcastle
Chronicle_ for 1765-6, and the contrast between journals and things in general which that examination
forced on the attention, was in some respects sufficiently striking or curious to be, in his
opinion, deserving of some permanent record. At present, the journal in question almost, if
not entirely, reaches 'the largest size allowed by law;' at that time, it consisted merely
of a single demy sheet. Now, the Newcastle people would be amazed beyond measure if they did
not receive at breakfast-time, on the morning of publication, the parliamentary, and all other
important news of the night; then, the latest London news was four days old. But a better idea
of the journal can perhaps be given, by stating what it lacked than what it then contained.
It had no leaders, no parliamentary reports, and very little indeed, in any shape, that could
be termed political news. In these matters, its conductor had to say, with Canning's knife-grinder:
'Story! God bless you, I have none to tell, sir.' Not that the political world was unfruitful
in affairs of moment; it was a time of no small change, interest, and excitement. In the period
referred to, the Grenville ministry had endeavoured to burden the American colonies, by means
of the stamp-duties, with some of the debt contracted in the late war. Thereupon, immense discontent
had arisen at home and abroad; that administration had fallen; and the Rockingham ministry,
which was then formed, found full employment (in 1766) in undoing what had been effected in
the previous year. How the Grafton ministry was next formed; how the unfortunate design of
taxing the colonists was revived; and how that policy ended, readers of English history know
full well. John Wilkes, too, had been already persecuted into prominence, although not yet
forced up to the height of his popularity with the masses. But, notwithstanding these and other
stirring incidents, the _Chronicle_ was, politically speaking, almost a blank. From time to
time, it was stated that the royal assent had been given to certain measures; but concerning
the preparation and discussion of those measures, nothing was known. A few other political
facts of interest, indeed, such as the arrival of Wilkes in London from France; the repeal
of the obnoxious Stamp Act; the riots of the Spitalfields weavers on account of the importation
of French silks; and an attack upon the Speaker, and many of the members of the Dublin parliament,
who were grossly insulted, and kept from going to the House, in consequence of 'a report that
parliament designed to impose more taxes,' were also curtly noticed. Political rumours abounded,
although positive knowledge of that kind was exceedingly scanty; and the little that could
be obtained was eked out by inuendo, rather than by venturing on any direct statement. The
familiarity which, according to the proverb, is apt to breed contempt, was not then indulged
in with reference to rulers, parliaments, or even agitators. The emperor of Russia was alluded
to under the title of 'a great northern potentate;' parliament was spoken of as 'a certain
august assembly;' and Wilkes was usually entitled, 'a certain popular gentleman.'

Some of the political rumours are worthy of republication. The subjoined, from the London news
of July 29, 1766, serves to shew how long a political change may be mooted before its effect
is tried in this country: 'It is said, a bill will be brought into parliament next session,
binding elections for members of parliament to be by ballot.'

And, without at all entering into the discussion of political topics, it may perhaps be observed
that the following, taken from the _Chronicle_ of August 10, 1765, points out how an evil of
the present day has long been felt and acknowledged: 'We hear the electors of a certain borough
have been offered 3000 guineas for a seat, though there is but so short a time for the session
of the present parliament.'

Great surprise is expressed (1766) that the consumption of coal in London 'hath increased from
400,000 odd to 600,000 chaldrons yearly.' We find that the coal imported into London during
the first six months of 1851, amounted to 1,527,527 tons, besides 90,975 tons brought into
the metropolis during the same period by railway and canal. 'Carrying coal to Newcastle' proved
a successful speculation on September 25, 1765, when, on account of a strike among the pitmen,
'several pokes of coal were brought to this town by one of the common carriers, and sold on
the Sandhill for 9d. a poke, by which he cleared 6d. a poke.' About the same time, wheat was
selling in Darlington and Richmond for 4s. and 4s. 6d. per bushel, after having been nearly
double that price only two or three weeks previously. In the number for June 25, 1766, we have
the following quotation from a Doncaster letter:--'Corn sold last market-day from 12s. to 14s.
per quarter; meat, from 2-1/2d. to 3d. per pound; fowls, and other kinds of poultry, had no
price, being mostly carried home. I wish a scheme was set on foot, to run many such articles
to London by land-carriage; there is plenty here.' In the same paper, the prices of grain in
London are given: wheat, 36s. to 41s.; barley, 22s. to 25s.; oats, 16s. to 20s.

Recently, the Newcastle papers, led on by the _Chronicle_, have been making strenuous efforts
to extend the French coal-trade, but such exertions formed no part of the 'wisdom of our ancestors.'
The number for June 15, 1765, informs us that 'some sinister designs for exporting a very considerable
quantity of coals to France and elsewhere, have lately been discovered and prevented.' Sturdy
Britons had then far too much hatred for 'our natural enemies' to wish to exchange aught but
hostilities with them. About the same time, we learn that 'clubs of young gentlemen of fortune'
had come to the magnanimous resolve, 'to toast no lady who has so much inconsideration as to
lavish her money away in French fopperies, to the detriment of her own country.'

The style of advertising then in vogue occasionally gave the paper a somewhat pictorial appearance.
Cockfighting was in great force, and the public announcements relative to this barbarous sport
were invariably headed by a portraiture of a couple of game-birds facing each other with a
most belligerent aspect; while the numerous advertisements of horses 'stolen or strayed,' were
embellished by a representation of the supposed thief, mounted on the missing animal, which
was forced into a breakneck pace, while Satan himself, _in propria persona_, was perched on
the crupper, in an excited and triumphant attitude. In the local paragraphs, we note several
indicating a strong feeling of animosity between the Scotch and English borderers. We observe
also that the Newcastle dogs--to this day a very numerous fraternity--were at times quite unmanageable,
and caused, either by their ravenous exploits, or their downright madness, no small uneasiness
to the town and neighbourhood. It must be confessed, that in its marriage-notices, at least,
the _Chronicle_ was far superior to anything that journalism can now exhibit in Newcastle or
in Great Britain. These interesting announcements must have intensely delighted our grandmothers;
and, we fear, have frequently tempted our grandsires into a somewhat precipitate plunge into
the gulf of matrimony. Instead of barely specifying, as papers now do, that Mr Smith married
Miss Brown, the _Chronicle_ uniformly tantalised its bachelor readers with an account of the
personal, mental, and, if such there were, metallic charms of the bride; so that how any single
gentleman, in the teeth of such notifications, could retain his condition for long, is really
marvellous. Most of the young ladies who had thus bestowed themselves on their fortunate admirers,
are described as 'sprightly,' and many as 'genteel and agreeable;' some have 'a genteel fortune,'
other's 'a considerable fortune,' and others, again, rejoice in the possession of 'a large
fortune:' one man gains 'a well-accomplished young lady, with a fortune of L.1000;' another
takes unto himself 'an agreeable widow lady, with a fortune of L.2000;' a third marches off
with 'a young lady endowed with every accomplishment to make the marriage state happy, with
a fortune of L.5000;' while a fourth _Benedict_, more lucky still, obtains 'a most amiable,
affable, and agreeable young lady, with a fortune of L.10,000.' We suppose that the best excuse
newspaper editors now have for being less florid in their matrimonial announcements is, that
where the papers formerly had one, they have now at least a dozen of these interesting notices;
so that their brevity may be less owing to the want of gallantry than to the want of space.

So extremely meagre was the news, both foreign and domestic, that a considerable portion of
the four small pages of the _Chronicle_ was usually devoted to literature. Extracts were frequently
given from the works of Johnson, Smollett, and other popular writers, and a column was often
occupied by an essay from a contributor to the paper, generally treating of some social evil
or peculiarity, but never intermeddling with local or general politics. These effusions displayed
a very respectable amount of ability, and the general getting-up, or what would now be termed
the sub-editing of the paper, was also performed with care and ability. The scraps of news
were always presented rewritten and carefully condensed, instead of the loose 'scissors-and-paste'
style of publication adopted by many provincial papers of the present day. Notices not only
of local theatricals, but of histrionic matters at Old Drury, were occasionally given; the
number for March 15, 1766, containing a well-written criticism of '_The Clandestine Marriage;
a New Comedy_,' performed there. As the _Chronicle_ thus had to leave politics for literature,
we may perhaps, in our turn, digress from a consideration of its pages, to note briefly that
this period was set in the very midst of the celebrated Georgian era, in which this country
could boast of more distinguished men--especially in literature--than at any other period.
In about twenty previous years, many great ones had departed--notably Pope, Thomson, Fielding.
Richardson also had died in 1761, and Shenstone in 1763; the author of the _Night-Thoughts_
survived till 1765, when his burial was announced in the _Chronicle_ of April 27. At this time
(1765-6), Dr Johnson had reached the zenith of his fame; Gray was becoming popular; Smollett
had written most of his novels; Goldsmith was about to present the world with his exquisite
_Vicar of Wakefield_; Gibbon had returned to England from Rome with the idea of _The Decline
and Fall_ floating in his brain; Thomas Chatterton,

          ----'the marvellous boy,
    The sleepless soul that perished in his pride,'

had already given proofs of his wondrous precocity; the genuine sailor-poet, Falconer, had
lately published _The Shipwreck_; Laurence Sterne had just collected the materials for his
_Sentimental Journey_; Sir William Blackstone had published his celebrated _Commentaries_;
Wesley and Whitefield had not yet ended their useful career; the star of Edmund Burke was rising;
and Jeremy Bentham, being then (1766) but seventeen years of age, had taken his master's degree
at Oxford, although, it is true, the first literary performance of the eccentric philosopher
did not appear till some years later. Home, Moore, and Colman, had appeared successfully as
dramatists, and were about to be followed by Macklin, Cumberland, Goldsmith, and Sheridan.
Newcastle or district celebrities of the time included Mark Akenside, the author of _The Pleasures
of the Imagination_; Dr Thomas Percy, dean of Carlisle, who published, in 1765, his _Reliques
of English Poetry_; and Dr John Langhorne, a northern divine of no small popularity in his
day as a poet. Among other illustrious living men, were Horace Walpole, Henry Mackenzie, Blair,
Hume, Adam Smith, Dr Robertson, Garrick, Reynolds; and last, not least, William Pitt, who,
in 1766, was created Earl of Chatham.

But let us return to our more immediate purpose--that of making a few selections from the _Chronicle_,
some of which will doubtless reflect far less credit on the age than the enumeration we have
just made of eminent individuals. Now and then, a duel took place in Hyde Park. The amusements
of some of our aristocrats did not always exhibit them in any very dignified position, as witness
the subjoined:--'Sir Charles Bunbury ran 100 yards at Newmarket for 1000 guineas, against a
tailor with 40 lb. weight of cabbage, _alias_ shreds.'

Here is a paragraph, from the number for March 15, 1766, relative to the recreations of some
less elevated in the social scale: 'Sunday morning, a little before three o'clock, a match
at marbles was played under the piazza at Covent Garden by the light of thirty-two links (by
several rogues well known in that circle), for twenty guineas a side.'

A few other quotations may be deemed worthy of republication, although some of them may have
no direct or important bearing. The audacity of highway robbers at this period is known to
everybody. The following, dated December 21, 1765, gives a tolerably correct idea of the usual
style adopted by those gentlemen of the road:--'Thursday, the Leeds and Leicester stage-coaches
were stopped on Finchley Common by a highwayman, who took from the passengers a considerable
sum of money. A nobleman's cook, a young woman about twenty-five, declared she would not be
robbed, when the highwayman, admiring her courage, let her alone. He broke the coach-glass
with his pistol, and gave the coachman half-a-crown to get it mended.' News from London, dated
January 9, 1765, says: 'Early on Tuesday morning, a member of parliament, on his return home
in a chair to his house in New Palace Yard, was stopped and robbed by a single footpad of his
purse, in which were sixty-three guineas.'

About the same time, we are informed that 'the celebrated J.J. Rousseau hath for the present
taken up his residence at a friend's house in Putney.'--The number for October 26, 1765, contains
an advertisement of a 'beggar's stand' (copied from the _Public Advertiser_), 'to be let, in
a charitable neighbourhood. Income, about 30s. a week.'

The following reference to our acquaintances, the Sikhs, now sufficiently well known, is curious,
as it is doubtless one of their first appearances in the columns of the English press. It is
dated July 5, 1766: 'The Seyques, an idolatrous people inhabiting the neighbourhood of Cachemire,
whose name was hardly known two years ago, have beaten Abdaly and the Patanes whom he commanded.'
Modern Cockneys would stare to read a paragraph like this: 'A great deal of grass hath been
cut down about Islington, Kentish-Town,' &c.

We will conclude our selections, which have now grown quite desultory and miscellaneous, by
the brief obituary of a 'remarkable' man, from the _Chronicle_ of July 26, 1766: 'Thursday,
died at his house near Hampstead, the Rev. Mr Southcote, remarkable for having a leg of mutton
every night for supper during a course of forty years, smoking ten pipes as constantly, and
drinking three bottles of port.'

GENIUS FOR EMIGRATION.

Lady E. Stuart Wortley, in the account of her journey in America, mentions that she saw a man
proceeding on foot across the Isthmus of Panama, bound for the Pacific, carrying a huge box
on his back that would almost have contained a house. It was really a dreadful thing to see
the poor man, full-cry for California, toiling along with his enormous burden, under a tropical
sun, the heat of which he required to endure through forty miles of wilderness, and no chance
of relief or refreshment by the way. Yet this serio-comic spectacle is not singular. Multitudes
seem to have gone to the diggings with every species of encumbrance, and in a totally unsuitable
garb. Splendid dress-coats and waistcoats, boots and pantaloons, but no working-clothes, nor
implements for camping, and in many instances not even a cloak: everything suitable for the
enjoyment of their golden promises, with nothing to assist in realising them.

Nearly the same thing has occurred in innumerable instances as regards Australia. The men going
thither must in general be shepherds or their masters; and to be either to any purpose, they
must go far into the bush. For this they required a talent for constructing huts for themselves
and servants, and hurdles for the cattle, and consequently tools to assist them; but they often
went without either tools or talents, and so had to pay extravagantly for very common services.
They may have had common clothes, but they had made no provision for living far from the assistance
of women; and consequently, if a coat-sleeve was torn, it must hang just as it was; if a stocking
was out at heel, having neither needles nor worsted, nor the power of using them, they had
no other resource but to _tie_ the _hole_ together. They had no idea of washing and dressing,
and consequently must want clean linen, or stockings, and every other article of clean apparel,
till a woman could be heard of, and bribed to assist them. The consequence was, that it was
cheaper to buy new articles than either wash or mend the old. It is doubtful whether many had
not omitted to learn to shave themselves, or to provide razors or strops, or even scissors.

Then as to baking bread, or cooking the humblest meal, they were equally at a loss. They seem
to have had no idea of the humblest grate, or even of a flat and easily-cleaned stone for a
hearth; and so, having kneaded their 'damper,' it is never said how they thrust it in the ashes
till it was partially heated, and comparatively fit to be eaten. They have mutton, and mutton
only; but how cooked is equally unknown. It is not known that they have any apparatus whatever,
stew or frying pan, or even a hook and string. Yet the natives of Scotland may have seen many
things nicely baked by means of a hot hearthstone below, a griddle with live coals above, and
burning turf all round. A single pot with water is a boiler; with the juice of the meat, or
little more, a stew-pan; or merely surrounded by fire, an oven: but it is believed many have
not that single pot. Even the cheap crock that holds salted meat might also be turned into
a pudding-dish; and such a vessel as that which of old held the ashes of the dead, and now
occasionally holds salt, the French peasant often turns into a _pot-au-feu_--a pot for boiling
his soup--and makes that soup out of docks and nettles collected by the wayside, with a little
meal--delicious if seasoned with salt and a scrap of meat, or a well-picked lark or sparrow,
or even a nicely-skinned and washed thigh of a frog!

The natives of New Holland themselves get fat upon serpents well-killed--that is, with the
heads adroitly cut off, so as not to suffer the poison to go through the body; or upon earth
or tree worms nicely roasted. The Turks roast their _kebabs_--something near to mutton-chops--by
holding them to the fire on skewers. But the inhabitants of Great Britain, accustomed to comforts
unknown to any other part of the world, are, when deprived of these comforts, the most helpless
in the world.

The natives of Ireland might be supposed to be excellent subjects for emigration, for at home
they have often only straw and rags for beds, stones for seats, and one larger in the middle
for a table; while the basket or 'kish' that washes the potatoes, receives them again when
boiled: so that the pot and basket are the only articles of furniture. Simplicity beyond this
is hardly conceivable: there is but one step beyond it--wanting the pot, and throwing the potatoes,
however cooked, broadcast upon the stone-table; and this is possible by roasting the potatoes
in the embers. The Guachos of South America teach how even the most savoury meal of beef may
be obtained without pot or oven--namely, by roasting it in the skin! It is called _carne-con-cuero_--flesh
in the skin--and is pronounced delicious. Diogenes threw away his dish, his only article of
furniture, upon seeing a boy drink from his hand; and after this example, an Irishman might
throw away his pot; though we would not recommend him to do so.

Unless people know how to prepare food, they may starve in the midst of comparative plenty.
It is alleged--though we do not vouch for the fact--that when wheat and maize were carried
into Ireland and given gratis, the famine was not stayed. Though they had the wheat and maize,
they could not grind them; if ground, they could not cook them--they had neither vessels nor
fuel; if vessels and fuel were given, they were still unable to assist themselves--they had
not skill to cook them; and if cooked, they could not eat them--they had never been accustomed
to do so! Such are the effects of carrying contentment too far: the individual becomes wholly
resourceless.

