At the end of May, Murat was in Madrid as commander-in-chief, with Moncey as his lieutenant;
he had thirty thousand troops. Junot was in Portugal with twenty-five thousand. Bessières had
twenty-five thousand more, half in Old Castile under himself, half in Aragon under Verdier.
Duhesme commanded the thirteen thousand who were in Catalonia; Dupont stood on the Tagus near
Toledo with twenty-four thousand more. In the first weeks of June four different skirmishes
occurred between the French regulars and the insurgents in different parts of the country.
Verdier at Logroño on the sixth, Frère in Segovia on the seventh, Lefebvre at Tudela on the
eighth, and Lasalle near Valladolid on the twelfth, had all dispersed the hordes opposed to
them. By the middle of the month a regular advance was ordered. It took the form of dispersion
for the sake of complete occupation. While Lefebvre laid siege to Saragossa, Moncey started
for Valencia with ten thousand soldiers, Dupont for Andalusia with nine thousand, and Bessières's
division was distributed throughout Castile up to the walls of Santander, which closed its
gates and prepared for resistance. Owing to the defiant attitude and desperate courage of the
people, every one of these movements was unsuccessful, each failing in its own special purpose.
Cordova was captured, but it had almost instantly to be abandoned. At once Napoleon changed
his carefully studied but futile strategy, and determined to concentrate the scattered columns
on the critical point, wherever it might be. By this time Palafox and others of the Spanish
leaders had shown great ability as generals. The danger now was that a Spanish army would seize
Madrid, and thither the French army must betake itself. On July fourteenth Bessières successfully
overwhelmed the opposition made at Medina de Rio Seco by the Spaniards under La Cuesta and
the Irish general Blake. The only corps left exposed was that of Dupont, to whom reinforcements
had been promptly despatched; but the Spaniards under Castaños caught his army, now twenty-five
thousand strong, in the mountain pass of La Carolina, among the Sierra Moreña mountains, and
on July twenty-first forced him to capitulate at Baylen, where his whole corps laid down their
arms.

This was an awful blow, for Madrid was thereby rendered untenable. The Emperor gave orders
to retreat behind the Duero, and directed Bessières to keep open the connection with Junot
by way of Valladolid. In fact, he began to appreciate his task, for he warned his generals
against any system of cordons in dealing with such an enemy, useful as a string of posts might
be in checking smugglers; and besides this change of plan, there were indications that he would
himself soon take charge in Spain. There was need of this, for his generals and boy-soldiers
did not stop to hold the Duero; evacuating Madrid, they never halted until they were behind
the Ebro, in what they considered a kind of French borderland. The siege of Saragossa was abandoned,
and Duhesme evacuated Catalonia. Junot's situation was thus rendered most precarious, for when
Wellesley landed early in August with fourteen thousand English troops, and found that the
junta of Corunna had no need of him, he promptly advanced against the invaders of Portugal.
Having driven in the French outposts on the seventeenth, four days later he attacked and defeated
Junot at Vimeiro. At the very height of the contest, when victory seemed already secure, Burrard,
a superior officer, arrived to assume command. This reduced Wellesley to the rank of an adviser,
and, his advice not being taken, Junot escaped to the strong position of Cintra, whence, although
entirely cut off from his base in Spain, he was able to dictate his own terms of surrender.
He and all his troops had a free return by sea to France, but Portugal was to be evacuated.

Napoleon was at St. Cloud, near Paris, when the news of this disaster arrived. To some extent
he was already aware of the situation. He knew that the Spaniards would not keep any stipulations
they made, claiming that no faith was due to a hostile army which had entered their country
under the guise of allies--an army, moreover, which stole the sacred vessels from the sanctuaries
of their churches, and would not keep its promise to restore them. The letters of Joseph, who
was now utterly disenchanted, had for some time been but one string of bitter complaints. He
had asked the Emperor whether an end could not be made to the organized pillage of the churches,
and had told him that the movement in Spain was as irrepressible as that of the French Revolution,
emphasizing his hopelessness by the suggestion that if France had raised a million soldiers,
Spain could probably raise at least half as many. He said, too, that men talked openly of assassinating
him; that he had no friends but the scoundrels, the honest men and patriots being on the other
side. "My generals," was the Emperor's comment on this querulousness, "are a parcel of post-inspectors;
the Ebro is nothing but a line; we must resume the offensive at Tudela." "I have a spot there,"
he said, pointing with his finger at his uniform. To calm his brother's fears, he replied that
the whole Spanish matter had been arranged long before with Russia; that Europe recognized
the change as an accomplished fact; and that the priests and monks were at the bottom of all
the trouble, stirring up sedition, and acting for the greedy Inquisition. "There is no question
of death, but of life and victory; you shall have both.... I may find in Spain the Pillars
of Hercules, but not the limits of my power." True to his old principles, Napoleon refused
to "call off the thieves," as Joseph besought him, and declared that, according to the laws
of war, when a town was captured under arms pillage was justifiable.

These were all brave words, but the Emperor was in the last stage of exasperation. The letters
he wrote at the time betray something of the unutterable pain he felt. No one but himself could
really know the difference to him: his glory was smirched, his Oriental plans and his scheme
for peace with England were indefinitely postponed, his impatient ally was again put off, while
Austria and Prussia were encouraged to revolt. Was the vast structure he had so laboriously
erected now to fall in one crash at his feet? The news of Junot's surrender was further embittered
by the receipt of information that the Spanish troops under General La Romana, which had slyly
been posted first in Hamburg, and then sent to Denmark as Bernadotte's advance-guard, had at
last revolted, and were embarking on English ships for home in order to join the movement of
national redemption. By this disaster the demonstration against Sweden promised to the Czar
was made impossible. This accumulation of misfortunes--defeat before Valencia, defeat before
Saragossa, disaster and surrender at Baylen, disaster and disgrace at Vimeiro, retreat from
Madrid, desertion of the Duero as a line of defense, exchange of the offensive for a weak defensive,
and loss of the whole Iberian peninsula except the strip behind the Ebro--all this was shameful
and hard to bear. Nevertheless, under favorable conditions the situation might have been retrieved.
The conditions, however, were most unfavorable. The example and success of Spain were daily
giving new comfort to Napoleon's enemies both in France and abroad.

For the present, however, France might be trusted. The people as a whole had become imperial
to the core. The republicans and royalists were so diminished in numbers, and so silenced by
the censorship, that they were virtually impotent. The real ability of the country was no longer
in retreat, but in the public service; the administration, both financial and judicial, had
every appearance of solidity, and the industrial conditions were so steadily improving that
the most enterprising and intelligent merchants began to have faith in the ultimate success
of the Continental System as a means of securing a European monopoly to French manufactures
and commerce. The perfect centralization of France kept the provinces in such close touch with
Paris that there was no open expression of discontent in any part of the country. The people
were not well informed as to the facts, and they were slow to apprehend the significance of
what they learned. By this time the Emperor was France, and whatever he did must be well done.
The gradual infusion of the military spirit into the masses had made them passive and obedient.
There had been, they knew, some unpleasant troubles beyond the Pyrenees, but the season was
not over, and before winter the Emperor's discipline would no doubt be successful. The grand
army now pouring out of Germany across France into Spain evidently meant serious business,
but there could be no doubt of the result.

The court remained solemn and dull in its weary round of ceremony. The moving spirit was now
occupied elsewhere, and his constant absent-mindedness made the whole structure meaningless;
for it was an open secret that the soft grace and beseeching eyes, the graceful and willowy
form, the exquisite taste and winning ways of Josephine would avail her no longer. The little
nephew, Hortense's son and Napoleon's darling, his intended heir, was dead; Joseph had only
daughters, and there being no male successor to the throne, reasons of state made a divorce
inevitable.[25] The deference of others to the Empress and her condescension to them were but
a mockery, the reality of her power having vanished. In this vain show the Emperor moved more
dark and mysterious than ever. It was his will that nothing should be changed, and every courtier
played his part as well as possible, the two leading actors playing theirs superbly. There
was an outward display of confidence and kindness between them, which sometimes may have been
real; there were quarrels, explanations, and reconciliations--a momentary return at times to
old affection: but the resultant of the conflicting forces was such as to destroy conjugal
trust and create general disquietude.

         [Footnote 25: Masson: Joséphine répudiée. Welschinger, La
         divorce de Napoléon.]

When Napoleon looked abroad he saw nothing to reassure him, and everything to create alarm.
In Prussia there was a regeneration such as was comparable only to a new birth. The old military
monarchy, under which the land had been repressed like an armed camp by its sovereigns, was
gone forever. The Tugendbund, that "band of virtue" already mentioned, had ramified to the
farthest borders; partizan warfare was abandoned; piety, dignity, purity, courage, and the
power of organization were filling the land. The presence of the French could not quench the
new spirit, but instead it added fuel to the flames of national hatred. Patriotic conventicles
and every other form of secret meeting were held. Scharnhorst went steadily on with the training
and reform of the army, while Stein, with a noble devotion, and under an unsympathetic master,
was working to perfect his new administrative system. The churches were filled, and the hearers
understood every allusion in the glowing sermons addressed to them by a devoted and patriotic
clergy; schools, colleges, and universities swarmed with students, whose youthful zeal found
every encouragement in the instruction of their teachers, which combined two qualities not
always found united in teaching, being at the same time thoroughly scientific and highly stimulating.

At last, in August, Napoleon, who had looked and listened with deep interest, read with his
own eyes in one of Stein's intercepted letters that the minister and his colleagues were aiming
at a national uprising, not of Prussia alone, but of all Germany. The illustrious statesman,
having emancipated the Prussian people, and having seen the reform of the whole political organism
in that great land, was proceeding to extend his beneficent influence throughout all Germany.
In September Napoleon demanded Stein's dismissal, and enforced the demand by sequestrating
Frederick William's Westphalian estates, threatening at the same time to continue the French
occupation of Prussia indefinitely. There was apparently no alternative, for the country, although
rejuvenated, had no allies, and could not fight alone. Stein, therefore, resigned after an
eventful ministry of about a year, in which he had prepared the way for every one of the changes
which ultimately reconstructed Prussia.

The two movements which in Spain and Germany menaced Napoleon's prestige were national; there
were two others, which, if not that, may, by a stretch of definition, be called at least dynastic.
The first was a revolution in Constantinople. The Sultan Mustapha IV had been from the beginning
a feeble creature of the soldiers, who, after overthrowing Selim, had set him on the throne.
Before long he became the contemptible tool of an irresponsible robber gang known as the "yamacks,"
who, under the guise of militia, held the Turkish capital in terror. The situation in Constantinople
had finally grown unendurable even to the Turks, and the Pasha of Rustchuk appeared at the
gates of the city to restore Selim III, who was still a captive in the Seraglio. When the doors
of that sacred inclosure were forced open, the first object seen was the body of the murdered
sovereign, killed by Mustapha in the belief that he himself was now the sole available survivor
of Othman's line. But the soldiers ransacked the palace, and dragged from his concealment the
young prince Mahmud, second of the name, and destined to be a great reformer. Him they proclaimed
Sultan and set upon the throne, appointing their leader grand vizir. The new government was
devoted to reform, contemptuous of French influence, and determined to repress the evils which
seemed to have ruined its predecessor. This severity was more than the licentious capital would
endure. At once every element of discontent burst forth again,--the janizaries, the Ulema,
or doctors of the sacred law, and the people,--some mistrusting one thing, others another,
all alike unwilling to obey any master but their own will. Disintegration of what little administrative
organization there still was, seemed imminent. The Turkish generals on the Danube began to
make light of the armistice or truce of Slobozia, Napoleon's one reliance in his Eastern designs;
they actually set in motion their troops, and prepared to take the offensive against Russia.
This was in the hope that, before asking a separate peace from the Czar or returning to seize
the leadership at Constantinople, they might secure some military prestige as a working capital.
The whole outlook seemed to foretell the extinction of French influence with the Porte and
a crash in the Orient before Napoleon was ready to take advantage of it.

But the events of Bayonne had been productive of greater alarm to the house of Austria than
to any other power. In the humiliation of the Hohenzollerns, Napoleon had the sanction of conquest,
though, in view of Prussia's rising strength, it was now commonly said that he had done too
much or too little. While in weakening that nation he had rudely lopped the strength of an
old French ally, yet he had not destroyed it, and he had exercised what all Europe still admitted
to be a right--that of superior force. Austria, on the other hand, had been an old and inveterate
rival of France in the race for territorial extension. Napoleon's treatment of her after Austerlitz
had been bitter, but the Hapsburgs could not plead former friendship. Here, however, was a
new development in Napoleonic ambition. The successive announcements that minor ruling dynasties
had ceased to reign had all been made with the partial justification of either conquest or
general expediency, or, as in most cases, of both. The Spanish Bourbons had been the Emperor's
most obsequious and useful allies, obeying his behests without a question: for their degradation
there was no plea either of expediency or of a right secured by conquest. The extinction of
what still ranked as a great royal house was accomplished by chicane, was due to a boundless
ambition, and was rendered utterly abhorrent to all divine-right dynasties by the specious
pretext of reform under which it was accomplished. This gave Francis food for reflection.

In the territorial expansion of Rome her victims were first conquered, then made dependent
allies, then at last destroyed, and their lands turned into Roman provinces. It appeared as
if this, too, were, in general, Napoleon's policy; but in some cases he showed himself quite
willing to dispense with any intermediary stage and marched direct to his goal. Austria, already
irritated by the disposition made of Etruria and by the treatment of the Pope, could endure
the suspense as to her own fate no longer. Her new military system was complete, her armies
were reorganized and reëquipped, her administration was well ordered, her generals and statesmen
were alike confident. The Emperor of the French had shown quite the same impatience with Austria
in July as with Prussia in September, admonishing both to observe the Continental System with
strictness; but his warning produced no effect at Vienna. On the contrary, the Viennese newspapers
took a belligerent tone, and called for war; English goods poured in through the harbor of
Triest; communications between the ministry at London and the cabinet at Vienna became more
frequent and regular; the nation supported its monarch and assumed a warlike attitude. The
disasters in Spain tied Napoleon's hands, and he did nothing in a military way except to call
Davout from Poland into Silesia, and to strengthen Mortier in Franconia.

With the inconsistency of the highest greatness, Napoleon changed his whole political campaign
in the twinkling of an eye, as he so often did his military ones. During the long months since
the interview at Tilsit, Alexander had been kept in an agony of uncertainty, deprived of real
French coöperation in regard either to Sweden or to Turkey, and actually menaced by the continued
occupation of Prussia and the fortification of the strategic points in the duchy of Warsaw.
Caulaincourt had found his mission of dissimulation and procrastination most difficult, partly
by reason of Pozzo di Borgo's influence, partly because the conquest of Muscovite society was
a task hitherto unknown to French arts, and experience had to be dearly bought. In this latter
work his success was very moderate, but he became unconsciously an intimate friend and adviser
of the Czar. This displeased Napoleon, who promptly recalled him to his senses by a warning
that he must not forget that he was a Frenchman. Caulaincourt bravely repelled the insinuation,
but the correspondence of Napoleon both with him and with the Czar became so voluminous that
the Emperor was virtually his own ambassador.

The contents of these letters were partly personal and friendly; partly promissory, in preparation
for what was about to be done at Bayonne; partly preliminary to the second interview between
the two emperors, which had been mentioned at Tilsit and often discussed since then. But so
far there was not the slightest change of front, no substantial fulfilment of the vague promises,
no coöperation; the world was still under the system of Tilsit in the union of Russia and France--a
union so far represented by the will of Napoleon. The events at Bayonne deeply affected Alexander.
His ally knew they would, and on July tenth he wrote a long letter to St. Petersburg, lamely
justifying his conduct. But, after all, the Czar cared little for ancient European dynasties,
and, recovering from the first shock, he began to make sport of a king "who had nothing further
to live for than his Louise and his Emmanuel," and then took a firm stand in approval of his
ally's course. The French and Russian ministers had now completed their scheme for the partition
of Turkey, and the Czar finally and unconditionally assented to the second meeting with the
Emperor.

But before the details of the all-important interview could be arranged there was much to be
done; in particular, Austria must be held in check. An English vessel had arrived at Triest
with a deputation of Spanish insurgents who offered the throne of their country to the Archduke
Charles. The armaments of Francis grew stronger day by day. No one could hold the Hapsburg
empire in check except the Czar. Even amid the exhausting labors of Bayonne, Napoleon remembered
this, and thought of the East, reorganizing his fleet in preparation for coöperation with that
of Russia, and commanding reports to be made on the geography and military history of Persia.
After the loss of Baylen, of which he learned in the first days of August, his ingenuity did
not desert him, in spite of his heavy heart. A swift courier was despatched on the fifth, with
a letter dated back to July twenty-first, and written as if in ignorance of events in Spain.
He was enjoined to outrun the ordinary news-carriers, in order that, reaching St. Petersburg
before them, he might present as an offering of friendship to Alexander the promise of a virtual
evacuation of Prussia--even, in certain contingencies, of Warsaw. Twenty-four hours later another
messenger was despatched, conveying the bad news in the mildest form, and expressing as the
Emperor's greatest concern a hope that the Russian squadron which had been sent to Lisbon would
escape, as he had reassuring news from its commander. It mattered not to him that this was
untrue; the end was gained, and the real significance of Baylen was thereby largely concealed
from the Czar, or at least the impression made on him by the news was weakened.

Waiting for these communications to produce their effect, the Emperor forwarded a formal remonstrance
to Vienna, in his own name, against Austria's warlike attitude, and two weeks later categorically
demanded a similar step from the Czar, opening out once more the vista of indefinite aggrandizement
for Russia in the East if only the European conflagration were not rekindled. The Czar was
charmed by the promises of Napoleon, but when it came to a menacing remonstrance with Austria
he hesitated. The anti-French party in Russia were now repeating, like parrots, first, Spain
is annihilated, then Austria, then we ourselves. Moreover, as Alexander himself felt, arrangements
like those of Tilsit are but too easily overset by unforeseen circumstances, and in such an
event what would Europe be without the Hapsburgs? In the end a feeble hint, backed up by a
weak menace, was sent to Vienna. Peace, wrote the Czar, is the best policy for Austria. "May
not the peace of Tilsit, which I made, carry some obligations with it?" The warning produced
a momentary impression in the city on the Danube.[26]

         [Footnote 26: See Vandal, Vol. I, Chapitre Préliminaire.]

In this short interval every preparation was hastened for the interview which had now become
indispensable to both parties. Napoleon had only one object--to draw the alliance closer in
the eyes of all Europe for the conservation of his prestige. Alexander had several--the mitigation
of Prussia's bondage, the successful occupation of Finland, and, what was the real bond of
the alliance, the partition of Turkey. This was substantially what the Czar had been promised
at Tilsit, but he had not yet obtained a single item of the list then agreed upon. In spite
of Caulaincourt's caresses and Napoleon's cajoling, he was now in a determined humor, and meant
to demand the fulfilment of his ally's engagement, not from good will, but from necessity.
Talleyrand, wearied to distraction by the dull life of Valençay and the charge of the Spanish
princes, had determined to regain his diplomatic power, and now began, by the agency of his
many devoted friends in Paris, an extensive course of preparation for a return to public life
and to influence. Through semi-official channels the Czar was informed that France, drunk with
victory and conquest, now looked to his wisdom for protection from the further ambitions of
her fiery ruler. Before long Alexander's own agents began to confirm this statement. The French
nation, at least the reasonable portion of it, they said, was weary of Napoleon's imperial
policy. If this were true, Spain and Austria might be used to hold France in check while Russia
should work her will on the Danube. No matter now if her ally were faithless: compliance could
be forced from his weakness.

This disposition had been partly foreseen by Napoleon; he was informed by Caulaincourt how
steadily it was crystallizing into a fixed determination. To the observer the moment seemed
critical, but the great adventurer was still able to ride the storm. Whence the impulse came
is not easily determined, but he turned to Talleyrand as an agent likely to be useful in such
complications. The intriguer came forward promptly, and, receiving the Caulaincourt despatches,
together with a verbal explanation from the Emperor, was quickly in readiness for the duty
of counselor, to which he was called. Napoleon himself assumed a lofty tone. On August fifteenth
he held a levee at St. Cloud to which all the representatives of foreign powers were summoned;
those of Russia and Austria stood near together. Again, as on the famous occasion before the
rupture of the peace of Amiens, he uttered a public allocution in the form of a conversation;
this time it was with Metternich, the Austrian ambassador, and he was calmer and more courtly.
Reproaching the Emperor of Austria with ingratitude, he announced his political policy; to
wit, that Russia would hold Austria in check, while he and Alexander divided the East between
them without reference to Francis, unless the latter should disarm and recognize Joseph as
king of Spain. Tolstoi remained frigid throughout the long harangue. It was he who had declared
and repeated that eventually Napoleon, having humbled Austria, would attack Russia. A fortnight
earlier, in an interview with the stern old Russian, the Emperor had asseverated the contrary,
but to no effect: Tolstoi had shown no symptoms of faith or conviction. The address to Metternich
was, therefore, a second string to Napoleon's bow in case he should fail at Erfurt to win Alexander.
His general mien was undaunted and his tone loftier than ever. The tenor of his private conversation
with Metternich and others was that he would rest content with what he had. Spain would no
longer be a danger in the rear, Austria and Russia would be his allies, sharing in the mastery
of the world, and England, the irreconcilable enemy of them all, would be finally reduced to
ignominious surrender by the loss of her means of subsistence.

CHAPTER XII

NAPOLEON AND ALEXANDER AT ERFURT[27]

         [Footnote 27: See Fischer: Goethe und Napoleon. Pingaud:
         Bernadotte, Napoléon et les Bourbons. Rose: Napoleonic
         Studies. Bernhardi: Geschichte Russlands und der europäischen
         Politik im XIX^ten Jahrhundert. Schilder: The Emperor
         Alexander I, his Life and Reign.]

     Napoleon's Imperial Hospitality -- The Interviews of Napoleon and
     Goethe -- Meeting of Napoleon and Wieland -- Their Conversation
     -- The Gains of Russia -- Dangerous Elements in the Dual League
     -- Austria Menaced -- Napoleon's Marital Relations -- Fouché's
     Machinations for the Divorce of Josephine -- Napoleon's Proposal
     for a Russian Princess.

The second meeting of the two most powerful monarchs then living occurred at Erfurt on September
twenty-seventh, and their deliberations lasted eighteen days. It was Napoleon's greatest diplomatic
engagement, and he was the victor. The town was his, and he was, of course, the host. Such
splendid hospitality as he lavished would have touched a harder heart than Alexander's. The
luxury and military display were barbaric on the one hand, while, on the other, Germany's greatest
scholars and men of letters were summoned to flatter the Czar's intellectual pretensions. There
was the same exhibition, too, of frank personal confidence and of imperial magnanimity as at
Tilsit. Talleyrand and the Russian chancellor, Rumianzoff, held protracted conferences, the
former, as he confesses in his memoirs, plotting against his master's interests, in order to
see that Austria should suffer no harm. Day after day Napoleon and Alexander paced the floor
of the great room in the palace which had been fitted as an office, examining details and bringing
matters to a conclusion. There was intoxication in the very air. The kings of Bavaria, Würtemberg,
and Westphalia were present with their consorts and attendant courtiers; so, too, were the
Prince Primate and the minor rulers of Germany. The drawing-rooms, streets, and theaters of
Erfurt were filled with the splendors of their gorgeous apparel and that of their bedizened
attendants. On October fourth the "Oedipe" of Voltaire was given at the playhouse before the
assembled courts. At the words, "A great man's friendship is a boon from the gods," Alexander
rose, and, grasping Napoleon's hand, stood for a moment in an attitude that typified a renewed
alliance. The house thundered with applause.

More memorable still was the appearance on the scene of Germany's most transcendent genius,
who came to lay the homage of his intellect at the feet of him whom he considered at the moment,
and long after, not only to be the greatest power, but the greatest idealist, in the world.
Goethe and Napoleon met twice--once in Erfurt, once in Weimar. On both occasions it was the
man of arms who sought out the man of letters--_par nobile fratrum_. They talked of Werther
and his sorrows; the Emperor appreciatively, and with a knowledge of detail. It is said that
the latter took exception to some one passage in particular; which one is not known. The poet
had probably just risen from penning the "Elective Affinities," and seemed to recognize his
dazzling host as a creature familiar with such ties, transcending the bounds of nations, the
trammels of commonplace human limitations, the confines of ordinary thought and speech. "A
great man can be recognized only by his peers," is one of Goethe's own sentences. What to the
poet were common men and the chains of political bondage, what were nations and their ambitions,
in comparison with a society where mind and morals had the glorious license of Olympians and
could follow the unobstructed paths of inclination in realms controlled only by fancy! Napoleon's
greeting was laconic, "Vous êtes un homme." This flattered Goethe, who called it the inverse
"ecce homo," and felt its allusion to his citizenship, not in Germany, but in the world. The
nineteenth-century Cæsar then urged the great writer to carry out an already-formed design
and compose a drama on the life of his own great prototype; such a work, he was sure, would
be worthier of the theme than Voltaire's effort. At St. Cloud Napoleon had once paid a glowing
eulogy to the power of tragic dramas, and, speaking of Corneille, declared that to his inspiration
the French nation owed many of its finest impulses and its most brilliant deeds. "If he were
here, I would make him a prince." To Goethe he now said that in art, as in politics, there
should be rule and ordered beauty; apropos of the drama imitated from Shakspere, which mingles
tragedy and comedy, the terrible with the burlesque, he expressed surprise that a great mind
like Goethe's did not like clean-cut models--"N'aime pas les genres tranchés." These two judgments,
taken together, give a valuable picture of Napoleon's mind.

Amid the brilliant scenes arranged for the entertainment of Napoleon in the stately little
town of Weimar, when surrounded by that German aristocracy which he had humbled, he summoned
to his presence the man who in the two periods of his career personified first the strength
and then the weakness of the German folk--the aged Wieland. Indeed, the Emperor's conversation
throughout that excursion to Weimar was chiefly of learning, as if he bowed before German knowledge,
German science, German letters. He had studied much, he said, in the barracks, "when I was
a young lieutenant of artillery," and his cold, piercing glance seemed to search the very hearts
of the proud princes and dukes who crowded around and literally stood at his chair in domestic
service. It was at the ball given by the Grand Duchess that he asked for Wieland. During the
evening this gentle and now temperate old man had been present while the actors of the French
comedy, brought among other decorative trappings from Paris, had declaimed the "Death of Cæsar"
from the stage of the ducal theater; he had listened to Talma's significant utterance of the
words, "Rule without violence over a conquered universe," and then, wearied by the excitement
of these strange experiences, had withdrawn from further revelry. The Grand Duchess of Weimar,
anxious to gratify her great guest, sent her carriage to fetch the author of "Oberon"; and
rather than detain the illustrious dictator, the poet started as he was, in his ordinary garments,
with unpowdered hair, wearing his little skull-cap and felt shoes. The meeting was therefore
most dramatic. The dancing almost ceased when Napoleon advanced to meet his visitor, for the
company crowded in a wide circle to look on and catch what they might hear. But the conversation
was in a low tone.

Wieland would never tell or write what was said, and we know only enough to feel that the great
soldier's words were worthy both of his genius and of the occasion. He had treated the German
nobility with haughtiness; this plain scholar he treated as an equal. Speaking of the ancients,
and defending the Cæsars against Tacitus, he discussed the rise of Christianity and emphasized
the value of all religions in conserving morals. The poet replied, when needful, in broken
French, but soon felt at his ease, for the Emperor seemed disposed to engross the conversation,
and in the manner of the times proposed questions. "Which of your works do you prefer?" Wieland
disclaimed merit for any, but, under urgency, confessed that he liked best his "Agathon" and
"Oberon." Then Napoleon asked the stock query which he so often put to scholars and men of
letters: "Which has been the happiest age of humanity?" "Impossible to give a reply," said
the poet; "good and evil, virtue and vice, continually alternate; philosophy must emphasize
the good and make the evil tolerable." "Admirable! admirable!" said Napoleon; "it is not just
to paint everything dark, like Tacitus. He is certainly a skilful artist, a bold, seductive
colorist, but above all he aims at effect. History wants no illusions; it should illuminate
and instruct, not merely give descriptions and narratives which impress us. Tacitus did not
sufficiently develop the causes and inner springs of events. He did not sufficiently study
the mystery of facts and thoughts, did not sufficiently investigate and scrutinize their connection,
to give posterity a just and impartial opinion. History, as I understand it, should know how
to catch men and peoples as they would appear in the midst of their epoch. It should take account
of external circumstances which would necessarily exercise an important influence on their
actions, and clearly see within what limits that influence wrought. The Roman emperors were
not so bad as Tacitus describes them. Therefore I am forced to prefer Montesquieu; he is more
just, and his criticism is closer to the truth." In discussing Christianity Napoleon said:
"Philosophers seek in vain a better doctrine than one which has reconciled man with himself,
and has guaranteed the peace and public order of peoples, as well as the happiness and hope
of individuals." The talk lasted for two hours, and the interview ended by a movement, not
of Napoleon, but of Wieland himself, who seemed weary with standing. "Go, go," said the Emperor,
gently. "Good-night."

Such were the scenes which unrolled themselves before the eyes of Europe. Festival succeeded
festival--plays, processions, parades, hunts, balls, and dinners. Onlookers sent broadcast
to every quarter accounts of the millennial harmony which presided over all. Emperors, kings,
princes, nobles, marshals, generals, historians, scholars, poets, players, diplomatists,--the
most brilliant actors on the world's great stage,--were brought together at Erfurt in a group
not often equaled. The stars of Russian decorations, the ribbons of the Legion of Honor, glittered
for the first time on breasts like those of Goethe and Wieland, which were not accustomed to
such distinctions. The dual league of emperors appeared to the world stronger and more illustrious
than before. In a sense this was true, for at the close Alexander seemed to have obtained much,
if not all, that he had demanded. The two empires were still to act in unity for the reëstablishment
of a general peace on terms which would guarantee to France her conquests made in the south
since Tilsit, and to Russia what she had secured in the east and north. Things were looking
brighter for the Czar in Finland, and of the Eastern acquisitions which he so ardently desired,
Wallachia and Moldavia were already within his grasp. In other words, England was to be forced
into acknowledging the new order of things established by France in Spain, and into acquiescing
in Russia's seizure of Finland, Wallachia, and Moldavia. If Austria should ally herself with
the Turks to defeat Russia's aims, France would intervene for her ally, and, reciprocally,
Russia would do the same in case the cabinet of Vienna should declare war against France. In
any case, Francis was to be compelled to recognize the new kings of Spain and Naples under
the virtual compulsion of a united summons by Russia and France. If England should again prove
intractable, the two monarchs would meet a third time, and within a year, to concert further
measures. These were very substantial gains for Russia, and for the time being the Franco-Russian
alliance was, as it appeared to the world, mightier and firmer than it had been.

But, on the other hand, it contained now what was wanting before--active germs of dissolution.
In the first place, Alexander and his ministers had shown themselves so firm that more than
once there had been hot words even between the emperors, and the memories of these were a source
of the increased suspicions which Alexander carried back to the Neva. The Czar had, moreover,
been compelled to yield a very important point. The treaty, as a whole, was to remain secret
for at least ten years. He might occupy and consider as his own the two coveted provinces,
but even they were not to be openly annexed until England's answer was received. An Anglo-Turkish
alliance, Napoleon reasoned, would be disastrous, while a Russo-Turkish alliance, in case of
Russian victory, would give the ministers at St. James's too much insight into the agreement
of Erfurt, and perhaps bring on some such calamity as the seizure of the Danish fleet which
the suspicions entertained at London concerning Tilsit had precipitated. The ultimate aim of
the treaty was to be indefinitely concealed. Another dangerous element in the affairs of Erfurt
was that contained in the additional provocation given to Prussia and Austria. It is generally
believed that Napoleon urged Alexander to send troops and occupy not only Warsaw, but parts
of both Austria and Prussia. This would embroil him with his neighbors, and make central Europe
secure while France was fighting Spain. If this be true, it explains two facts. Prussia in
her despair had sent one agent after another to Paris in order to secure some mitigation of
Napoleon's demands. The last had been Prince William, the King's brother, who early in September
had agreed that his country should pay one hundred and forty millions of francs, surrender
to France the forts on the Oder, and reduce her army to forty-two thousand men, in return for
the withdrawal of Napoleon's troops and a reduction of the indemnity by fourteen and a half
millions of francs. On October ninth, three weeks afterward, the prince was invited by Napoleon
to hunt hares on the battle-field of Jena! This incident, taken in connection with the demand
for Stein's dismissal, seemed very significant of Napoleon's attitude toward Prussia.

General Vincent had been despatched from Vienna nominally to explain away at Erfurt the Austrian
armaments; in reality, to observe what was going on. Although he found no difficulty in winning
the versatile Talleyrand to his cause, he was treated with scant courtesy by Napoleon, and
sent back with a letter from him to Francis containing bitter reproaches and menaces. Stein,
after his withdrawal, found, like Hardenberg, a refuge in Vienna. There he formed one of an
influential coterie composed of Alexander's envoy, Pozzo di Borgo, and others of like mind,
who were steadily consolidating the war sentiment. The activity of these men explained a phrase
in the letter to Francis,--"The last rising in mass would infallibly have brought on war if
I could have supposed that that levy and those preparations had been arranged with Russia,"--which
hinted at Russia's possible interest in the military preparations; and one day at Erfurt, as
Napoleon's grenadiers were marching by, the Czar had to listen while their Emperor vaunted
the courage they had displayed at Pultusk and Friedland. Apropos of Napoleon's lack of delicacy,
it is said that once in the Tuileries he significantly addressed one of his court ladies, not
renowned for purity, with the words, "You are fond of men, I understand." "Yes; when they are
polite," was the rejoinder. At Erfurt Talleyrand gave the same explanation of his master's
vagaries. "We French are more civilized than our monarch," he said to Montgelas, the Bavarian
minister of state; "his is only the civilization of Roman history."

But there was another incident at Erfurt more pregnant of ultimate changes than any of these.
Thanks to Fouché's Mephistophelian insinuations, and the details which leaked out concerning
the quarrels between Queen Hortense, representing her mother, and the Grand Duchess of Berg,
representing the Bonapartes, the subject of Napoleon's divorce had become common talk. The
new position at Tilsit as the recognized head of Europe's kingly hierarchy seems as early as
that to have tempted the Emperor to a course distasteful to the man; but what occurred there
is uncertain, and did not commit him. At Fontainebleau, the following autumn, his harsh and
distant treatment of Josephine gave color to the suspicion that he was again under temptation.
Whom would he choose? asked the gossips. Sometime during the year a list of marriageable princesses
was prepared by the Emperor's orders. It included Maria Louisa of Austria, aged sixteen; Maria
Amelia, niece of the King of Saxony; and the two sisters of the Czar, the younger of whom was
not quite thirteen. The general opinion seemed to fix on one or the other of the Czar's unmarried
sisters. This rumor soon reached St. Petersburg, and the scandal-mongers of that capital promptly
designated the Grand Duchess Catherine, for she was of marriageable age, and they said she
was learning French country dances. Alexander was in consternation; the Russian party would
be aghast if he should consent, while a refusal might endanger the alliance on which hung all
his ambitions.

Some months previously, Fouché, aware of the conflict in Napoleon's mind, had actually suggested
to the Empress, and probably with her husband's knowledge, that she should take the initiative.
In reply she ran with disheveled hair and streaming eyes to ask an explanation from her lord
in person. He consoled her with many protestations, but he left for Italy without having entirely
reassured her. On his return from Milan he roundly abused his minister of police, and forbade
his continued plotting. Nevertheless, the daring functionary persistently disobeyed, and by
the month of March, 1808, the air of Paris was thick with embittered and ardent pleas on one
side or the other. One evening the court was to attend a gala performance to be given in the
Tuileries. Their Majesties did not appear. Napoleon, in fact, had not made ready; instead he
had retired to his private apartments and had sent for Josephine. She entered her husband's
chamber in full array of evening costume, to find him in bed, pale, worn, and weary. At once
he began the recital of his perplexities, pouring out, as it were, his whole heart, and, though
not uttering the request, he seemed as if beseeching in dumb despair the decisive word from
her. The Empress, however, was inflexible. Was he, he said in fierce disappointment, to be
compelled to adopt his bastard children? Surprised and touched by her signs of assent, the
Emperor vowed never to desert her, and there matters had remained.

At Erfurt the same vacillation overmastered Napoleon as that with which he had been tormented
since Tilsit. By his command Talleyrand and Caulaincourt were to drop the remark before Alexander
that the matter of the divorce was a European question; he wished to test, he said, the temper
of his ally. Both ministers suggested that a contemplated match between the daughter of Paul
I and the King of Sweden had fallen through because of the confessional difficulties, the latter
being a Protestant, the former of the Greek Church. The Emperor shrugged his shoulders in displeasure,
and they discharged their task. Apparently the Czar was not shocked, for, opening the subject
himself, he told Napoleon that his best friends looked with anxiety to see him consolidate
his work and his dynasty by a second marriage. This of course led to a confidential talk, in
which the possibility of a matrimonial as well as a political alliance was mentioned. If Napoleon
had demanded on the spot the hand of the Czar's marriageable sister, Catherine, it is doubtful
if Alexander would have refused. But the imperial host still vacillated, for he had not taken
the irrevocable step; a hesitating mention was made of his guest's younger sister, Anne, who
was still a child, as an eventual possibility, and nothing more was said.

To stamp the success of the meeting, a joint letter was sent to George III, asking for peace
on the principle of "uti possidetis." The two monarchs parted with every manifestation of personal
devotion; but on Alexander's return to his capital his elder sister was married with indecent
haste to the Duke of Oldenburg.

CHAPTER XIII

THE FAILURE OF THE SPANISH CAMPAIGN[28]

         [Footnote 28: See Jomini: Napoleon, III. Cevallos: Exposicion
         de los hechos y maquinaciones que han preparado la usurpation
         de la corona de España, y los medios que el emperador de los
         franzeses ha puesto en obra para realizarla. Suchet: Mémoires
         sur ses campagnes en Espagne, 1808-1814. Rocca: Memoirs,
         1808-1812. Also Memoirs of Godoy, Marbot, Masséna, and
         Murat.]

     The Grand Army in France -- Their Entrance to Spain -- The
     Opposing Forces -- Napoleon's Strategic Plan -- French Victories
     -- Sir John Moore -- The British and the Spaniards -- Napoleon's
     Advance to Madrid -- His Return Northward -- Moore's Retreat --
     Napoleon at Paris -- Death of Moore -- The Napoleonic
     Constitution for Spain -- Spanish Resistance -- Joseph's Weakness
     -- Establishment of the New Monarchy.

[Sidenote: 1808-09]

While Alexander was hastening the preparations for his sister's marriage, Napoleon was hurrying
toward Spain, whither, too, the legions of the grand army, released by the evacuation of Prussia,
had already been ordered. Baylen and Cintra must be retrieved at any cost. As the splendid
array of soldiers passed through France they were received like men who had already conquered.
The civil authorities spread banquets for them, compliments rained from the honeyed lips of
chosen orators, poets sang sweet strains on the theme of their glories. This appeared a spontaneous
outburst to the troops, and they marched with the elasticity of enthusiasm to their task. The
curious may read to-day what the army could not know--that by Napoleon's personal decree the
ministry of war had prepared every detail of that triumph, that the prefects acted under stringent
orders, that three sets of warlike songs were written by commission in Paris, and forwarded
one each to various points, so that, as the Emperor wrote, "the soldier may not hear the same
thing twice." The success of the plan was complete, and the jubilations had every appearance
of being genuine.

It was therefore not a tired and disheartened army which was gathered under the walls of Burgos
early in November, but a body of picked and energetic veterans. Joseph, to be sure, had done
little in the interval to take advantage of the foolish and careless tumult into which the
joy of victory had thrown the Spanish people. In spite of the minute directions which had been
received almost daily from Napoleon, Jourdan, who, having been the King's military adviser
in Naples, had come in the same capacity to Spain, gradually lost every advantage of position.
But the French boys who had fought in the summer were older and more experienced. The defensive
attitude of their leader had given them the training of camp life, and had secured the recuperation
of their strength. When, therefore, they were mingled with the newcomers, they might be considered
almost as good soldiers as those who had arrived from Germany.

Moreover, the best generals were now in command: Victor was at Amurrio, Bessières at Miranda
on the Ebro, Moncey at Tafalla, Lefebvre near Bilbao, Ney at Logroño on the Ebro, Saint-Cyr
at La Junquera, each with a corps, the smallest of twenty, the largest of thirty thousand men.
Duhesme was shut up in Barcelona with ten thousand. There was a reserve of thirty-five thousand,
the guard and cavalry, at Tolosa and Vitoria. Mortier's corps of twenty-four thousand was in
the rear, and Junot, who had been better received in Paris than he expected, was coming up
with nineteen thousand more. In all, there were about two hundred and forty thousand troops.
Napoleon, reaching Bayonne on November third, had it announced that there were between three
and four hundred thousand! With such a numerous and efficient fighting force, there was no
need of exaggeration. To oppose it Blake had thirty-two thousand Spaniards at Valmaseda as
the left wing of the Spanish army, and La Romana, having disembarked at Santander, soon arrived
with eight thousand more; the center, twenty-five thousand strong, lay between Calahorra and
Tudela under Castaños; the right seventeen thousand in number, was at and near Saragossa under
Palafox. Before Barcelona was Vives, with twenty thousand, and near Burgos was a reserve of
eighteen thousand under Belvedere--about a hundred and twenty thousand men, all told. In addition
to this regular army, there was another irregular one of vast but vague dimensions, consisting
of the entire nation.

[Illustration: Map of the Spanish Campaign.]

Amid the exciting cares of Erfurt, Napoleon had still found time to study the military situation
in Spain with minuteness, and he finally wrote to Joseph that he was coming in person to end
the war by one skilful stroke. This hope was founded on the position held by Blake, advanced
as it was beyond the Spanish line, and remote enough to be exposed. By a swift blow that general's
army might therefore be cut off from its support, and annihilated; the center and right would
successively meet the same fate. This plan had been jeopardized by the rashness of Lefebvre.
On October thirty-first Blake had advanced from Durango for an attack. He had not only been
routed, but in the heat of victory had been thrown far back to Valmaseda by the over-zealous
French general. Although the Emperor had hoped for something quite different, having given
orders to draw him forward toward Biscay and Navarre, he still did not abandon his strategic
plan. The Spaniards had grown warlike in a day, but their victories had intoxicated them, and
of military science they had only what they had learned by experience. There was no harmony
among the generals--not even a preconcerted plan of operation. Accordingly the mass of the
French army was directed toward Burgos to cut off and overwhelm Blake, while two corps under
Soult were directed to intercept his retreat.

Burgos fell almost without opposition on November tenth; Blake was defeated the next day at
Espinosa, and his scattered columns, turned but not captured by Soult, fled into Asturias,
where they joined the force of La Romana. Without a moment's hesitation Ney was now despatched
to the southeast in order to fall on Castaños's rear, while Lannes was to unite Moncey's corps
with Lagrange's division and attack his front. The Spanish general was posted, as has been
said, on the Ebro between Calahorra and Tudela. Before the twentieth the two moves had been
executed and all was in readiness. The Spaniards fled before Lannes's attack on the twenty-third,
but Ney with his cavalry remained inexplicably stationary, and did not cut off their retreat.
They were therefore able to reassemble at Siguenza, while Palafox withdrew to Saragossa. This
was seemingly an easy triumph for Napoleon's matchless strategy; his plan worked without real
resistance, for his self-sufficient and ignorant enemy was scattered. Nevertheless, it will
be observed that the execution was deficient and the result disproportionate. Neither Soult
on the right nor Ney on the left showed such vigor or promptness as of old; there was no general
surrender by the Spaniards, nor was any portion of their force annihilated. All that was gained--and
for a common general it would have been much--was the ability to take another step.

The capitulation at Cintra, the affair at Bayonne, and the uprising of the Spaniards had combined
to intensify rebellion in Portugal. She was now in full sympathy with Spain, and her people
were scarcely less bitter or less active than the Spaniards. The easy terms secured by Junot
had infuriated England, and not only Dalrymple and Burrard, but Wellesley himself, had been
recalled to give an account of their conduct. The last was triumphantly vindicated; but while
the others were not convicted of dereliction in duty, they were virtually withdrawn from active
life. Sir John Moore was now in command of the English troops in the Peninsula. He had been
reinforced with ten thousand men, and feeling sure of Portugal, had advanced into Spain. To
Napoleon it seemed evident that his intention was to seize Madrid.

This was a mistake. The jubilant Spaniards, expecting to treat Napoleon as they had treated
Dupont, had summoned the English to join them. Moore's orders were to assist them, and he prepared
to obey, although he well knew what would be the consequences of Spanish hallucination. With
one column he reached Salamanca on November thirteenth; the head of the other was at Astorga.
His own division numbered only fifteen thousand men; the other was even smaller--ten thousand
at the most. It was on that date that he learned of Napoleon's victories. Accordingly he halted
to await the next move of the French. That move was against Madrid. Saragossa was besieged
by Moncey, Lefebvre was thrown out to guard the right flank, and Ney to protect the left of
the advancing columns; the march began on November twenty-eighth.

The first obstacle was the mountain-range of Guadarrama, which had to be crossed by the pass
of Somosierra. This defile was found to be strongly guarded; there were not only infantry stationed
on the heights, but artillery also, sixteen guns being below the turn of the pass in a most
advantageous position. In the early morning of the thirtieth the French infantry began to climb
the cliffs on each side of the narrow gorge, and as the mists were heavy their movements were
successfully concealed until the Spanish bivouacs were reached surprised, and dislodged. Simultaneously
a regiment of Polish light horse was launched against the battery. Their charge was magnificent,
and the gunners could fire only a single round before they were overpowered. By the ordinary
breakfast hour the pass was free. On the evening of December second the whole army--infantry,
cavalry, and artillery--was united on the heights of Chamartin before the gates of Madrid.
Two days later, after a gallant resistance by its little garrison and the undaunted inhabitants,
the city yielded to the superior strength of Napoleon, and proposed terms. After some parley
these were accepted, but under the circumstances the Emperor felt that mildness must be seasoned
by menace. There were disorders in the streets, incident to the new occupation by the French,
and that fact he used as a plea to declare the capitulation null and the Spanish officers prisoners
of war. Their men had escaped the day before.

The military operations of the campaign were of course not yet ended, for Moore had not appeared
in the valley of the Tagus, marching, as it was believed he would, toward Madrid. The first
task was to find him. The different corps were sent out in all directions, but it was not until
the middle of the month that the British position was even approximately ascertained. Napoleon
was surprised by what he learned, and concluded that the English were about to abandon Portugal
in order to secure Ferrol as a base of supplies. His first impulse was to march out himself
and prevent such a disaster; on the twentieth half of his army set forth from Madrid, and on
the twenty-second he led them through the snows of the Guadarrama.

Meanwhile Moore had made his decision. It was to attract the attention of the French, draw
them toward him, and then slowly retreat northward, thus leaving Andalusia free from interference,
and giving the southern Spaniards time to organize once more and equip themselves for a second
Baylen. To this end he prepared on the twenty-third to attack Soult, but, learning of Napoleon's
rapid advance, he promptly changed his plan and began his retreat; three days later he led
his troops safely across the Esla. Then began a famous chase. The Emperor hurried forward,
marching on foot through cold and snow to encourage his tired men. He was eager to strike a
blow at his enemy's rear before they should get too far away, and Soult was urged onward to
Mansilla, to flank the retreating column. On the twenty-ninth the French cavalry reached the
Esla and were driven back by the English rear-guard, while Moore stopped only long enough to
destroy the magazines at Benevento, and then hurried on to Astorga.

For two days longer the retreat continued. Moore, after many successful skirmishes, reached
Corunna, where he hoped to embark. Soult crossed the Esla at last, and on New Year's day, 1809,
the Emperor found himself at Astorga. He believed there was an English fleet at Ferrol; the
weather was bitter, and his health was jeopardized by the severity of the cold; moreover, disquieting
letters arrived, and he determined that this game was not worth the candle. Soult was intrusted
with the pursuit, Ney was stationed at Astorga as a reserve, and Napoleon, putting himself
at the head of his guards, set out for Valladolid, which he reached on the sixth. After a rest
of ten days, new and more disquieting despatches made clear the urgent need for his presence
in Paris, though his task in Spain was far from ended. On January twenty-third he reached the
Tuileries.

The tale of Moore's splendid retreat, of his courage and calmness in loss and disaster, of
his superb control of his men in their disappointment when Corunna was reached and no fleet
was found there, of his brave fight with Soult on January sixteenth, of the mortal wound which
struck him down in the hour of victory, and of the self-forgetfulness which enabled him in
the agonies of death to make all necessary arrangements for his men to embark on the belated
ships--all this is a brilliant page of English history, perhaps the finest record in its entire
course of glory won in retreat, of patience, moderation, and success in the very hour of bitterest
disappointment. It was the spirit and example of Moore which made possible the victories of
Wellington.

The French interests in Spain were left in a most deplorable condition. The populace of Madrid
had received the hero of the age with coldness, and shut themselves up in their houses to avoid
forming a crowd or creating any enthusiasm in the streets. They would not even come out to
see the gorgeous military parade which was arranged for their benefit. The gentry and nobility
had been alike distant and cold. It was clear that Spain could neither be wheedled, cajoled,
nor threatened into even passive acquiescence in the new conquest. It was essential, therefore,
that another course should be tried. On December fourth, Napoleon, in the rôle of reformer-statesman,
pronounced and issued from Chamartin a series of the most thoroughgoing edicts. All feudal
privileges, all interprovincial customs dues, were swept away; the Inquisition was abolished,
and the number of convents was reduced to a third. These measures were in themselves most salutary,
and struck at the very root of the upas-tree under the baneful shade of which Spain had been
slowly perishing. But to do good they must be enforced; there must be a complete military conquest
of the country, and a capable administration.

There was neither. The Spanish army had been defeated, but, severe as had been its punishment,
its power of resistance was not destroyed; the occupation of the country was also sadly incomplete,
and it made no difference whither French soldiers marched, or what strategic points they held,
some kind of Spanish fighting force, no matter how irregular, sprang up behind them and on
their sides. The complete military centralization of Prussia had made Jena decisive for the
whole loose-jointed territory of that kingdom; the compact territory of Spain and the local
independence of her peoples made regular victories utterly fruitless so far as the open country
was concerned.

Moreover, Joseph, although he had been driven from his capital, and had enjoyed neither power
nor consequence except as the general of Napoleon's armies, now asserted that he, and not his
brother, was the king of Spain. He was angry and hurt by the Emperor's assumption of superior
sovereignty. He was the one, he felt, who could best deal with the Spaniards, win their affection,
and consolidate his power. To be shouldered off his throne, and compelled to stand by while
such radical measures were taken, embittered him. Shame, he said, covered his face before his
pretended subjects; he renounced all rights to the throne, preferring honor and honesty to
power so dearly bought. This angered Napoleon, and he threatened to divide the land into military
provinces; but, like his gentler brother, he himself recoiled before the utter annihilation
of a nationality so ancient and dignified as that of Spain.

As the price for the evacuation of Madrid, the people of the capital swore to accept Joseph
once more as their king. Similar oaths of allegiance came from all the provinces occupied by
the French. Although these oaths were not considered binding by those who took them, inasmuch
as they held themselves to be acting under compulsion, yet at least the shadow of Joseph's
monarchy reappeared under the imperial protection, and a so-called liberal constitution, modeled
on that of France, was given to the people as a boon. "It depends on yourselves," was the Emperor's
language, "to make this charter yours. If all my endeavors prove vain, and you do not justify
my confidence, then I have nothing left but to treat you as a conquered province, and create
another throne for my brother. In that case I shall put the crown of Spain on my own head,
and teach the ill-disposed to respect it; for God has given me the power and the will to overcome
all obstacles."

CHAPTER XIV

THE TRANSFORMATION OF AUSTRIA[29]

         [Footnote 29: See Metternich: Nachgelassene Papiere (English
         translation as Memoirs). Mazade: Alexandre Ier et le Prince
         Czartoryski. Duncker: Friedr. Wilhelm im Jahre 1809. Ranke:
         Hardenberg und die Geschichte des preussischen Staates von
         1793-1813. Rapp: Mémoires.]

     Dangers in Napoleon's Rear -- The State of Paris -- Austria
     Warlike -- The Czar's Policy -- National Movements in Germany --
     Napoleon's True Position -- Talleyrand's Responsibility -- The
     Needs of France -- The Conscription again Anticipated -- The
     Archduke Charles -- War Declared by Austria -- Charles's Appeals
     to National Sentiment -- Imperial Excess and Dynastic Moderation
     -- The Uprising of the Tyrol -- Austria's Successes.

[Sidenote: 1809]

The news from central Europe which reached Napoleon in Spain was of a most alarming character,
and made certain considerations so emphatic that all others became insignificant. It mattered
not that he must leave behind him a half-accomplished task; that while his strategy had been
successful, he had lost the opportunity to annihilate the English, which, though he did not
know it at the time, he had really had in the tardy arrival of their transports at Corunna;
that the national uprising was not suppressed by his carefully devised measures; that the oaths
of allegiance sworn to Joseph and the constitution had been sworn under compulsion by a minority,
who, pious as the people were, did not, for that reason, consider even themselves as bound,
much less the nation as a whole--all this was serious enough, but it was paltry when compared
with what had taken place in German lands while he had been absent from Paris.

During the campaign of Marengo there had been a knot of active, self-seeking, and traitorous
men who, having risen by Bonaparte's help, schemed how best to sustain themselves in case of
his death. This same group, under the leadership of Talleyrand and Fouché, had been again arranging
plans for their guidance should misfortune overwhelm Napoleon in Spain. Such was their activity
that even Metternich had been deceived into the belief that they had a large party of French
patriots behind them, who, weary of the Emperor's incessant calls on France for aid in enterprises
foreign to her welfare, would gladly be rid of him. So grave did the Austrian ambassador consider
the crisis that late in November he left his post and set out for Vienna. Vincent's reports
about the friction at Erfurt had already found credence in the Austrian capital among the war
party, and the belief was spreading that the Franco-Russian alliance was hollow.

Stein's absence from North Germany had only intensified the sympathy of the people with his
policy. Even at Königsberg, the seat of government, public opinion demanded the measures he
had desired. Prussia was not only strong once more, but was ardent to redeem its disgrace.
The reflex influence of the popular movements in Prussia and Austria upon one another had intensified
both, until the more advanced leaders in the two countries cared little whether the process
of German regeneration was begun under Hohenzollern or Hapsburg leadership. Into this surcharged
atmosphere came Metternich with his exaggerated statements about the great reactionary party
in France. The effect was to raise the elements. He declared, besides, that the Spanish war
had absorbed so much of Napoleon's effective military strength that not more than two hundred
thousand men were available for use in central Europe, and that Austria alone, with her new
armaments, would be a match for any army the French emperor could lead against her, at least
in the first stages of a war. Austria had been negotiating for an English subsidy, without
which her troops, fine as they were, could not be maintained; but Great Britain refused a grant
until they should actually take the field. This fact was an inducement so strong as to put
a climax on the already hostile inclinations of the Emperor Francis; and as his minister Stadion
had long felt that Napoleon's power must not be allowed time for further consolidation, the
government concluded to strike while the difficulties in Spain were at their height.

Although the Czar had left Erfurt in an anxious mood, he was nevertheless clear in his mind
that through Napoleon alone could his ambitions be gratified. He was equally convinced that,
while the European system should not be further upturned, it must for the present be maintained
as it now was. On his homeward journey he had time to reflect on the situation, and as he passed
through Königsberg the warlike temper of Prussia was so manifest that he thought Frederick
William, for a while at least, should be removed from its influence. Accordingly he pressed
the King to pay a visit to St. Petersburg. The invitation was accepted, and the Czar's efforts
were so successful that when his visitor left for home his feeling was as unwarlike as it had
ever been. He informed Austria that his interests were those of Russia, that there should be
no offensive warfare, and that any conflict must be confined to repelling an attack. The Czar
declared on March second, in response to an inquiry from Vienna, that if Austria should begin
a war he would fulfil his obligations to Napoleon; but six weeks later, seeing how determined
was the war sentiment at Vienna, and how complete were the preparations of Francis, it seemed
best to throw an anchor to windward, and he so far modified his attitude as to explain that
in the event of war he would not put his strength into any blow he might aim at Austria.

The cabinet of Vienna was perfectly aware that neither Alexander nor Frederick William represented
the national feeling of their respective peoples. They knew that Austria's opportunity to lead
a great revolt against Napoleon was to be found in the support of the powerful conservatives
of Russia, in the enthusiasm of all Prussia, where Arndt was already crying, "Freedom and Austria!"
and in the passionate loyalty of her own peoples, not excepting the sturdy Tyrolese, who, chafing
under Napoleon's yoke, were ready for insurrection. On March eighteenth, 1809, the French minister
at Vienna wrote to Paris that in 1805 the government, but neither army nor nation, had desired
war; that now the government, the army, and the people all desired it. The Austrian plenipotentiary
was ordered, in requesting a subsidy from Great Britain, to state that in the event of victory
his government hoped to secure such internal vigor as Austria had enjoyed before the treaty
of Presburg. As to the neighboring states, she desired some minor rectifications of her own
frontier, with indemnifications to the younger branches of her dynasty for their lost domains.
These might be found either in Germany or in Italy, and if she should succeed in destroying
Napoleon's system of tributary powers, she meant to restore all their territories to their
rightful owners, not excepting those of the German princes who had been hostile.

To suppose, as many do, that no inkling of all the stupendous schemes reached Napoleon in Spain
is preposterous. Bavaria was his faithful subordinate, and Poland still hoped everything from
his successes. Both were in the heart of Germany, and through a carefully organized system
of spies, information of the most reliable nature was regularly received in both countries.
The same historians who assert that after Marengo Bonaparte left Italy for Paris to cloak his
defeat, and that he fled to Malmaison to conceal his direct connection with Enghien's death,
expect us to believe that Napoleon fled from Spain merely to throw the responsibility of failure
on Joseph. Most men in any crisis act from mixed motives. Such a charge displays skill in combining
facts, but Marengo, whether a defeat or a victory, secured France to the general who commanded
there; the retreat to Malmaison did not induce the Consul to deny his responsibility for the
execution at Vincennes; and it would have been simply an intervention of the supernatural if
Napoleon, for purely subjective reasons, had left Spain to return to Paris just at the very
instant when his presence was absolutely essential there, not only to check those who, although
ostensibly his supporters, were in reality his deadly foes, but also for the warlike preparations
to meet the storm which was about to burst. His secretary has asserted that the letters which
reached him at Astorga contained all this disquieting news, and there is absolutely no proof
that they did not. The probability is all on the side of the account which was universally
accepted until attacked by the group of over-credulous French historians whose zeal for the
Revolution is such that they feel bound to deny every statement of the equally biased school
of Napoleonic advocates.

[Illustration: From the collection of W. C. Crane. Engraved by S. W. Reynolds.

JOSEPH BONAPARTE.

Painted by J. Goubaud, January 30, 1831, Point-Breeze, U. S. A.]

Moreover, it was from Spain that the Emperor warned the princes composing the Confederation
of the Rhine to have their contingents ready. His language is guarded--whether the cabinet
of Vienna had drunk from the waters of Lethe or from those of the Danube, he himself would
be ready. Besides, his actions could have but one meaning. The moment he reached Paris, significant
looks and conduct warned Talleyrand to beware. "Is Joseph," the Emperor said, in an interview
with Roederer, "to talk like an Englishman or behave like Talleyrand? I have covered this man
with honors, riches, and diamonds; he has used them all against me. At the first opportunity
he had, he has betrayed me as much as he could. He has declared during my absence that he kneeled
in supplication to prevent my enterprise in Spain; for two years he tormented me to undertake
it.... It was the same with regard to Enghien. I did not even know him; it was Talleyrand who
brought him to my notice. I did not know where he was; it was Talleyrand who told me the spot,
and after having advised the execution he has groaned over it with every acquaintance."

At the same time the columns of the "Moniteur" were filled with half-true accounts of the Emperor's
success in Spain, and the French people knew everything that was favorable; but there was a
complete suppression of all the rest. As Austria desired war to secure her subsidies from England,
so France was again in need of funds which her own resources could not provide. Because of
the failure to paralyze Spain by a single blow, Napoleon had, for the first time in his history,
returned after a "successful" campaign without an enormous war indemnity. Once again, after
temporary patching, French finances were in disorder, and there was urgent need to repair them.
The people desired peace for their enterprises, but the continental blockade so hampered commerce
that any peace which did not include a pacification of the seas would avail them little. It
was a customary formality of Napoleon's to put the entire responsibility of war on the enemy,
and it was announced in February that negotiations with Austria had failed. This was in a large
sense true, although the particular effort referred to was perfunctory, and was intended technically
to secure the help of Russia, which was to fight only in case Austria should be the aggressor.

Gradually, therefore, the war spirit revived in France. No one remonstrated when once more
recourse was had to the fatal policy of anticipating the annual conscription. Not only were
the conscripts for 1810 called out, but the number was stretched to the utmost, and those who
from immaturity or other causes had been unavailable in 1806, 1807, 1808, and 1809 were now
collected. The total of the youths thus swept together was not less than a hundred and sixty
thousand. To render available their slender efficiency, they were divided among the various
regiments already in the field, in each of which these raw and boyish recruits constituted
a fifth battalion.

Since the Archduke Charles had been again at the helm of military affairs in Austria, not only
had a transformation been wrought in the army as a fighting instrument, but the general staff
had likewise been completely reorganized. For two years, therefore, Austria's occupation had
been not only forging a sword, but practising, as well, the wielding of it. The lessons taught
her by previous experience in Napoleonic warfare were thoroughly learned. It was consequently
a very different strategic problem which the Emperor of the French had to solve in this campaign.

For two years the Archduke had been studying his task, and that in the light of ample experience.
The conclusion he reached was that he would attack and overpower Davout in Saxony; then, by
an appeal to their German patriotism, raise and use the peoples of northern and central Germany
for an overwhelming assault on Napoleon. But as the time for action grew near, the moral influence
of those annihilating blows which the French armies had struck once and again began to assert
itself and to create hesitancy. Count Stadion, the minister of state, knew that diplomacy had
reached the limit of its powers and could gain at most only a few weeks. These he felt sure
the enemy would use to better advantage in strengthening himself than Austria in her poverty
could do. He was therefore urgent for prompt action. Charles, on the other hand, hesitated
to face the miraculous resources of Napoleon without a finishing touch to some of his preparations
which were still incomplete. He therefore began in January to procrastinate, and consequently
it was not until February that Francis demanded an advance. In this interval the whole plan
of campaign was changed. The main army, under Charles, was to be collected in Bohemia, ready
for action in any direction, so as to thwart whatever course Napoleon might adopt. Hiller was
to guard the line of the Inn, the Archduke Ferdinand was to march against Warsaw, while the
Archduke John was to enter the Tyrol from Italy and excite the people to revolt. On April ninth
all these movements were well under way; Hiller had reached the Inn, and Charles declared war.

Ostensibly this war was to be unlike any other so far waged. The secret instructions given
to the imperial Austrian envoy in London clearly indicated that the Hapsburgs hoped by victory
to restore their influence both in Italy and Germany; for that was the meaning of "restoration
to rightful owners" and the "slight rectification of their frontiers," or, in other words,
the restoration of European conditions to what they had been before Napoleon's advent. This
was the dynastic side; the national side was also to be used for the same end. "The liberties
of Europe have taken refuge under your banner," ran Charles's proclamation to the army; "your
victories will break their bonds, and your German brethren still in the enemy's ranks await
their redemption." To the German world he said, "Austria fights not only for her own autonomy,
but takes the sword for the independence and national honor of Germany." Another manifesto,
written by Gentz, the ablest statesman in Vienna, declared that the war was to be waged not
against France, but against the persistent extension of her system which had produced such
universal disorder in Europe.

The tone and language of these papers have an audible Napoleonic echo in them: if an upstart
house, represented by a single life and without direct descendants, could win success by appeals
to the people, and gain the support of their enthusiasm by identifying its interests with theirs,
why might not an ancient dynasty, with vigorous stock and numerous shoots, do likewise? Moreover,
Napoleon no longer respected the limits of natural physical boundaries, or the restrictions
of birth, speech, religion, and custom, which inclosed a nation: his empire was to disdain
such influences, to found itself on the universal brotherhood of man, and to secure the regeneration
of humanity by liberal ideas of universal validity. Austria would offset this alluring summons
by a trumpet-call to the brotherhood of Germans, to the strong forces of national feeling,
to the respect for tradition and history which would animate her soldiers and justify her course.

If she needed a concrete illustration she could point to the Tyrolese. Since the treaty of
Presburg their chains had chafed their limbs to the raw; at this very moment they were again
in open rebellion. The administrative reforms introduced by Maximilian of Bavaria were in reality
most salutary; his determined stand against priestly domination over the Tyrolese people proved
in the end their salvation. But the evils of feudalism were always least among mountaineers,
and relations of patriarchal tenderness existed between the aristocracy and the peasantry.
The devotion of both classes to their institutions, their habits, their clothes, their customs,
their local names, was intense. They had no mind to see the name of their country disappear
forever, to lose their pleasant, easy-fitting institutions, or to submit to the conscription
and join in the great leveling movement which compelled them to serve in the ranks as ordinary
soldiers. With their local assemblies they meant to keep their military exclusiveness as scouts,
skirmishers, and sharp-shooters, in all of which lines they excelled.

The more enlightened citizens of the towns were well pleased with Bavarian rule, but the impulsive,
ignorant, and superstitious peasantry were the glad instruments of Austrian emissaries. When
they learned that war was inevitable and would soon be formally declared, they at once rose,
seized Innsbruck, and held it against the Bavarian troops. When an Austrian garrison marched
in, their reception was enthusiastic. This was in the middle of April; simultaneously the Archduke
John defeated Prince Eugène in Italy and drove him back upon the Adige, while Ferdinand overpowered
all resistance in Poland, and on the twentieth occupied Warsaw. Such successes were intoxicating;
the great general had, it seemed, been caught napping at last, and the advantage of a successful
opening appeared to be with his enemy.

CHAPTER XV

THE FIFTH WAR WITH AUSTRIA--ECKMÜHL[30]

         [Footnote 30: See Saski: Campagne de 1809, Lejeune, Mémoires
         du général. Fournier: Österreich nach dem Frieden von Wien.
         Beer: Zehn Jahre österreichischer Politik (1801-10).]

     Strategic Preliminaries -- Final Orders -- The Defensive Plan of
     Austria -- Berthier's Failure -- Napoleon's Arrival at Donauwörth
     -- The Height of Napoleon's Ability -- The Austrian Advance --
     The First Collision -- Concentration of Napoleon's Army -- The
     Austrians Divided -- The Austrians at Eckmühl -- The Battle --
     Charles's Retreat -- The Five Days' Fight -- Its Results --
     Charles at the Bisamberg -- Napoleon at Vienna -- The German
     Risings Demoralized -- Discrimination of the People -- Napoleon's
     Unsuccessful Appeal to Hungary -- Pius VII Loses his Secular
     Power -- Napoleon's Activity -- Charles's Sluggishness -- Plans
     of Both Generals -- Napoleon on the Lobau.

It was Napoleon's pride that in his campaigns no enemy should lay down the law to him. He did
not ask, How will my foe behave? What must I do to thwart him?--that was defensive warfare.
For his purposes he must ask, Whence can I best strike? This question he now answered by selecting
the valley of the Danube as his line of approach, and Ratisbon as his headquarters. He had
before him the most difficult task he had so far undertaken. The concentration and sustenance
of his troops must be made along the line of very least resistance. Davout had four divisions--one
each in Magdeburg, Hanover, Stettin, and Bayreuth; he was also in command of the Poles and
Saxons. Bernadotte had two divisions distributed in Hamburg, Bremen, and Lübeck; Oudinot had
one in Hanau; the soldiers of the Rhine Confederation were scattered in all its towns. Two
other divisions were just starting for Spain. In the beginning of March Berthier was again
appointed chief of staff, and the Emperor's orders were issued. They were as clear, concise,
and adequate as any of his best; he was once more on familiar ground, under ordinary conditions,
facing a well-known foe, whose strength was greater than ever before, but whose identity was
still the same. Davout was to collect his troops at Bamberg, the Poles were to remain in Warsaw,
the Saxons in Dresden. To the latter capital Bernadotte should lead his army and then assume
command. Oudinot was ordered to Augsburg, where he was to be reinforced. The departing divisions
were brought to a halt and sent back to Ulm for Masséna's command, while two fresh ones were
gathered in France and sent to Strasburg. The Rhine princes were to have their contingents
ready and await orders.

A glance at the map will show that, as Napoleon said, he could then in an emergency reach Munich
like lightning. But he expected no move from his enemy before the middle of April. By that
time he hoped to have his German army gathered, equipped, and ready; in the interval the forces
already on the ground could hold Charles in check; by the end of March there would be a hundred
thousand French in Bamberg, Ulm, and Augsburg, with thirty thousand Bavarians under Lefebvre
about Munich; before the outbreak of hostilities he hoped to have a total of two hundred thousand
available fighting troops. "Should the Austrians attack before April tenth," were the orders
given on March twenty-eighth, "the army shall be collected behind the Lech, the right occupying
Augsburg, the left resting on the right bank of the Danube at Donauwörth." Then followed the
most minute instructions to Berthier, explaining every move, and setting forth the reasons
why Ratisbon had been chosen as headquarters. This would assure control of the Danube, keep
open a line of communication, and enable the writer so to control space and time that he could
open the campaign much as he chose.

These dispositions had already compelled another change of plan by the Austrians. They had
expected a repetition of Moreau's advance by Munich; instead, they were called on to defend
their capital a second time. Two divisions were left to watch the Bohemian Forest; the rest
of the army, with Charles at its head, set out, by the circuitous route through Linz, to join
Hiller and assume the offensive in the Danube valley. In case of a battle the two divisions
were to come up by the short, direct route through Ratisbon, and add their strength to the
main army. On the declaration of hostilities the Austrians at once crossed the Inn and began
their march; it was the sixteenth before they reached the line of the Isar. Had the Archduke
not been so sparing of his troops, wearied as they were by the circuit through Linz, he might
have changed the course of history. Napoleon had not yet arrived, and Berthier, who was but
human, had proved unequal to the execution of his commander's orders.

It had been the object of Napoleon to gather his army on a certain definite, well-connected
line, and thence use it as necessity demanded. Instead of obeying the letter of his instructions,
Berthier had struggled to obey their spirit, and had failed. The command on the left bank had
been assigned to Davout; that of all the troops on the other side had been given to Masséna;
the latter was to concentrate on the Lech, the former at Ingolstadt. So far all was good; then
Berthier lost his head (the critics say he never could have learned strategy, if he had had
ten lives), and, swerving from the clear letter of Napoleon's orders, he attempted a more rapid
combination--not that behind the Lech, but one directly at Ratisbon. Davout was to march thither
and remain there; the other divisions were successively to join him. The result was that three
days elapsed before any army was gathered at all; the two portions, one at Ratisbon, the other
at Augsburg, being for that time widely separated, and each exposed to the separate attack
of an enemy without possibility of coöperation by the other half.

When the Archduke Charles learned the general situation of his enemy he determined to do exactly
this thing--that is, to attack and overwhelm each portion of the French army separately. For
this purpose he crossed the Isar, and, turning to the right, marched directly on Ratisbon to
attack Davout's command with his superior force before Masséna's scattered divisions could
reach the positions assigned to them. But he was too late. The semaphore telegraph then in
use had flashed from station to station its signals of the declaration of war and of the enemy's
advance over the Inn, until the news reached Napoleon in Paris on the twelfth. On the sixteenth,
after four days' almost unbroken travel, he reached Donauwörth. The confusion into which Berthier's
orders had thrown his carefully arranged plans infuriated him; but when he heard, as he descended
from his traveling-carriage, where the enemy was, he could not believe his ears. When assured
of the truth he seemed, as eye-witnesses declared, to grow taller, his eyes began to sparkle,
and with every indication of delight he cried: "Then I have him! That's a lost army! In one
month we are in Vienna!" The enemy's first decisive blunder was the march by Linz; the second
was yet to be made.

Napoleon's strategy during the following days was, both in his own opinion and in that of his
military commentators, the greatest of his life. Such had been Berthier's indecision when he
saw his blunder that one general at least--to wit, Pelet--charged him with being a traitor.
In twenty-four hours his puzzled humor and conflicting orders had more or less demoralized
the whole army. But Napoleon's presence inspired every one with new vigor, from the division
commanders to the men in the ranks. Promptly on the seventeenth the order went forth for Davout
to leave Ratisbon and challenge the enemy to battle by a flank march up the right bank of the
Danube to Ingolstadt in his very face. Lefebvre was to cover the movement, and Wrede, with
one Bavarian division, was held ready to strengthen any weak spot in case of battle. Next day
Masséna was ordered to set out from Augsburg for the same point, "to unite with the army, catch
the enemy at work, and destroy his columns." To this end he was to march eastward by Pfaffenhofen.
In a twinkling the scattered French army seemed already concentrated, while scouts came one
after the other to announce that the Austrians were separating.

The Austrians had crossed the Isar in good order, Charles himself at Landshut. If they had
kept directly onward they might have still wedged themselves between Davout and Lefebvre. But
the Archduke grew timid at the prospect of swamps and wooded hills before him; uncertain of
his enemy's exact position, he threw forward three separate columns by as many different roads,
and thus lengthened his line enormously, the right wing being at Essenbach, the center advanced
before Landshut to Hohen-Thann, the left at Morsbach. At four in the morning of the eighteenth
Lefebvre received orders to fall on the Austrian left, while flying messengers followed each
other in quick succession to spur on Masséna with urgent pleas of immediate necessity. It was
hoped that he might come up to join an attack which, though intended mainly to divert the Austrians
from Davout, could by his help be turned into an important victory.

The Archduke during the day collected sixty-six thousand men at Rohr for his onset, and thirty-five
thousand men at Ludmannsdorf to cover his flank, leaving twenty-five thousand at Moosburg.
That night Davout's last corps, that of Friant, came in, and he began his march. Masséna, who
had collected his army and was coming from Augsburg, was ordered to turn, either left toward
Abensberg, in order to join Davout, or right toward Landshut, to attack Charles's rear, as
circumstances should determine. Lefebvre was now commanded to assume the defensive and await
events at Abensberg. Throughout the morning of the nineteenth Davout and Charles continued
their march, drawing ever closer to each other. At eleven the French van and the Austrian left
collided. The latter made a firm stand, but were driven in with great slaughter.

A considerable force which had been sent to strike Davout on the flank at Abensberg was also
defeated by Lefebvre. Before evening the entire French army was united and in hand. Davout
was on the left toward the river Laber, Lefebvre, with the Bavarians and several French divisions,
was in the center beyond the river Aben, while Masséna had reached a point beyond Moosburg.
Within sixty hours Napoleon had conceived and completed three separate strategic movements:
the withdrawal of the whole army toward Ingolstadt, the advance of his right to strengthen
the incoming left, and the rearrangement of his entire line with the right on his enemy's base
of operations.

"In war you see your own troubles; those of the enemy you cannot see. You must show confidence,"
wrote the French emperor about this time to Eugène. How true it was of his own course! On the
morning of the twenty-first he declared that the enemy was in full retreat. This was over-confidence
on his part, and not true; but it might as well have been. As a result of the preceding day's
skirmishing and countermarching the Austrian army was almost cut in two; one division, the
right, under Charles, was pressing on to Ratisbon, while the other, under Hiller, was marching
aimlessly behind in a general northwesterly direction, and the whole straggling line was not
less than twenty miles in length. Lannes, the sturdiest, most rough-and-ready of all the marshals,
had arrived from Spain the night before. His presence increased the army's confidence that
they would win, and next day he commanded a division formed from the corps of Morand, Gudin,
and Nansouty. Davout received orders to hold the enemy in front; Masséna was to spread out
along their rear from Moosburg down the Isar, ready to harass either flank or rear with half
his strength, and to send the rest, under Oudinot, to Abensberg.

On the morning of the twentieth the Emperor himself, with Lannes and Wrede, set out to sever
the enemy's line. They had little difficulty. The thin column dispersed before them to the
north and south. Hiller was driven back to Landshut, whence he fled to Neumarkt, leaving the
Isar in possession of the French. Davout advanced simultaneously against the Archduke's army,
which, although very much stronger than Hiller's division, nevertheless retired and occupied
Eckmühl, standing drawn up on the highroad toward Ratisbon. At Landshut the Emperor became
aware that the mass of the Austrian army was not before him, but before Davout. Leaving Bessières
and two divisions of infantry, with a body of cavalry, to continue the pursuit of Hiller, he
turned back toward Eckmühl at three in the morning of the twenty-second. Here, again, a great
resolve was taken in the very nick of time and in the presence of the enemy. With the same
iron will and burning genius, the same endurance and pertinacity, as of old, he pressed on
at the head of his soldiers. It was one o'clock when the eighteen-mile march was accomplished
and the enemy's outposts before Eckmühl were reached.

Meantime one of the Austrian divisions left in Bohemia had arrived at Ratisbon. Charles, strengthened
by this reinforcement, had determined to take the offensive, and at noon his advance began.
Vandamme seemed destined to bear the force of the onset, but in the moment before the shock
would have occurred, appeared Napoleon's van. Advancing rapidly with Lannes, the Emperor rode
to the top of a slight rise, and, scanning the coming Austrians, suddenly ordered Vandamme
to seize Eckmühl, and then despatched Lannes to cross the Laber and circumvent the enemy. Davout,
having learned the direction of the Austrian charge, threw himself against the hostile columns
on their right, and after a stubborn resistance began to push back the dogged foe. In less
than two hours the French right, left, and center were all advancing, and the enemy were steadily
retreating, but fighting fiercely as they withdrew. This continued until seven in the evening,
when Lannes finally accomplished his task.

This destroyed all resistance. The Emperor weakly yielded to his generals' remonstrance that
the troops were exhausted, and did not order a pursuit. Charles withdrew into Ratisbon. During
the night and early morning he threw a pontoon bridge across the stream, which was already
spanned by a stone one, and next day, after a skirmish in which his outposts were driven into
the town, he crossed the Danube; three days later he effected a junction with his second division,
left in the Bohemian Forest, and stood at Cham with an effective fighting force of eighty thousand
men. The result proved that Napoleon's judgment had been unerring; had he pursued, in spite
of all remonstrance and in disregard of the fatigue of his men, he would have had no mighty
foe to fight a few weeks later at Wagram. Some time thereafter he told an Austrian general
that he had deliberated long, and had refrained from following Charles into Bohemia for fear
the Northern powers would rise and come to the assistance of Austria. "Had I pursued immediately,"
he said at St. Helena, "as the Prussians did after Waterloo, the hostile army crowded on to
the Danube would have been in the last extremity."

"Labor is my element," he remarked on the same dreary isle almost amid the pangs of dissolution.
"I have found the limit of my strength in eye and limb; I have never found the limit of my
capacity for work." This was certainly true of this five days' fight. "His Majesty is well,"
wrote Berthier on the twenty-fourth, "and endures according to his general habit the exertion
of mind and body." Once more his enemy was not annihilated, but this contentment and high spirits
seem natural to common minds, which recall that in a week he had evolved order from chaos,
and had stricken a powerful, united foe, cutting his line in two, and sending one portion to
the right-about in utter confusion. To the end of his life Napoleon regarded the strategic
operations culminating at Eckmühl as his masterpiece in that particular line. Jomini, his able
critic, remained always of the same opinion. French history knows this conflict as the Battle
of Five Days; Thann, Abensberg, Landshut, Eckmühl, and Ratisbon being the places in or near
which on each day a skirmish or combat occurred to mark the successive stages of French victory.

The results were of the most important kind. In the first place, Austria's pride and confidence
were gone. She had lost fifty thousand men, and her warfare was no longer offensive, but defensive.
Charles called for peace, but the Emperor would not listen. The Archduke John, moreover, was
compelled to abandon the Tyrol, and when he found himself again in Italy, he was no longer
confronted by Eugène alone, that excellent youth but feeble general, whom he had so easily
defeated: Macdonald was associated with the viceroy in the command. In Poland, also, Ferdinand's
easy successes had carried him too far in pursuit of Poniatowski, and he began to retreat.
Lefebvre with the Bavarians was stationed at Salzburg to prevent an irruption of the Tyrolean
mountaineers toward the north; all the rest of the Emperor's army was immediately ordered to
march on the Austrian capital.

The advance was scarcely contested. Hiller, commanding Charles's left wing, had paused in his
retreat, and crossing the Inn with his thirty thousand men, had successfully attacked Wrede
at Erding. He had probably heard that Charles was marching to Passau, but the news was false.
Learning the truth, he turned again and recrossed the Inn; thence he continued to withdraw,
stopping an instant at the Traun to avail himself of a strong position and hold the line if
Charles were perchance coming thither to join him. At Ebelsberg, on May third, he made a splendid
and momentarily successful resistance, but was overwhelmed by superior numbers. Hearing of
his leader's slow advance, and being himself in despair, on the seventh he led his army at
Mautern across to the left bank of the Danube in order to effect a junction with the disheartened
Archduke, and then destroyed the bridge behind him. The forces of Charles and Hiller met and
halted on the slopes of the great hill known as the Bisamberg, which overlooks Vienna from
the north shore, and commands the fertile plains through which the great river rolls past the
Austrian capital.

[Illustration: Battle of Eckmühl 22 April 1809.]

Day after day, with unimportant interruptions but no real check, the French ranks marched down
the right bank of the stream. On May tenth they appeared before Vienna. Then, as now, it had
no efficient fortifications, and its garrison consisted of a citizen militia, strengthened
by a small detachment which Hiller had sent forward to reinforce and encourage them. The defenders
were commanded by the Archduke Maximilian. There was a brave show of resistance; all the suburbs
were evacuated, and the populace gathered behind the old brick walls which had been erected
two centuries before against the Turks. At first Napoleon thought there would be a second instance
of such embittered and desperate resistance as he had encountered at Madrid. But a feint of
the French to cut off the communication of the town with the river, together with a few cannon-balls,
quickly brought the unhappy capital to terms; Maximilian marched out at midnight on the eleventh,
and on the twelfth Napoleon returned to the neighboring palace of Schönbrunn, where he had
already established his headquarters. The news which arrived from day to day was most encouraging.
Poniatowski was again in possession of Warsaw, which the Archduke Ferdinand had evacuated in
order to rejoin his brother Charles. The Archduke John, flying before Macdonald, had passed
the Carinthian mountains into Hungary, where the liberal movement threatened Austrian rule.
The Bavarians, after desperate fighting under Lefebvre, had driven the Tyrolese rebels from
Innsbruck. It seemed a proper time to complete, if possible, the demoralization of the whole
Austrian empire before crossing the Danube to annihilate its military force. Francis had sown
the wind in his declaration of war: he must reap the whirlwind.

From the beginning Napoleon had made the most of his enemy's being the aggressor. There were
no terms too harsh for the "Moniteur" to apply when speaking of the hostile court and the resisting
populations. The Emperor's proclamations reveled in abuse of the Tyrolese and of Schill. The
latter was a Prussian partizan who, having distinguished himself after Jena, was now striving
to use the Austrian war in order to arouse the North Germans. He had already gathered a few
desperate patriots, and in open hostility was defying constituted authority with the intention
of calling his country to arms. The news of Eckmühl had destroyed his chances of success, and
he was soon to end his gallant but ill-starred career in a final stand at Stralsund, whither
he had retreated. He was stigmatized by Napoleon as a "sort of robber, who had covered himself
with crimes in the last Prussian campaign." In repeated public utterances the Emperor of Austria
was characterized as cowardly, thankless, and perjured, while the Viennese were addressed as
"good people, abandoned and widowed." The last acts of their flying rulers had been murder
and arson; "like Medea, they had with their own hands strangled their own children."

This policy of wooing the people while abusing their rulers had been successfully undertaken
in Italy, and continued with varying results from that day. No more effective revolutionary
engine could have been devised for Europe in Napoleon's age. The specious statements of the
Emperor were based on truth, and while the idea they expressed was distorted and reiterated
until its exaggeration became falsehood, yet France and the Napoleonic soldiers appeared to
fight and suffer enthusiastically for what they still considered a great cause. Even the dull
boors, whose intelligence had been nearly quenched by centuries of oppression, felt stirrings
of manhood as they listened to the Emperor's fiery words; the middle classes, though not deceived,
had no power to refute such language from such a man; and among the few truly enlightened men
of each nation who were aware of their country's abasement under dynastic absolutism, a tremendous
impression was often created, at least temporarily.

This fact had already been well illustrated in Poland. Austria had another appanage whose people
cared little for the prestige of their foreign kings and much for their own liberties. The
Hungarians were a conservative, capable race; many of them were ardent Protestants, well educated
and well informed, successfully combining in their institutions the best elements of both civic
and patriarchal life. To them Napoleon issued a proclamation on May fifteenth which was a masterpiece
of its kind. It set forth that the Emperor Leopold II in his short reign had acknowledged their
rights and confirmed their liberties; that Francis I had sworn to maintain their laws and constitution,
but had never convoked their estates except to demand money for his wars; that in view of such
treatment, Hungary should now rise and secure national independence. The proclamation produced
some effect, but as a whole the Hungarians stood fast in their allegiance.

Four years earlier Napoleon's proclamation declaring that the Bourbons of Naples had ceased
to reign was launched from Schönbrunn. Now another, to which reference has already been made,
equally famous, was dictated within its walls, though dated, May seventeenth, from the "Imperial
Camp at Vienna." It was a document even abler than that addressed to the Hungarians. Citing
the abuses which had from immemorial times resulted from the confusion of temporal with spiritual
power in the papacy, it revoked the donation of Charles the Great to Hadrian I (made a thousand
years before!), declared that Pius VII had ceased to reign, and that, as an indemnity for the
loss of his secular power, he was to receive an annual increase of income amounting to two
million francs. In time of peace this decree would have produced throughout Europe a tremendous
stir; but in the interval between the two acts of a great campaign, men were much more occupied
with speculations about the decision of arms than with a change which was, after all, only
another phase of a protracted, tiresome struggle in which the papacy had long since fallen
from its pinnacle. It was, however, an element of terrific demoralization in the house of Austria,
which thus saw the consolidation of Italy under the Napoleon family complete, and their last
hope to regain their European influence by enlargement in that peninsula extinguished.

Such was the scenic diversion provided for the great world in the pause of a few days after
the occupation of Vienna. These moments were likewise occupied by the greatest military activity.
Morning, noon, and night secretaries wrote and messengers ran; the roads of central Europe
resounded beneath the feet of tramping infantry and the hoofs of horses which were dragging
provision-trains and artillery carriages, or bearing despatches to distant points.

The Archduke Charles was a fine strategic theorist, in his age second only to Napoleon. After
the fatal division of his army before Landshut, he had wonderfully retrieved his strength in
seizing Ratisbon, crossing the Danube, and standing at Cham eighty thousand strong, as he did
after his reinforcement by the division which he called in from the Bohemian Forest. But again
he became the victim of indecision. Calling for peace negotiations, he loitered long at Budweis,
failed to join Hiller so as to throw their united force across the French advance to Vienna,
and when at last he brought up on the slopes of the Bisamberg he seemed for an instant aimless.
Thus can the hope of peace paralyze a great general's activity. But when, having offered to
open negotiations with his adversary, he received no answer, when he learned that the Austrian
ministry also was determined to fight the struggle out, he was himself again. His plan was
the greatest perhaps ever devised by him: so great, indeed, that four years later Napoleon
made it his own at Dresden. It was to free Vienna by threatening the French communications.

The idea was old enough; the novelty lay in the details. Kollowrath was to detach twenty-five
thousand men from his own force, and to seize Linz with its bridge; the Archduke John was to
join the Army of the Tyrol, which had retreated to the head waters of the Enns, and then march
with fifty thousand men to the same point. But Masséna was already master of the Enns valley,
and Bernadotte was sent to assist Vandamme at Linz. The Emperor had already divined the plan,
and thwarted it by the rapidity with which his orders were transmitted and distant divisions
summoned. The communications were threatened, but not broken, and Napoleon gave his whole attention
to the problem of crossing a great river in the face of an enemy. He had done it before, but
never under circumstances so peculiar as these which confronted him in the size of the Danube
and the strength of his foe.

The mighty stream follows for the most part a single channel until it enters the plains which
face Vienna on the north, where, at intervals, it divides into several arms, inclosing numerous
islands. These branches are nearly all substantial streams; many of them are navigable. It
was determined to choose two such points, one above and the other below the town, to build
bridges at both, and to select whichever one should prove more feasible when the task was done.
The enterprise above the town failed entirely through the vigilance of the Austrians. Masséna
had better success at the other end, and succeeded in gathering sufficient material without
great difficulty; his bridges between the two shores by the island of Lobau were ready on May
twentieth. In this interval Charles advanced, and occupied a line farther forward in the great
plain, stretching from hamlet to hamlet--from Korneuburg, Enzersfeld, and Gross-Ebersdorf to
Strebersdorf. Eugène and Macdonald had reached Villach, whence they could march direct to Vienna;
the Archduke John was at Völkermarkt, on his way down the Drave toward Hungary. Two days before,
eight hundred French soldiers had crossed into the island of Lobau to drive out the Austrian
scouts; on the nineteenth Napoleon arrived, and the necessary fortifications were constructed;
on the twentieth the passage began, and Masséna, with Lannes's light cavalry, was sent out
to reconnoiter.

CHAPTER XVI

ASPERN, ESSLING, AND WAGRAM[31]

         [Footnote 31: See Marbot: Memoirs. Smekal: Die Schlacht bei
         Aspern und Essling. Strobl: Aspern und Wagram. Cadet de
         Gassicourt: Voyage en Autriche. Schmölzer: Hofer und seine
         Kampfgenossen.]

     The Marchfeld -- Tactics of the Two Armies -- The Battle in
     Aspern and Essling -- The Indecisive Result -- Napoleon's Retreat
     -- Character of the Battle -- Discontent in the French Army --
     The Spirit of Austria -- Preparations to Renew the Conflict --
     The French Army on the Lobau -- Napoleon's New Tactics -- The
     First Day of Wagram -- Napoleon's Use of Artillery -- The Second
     Day of Wagram -- The Victory Dearly Bought -- A French Panic --
     Napoleon's Dilemma.

Charles, having apparently determined to let his enemy cross unmolested, and to fight the decisive
battle on his own ground, had advanced meantime to still another line of hamlets--Strebersdorf,
Gerasdorf, Deutsch-Wagram. On the morning of the twenty-first Napoleon's army was partly across
the main stream, some of his troops being yet on the Lobau, some entirely over on the left
bank, but a large portion still on the right bank. His cavalry was again sent to clear the
Marchfeld of the Austrian light horse, who were coursing from one vantage-point to another;
and he himself, in order to survey the country, advanced to the first slight rise beyond the
low meadows which border the river. Near where he stood was the comfortable hamlet of Aspern,
composed like the others round about of one-story stone houses and high stone barns, some of
which are of great size, with walls many feet thick. The farmsteads and churchyards are inclosed
with ordinary masonry walls. At a short distance to the eastward lay Essling, which, like Aspern,
had a few hundred inhabitants, and farther still, but easily visible, the somewhat larger village
of Enzersdorf. The plain, though not rolling, is yet not perfectly flat, and small watercourses
traverse it at frequent intervals, their direction marked by the trees growing on their banks.
The most important of these, the Russbach, was some miles north of where he stood. Turning
to Masséna, after scanning the ground, he said: "I shall refuse on the left, and advancing
on the right, turn in the Austrian front to the left." That is, he would leave his own left
on the river, turn the Austrian left, and rolling up their line, inclose them with their rear
to the Danube. His success would be their annihilation, for they had no means of crossing in
retreat.

To men of less daring this would have seemed a mad plan. A careful general would, without hesitation,
have seized and strongly garrisoned Aspern, Essling, and Enzersdorf, in order that his own
line of retreat might be secure, and sufficient room be assured in which to deploy. Pelet,
in his memoirs, declares that the Emperor's orders were "to cross the river and march against
the enemy." Be this as it may, there were as yet only three infantry divisions on the left
bank of the Danube, and Aspern was but weakly garrisoned. Charles was determined to maintain
if possible his superiority of numbers. The river was somewhat swollen and he sent floats laden
with stones down the main channel to crash through Napoleon's bridges. The attempt met with
only slight success, though it weakened the most important bridge. Meantime the Austrians were
advancing in five columns, one by Breitenlee against Aspern, one by Aderklaa against Essling,
one direct on Enzersdorf to their left; the two others were cavalry, and bore in the general
direction of Breitenlee toward Aspern. They appeared in full sight about one o'clock, the column
destined to attack Napoleon being nearest. Napoleon's over-confidence disappeared at once,
and while the Austrians deployed for the attack, and occupied Aspern, he sent in Molitor's
division to seize and hold that hamlet, Masséna being in command. The divisions of Legrand
and Boudet were in the rear, on the right and left respectively. Bessières, with the cavalry
of Lasalle and Espagne, stood between Aspern and Essling; the division of Carra Saint-Cyr arrived
later and was held in reserve. Lannes and Boudet, with a small force, were ordered to hold
Essling. Enzersdorf was abandoned, and quickly occupied by the Austrian left.

The fighting at Aspern was awful. The French pushed in, were driven out, then turned and seized
the place again. Once more, and still once more, the same alternation of success and defeat
was repeated, the thickest of the fight being at the churchyard in the western end of the village.
At Essling the fore-post about which the battle raged was a great barn with mighty walls and
vaulted cellars. Meanwhile the Emperor was calling in his troops as fast as possible from behind,
but at three in the afternoon his main bridge over the chief arm of the Danube gave way before
masses of rubbish brought down from the hill-country by a freshet, which was hourly increasing
in volume. The Austrians were from first to last superior in numbers on the battle-field; their
enfilading batteries were able to sweep the French lines for several hours, and the carnage
was dreadful. At last Bessières succeeded in dislodging them from Essling, and by great exertion
that place was held until dusk, when the Austrians drew off to bivouac. But at Aspern the numbers
engaged were greater, Legrand being sent in toward nightfall. The Archduke intended to take
and hold the village if possible, and the fighting continued there until midnight. Weakened
and inferior in numbers though the French were, they understood better than their foes the
defense of such a place, and when firing ceased they still held half of the long main street.

[Illustration: Battle of Aspern or Essling. 21st of May 1809.]

[Illustration: Battle of Aspern or Essling. 22nd of May 1809.]

By midnight the French bridge was again repaired, and Davout, in response to Napoleon's urgent
orders, began to bring up reinforcements, especially artillery, holding them on the south shore
of the main stream in readiness for crossing. At two in the morning the Austrians made still
another effort to drive out the enemy from Aspern; soon afterward they again attacked Essling.
Masséna called in Carra Saint-Cyr to Aspern; within an hour both attacks had been repulsed,
and the latter hamlet was entirely cleared of the enemy. While the desperate struggle again
went on, the Emperor once more surveyed the field; and when at seven in the morning Davout
sent word that a portion of the reinforcements was already on the Lobau, Napoleon determined
to break through the enemy's center, and for that purpose threw forward the troops already
on the ground. But once more the weakened and patched structure over the Danube gave way, and
the arrival of reinforcements was stopped; the available French force was immediately drawn
back, and stationed to hold the line from Aspern to Essling. The enemy was encouraged and pressed
on to the attack with renewed vigor; in the former village the scenes of the previous day were
repeated, first one and then the other contestant holding it for a time. In the center, where
the Austrians almost broke through the line, Napoleon quickly brought together his recently
arrived artillery and Bessières's cavalry; after terrific struggles they succeeded in holding
the Austrians in check. On the right Essling, after being captured and recaptured several times
by each side, was taken and long held by the enemy's left; it was then retaken at about three
in the afternoon, by a portion of the French reserve, Napoleon's "young guard." Thereupon,
from the sheer exhaustion of both sides, the conflict ceased, nothing being heard but desultory
discharges of artillery. The French were in possession of both Aspern and Essling. At seven
the Emperor called a council of war; the generals advised recrossing the Danube and a retreat
into Vienna. "You must mean to Strasburg," said their chief; "for if Charles should follow,
he might drive me thither, and if he should march to cut me off at Linz, I must march thither,
too, to meet him. In either case, I must abandon the capital, my only source of supplies."
There was no reply, and it was determined to withdraw into the Lobau, and hold it until a stronger
bridge could be constructed and Davout bring over his entire force. After two days of terrific
defensive fighting,--so terrific that the Austrians were several times on the point of retreat,--Napoleon
was obliged to abandon the field.

The night of May twenty-second was the beginning of such bitterness for the French emperor
as he had not yet tasted. His enemy's forces numbered about seventy thousand, his own perhaps
forty-five thousand; but this was entirely his own fault, due largely to overweening confidence
in himself and a weak contempt for foes who, after a long and severe novitiate, now fought
like veteran Frenchmen, and were led by one who had learned the lessons of Napoleon's own strategy.
Five times Essling had been lost and won; how often Aspern had been captured and retaken could
only be estimated. Both hamlets were now abandoned by the French. The last Austrian charge
against the center had been made and repelled with fiery valor, but in it Lannes was mortally
wounded. The grand total, therefore, of the two days was a loss of gallant troops by the thousand,
and of this marshal, Napoleon's greatest division general, the friend of his youth, and the
only surviving one that was both fearless and honest. Worse even than this, the "unconquerable,"
though not conquered, had been checked, and that, too, not in a corner, as in Spain or at Eylau,
but in the sight of all Europe, on a field chosen by himself.

As the war-sick Emperor passed the litter on which lay his old comrade, he threw himself on
the living but maimed and half-conscious form in an agony of tenderness; and that night, as
he sat at table before an untasted meal, briny tears rolled over cheeks which did not often
know the sensation. But the bulletin which he dictated ran, "The enemy withdrew to their position,
and we remained masters of the field." This latter clause was exactly as true of the French
at Aspern as it had been of the Russians at Eylau--the affair was a technical victory, a moral
defeat. The Austrians celebrated the battle as their victory, the honors of which they accorded
to the last cavalry charge under Prince John Liechtenstein; and in the peaceful churchyard
at Aspern lies the effigy of a majestic lion stricken to the heart, as a reminder to patriotic
Austrians of those two days' victorious fighting, which literally drenched the spot with blood.
"We could not use the victory," wrote Charles's chief of staff on the twenty-fourth; "for the
enemy's strong position made pursuit impossible." This he well knew, because the night before
the Austrians had tried with signal failure to dislodge the French army from the Lobau.

The respective feelings of the two forces are mirrored in two facts. On the twenty-third Napoleon
again visited Lannes, who was now fully conscious and aware that he was doomed. He was as fearless
as ever and with the stern candor of an old republican poured out to the Emperor all that he
felt. The army, he said, was weary of bloodshed, the nation of its sense of exhaustion; for
both were alike aware that they suffered and bled no longer for a principle, but for the boundless
ambition of one man. The veteran marshal refused all sympathy or consolation, and turned his
face to the wall. Both Marbot and Pelet declare that this story of Cadet de Gassicourt is an
invention; if so, it is a clever one, for we know from other sources that the language ascribed
to Lannes expressed the sentiments of the soldiery. As there was little chance for booty in
such rapid marching and constant fighting, the youth and the poor were disheartened. The great
fortunes won by the officers were of little use while peace was denied for their enjoyment;
the millions of Masséna did not save him from the exposures and hardships of the battle-field,
and he confessed that he loved luxury and immoral self-indulgence. Such voices had created
an undercurrent of discontent.

The feeling of Charles and his soldiers was not greatly different. There was nothing possible
as the result of their victory but to take up a more comfortable position on the same Marchfeld
which had witnessed their losses. Before them were the bodies of ten thousand dead and four
times that number had been wounded: losses which were about equally divided between their brethren
and their foes. The Archduke urged that now was the time for diplomacy. The battle of Aspern
had softened Napoleon, he said, and Austria might secure an advantageous peace. But Francis
had not changed his nature; he would await the final decision. His brother Ferdinand would
soon arrive from Poland, and John was already in Hungary. To Frederick William III he had offered
Warsaw if Prussia would only come to his assistance. But the King of Prussia was stubborn.
Fearing lest Austria should secure German leadership, and expecting in the end to gain more
from Russia, he refused, in spite of the earnest advice of all his ministers, to assist his
rival. It was only when he was assured that Alexander intended to remain neutral that he consented
to a secret armament, but then it was too late. The insurrection in Westphalia, to assist which
Schill, in disobedience of orders, had led his battalion of hussars from Berlin, was easily
suppressed. This fact, with Napoleon's signal success in Bavaria, seemed to justify Frederick
William, and the failure of Francis to secure any advantage after Aspern confirmed the opinion.
Such, however, was the temper of the Prussian people that, under moral compulsion, their King
finally proposed formal terms of alliance. Austria's real spirit appeared in her vague answer.
She first asked England for more assistance, but failing to secure it, turned ungraciously
and with indefinite proposals to Prussia. Her envoy of course found no response. Thus it was
that Charles and Napoleon lay for weeks watching each other like gladiators, each ready to
take advantage of any false step made by the other, and both steadily gathering strength to
renew the struggle in the same arena.

Napoleon seemed to make his preparations with a determination to risk all in the next encounter.
His line of communication with the west was abandoned altogether; the Tyrol, too, was virtually
evacuated, and Lefebvre, with the Bavarians, relieved Vandamme and Bernadotte at Linz, so that
both the latter might at once advance within striking distance. Eugène had reached Bruck in
Styria, and was therefore at hand; Marmont with ten thousand men was called from Illyria. Being
thus safe toward the south, the Emperor sent two divisions to watch the Austrians at Presburg.
Before June tenth he had compacted in and about Vienna an army of two hundred and forty thousand
men. On the thirteenth the Archduke John, having turned and advanced toward Raab, was attacked,
defeated, and driven back into Hungary by Eugène, who had learned, if not generalship, at least
obedience, and having carefully obeyed his stepfather's injunctions, had thus won an important
victory.

Meantime all was activity on the Lobau. A new and solid bridge was built across the main stream.
To forestall another such accident as had occurred before, this structure was not only protected
by piles, but guarded by rowboats which were armed with field-pieces and manned by artillerymen.
The enemy had withdrawn behind the Russbach in a line from Deutsch-Wagram to Markgrafneusiedl,
leaving only a corps to fortify the old line from Aspern to Essling. In consequence the Emperor
entirely changed his plan. The island of Lobau was first strongly fortified, and then, not
one, but numerous bridges were constructed to the mainland on the left bank under cover of
the guns. Lower down similar measures were taken. In this way the French troops could effect
their passage very rapidly and much farther eastward than before, avoid the Aspern-Essling
line, and reaching Enzersdorf under protection of their own forts, turn the enemy's left almost
in the act of crossing, and so roll up the left wing of his line, which was strongly posted
on high ground behind the Russbach, from Markgrafneusiedl through Parbasdorf toward Wagram,
where it was connected with the center. These arrangements were all completed by July first,
on which date the Emperor left Schönbrunn for the Lobau. During the fighting at Aspern he had
observed the field from the swinging rungs of a rope-ladder fastened to one of the tall trees
on the island. This time he brought with him a long step-ladder, one of those used in the palace
gardens to trim high shrubs. The Archduke John was now in Presburg; the Archduke Charles had
raised his numbers to a hundred and thirty thousand men. On and near the Lobau were a hundred
and eighty thousand French soldiers; twenty-two thousand more were behind.

It was the fifth before all the preliminary moves were successfully taken. The passage had
been safely accomplished during the previous night exactly as had been planned, a feint against
Aspern having thrown the Austrians on a false scent. In the morning, therefore, the two lines
were arrayed opposite, but somewhat obliquely, to each other, the French right overlapping
the Austrian left beyond Enzersdorf as far as Wittau, so as either to prevent the approach
of Archduke John or to outflank the Austrian left according to circumstances. The French center
was thus in front of the Austrian left, and Masséna, with the French left resting on the Danube,
was to attack the Austrian center at the village of Gerasdorf, while Bernadotte and Eugène
were to throw themselves on Charles's left, which stretched behind the Russbach from Wagram
to Markgrafneusiedl. Napoleon waited for some hours while scouts reconnoitered toward Presburg.
Being assured about five that John had not left that city nor given any signs of moving, he
prepared his columns, and about seven in the evening ordered the onset.

Masséna made a vigorous effort to hold the enemy's center and right, while Napoleon launched
his own center and right against the positions held by his opponent's left. For some hours
there was vigorous fighting, but Charles saw the Emperor's manoeuver, and swiftly throwing
his reserve from behind Gerasdorf into his left, gained time to call up reinforcements from
his right at the Bisamberg. Bernadotte moved slowly, and did not render his force effective
at the crucial moment. Napoleon was much incensed by his apparent sluggishness. An attack made
at seven against Wagram by Oudinot failed. This hamlet was the key of the Austrian position,
forming as it did the angle of their line, and the fighting there was desperate. By nine o'clock
the French were thrown back all along, and compelled to resume the positions they had held
in the morning. At eleven a last attempt was made by Eugène and Bernadotte on Wagram, but like
the other it was bloody and useless. At the council-fire that evening the leaders of the French
left and center were ordered to move farther to the right, and to concentrate next morning
on the positions behind the Russbach. About dawn the change was made, and before sunrise all
was ready, the Emperor having passed a sleepless night on his tiger-skin behind the bivouac
fire in front of his tent.

[Illustration: Battle of Wagram. Positions July 5th 1809.]

But Charles did not wait to be attacked. With new courage and added confidence he ordered his
right, under Klenau, to follow down the Danube against the enemy's weakened left, which might
thus be turned, while with the break of day his center advanced against Masséna. For a time
the Austrians carried all before them, and Masséna retreated step by step until it appeared
as if the tables would be turned and Napoleon overwhelmed by his own tactics. Both Aspern and
Essling were taken, and then, turning north, the united Austrian center and right entirely
surrounded the French left and attacked it on the flank. They thought themselves victorious,
when unexpectedly the heavy artillery on the Lobau opened fire upon them, and they began to
waver. At this crisis the great artillerist brought into action the strong batteries of his
own arm which he had so carefully prepared. Lauriston was chosen to carry out the decisive
movement, and his splendid conduct not merely secured the victory, but made it overwhelming.
According to the most conservative estimate, there were under his command one hundred field-pieces,--sixty
from the guard,--and these were supported by cavalry and cuirassiers; some estimate the number
of guns at four hundred, but this is manifestly a wild exaggeration. As the artillery rolled
up and unlimbered, volleys of shot, shell, and grape began to follow in swift succession, and
in a short time the enemy's pursuit was not only stayed, but with the approach of Macdonald's
infantry to form a new flank it was turned into retreat. The Austrians made one gallant stand,
but were finally forced back to the foot of the Bisamberg.

Meantime Davout had attacked the left. While he fought he was steadily reinforced, until at
one time, about midday, over a third of the army was concentrated under his command. The Austrians
opposed to them could not, even with their vantage of high ground, withstand the ever stronger
pressure, and slowly rolled back northward in a curve. Eugène captured Wagram, and then turned
in that direction to unite with Macdonald, whose division had joined that of Wrede, and had
been steadily pushing back the enemy's line toward the same point. They were supported by Davout
and Oudinot. The Austrians on the right were then once more dislodged and compelled to withdraw
on the highway to Brünn. It was about two in the afternoon. Davout had been ordered to wait
for a signal to make the decisive advance. It was given, and as Oudinot rushed up the heights
at Parbasdorf, his comrade appeared from Markgrafneusiedl, driving the enemy before him. A
breach in the opposing line was made at once, and the whole Austrian wing, being thus disorganized,
hurried back to reform if possible beyond Wagram, cross the Russbach, and join the main army.
They were successful. The French right halted just beyond the village which gave its name to
the battle. Lasalle, a brilliant light-horse general, was killed in the last charge, and both
armies bivouacked for the night. Next morning Charles withdrew toward Znaim, Masséna, Davout,
and Marmont following with the van of Napoleon's army. Several skirmishes took place between
portions of the Austrian rear and various corps of the French van, in which the latter were
decidedly checked. Marmont was obliged to assume the defensive under the walls of Znaim. The
Austrian losses at the battle of Wagram were computed at twenty-four thousand, including seven
hundred and fifty-three officers. Those of the French were certainly not less, if we include
seven thousand who were taken prisoners. They lost, moreover, twelve standards and eleven guns.

In the early hours of July sixth, Charles had despatched an adjutant to Presburg with orders
to the Archduke John to march at once and attack the enemy's rear. The story at first accepted
was that the messenger found the bridges over the river March destroyed, and arrived six hours
too late for his errand to be successful. There were, however, many at the time who attributed
criminal negligence to John, among them his own brother, the commander-in-chief. For a time,
by means of court intrigue and persistent misrepresentation, the blame was put, not on John,
but on Charles, but eventually the former was found guilty and banished to Styria. Had the
latter's plan succeeded, Napoleon would have had a different task--a task so difficult that
the issue of the battle might well have been doubtful, if not disastrous. As it was, the victory
was dearly bought, and the Austrians were not demoralized.

On the other hand, in the very hour of victory the French, who had halted to take breath, were
thrown into a panic by the appearance of a few Austrian pickets from the Archduke John's army,
then coming up, and thousands of the victorious soldiers fled in wild demoralization toward
the Danube. John, whose appearance but a short time earlier would have turned his brother's
defeat into victory, drew back his thirteen thousand men in good order to guard Hungary. As
Napoleon himself had been in a dangerous condition of over-confidence before Aspern, so now
his soldiery were clearly in the same plight. Self-conceit had made them unreliable. Bernadotte's
corps had displayed something very much like cowardice and mutiny at the last. The army still
fought in the main like the perfect machine it was, but the individual men had lost their stern
virtue. They believed that victory, plunder, and self-indulgence were the fair compensations
of their toils. Ungirt and freed from the restraints of discipline, they gave signs that the
petulance, timidity, and unruliness which had been manifested in Poland and Prussia were not
diminished.

Their Emperor, if his vision had been unclouded, would have understood that endurance, suffering,
and privation would make such men an untrustworthy dependence in the hour of need. How changed
he was himself is clear from the fact that Bonaparte would never have rested until his foe
was disorganized and overpowered, while Napoleon saw himself forced to treat with an opponent
who, though beaten, was still undaunted and active. If the victor had been fighting for life,
his position would have been morally strong; fighting as a world-conqueror, it was illogical;
fighting as equal with equal to repel aggression, it was comprehensible. This last was the
attitude into which he was forced by the campaign of Aspern, Essling, Wagram. Francis, whose
power he had meant to crush, upon whom a few short weeks before he had heaped insult and abuse,
had turned out a most dangerous foe. Technically conquered, it would not be well for his opponent
to try conclusions with him again in the still uncertain position of the Napoleonic power.
Rather reap the field secured, the daunted conqueror reasoned, than risk devastation by grasping
for more. This, and no other, is the explanation of that remarkable somersault in Napoleon's
diplomacy which followed in the next few weeks.

CHAPTER XVII

THE PEACE OF SCHÖNBRUNN[32]

         [Footnote 32: See Majol de Lupe: Fournier: Gentz und der
         Friede von Schönbrunn in Deutsche Rundschau, tom. 44. Un pape
         prisonnier à Savone, d'après des documents inédits. In Le
         Correspondant, 6 articles, du 10 mars au 25 mai. Clair: Hofer
         et l'insurrection du Tyrol.]

     Schill and the Duke of Brunswick -- Andreas Hofer -- The
     Armistice of Znaim -- The Northern Powers Adhere to France --
     Wellesley's Successes in the Peninsula -- The Walcheren
     Expedition -- Negotiations for Peace -- Austria a Second-rate
     Power -- Attempt on Napoleon's Life -- His Great Uneasiness --
     The Tyrol Subdued -- The Pope a Prisoner.

Napoleon's course was probably somewhat influenced both by the mutterings of national discontent
in France and by the actual insurrections which were taking place in Germany. Schill, after
leaving Berlin, had been successively harassed by the Dutch, the Westphalians, and the Danes,
until in despair he threw himself into Stralsund in hope of coöperation from an English fleet.
The city was immediately beleaguered, and on May thirty-first it fell. The King of Prussia
had already denounced the gallant adventurer and his companions as a robber band of outlaws.
As has been told, the daring patriot was killed in the assault, and only a hundred and fifty
of his comrades escaped. The officers who fled into Prussia were court-martialed, and punished
by a light sentence of imprisonment. Those captured in Stralsund were taken to Brest and sentenced
to penal servitude. Frederick William, the young Duke of Brunswick, deprived by Napoleon of
his throne, and determined to avenge his father, had raised, during the progress of the French
campaign in Austria, a corps of Bohemian and other adventurers, which was soon famous for its
extraordinary exploits, and became world-renowned as the Black Legion. With this force, assisted
by that of the Austrian commandant in Franconia, General Kienmayer, he defeated the Saxons
at Nossen, a French army under Junot at Berneck, and repelled King Jerome of Westphalia; he
then seized Dresden, Leipsic, and Lindenau, holding at the time of Wagram a considerable portion
of Franconia. Napoleon's victory rendered his situation desperate, but with fifteen hundred
men he cut his way northward through Leipsic, Halle, Halberstadt, and Brunswick, defeating
the Westphalian, Saxon, and Dutch troops which sought to intercept him, and reached the shores
of the North Sea at Elsfleth, where, seizing a merchant flotilla, he embarked with his men
for England. He was received in London with jubilation, and was richly pensioned for his heroic
adventures.

Almost simultaneously the Tyrolese, taking advantage of Lefebvre's withdrawal, rose again.
The exploits of their hero, Andreas Hofer, form a romantic episode of history, but they very
indirectly affected the central story, if at all. In the five weeks intervening between Aspern
and Wagram, that able and devoted man had virtually reorganized his country and cleared it
of intruders. Even the double invasion of French and Bavarians, on one side from Klagenfurth,
on the other down the valley of the Inn, was successfully repelled. The tactics of Hofer's
men were most effective against regular troops, who, marching in thin lines through mountain
defiles, were cut down by sharp-shooters, overwhelmed with rocks hurled from high ledges over
the precipitous walls of ravines, entrapped by ambushes, or slaughtered by the scythes, clubs,
and pitchforks of the peasantry.

Leaving Eugène to hold the Marchfeld, Napoleon and his army pressed on after Marmont in pursuit
of Charles. Before Znaim, which was reached on the eleventh, the vanguard had just suffered
something very like a repulse, and the Emperor made ready for another battle if it should be
necessary. In the very midst of the preparations came a proposition from Charles for an armistice.
After a long discussion by the French generals, Napoleon accepted it. "You must fight only
when the hope of any fortunate turn is gone," he wrote about this time; "for in its nature
the result of a battle is always doubtful." The Archduke's motive was to gain time. The Emperor
Francis had accepted a plan proposed by John for a reunion of the Austrian armies on the confines
of Hungary to continue the war, and he was still hoping to retrieve the blunder he had made
in not negotiating on equal terms with Prussia. He therefore acquiesced in Charles's proposal,
though not intending the armistice as a preliminary of peace. Napoleon affected uncertainty,
and demanded an enormous cession of territory as the price of a truce. Francis in turn demurred,
but finally yielded. To this again Charles, confident in his ability to carry on the war, would
not listen. His quarrel with Francis and John was growing more bitter; and the Emperor felt
that in order to compose the family difficulties and allay jealousies, time must now be gained
at any price. Francis therefore persisted, Charles resigned the command, and the former assumed
it himself.

The Austrian Emperor's first step was to open negotiations in the hope of prolonging them until
he could rearrange the control of his army and recuperate his strength, trusting that in the
interval the kaleidoscope of European diplomacy might entirely change. He was not disappointed
in the fact of a change, but the change was far different from what he had expected. The King
of Prussia now definitely withdrew the propositions which he had half-heartedly made before
Wagram. He thought it was better to reign behind the Oder than not to reign at all. The Czar
kept the promise made at Erfurt most unwillingly; but having at last secured Finland, he felt
bound to fulfil the letter of his engagement. Prince Galitzin had been put at the head of thirty
thousand unwilling Russians, and sent to invade Galicia. Crossing the frontier, his officers
declared their distaste for the task, and knew they were reflecting the sentiments of an overpowering
majority of their own nation. The invasion turned out a farce, and was rather in the nature
of a friendly reception by the inhabitants.

Francis therefore hoped for something from Alexander's lukewarmness. The latter, however, would
do nothing, for nominally, and in occasional skirmishes really, he was fighting Turkey, and
meant, after the peace, to claim the fulfilment of Napoleon's promise. It would be impolitic
to jeopardize his whole ambition by any deviation from the letter of the Erfurt agreement.
Francis therefore was informed that he must make the best terms with Napoleon that he could.
As to Great Britain, the chances seemed better. In the seas that bordered Italy and the Ionian
Isles, off the coasts of Spain and Portugal, on the waters of the Baltic, her flag was seen.
Wellesley had been landed in the Iberian peninsula, and, driving Soult before him, had not
only expelled the French from Portugal, but had defeated Victor at Talavera, and was preparing
for the invasion of Spain. The English government had in readiness another army of forty thousand
men and another fleet of thirty-five ships of the line. Where best could they employ them?
After long deliberation the selfish policy was adopted of using them, not to cripple Napoleon,
but for England's immediate advantage. They were not sent to reinforce Wellesley and insure
the conquest of Spain, nor to save Schill, nor to strengthen Austria. By any one of these courses
the European uprising against the French emperor would have been inaugurated that very year.

As it was, they were despatched to destroy the dockyards of the Netherlands, where it was said,
and perhaps believed, that Napoleon was building ships to dispute British supremacy at sea.
After disembarking on the island of Walcheren, the army combined with the fleet in a successful
attack on Flushing, which fell on August fifteenth. This was their only success. Fouché raised
an army of national guards, and Bernadotte, who, having incurred the Emperor's displeasure
at Wagram for his slowness and lack of success, had been sent home in disgrace, was induced
to put himself at its head. The army and navy officers of the English disagreed as to how they
should meet him. The result was separation and disaster; the fleet sailed back to England and
the army withdrew to Walcheren, where it was held in check while the swamp-fever devastated
its ranks. About the same time a plague also broke out in the Austrian army, and, as was claimed,
destroyed its efficiency. Wellesley, unsupported, saw himself threatened by a flank movement
of Soult and drew back, while, in August, Sebastiani defeated a division of the Spanish army.

These were the circumstances which turned the pretended peace negotiations of Francis into
reality. When proceedings first began at Altenburg they were simply farcical. Napoleon really
needed peace, if Prussia and Russia were meditating war; but the first proposal made by Austria
he scorned, and talked of Francis's abdication, with a partition of Hapsburg lands among the
new Napoleonic states. When the nominal plenipotentiaries, Champagny and Metternich, actually
met, the former still scouted anything like reasonable terms, demanding for his Emperor the
lands occupied by French troops. The Austrian, anxious to gain time, replied with equally impossible
propositions. But as the summer passed, and Francis's hopes of support grew fainter and fainter,
he sent a personal representative, General Bubna, to Napoleon, and this plenipotentiary began
to display sincerity. Thereupon the Emperor of the French manifested his earnest desire for
peace. So far he had relied on the Czar, who stood by the alliance in the face of his people's
opposition. How much longer, Alexander must have asked himself, could this state of things
continue? It was praiseworthy in him that he cared nothing for popular opinion, but he might
not be able to hold out against it much longer. It was very significant that in a formal note
just received from St. Petersburg by the hand of a Russian officer, Alexander advised peace.
To this messenger, when speaking of the chances for renewing hostilities, Napoleon exclaimed
in undisguised horror, "Blood, blood, always blood!" And then, with a sudden change of manner,
he said: "I am anxious to get back to Paris." Like his generals, the Emperor of the French
was plainly sick of war. His sad countenance, like theirs, was an open book in which the Russian
could clearly read this important fact. Indeed, the anxious, war-worn, unsettled Napoleon actually
contemplated an alliance with Austria. It was clear that if her territories were left intact
she would gladly join in one. He had need to be done with her in order to settle his affairs
in Spain and elsewhere. But he feared Francis, and hoped that such a vacillating temporizer
might abdicate in favor of some thoroughly trustworthy successor. Napoleon confessed to Bubna
that he admired the Austrian troops; they were as good as his own, and under his leadership
would be victorious. Champagny's demands, he admitted, were not final, but certain territories
on the south, on the west, and in Galicia he must have.

With this understanding, full powers were given to Prince Liechtenstein, and he went direct
to Schönbrunn. The terms of peace turned out very hard indeed. A war indemnity of a hundred
million francs was first incorporated in the treaty itself; but afterward, in a secret article,
Francis was required to reduce his army to a hundred and fifty thousand men, and the indemnity
was diminished to eighty-five millions. This would have been an awful burden to lay on the
empire even as it had been, and Austrian territory was now to be seriously diminished. Salzburg,
Berchtesgaden, and the Inn quarter went to the Confederation of the Rhine, New Galicia to the
grand duchy of Warsaw, along with a large district in East Galicia and the town of Cracow.
A small strip of the same province was reserved for Russia. But the most deadly blow was the
constitution of a subsidiary government, to be known as Illyria, by the surrender directly
to France of Görz, Monfalcone, Triest, Carniola, Willach in Carinthia, and Croatia east of
the Save. This made Austria not only a second-class, but an inland power, cutting her off entirely
from the sea; but she was, nevertheless, to enter the Continental System against England, and
recognize all that Napoleon had done or might do in Spain, Portugal, and Italy. These were
the hard but imperative conditions which the Emperor laid down. Liechtenstein accepted them
subject to his sovereign's approval.

But the conqueror was in haste. On October twelfth there had been a great review of his troops
at Schönbrunn. In the crowd was a youth, scarcely more than a child, who pressed forward to
gain access to Napoleon. His urgency attracted the attention of Berthier, and he was seized
by General Rapp. On his person was a large knife, and he openly avowed his purpose of assassination.
He was confronted with his intended victim. His name, he said, was Staps, and he was the son
of a Protestant pastor at Naumburg. The Emperor coldly asked what he would do if pardoned.
"Try again to kill you," was the culprit's reply. He avowed no penitence, but declared he had
no personal feeling. He would gladly have reasoned with Napoleon, he further said, if he could
but have gained an interview; if unsuccessful in his plan, he would have thought it a deed
of honor to smite down the world's oppressor. The would-be assassin was secretly shot, and
the police had instructions to say, if there should be much talk, that he was crazy. This event
seemed deeply to impress the intended victim with the intensity of feeling among the common
people of Germany, and he was anxious to be gone. His fears were well founded; assassination
was in the minds of many unbalanced men. A captain in the Austrian army actually sought a furlough,
giving as his reason that he desired to kill Napoleon.

This mania for assassination completed the depression of spirits which for some time past had
been noticeable in the French emperor. Severely wounded in the great toe at Ratisbon, he had
there been compelled to exercise enormous self-control to prevent a panic in the army. Knocked
senseless by a fall from his horse on the road to Schönbrunn, he had for the same reason been
forced to enjoin silence on nearly two hundred persons who were aware of the fact. At Essling
he had thought it necessary to throw himself into the bullet hail to sustain the morale of
his troops, and having saved Lannes from drowning during a preliminary reconnaissance of the
Danube banks, he had finally lost him under the most distressing circumstances. To cap the
climax of these experiences, it now seemed as if his own life were in constant jeopardy. When,
therefore, the official articles of the peace were drawn up on the fourteenth, and Liechtenstein
departed to lay them before Francis, the French cannon did not wait for formalities, but proclaimed
the peace as already made. The next night Napoleon was on his way to Paris.

The armistice of Znaim had utterly crushed the hopes of the Tyrolese, but they continued to
fight in despair. The peace of Schönbrunn set free the entire French army to overwhelm them.
A second double invasion was organized. Prince Eugène offered amnesty to the insurgents, and
the Austrian ministry advised them to cease resistance. But Hofer had by this time convinced
himself that his mission was more than earthly. After some hesitation, he refused to accept
Austria's advice, and the conflict was renewed. The Tyrolese were now alone, and after a vain
resistance the combatants dispersed among the mountains. The land was again reduced to submission.
Hofer remained safely hidden for some time, but he was eventually betrayed, captured, and sent
to Mantua for the formality of a trial. Napoleon's directions to Eugène were very concise.
Whenever the order should reach him, the viceroy was to name a court-martial, try the prisoner,
and have him shot. Throughout suffering and imprisonment the hero displayed the greatest firmness,
and met his death with lofty devotion. In the previous spring, when at Austria's instigation
the Tyrol had risen, he had been ennobled; ten years later the title and estates of Passeyr
were bestowed on his family. Among the eastern Alps the name of Andreas Hofer is like that
of William Tell among the mountains of Switzerland. His rugged virtues are celebrated in verse,
and tradition lingers about his haunts.

Napoleon's decree of May seventeenth, depriving the Pope of his secular power, reached Rome
in due time, and Murat proceeded without delay to execute it. There were no difficulties, for
it will be remembered that in February General Miollis had occupied the city. A committee of
administration was immediately named, whose duties were to prepare the way for incorporation
with Italy. On June tenth formal proclamation was made that Pius VII was no longer a secular
prince, his dominion having passed to the King of Italy. He was still to reside in Rome as
spiritual head of the Catholic Church. That night the Pope promulgated a bull excommunicating
Napoleon and his adherents, favorers, and councilors. Unlike similar instruments of his predecessors,
it contained a clause declaring the punishment to be purely spiritual, and prohibiting every
one from using it as a sanction for attack on the persons of those against whom it was issued.
On the night of July fifth a French general with his guard forced the doors of the Quirinal
palace, and demanded from Pius a formal renunciation of his secular power. The Pope having
firmly and quietly refused, he was informed that he must make ready to leave the city. At three
the next morning he was placed in a carriage with a single cardinal, and on a second dignified
and solemn refusal to comply was carried to Florence. There he was separated from his one companion
and put in charge of the gendarmes. Traveling by day and night, sometimes in a litter, sometimes
by sea, the aged man was finally brought to Grenoble. The devout French of that city could
not understand the secrecy and haste of his journey, and hastened to pay him homage. So great
were the crowds and so intense was the feeling that very soon his presence in France was considered
dangerous. He was therefore carried back to Savona, where he remained a state prisoner under
rigid supervision in decent but plain apartments until 1812, when he was conducted to Fontainebleau
and lodged like a prince.

CHAPTER XVIII

NAPOLEON'S FATAL DECISION[33]

         [Footnote 33: See Welschinger: Le divorce de Napoléon.
         Vandal: Négociations avec la Russie relatives au second
         mariage de Napoléon, in the Revue historique, tom. 44, pp.
         1-42.]

     Napoleon's Explanations to Alexander -- His New Manner -- Sad
     Plight of Josephine -- The Divorce Announced and Confirmed by the
     Senate -- Negotiations for the Czar's Sister -- Napoleon's
     Impatience -- His Desire for a Great Match.

The treaty of Schönbrunn was a flagrant violation of the agreement made between Napoleon and
Alexander at Erfurt, inasmuch as it materially enlarged the grand duchy of Warsaw and thus
menaced Russia with the reconstruction of Poland. "Clearly," said Rumianzoff to Caulaincourt,
"you want to be rid of the Russian alliance, and to substitute for it that with the grand duchy."
Alexander was very angry, but, though in the strict observance of forms he had been irreproachable,
his conduct in the real support of his ally had not been sincere. His people were more embittered
with the French alliance every day, and Napoleon knew how both the nation and the Czar would
feel when they were informed that provinces occupied by Russian troops had been assigned to
Poland. Francis, wroth as he was, had not dared to disturb the popular joy so loudly expressed
over Napoleon's premature announcement of peace. Accordingly, on October twentieth, 1809, the
very day in which the papers were signed and ratified, an explanation was sent to Alexander
by the Emperor of the French. It pleaded that he could not abandon a friendly people to Austria's
vengeance, but declared that he would guarantee their good behavior under Saxon rule; as for
the names of Poles and Poland, for all he cared, they might disappear from history. The Czar
accepted the excuse with what grace he could, for the partition of Turkey was not yet accomplished.
But the peace of Schönbrunn marked the initiation of a policy which dissolved the peace of
Tilsit. There could now no longer be any serious question of marriage between members of the
two courts. Compelled by circumstances to choose between a dual alliance with a first-rate
power which must share on equal terms in the dominion of the world, and one with a second-rate
power whose armies were surpassed by none, Napoleon had deliberately chosen the latter, as
the shortest way to absolute and complete supremacy, to the assertion of a sovereign will over
a conquered universe.

Napoleon's return to Paris was celebrated in the manner usual after a victorious campaign.
The departments of government issued the most fulsome addresses; subsidiary and vassal kings
crowded to offer their congratulations; there were the ordinary manifestations of popular joy,
and no one seemed to remember that the Emperor had been smitten by the papal bolt. But men
remarked a great change in his bearing and expression. Cambacérès said that he seemed to be
walking in the midst of his glory. Moreover, he withdrew from the capital, and held his court
in Fontainebleau. The air was all surcharged. The Duc de Broglie tells us in his memoirs that
he had seen the Empress early that year, surrounded by the brilliant throng of "ladies in waiting,
ladies of the court and palace, accompanied by the train of 'readers,' which composed the harem
of our sultan, and enabled him for a time to endure the painted old age of the former sultana."
The truth which underlies this is notorious, and the scene over the divorce before the Emperor's
departure for the campaign just concluded bears witness to the depth to which Josephine had
fallen in her desperate attempts to retain both her place and some portion of Napoleon's tenderness.

[Illustration: From the collection of W. C. Crane.

EUGÈNE BEAUHARNAIS.

Drawn by Vigneron after Le Gros]

Napoleon himself had long since announced that he was superior to plain virtues, and the list
of his paramours was daily growing longer and better known. But all this self-abasement on
the part of Josephine and all the self-indulgence of Napoleon could not do more than postpone
the judgment day. "My enemies," the Emperor was accustomed to cry out--"my enemies make appointments
at my tomb." He could not rest content with an empire for himself which he knew would break
of its own weight on his death unless he left a legitimate heir. On his return from Austria
his resolution to divorce the Empress was taken, and Eugène was summoned to convey it to his
mother. Josephine, though forewarned, was still unable to realize the fact. She behaved well;
her own long career of intrigue, license, and extravagance forbade recriminations, and besides,
she was to enjoy the title and state of an empress for life. Still, as women under the Directory
loved, she loved her husband, and there had been much tenderness between them, neither taking
very seriously the infidelities of the other. To the end, even after the moderate beauty and
great physical charm of her middle age were transformed into the faded colors and form of old
age (for she was old at forty-five), and when the arts of the toilet could no longer conceal
the ravages of time and license, there still continued to exist between the Empress and her
second husband a mutual good will and a feeling of comradeship engendered by the memories of
adventure, risk, plots, and gains encountered side by side through a married life of thirteen
years. She had little intellect and not much character, but she had much feminine sweetness
and many soft, winning ways. Her only weapon, therefore, in the hour of defeat was tears, and
those she shed abundantly. When the paroxysms of grief were over, the Emperor made a display
of tenderness, and the Empress manifested a gentle and affecting courage.

On December fifteenth, 1809, before the grand council held in the Tuileries, the divorce was
pronounced, and the next day it was confirmed by decree of the senate. Josephine withdrew to
Malmaison to drag out her remaining years in empty state, for the support of which she had
a grant of two million francs a year. To the hour of her death, five years later, she asserted
her love for Napoleon, and in general she displayed great anxiety for his welfare and success.
Posterity has always felt a certain tenderness for the unfortunate woman who was raised so
high and then cast down so suddenly. She was not virtuous, she was not strong, she was not
even very beautiful. Her wrong-doing was like the naughtiness of household pets, impulsive
but not malicious, deceitful but without rancor, determined but quickly deprecated. For this
reason her misfortune has veiled her weakness and softened the harshness of men's judgment.

Almost a month before the formal divorce Caulaincourt had received instructions to address
the Czar on the question of marriage between his sister Anne, now sixteen years of age, and
the Emperor of the French. The ambassador was to make no formal demand, but was to ask for
some expression of general intentions and feelings. Alexander was in the provinces, and did
not return until the middle of December. Meantime Caulaincourt, after careful inquiry, had
learned that the young princess was frail in health and not yet of marriageable age. The letter
to his master conveying this information was crossed by one of Napoleon's making a formal demand.
The difference in confessional adherence was of no account, he said, and an immediate answer
was desired. "Take as your standpoint that children are wanted." This put the Czar in a serious
dilemma. An alliance with France was still near his heart. By the treaty of Friedrichshamn,
which had been signed on September ninth, 1809, he had secured Finland at last, but of the
other splendid projects suggested at Tilsit and confirmed at Erfurt not one was realized. Aside
from the chagrin he had felt at the war with Austria, and its menacing results in the enlargement
of Poland, there was now an additional cause of anxiety; for in the conflict with Turkey his
troops had but recently been driven back across the Danube. If he broke with Napoleon he might
even lose Moldavia and Wallachia, and realize nothing further. A few weeks had softened the
displeasure he felt after Schönbrunn, and he now began to shower favors on Caulaincourt, expressing
the greatest anxiety for the match. The youth of the princess was, however, a serious obstacle,
and he must consult his empress-mother. Of course the dowager made every objection to the marriage;
she was an ardent sympathizer with the old Russian party, and hated Napoleon. There is little
doubt that she was entirely right, moreover, in declaring at last as an insuperable obstacle
that her daughter was too young. Alexander then turned his whole attention to cajoling the
French ambassador in order to gain time. He had always been more Napoleon's friend than his
ally, he said; surely the Emperor would grant a delay for a few months.

But this was exactly what the suitor would not do. His dignity forbade him to abide the empress-dowager's
time; the divorce had been pronounced, and state reasons made his marriage imperative. "To
adjourn is to refuse," he replied; "and besides, I want no strange priests in my palace between
my wife and me." This was apparently a complete somersault, for it meant that either Alexander
must yield or the alliance would be jeopardized. No one can divine from the evidence exactly
which alternative Napoleon desired; but in view of his general character, of the treaty he
had made with Francis, and of subsequent events, it was probably the latter. He could have
used the Czar's compliance to found his dynasty, but he seems to have made up his mind that
Austria was the better dependence. Besides, he had very serious reasons of state for urgency.
He recognized at every step of his career that his power rested in the popular will, not on
tradition or theories. Hence, at every moment two purposes were immediate: first, to keep the
popular favor; second, to transform his tenure of power by the infusion of a dynastic element.

In the winter of 1809 the people of France were not comfortable. The promised peace with England
seemed again postponed; the war in the Spanish peninsula was still raging; the Continental
System was steadily undermining public prosperity. There was stagnation in the great French
seaports; hand in hand with commerce, both industry and trade were languishing. The great southern
towns, deprived of their Spanish market, were nearly bankrupt. In addition the clergy and their
adherents were thoroughly roused by the treatment of the Pope. On the other hand, the Emperor's
personal popularity was also suffering serious ravages. In the new administrative system the
places which led to promotion had now for a long time been given to members of the old nobility;
the recipients looked on them as their right, and neither they nor their families were grateful,
while the sturdy democracy felt slighted and injured. Even the new nobility grew more unmanageable
with every day. In full possession of their estates, titles, and incomes, they felt their independence,
and refused to be longer guided by the hand which had led them into their promised land. They
had allied themselves with the oldest families in France, and the haughtiness of family pride
led them to feel condescension for the great adventurer whose blood so far flowed in no aristocratic
veins. It seemed to Napoleon that in order to secure popular good will he must restore prosperity,
which was not easy, and to assert a moral ascendancy over his court he must make a suitable
match, which was easy enough. Neither must be half done; his prestige required a great stroke,
and it was better to make the match first, and thereby ease the tension until England could
be brought to terms--with Russia's aid if possible, without it if necessary.

CHAPTER XIX

THE AUSTRIAN MARRIAGE[34]

         [Footnote 34: See Welschinger: Le Divorce de Napoléon.
         Vandal: Napoléon et Alexandre Ier, Vol. II, Le second mariage
         de Napoléon. Correspondance de Marie Louise 1799-1847.
         Lettres intimes et inédites à la C^tesse de Colloredo et à
         Mlle de Poutet, depuis 1810 C^tesse de Crenneville.
         Welschinger: Le mariage de Napoléon et de Marie Louise, in
         Revue de la révolution, Paris, Nov., 1788. Durand, Madame la
         Générale, A Memoir, Napoleon and Marie-Louise ("Mémoires sur
         Napoléon et Marie-Louise").]

     Anxieties of the Austrian Court -- The Plan for a Matrimonial
     Alliance with Napoleon -- Opening of Formal Negotiations -- The
     Deliberations in Paris -- Napoleon's Decision -- The Czar's
     Indignation -- The Ceremonies at Vienna -- Napoleon's
     Preparations -- His Meeting with Maria Louisa -- The Wedding --
     Gifts and Rejoicings -- Impressions of the New Empress -- The New
     Dynasty.

[Sidenote: 1809-10]

The court of Vienna had regarded what were apparently preparations for a matrimonial alliance
between France and Russia with nothing less than consternation. Such an arrangement would,
if consummated, temporarily seal the political bond already existing, and might guarantee it
indefinitely. The empire of Austria, already shorn of so many fair territories, was no longer
a first-rate power. The language used by Napoleon after the armistice of Znaim about Francis
and the necessity for his abdication, had made a deep impression in view of the events at Bayonne.
Was the ancient monarchy really to be humiliated and remain permanently dismembered? Not if
an imperial alliance was the only thing necessary to secure Napoleon's favor. There was an
archduchess of the proper age, and the house of Hapsburg was far more ancient and splendid
than the house of Romanoff.

Among the many confidential agents of Napoleon concerned in formulating the treaty of Schönbrunn
was a certain Alexandre de Laborde, who had once been in the Austrian service and knew Vienna
well. Remaining behind after his employer's departure, he wrote a memoir in December, 1809,
which, though sent to Maret, was intended for the Emperor himself, and was seen by him. In
it is detailed a conversation with Metternich, in which the latter had first vaguely and then
distinctly spoken of a match between Napoleon and the Archduchess Maria Louisa. This, it was
explained, was to be considered only in case the divorce should take place, and the Austrian
minister declared that his master knew nothing of the project. There is no reasonable doubt
that Laborde's statement was substantially true, for as long as there was glory in being the
author of the suggestion Metternich claimed the credit of it, and, in a letter of September
eleventh, 1811, categorically asserted that it was his; but after Napoleon's fall he declared
that the scheme originated in France, and it was then said that Napoleon had himself taken
the initiative, on a hint from Schwarzenberg, the new Austrian ambassador in Paris. Whether
Napoleon or Francis was the suitor, it soon transpired that both were willing. When, therefore,
the former learned that the fate of the Russian alliance was in the hands of the empress-dowager,
he gave the surly answer already quoted, and turned toward Austria. During the pathetic scene
of the divorce he formally asserted that having lost hope of offspring by his well-beloved
spouse, he was about to sacrifice the tenderest emotions of his heart for the welfare of his
people. Being but forty years old, he might still hope to bring up children and train them
in his own ideas. Josephine gave her consent to the dissolution of her marriage, because it
was an obstacle to the well-being of France, in that it stood in the way of her country's future
government by the descendants of a great man.

To emphasize this thought, the Emperor employed two devices. The first was to produce an effect
intended for home consumption. After the battle of Wagram, Stadion, the Austrian minister of
foreign affairs, who had advocated the war, resigned; Metternich, who had been called from
the embassy at Paris to negotiate the peace on his master's side, remained in Vienna to succeed
Stadion, and Prince Schwarzenberg was appointed to France. But the Countess Metternich was
still in Paris. The Beauharnais family--Eugène with the Austrian ambassador, Josephine and
Queen Hortense with Frau von Metternich--opened the negotiation for securing Maria Louisa as
the second Empress of France. To remove all religious scruples, the bishops' court of Paris
met, and on January fourteenth pronounced Napoleon's first marriage null.

The second device was to lay before an extraordinary council the two alternatives and ask their
decision. Murat, Cambacérès, and probably Fouché, voted for Russia. Fouché, like Talleyrand,
had long been suspected of playing not for Napoleon's, but for his own interest. A certain
independence of conduct and language which he had displayed in raising the national guards
to repel the Walcheren expedition had awakened further suspicion in the Emperor's mind, and
there had been plain speaking between them. The minister of police, according to one account,
now declared that there were only two parties in Europe--those who had gained and those who
had lost by the Revolution; that Russia belonged to the former, and was the true ally for the
French empire. It was believed that this argument was an endeavor to regain the Emperor's favor,
for the words have a Napoleonic ring. The majority of the council, however, was under Maret's
leadership, and after a long, vague harangue from Talleyrand, in which he seemed to concur
with Maret, expressed itself in favor of Austria. From immemorial times she had been the pivot
of every Continental coalition against France. She was now irritated, and must be soothed.

Napoleon's friends assert that he himself really favored the Russian alliance, but looked on
the request for delay as a covert refusal, and considered himself the victim of circumstances.
This is not probable, for Maret was still his confidential man; at any rate, the Emperor accepted
the decision of the majority. Accordingly, a family council was next called, and the matter
was laid before them. There was no doubt as to the conclusion: they declared for the Austrian
marriage. The formalities of arrangement were speedily concluded. Berthier, the Prince of Neuchâtel,
was named ambassador extraordinary to marry the Archduchess by proxy at Vienna, and the date
was fixed for March eleventh, 1810. The news was received at the Austrian capital with jubilation.
The populace had already lost much of its bitterness against the French, for they had convinced
themselves that in the last war their own cabinet had been the aggressor. Stadion's resignation
was probably to many minds a confession of the fact, though in reality it merely marked a change
of policy. The French wounded were nursed by the Viennese with tender care, and even under
the lash many turned to regard the strong hand which wielded it as probably the only power
able to restore peace and bring back its blessings. In judicious minds the French alliance,
even if not a high-spirited course, was popular because it guaranteed Austria on the east against
Russia and on the west against France. If her identity were not destroyed, she might hope at
some distant day to regain her strength and her place in Europe.

At St. Petersburg the news produced different effects. The conservatives were not greatly disturbed,
for now they were freed from the possible disgrace of an imperial marriage with the Bonapartes,
and they could put up with the insult if only it should break the bonds which tied them to
the hated Continental System of Napoleon. But the Czar was outraged; he had been personally
insulted, and his policy was toppling. He had secured nothing, he would be the laughing-stock
of his people, and he could no longer justify himself in resistance to popular tendencies.
He was likewise true-hearted enough to feel the loss of a friend, and proud enough to smart
under the feeling that he had been duped. Much of this he concealed, although his suite thought
they could discern all these emotions. In the face of both Austria and France he could not
attack the deed itself. Caulaincourt assured him in Napoleon's name that the match had no political
character, and changed nothing in the personal friendship which his Emperor continued to feel.
He insinuated that the real cause of the decision was the religious difference. But this Alexander
would not accept. "Congratulate the Emperor on the choice he has made," was the reply. "He
wants children; all France wants them for him. The decision was the one which should have been
taken, but it is fortunate that the matter of age stopped us here. Where would we have been
if I had not spoken of it to my mother? What reproaches could she not have heaped on me? What
must I not have said to you? for it is clear you were dealing in both quarters. Why," he concluded,
"has anything been said about the difference in religion, when at the outset the Emperor declared
it would be no obstacle?" Thus was reached the second stage in the dissolution of the famous
alliance of Tilsit.

The scenes in Vienna were brilliant in the extreme. On the one hand, they marked the Austrian
approach to democracy, because for the first time the tricolor was displayed in the streets,
and the rigid etiquette of the Hapsburgs, preserved from hoary antiquity with pious care, snapped
at every turn which Berthier took. On the other hand, they marked the approach of France to
absolutism. Napoleon ordered that his bride should receive the same presents as those which
Louis XV had ordered for Maria Leszcynska, the splendors of the ceremonial were to be royal,
the new Empress's train was arranged according to the same model, the itinerary of her journey
was marked out as a royal progress. The civil contract was signed on the tenth; the religious
ceremony occurred on the eleventh, as appointed; and then followed a banquet where Berthier
was absolved from all the ceremonies considered obligatory upon one of his rank in the Hofburg.
Three days later the new Empress was handed to her traveling-carriage by the Archduke Charles,
and amid salvos of artillery, mingled with the cheers of the populace, she set forth. There
were a few signs of discontent among little knots who collected to curse their national humiliation,
and the aristocracy were not reconciled to see Prince Esterhazy in the rôle of guide to the
Prince of Wagram, as Berthier had now been styled by imperial decree in Paris. But, on the
whole, Europe was impressed with a sense of Francis's sincerity. The father went forth a day's
journey to spend an evening alone with his daughter and bestow in parting his paternal blessing
on a child who had saved her country. Her journey through Bavaria and Würtemberg was one long
ovation, for these countries believed their welfare to be bound up with that of France. On
the twenty-sixth her cortège, having passed by way of Strasburg, was moving toward Soissons.

After the divorce Napoleon had withdrawn in solitude to the Trianon at Versailles, as if to
mourn his widowhood the appointed and decent time in silence. The spot chosen had a significance
with reference to the coming celebrations. For a week he spent his days in the unaccustomed
but truly royal occupation of field sports. Once he visited Josephine at Malmaison. The next
months he had spent again in Paris conducting the matrimonial negotiations and arranging every
detail of the etiquette to be observed in the cumbrous ceremonial which he had devised for
the celebration of his marriage in France. When all was completed to his satisfaction he left
for Compiègne to supervise the arrangements made for the reception of his new consort, and
spent the last week of waiting there. Of all his family the giddiest and most worldly was his
sister Pauline. She and his sister-in-law, the sensible and charming Queen of Westphalia, were
chosen to advise and counsel regarding matters of dress and behavior. The latter wrote to her
brother a full account of the Emperor's passionate expectation. During these days his occupations
were singularly human. Much of the time was spent in trying on gorgeous clothes: gold-laced
coats, and embroidered waistcoats, which had been sent by Paris tailors. Some of it was passed
in the acquisition of accomplishments, notably in learning to waltz. Every day he sent a letter
with flowers to meet the new Empress at every stage of her progress, and every day he received
a reply from her written in correct French.

At last she reached the close of the final stage, and her bridegroom went out to meet her.
Half-way between Soissons and Compiègne were pitched three splendid pavilions. Her suite was
to remain in that nearest their last lodging, his in that nearest the palace, the bridal pair
were to meet in the central tent, where, according to the custom of feudalism, she was to kneel
and pay homage to her liege as his foremost subject. But when the Emperor heard that his bride
was so near, his impatience seemed to break through all bounds. Entering his carriage without
ceremony or warning, and attended by only a single companion, the King of Naples, he drove
far past Soissons until the carriages met, when he stepped out of his own, tore open the door
of the other, and entered with the eagerness of a youthful lover to embrace his bride. The
prearranged stops were countermanded, and the same evening, at ten, the wedding-train reached
Compiègne. Such was the lover's ardor that he again flung propriety to the winds, and, claiming
the validity of the procuratorial ceremony at Vienna, slept under the same roof with his bride,
instead of in the chamber furnished for his use in one of the administrative buildings. As
an excuse for this conduct he pleaded the example of Henry IV.

Next day the ladies and gentlemen of the Empress's court were presented, and formally took
the oath of office. On the morrow St. Cloud was reached in the imperial progress; and two days
later, on April first, the civil ceremony of marriage was performed in the presence of all
the great dignitaries of the empire, including all the cardinals but two. Excepting only those
who pleaded their age or infirmities, the entire college had been transplanted from Rome to
Paris shortly after the seizure of the Pope. There was the usual festival at night, accompanied
by salvos of artillery, with illuminations of the palace grounds and fountains. The weather,
like the date, was untoward, but the Parisian populace streamed out in spite of pouring rain
to get a foretaste of the more magnificent spectacles soon to follow. The solemn procession
of the bridal pair into the capital occurred next day, and the religious ceremony was celebrated
in the great gallery of the Louvre, before an assembly declared at the time to be the most
superb ever seen in France, except for one ominous fact--the twenty-seven cardinals were absent.
They protested that their absence was an empty form, due only to the circumstance that Pius
VII had not sanctioned the divorce. But Napoleon was as keenly sensitive to the effectiveness
of forms as any Roman prelate; the offenders were banished from Paris, stripped of their great
revenues, and forbidden to wear the color or insignia of their office. The popular speech dubbed
them black cardinals.

In the first outburst of enthusiastic loyalty, Paris and the nation could not sufficiently
manifest their joy. The illuminations were lavish, the crowds exuberant, the presents to the
Empress superb. Among the latter was a complete toilet service of silver-gilt, including not
merely small vessels, but large pieces of furniture, such as an arm-chair and cheval glass.
Apparently the French people felt assured that they had exchanged an old, worn-out dynasty
for a new and vigorous one. They were jubilant at the thought of peace and safety, which seemed
to a generation cradled under royalty to be even yet impossible in Europe except in connection
with a great conquering family. It was for this they poured forth their sentiment and their
substance, not for the affection they bore the new Empress.

Measured by a certain standard, Maria Louisa was beautiful. Her abundant light-brown hair softened
the high color of her brilliant complexion, her eyes were blue and mild, her features had the
pretty but uncertain fullness of her eighteen years, her glance was frank and untroubled; but
her lips were full and heavy, her waist was long and stiff, her form was plump like a child's,
and her timidity and self-consciousness were uncontrollable. The French taste inclines to lines
in the human form which suggest a lithe and sinewy figure; the French instinct seeks in the
expression signs of quick emotion, not to say passion; the French eye knows but one standard
of taste in dress; that alone is natural to French feeling which is the product of self-control
and consummate art. In all these respects the Austrian archduchess was woefully deficient.
She was pious, and, as her letters declare, had spent much of the previous winter in praying
that Providence would choose another consort for Napoleon. But with the resignation of her
faith, which some call fatalism, and with the obedience which German life demands from all
women, even those of the highest station, she had accepted her destiny. These qualities, combined
with her capacity for motherhood, soon gained a courteous and affectionate support from her
husband, and together they defied both irreconcilable royalists and radical republicans, who,
in spite of their ever-waning influence and ever-thinning ranks, still annoyed the Emperor
by significant whisperings and glances. Both were in despair because the strongest indictment
they had urged was now quashed. One pretext of England, Napoleon declared, had been that he
intended to destroy the ancient dynasties of Europe. Circumstances having opened the way to
his choice of a consort, he had used the opportunity in order to destroy the flimsy plea under
which Great Britain had disturbed the nations and had stirred up the strife which had inundated
Europe with blood. Metternich heard people wondering in Vienna whether a new French dynasty
was really to be established for the peace and welfare of France, or whether the alliance was
intended to throw the strength of a hitherto implacable and courageous foe into another Napoleonic
combination for the conquest of Europe and the world.

The solution of this enigma has never been found. There was at the moment a lull in the storm;
for a time it seemed as if it would lengthen into a prolonged calm. During the ceremonies at
the Louvre the Austrian ambassador, who had taken to himself the credit of what was passing,
and had impressively accepted the congratulations showered on him, caught up a wine-glass from
the breakfast-table, and, appearing at the window, announced in a loud voice that he drank
to the "King of Rome," a title reserved under the Holy Roman Empire for the heir apparent.
It was but a short time since Schwarzenberg's proud master had renounced his proudest style,
that of Roman emperor. The crowd knew that the toast as now given was intended for Napoleon's
issue, and they burst into cheers at this new sign of Austrian amity. The captive Spaniards
at Valençay were not to be outdone. They chanted a "Te Deum" in their chapel, and drank toasts
to the health "of our august sovereigns, the great Napoleon and Maria Louisa, his august spouse."
Ferdinand set a climax to his disgusting obsequiousness in a petition begging to be adopted
as a son, and asking for permission to appear at court. Compiègne, whither the imperial pair
soon returned, was crowded with royal personages, with the most distinguished diplomatists,
and with the couriers bearing congratulatory despatches from persons of consequence throughout
Europe.

CHAPTER XX

RIGORS OF THE CONTINENTAL SYSTEM[35]

         [Footnote 35: References: Marbot, Memoirs, ch. 28. Mahan:
         Influence of Sea Power. Sloane: Political Science Quarterly,
         The Continental System of Napoleon, XIII, pp. 213 _et seq._]

     Measures of Ecclesiastical Procedure -- Reforms in the Church --
     Napoleon as Suzerain of the Pope -- Methods of Defying the
     Continental System -- Measures to Enforce it -- Rearrangement of
     German Lands -- Napoleon as a Smuggler -- "Simulated Papers" --
     Evasions of the Imperial Restrictions -- Visit to the Netherlands
     -- Napoleon and his Brother Louis -- The Latter Defiant --
     Louis's Negotiations with England -- Fouché's Interference -- His
     Counterplot.

[Sidenote: 1810]

The consolidation of Napoleonic power appeared to be progressing rapidly. In February a decree
of the senate had declared the Papal States to be divided into two French departments, under
the names of Rome and Trasimenus. The Eternal City was to give her name, as second city of
the Empire, to the imperial heir. The Pope, endowed with a royal revenue of four millions,
was to have a palace in each of several different places, and reside, according to his choice,
in any one, or in all in turn. He was to swear that he would never contravene the judgments
of the Gallican Church, and his successors were each to be similarly bound on their accession
to office. Daunou wrote a book, which was published at the Emperor's expense, maintaining the
two theses of Machiavelli: first, that the court of Rome had always used its spiritual power
to increase its temporal estate; secondly, that its efforts had always been directed against
the temporal power strongest at the moment in Italy. Unconquerable as was the resistance of
Pius VII on the whole, he had nevertheless surrendered temporarily at the beginning of what
might be called the second quarrel of investitures, by inducting into their offices the bishops
nominated by Napoleon. After he had been thrown into captivity, however, he flatly refused
to continue, and the Emperor cut the knot by installing in the bishoprics, as they fell vacant,
men of his own choice, under the style of "vicars of the chapters."

This was but the initial step to an entire destruction of the administrative scheme devised
and perfected by the Roman hierarchy. The college of cardinals had first been brought to Paris,
and its members then banished in pairs to the great provincial towns; the ecclesiastical courts,
with all their archives, were likewise transplanted from Rome to the French capital; the thirty
episcopates of the two new French departments were reduced to four; the army of foreign prelates
which had been supported by the papal system was dispersed into the various lands from which
its members had come. The number of Roman parishes, too, was reduced, and all the convents
were secularized. Such of the discharged priests as were ready to swear allegiance to the Emperor
and the Gallican Church received a small pension; the rest--and they appear to have been in
a majority--saw their personal as well as ecclesiastical goods confiscated and were themselves
exiled.

These or similar measures being applied likewise to Piedmont, Liguria, Tuscany, Parma, and
Placentia, the sums of money raised from confiscated estates became enormous. A large proportion
of these funds flowed of course into the imperial coffers, and to this fact, as well as to
the restored public confidence, was largely due the rise in prices on the stock exchange which
occurred on the consummation of the Austrian marriage. These sweeping changes were of great
service to true religion and to the lands in which they were made, breaking as they did the
chains of an ecclesiastical oppression under which the populace had been reduced to poverty,
ignorance, and apathy. Unfortunately the new rule, while more economical than the old, was
not less arbitrary--military despotism being as little fitted for the development of a people
as the rule of a corporation. Men looked aghast as the papacy and papal influence crumbled
together, while the seat of real ecclesiastical power was removed from the banks of the Tiber
to those of the Seine. Time seemed to be taking its revenge. Seven centuries earlier Lothair
had been the vassal of Innocent II; Napoleon was now the suzerain of Pius VII. So contemptible
had the Pope become, even in the eyes of devout Catholics, that de Maistre called the inflexible
but supine Pontiff a punchinello of no importance.

It had been clear since Trafalgar that though France might dominate earth, air, and fire in
Europe, she could not gain the mastery of the sea and its islands, at least, by the ordinary
means. The Emperor's infatuation with the plausible scheme of destroying England's commerce
by paper blockades and by embargoes on British goods had not been diminished either by his
inconclusive struggle in Spain or by his victory over Austria. It was in vain that he had changed
his naval policy from one of fleet-fighting to one of commerce-destroying; that he had seized
and was continuing to seize neutral vessels laden with British wares; that he had expanded
his political system by conquest until he was nominally master of the Mediterranean, Atlantic,
and Baltic harbors. Since 1805 English trade with the Continent, so far from diminishing, had
steadily increased in the hands of contrabandists and neutral carriers, until it had now reached
annual dimensions of twenty-five millions sterling. In spite of the Tilsit alliance, even French
soldiers occasionally wore English-made shoes and clothing. English ships carried naval stores
out of Russian harbors, and colonial wares found their way from the wharves of Riga to the
markets of Mainz. But the chief offenders in defying Napoleon's chimerical policy were the
Dutch and Hanseatic cities. The resistance elsewhere in the Continent was passive compared
with the energetic smuggling and the clandestine evasion of decrees which went on under the
eyes of the officials in places like Amsterdam and Hamburg.

These facts had not been concealed from the Emperor of the French at any time, and he now made
ready to enforce the threats which he had uttered in the agony of the late wars. It had come
to a life-or-death struggle between the policies laid down respectively in the imperial decrees
and in the British orders in council. Neither measure was in the strictest sense military,
but it is easy to see that the two were irreconcilable in their intent, while the success of
either one meant the ruin of the land which upheld the other. It was for the sake, apparently,
of waging this decisive though unwarlike contest that Napoleon renounced leading his victorious
legions into Spain for the expulsion of English troops from the peninsula. What he himself
called the "Spanish ulcer" might weaken the French system, and one hundred thousand good troops,
together with the imperial guard, were to be sent to heal it by overwhelming the great English
general who had been made Duke of Wellington, and by seizing Lisbon. But the English commerce
with the peninsula was slender in comparison with what she carried on with the Baltic and with
Holland through the connivance of governments which were nominally her foes. The Continental
System, therefore, must first be repaired, and it was to convert a nominal acquiescence into
a real one that Davout was despatched to hold the fortresses from Dantzic westward, while Oudinot
was to coerce Holland.

With such purposes in view, the lands taken from Austria were apportioned among Bavaria, Italy,
Würtemberg, and Baden. Each of these vassal states was made to pay handsomely for its new acquisitions.
The principality of Ratisbon was given to Dalberg, the prince-primate, and he in turn delivered
that of Frankfort to Prince Eugène. The King of Westphalia received Hanover and Magdeburg,
promising in return about ten millions a year of tribute, and engaging to support the eighteen
thousand French troops who occupied his new lands. The gradual evacuation of South Germany
began, and before long the entire coast-land between the Elbe and the Weser was held by soldiers
who had fought at Essling and Wagram. Hamburg, Bremen, and the other Hanseatic towns, East
Friesland, Oldenburg, a portion of Westphalia, the canton of Valais, and the grand duchy of
Berg were destined very soon to be incorporated with France in order to round out the imperial
domain. It might be possible for southern Europe to substitute flax and Neapolitan cotton for
American cotton, chicory for coffee, grape syrup or beet sugar for colonial sugar, and woad
for indigo, but the North could not. Like Louis, though in a less degree, Murat and Jerome,
sympathizing with their peoples, had sinned against the Continental System, and were soon to
do penance for their sins by the loss of important territories. But for the present the ostensible
compliance of the northern dependencies was accepted.

It is a curious and amusing fact that the great smuggler and real delinquent was Napoleon himself.
Even he felt the exigencies of France to be so fierce that, by a system of licenses, certain
privileged traders were permitted to secure the supplies of dye-stuffs and fish-oil essential
to French industries by exporting to England both wine and wheat in exchange. The licensed
monopolists paid handsomely for their privilege, not only in the sums which they publicly turned
over, but in those which lined the pockets of unscrupulous ministers like Fouché, who winked
at great irregularities not contemplated by the immunities secured from Napoleon.

An evasion of the British orders in council analogous to that of the French decrees was extensively
practised, and licenses to neutral traders were also issued by the English government. But
it practised more discretion, and the regulation of the extensive commerce which resulted was
not attended by those court and private scandals so rife in France. The worst feature of the
English procedure was its adoption of the so-called "neutralization" system. Dutch, French,
and Spanish trading vessels had long been provided by their owners with forged papers certifying
a neutral origin, generally Prussian. To these both captains and crews swore without compunction
when searched by British cruisers. This system England made her own, issuing not merely to
real, but also to sham neutrals, licenses which insured them against search when laden with
wares for or from English ports. The firms which engaged in the trade--and after the removal
of the non-intercourse restrictions many of them were American--compounded morality with legality,
considering themselves perfectly reputable, even though they continued to furnish "simulated
papers"--that is, prepared forgeries--to their ships as part of the regular outfit.

Such immoralities, inequalities, and absurdities were the necessary consequence of a fight
for the means of subsistence between two combatants one of which had no hands and the other
no feet. So extensive was the traffic, however, that although England had found it necessary,
in consequence of the Spanish rebellion, to restrict her paper blockade to the coasts of Holland,
France, and northern Italy, she nevertheless doubled her importations of naval stores during
the season of 1808, while the prices of wool, silk, and colonial wares gave temporary promise
of a revival of manufactures. As long as Napoleon's energy was elsewhere engaged, the ubiquity
of English war-ships on the high seas rendered the use of "simulated papers" inordinately profitable;
and even after he began to give his undivided attention to policing the harbors and guarding
the coast-line, it continued to be fairly so. It must further be remembered that in the treaty
which Russia made with Sweden on September seventeenth, 1809, the latter country promised not
only to cede Finland, but also to shut out from her harbors all British ships except such as
brought salt and colonial wares. In January, 1810, Napoleon had made an agreement with the
same power that he would hand back Pomerania, but in return Sweden was to import nothing but salt.

The Austrian marriage having now been consummated and Austria having been added to his system,
Napoleon was ready in June to open his novel campaign and begin the commercial warfare which
eventually furnished one of the most important elements in his overthrow, the other two being
the national uprisings and the treachery of his friends, so called. But the zenith had not
even yet been reached by his star. It was with undimmed sagacity and undiminished power that,
accompanied by his bride, he set out about the end of April from Compiègne, to visit the Dutch
frontier, his object being to observe how far Holland's well-nigh open contempt for his cherished
scheme would now justify the destruction of her autonomy and the utter overthrow of her government.
The nominal purpose of the journey was to please the young Empress, and to gratify the peoples
of Belgium and Brabant by a sight of her charms. This aim was observed in all the arrangements,
but in well-nigh every town visited the sun's first rays saw the Emperor on horseback inspecting
troops, ships, fortifications, and arsenals; and when its last beams faded away the unwearied
man was still holding interviews with the local authorities, in which every detail of administration
was revised and strengthened. To all appearance the end of the journey was as prosperous as
its inception. Favors were distributed with lavish hand, the people displayed a wild enthusiasm
when the affable but distant Empress showed herself, and nothing occurred to mar the outward
state in which the Emperor returned to Paris. But the condition of his mind cannot be depicted,
such was his rage and humiliation in regard to a revelation of treachery made inadvertently
and innocently by Louis on the eve of their separation. To explain what had occurred a short
retrospect is necessary.

From earliest childhood certain qualities of Louis had endeared him to Napoleon. The school
of poverty, in which the younger brother had been the pupil of the elder, was likewise a school
of fraternal affection. Throughout the Italian and Egyptian campaigns they stood in intimate
relations as general and aide-de-camp, and one of the earliest cares of the First Consul was
to bestow the beautiful Hortense de Beauharnais on his favorite brother. In 1804 Louis was
made general, then councilor of state, and finally in 1806 he was elevated to the throne of
Holland. His child until its untimely death was cherished by Napoleon as a son destined to
inherit imperial greatness. But, like the other royal Bonapartes, the King of Holland regarded
his high estate not as a gift from the Emperor, but as a right. He ruled the land assigned
him, if not in his own interest, at least not in that of the Empire, and from the outset filled
his letters with bitter complaints of all that entered into his lot, not excepting his wife.
Napoleon admonished and threatened, but to no avail. The interests of his own royalty and of
the Dutch were nearer to Louis than those of the Empire.

At last the Emperor hinted that the air of Holland did not agree with its monarch, indicating
that circumstances required it to be incorporated with France. In March, 1808, he offered the
crown of Spain as a substitute. A little later the suggestion was made that Louis might have
the Hanseatic towns in exchange for Brabant and Zealand. Both propositions were scouted. When
we remember who the potentates were, by whom such offers were made and refused, we seem forced
to dismiss all notions of patriotism, uprightness, and loyalty as the motives of either, and
must attribute Louis's course to petulance. Napoleon was highly incensed. On the failure of
the Walcheren expedition, both Brabant and Zealand were occupied by French troops, and Louis
was summoned to Paris. His first desperate thought was one of resistance, but on reflection
he obeyed. On his arrival he learned that his fate was imminent. Napoleon announced to the
legislature that a change in the relations with Holland was imperative. The minister of the
interior explained that, as being the alluvium of three French rivers--namely, the Rhine, the
Meuse, and the Scheldt--that land was by nature a portion of France, one of the great imperial
arteries. Louis sought to fly, but was detained. He at once despatched the Count de Bylandt
with orders to close the Dutch frontier fortresses and defend the capital against the French
troops. This was done, but Louis's defiance was short. After signing a treaty which bound him,
among other things, to open his fortresses, seize all "neutralized," and even all neutral,
vessels in his harbors, including those of the United States,--a document which thus left him
only a nominal throne,--he was permitted early in April, 1810, to return to Amsterdam.

Napoleon's subsequent course was dictated by what might appear to be a sudden change of view,
but was in reality a revival of his perennial hopes for peace with England. Having in mind
the annexation of Holland, it occurred to him that by desisting from that measure he might
wrench from Great Britain the lasting peace which she had thus far refused. Accordingly he
ordered his brother to open a negotiation with London and represent his kingdom as in danger
of annihilation unless the British government would consent to a cessation of hostilities and
an enduring treaty of peace. This was done, and though Labouchere, Louis's agent, had so little
to offer that his propositions were farcical, yet there was at least the show of a diplomatic
negotiation. At this juncture the superserviceable Mephistopheles of the Empire, Fouché, intervened.
By an agent of his own he approached the cabinet of St. James with an offer of peace on the
basis of restoring the Spanish Bourbons and compensating Louis XVIII by a kingdom to be carved
from the territories of the United States!

The agent of Fouché reached London somewhat ahead of the one sent by Louis. He was firmly sent
to the right-about. Labouchere was then told that before entering further on the question,
a proposition for peace must be formulated and presented, not by the King of Holland, but by
the Emperor. The failure of the Walcheren expedition had exasperated England, Canning had fallen,
and Lord Wellesley, his successor, represented a powerful sentiment for the continuation of
the war. Napoleon replied, therefore, by a note suggesting not a definite peace, but a step
toward it. If England would withdraw the orders in council of 1807, he would evacuate Holland
and the Hanseatic towns. His note closed with a characteristic threat. If England should delay,
having already lost her trade with Naples, Spain, Portugal, and the port of Triest, she would
now lose that with Holland, the Hanseatic towns, and Sicily.

Nothing dismayed by his first rebuff, the audacious Fouché again intervened. This time he selected
Ouvrard, a friend of Labouchere's and of his own, a man well known as a stormy petrel of intrigue,
to operate insidiously through the accredited envoy, who innocently supposed his friend to
be representing Napoleon's own views. There was consequently but little sense of restraint
in the renewed negotiation. Virtually the entire continental situation was considered as open,
and Fouché's pet scheme of an American kingdom for Louis XVIII was further amplified by the
suggestion of an Anglo-French expedition to establish it. Labouchere having returned to Holland,
much of the negotiation had been carried on by letter, and Napoleon, getting wind during his
Belgian visit of Ouvrard's presence at the Dutch court, suspected trickery and called for the
correspondence. Its very existence enraged him; that such matters should have been put in writing
was compromising to his entire policy. Ouvrard afterward declared that he personally informed
the Emperor of what was going on, but he could never prove it; the only possible basis which
can be found for his statement consists in the seizure and confiscation about this time of
some hundred and thirty American vessels lying in continental harbors; but, base as that deed
was, it proves nothing and was due to another cause. It is not easy to determine whether this
deed was a well-considered measure of French diplomacy, intended to arouse the pugnacity of
the United States, or a temporary shift to fill empty coffers. In either case it was not intended
to have a direct bearing on irregular diplomatic negotiations between England and Holland.
The circumstances were a direct result of the Berlin Decree.

CHAPTER XXI

THE CONTINENTAL SYSTEM COMPLETED

     The Bayonne and Rambouillet Decrees -- Fouché Replaced by Savary
     -- Abdication of King Louis -- Conduct of Louis and Lucien --
     Holland Incorporated into the Empire -- Napoleon's Relatives
     Untrue to his Interests -- French Empire at its Greatest Extent
     -- The Continental System as Perfected -- Discontent in Russia
     and in Sweden.

The American Embargo Act of 1807 had been for manifest reasons entirely to Napoleon's liking,
as is proved by the Bayonne Decree of 1808, which ordered the seizure and sale in French harbors
of all American ships transgressing it. The Non-intercourse Act of March first, 1809, was,
however, quite another thing. It was passed by the Democratic majority of Congress in defiance
of Federalist sentiment, and prohibited commercial intercourse with both Great Britain and
France. Napoleon declared that French vessels had been seized under its terms in United States
harbors; and it was nominally in retaliation for this, which was not a fact, that, according
to the Rambouillet Decree, issued on March twenty-third, 1810, American vessels with their
cargoes, worth together upward of eight million dollars, were seized and kept. In reality Napoleon
regarded or pretended to regard the Non-intercourse Act as one of open hostility to himself,
and used it to fill his depleted purse, exactly as he used the substitutes passed by Congress
in the following year to bring on the War of 1812. Owing to the general use of "simulated"
American papers and seals, the non-intercourse system introduced British goods into every continental
harbor. A vessel holding both a French and a British license and "simulated papers" of the
United States or any other neutral state might by unscrupulous adroitness trade in English
goods almost without restriction, and this was far from Napoleon's intention. Between 1802
and 1811, nine hundred and seventeen American vessels were seized by the British and five hundred
and fifty-eight by the French in their harbors; the number seized in the ports of Holland,
Spain, Denmark, and Naples was very large, but it is not definitely known. The dealings of
Napoleon with the United States in this matter, like those of England, were irregular and evasive;
but there is nothing in them to show that the Emperor of the French contemplated either the
dismemberment of the American republic or the abandonment of his Continental System.

Having traced the whole English-Dutch conspiracy directly to Fouché, Napoleon contemplated
bringing the treacherous minister to trial on the charge of treason. Fearing, however, the
effect not merely in Europe, but particularly in France, of such a spectacle, and the revelations
which must necessarily accompany it, he contented himself with degrading and banishing his
unruly henchman. The important office of police minister was filled by the appointment of Savary,
an equally unscrupulous but more obedient tool. The murderer of Enghien, and the keeper of
Ferdinand as he now was and had been since Talleyrand's return to public life, was both feared
and hated in Paris. "I believe," he says in his memoirs, "that news of a pestilence having
broken out on some point of the coast would not have caused more terror than did my nomination
to the ministry of police."

Louis, within the narrowed sphere of his activities, continued quite as incorrigible as before.
He refused the perfect obedience demanded, and even treated the French diplomatic agent in
Holland with indignity. Napoleon's scorn burst its bounds. "Louis," he wrote in a letter carefully
excluded from the authorized edition of his correspondence, "you do not want to reign long;
your actions reveal your true feelings better than your personal letters. Listen to one who
has known those feelings longer than even you yourself. Retrace your steps, be French at heart,
or your people will drive you out, and you will leave Holland, the object of pity and ridicule
on the part of the Dutch. Men govern states by the exercise of reason and the use of a policy,
and not by the impulses of an acid and vitiated lymph." Two days later, on hearing of a studied
insult from his brother to the French minister, he wrote again: "Write no more trite phrases;
you have been repeating them for three years, and every day proves their falseness. This is
the last letter I shall write you in my life." In a short time French troops were marching
on Amsterdam. Louis summoned his council and advised resistance; but the councilors convinced
him how useless such a course would be. The dispirited King at once abdicated and fled.

For some days Louis's whereabouts were unknown. There was much talk, and Napoleon was agitated.
He wrote beseeching Jerome to learn where the fugitive was and send him to Paris, that he might
withdraw to St. Leu and cease to be the laughing-stock of Europe. In ten days it was known
that Louis was at Teplitz in Bohemia. A circular was at once addressed to the French diplomatists
abroad, explaining that the King of Holland must be excused for his conduct on the ground of
his being a chronic invalid. Inasmuch as about the same time Lucien found the air of the French
department of Rome not altogether to his liking, and besought his brother's leave to expatriate
himself to the United States, the family relations of the Emperor were published throughout
Europe in a most unbecoming light. The ship in which Lucien sailed was captured by an English
frigate, and he was taken to England, where he remained in an agreeable captivity until 1814.

The "Moniteur" of July ninth, 1810, published a laconic imperial decree stating that Holland
was henceforth a portion of the Empire. "What was I to do?" the Emperor exclaimed at St. Helena.
"Leave Holland to the enemy? Nominate a new king?" It is difficult from his standpoint to answer
these questions except in the negative. Louis had viewed his royal task as if he had been a
dynastic king, which of course he never was, though much beloved by many of his subjects. He
had moved the capital from The Hague to Amsterdam, had reformed the Dutch jurisprudence by
the introduction of the Code Napoléon, had patronized learning and the arts. In all this he
had not followed his brother's leading, and the results were excellent. But the Dutch merchants
suffered exactly in proportion to the enforcement of the continental blockade, riots of the
unemployed became frequent, and the King, forgetting the ladder by which he had climbed, became
the friend and the ally of his people. His fate was a natural consequence of his conduct.

As a portion of the French empire, Holland was divided into eight departments, her public debt
was scaled down from eighty to twenty millions, the French administration was put upon a basis
of the most rigid economy, and for the ensuing four years the Dutch found what consolation
they might for the loss of their independence and their trade in a tolerable physical well-being,
in the suppression of all disorders, and in an enforced calm such as Louis, by reason of his
false position, had not been able to secure for them--a boon which, it must be confessed, their
placid dispositions did not undervalue. When, however, opportunity was ripe, they bravely rose
to assert once more their nationality.

In this connection it is interesting to note the effect which the conduct of the Emperor's
family had finally produced in his mind. Brothers and sisters alike had come to consider their
changed fortunes as having introduced them into the royal hierarchy of the old absolutist Europe,
which their narrowness and ignorance led them to regard as still existent. Their behavior was
distinctly that of the old dynastic sovereigns, whose lives were their model. The Emperor at
last saw his mistake. "Relatives and cousins, male or female," he said in September to Metternich,
"are all worthless. I should not have left a throne in existence, even for my brothers. But
one grows wise only with time. I should have appointed nothing but stadholders and viceroys."
This policy he thenceforward adopted. Carrying out the threat made in response to Joseph's
complaints, Spain as far as the Ebro had been annexed to the Empire in March, 1810; in December
the whole North Sea coast as far as Lübeck was likewise incorporated into the Empire. Jerome
was deprived of a portion of Hanover, which he had received only in January, and the Duke of
Oldenburg, who had married that favorite sister of Alexander for whose hand Napoleon had tentatively
sued, was dethroned.

The same year Valais, the little commonwealth which had been separated from Switzerland and
made independent in order to neutralize the highway into Italy, was likewise annexed. This
new department, called that of the Simplon, together with the four erected out of the coast-line
of the North Sea, brought the limits of Napoleonic empire to their greatest extent. The Illyrian
provinces and the Ionian Isles were not under direct civil administration from Paris, being
held as military outposts. Biscay, Navarre, Aragon, and Catalonia were each likewise held as
military governments. Murat was made king of Naples, Louis's infant son became grand duke of
Berg, Elisa was already grand duchess of Tuscany and princess of Lucca and Piombino. It will
be remembered that Pauline was duchess of Guastalla, Jerome king of Westphalia, Joseph king
of Spain, Berthier prince of Neuchâtel, Talleyrand prince of Benevento, and Eugène viceroy
of the kingdom of Italy. These states, together with the Confederation of the Rhine, the Helvetic
Republic, Bavaria, Saxony, Würtemberg, and Denmark, with Norway, were all vassal powers. But
Rome, Genoa, Parma, Florence, Siena, Leghorn, Osnabrück, Münster, Bremen, and Hamburg were
now capitals of actual French departments, the total number of which reached one hundred and
thirty. They were directly administered by a central bureaucracy as autocratic as any military
despotism.

Thus at last was carried out the program of the Revolution, whose leaders had determined in
1796 to close the Continent to English commerce. What republican idealism had imagined, imperial
vigor at least partially realized. According to the Trianon decree of August fifth, 1810, and
that of Fontainebleau, issued on October eighteenth of the same year, French soldiers crossed
the frontiers of the Empire, seized every depot of English wares within a four-mile limit,
and burned all the contents except the sugar and coffee, which were transported to the great
towns, and sold at auction for the Emperor's extraordinary expenses; the smugglers themselves
were hunted down, captured, and handed over to the tender mercies of a court created especially
to try them. From the Pyrenees to the North Cape the "licenses" devised by the Directory and
issued by the Empire were the only certificates under which English goods could be introduced
into the now nearly completed system. Denmark, which still held Norway under its sway, had
neither forgotten nor forgiven the bombardment of Copenhagen in 1807; and her king, Frederick
VI, hoping that in the chapter of accidents Sweden too might fall to his crown, was only too
willing to assist the Emperor and close his ports to all British commerce, even to "neutral"
ships carrying English goods. The popular fury against England made the people willing to forego
all the comforts and advantages of free trade in colonial wares.

It was with jealous eyes that Napoleon saw Russia's growing lukewarmness and marked her evasions
of her pact. He knew also that in spite of his decrees and his vigilance English goods were
still transported under the Turkish flag into the Mediterranean. But direct and efficient intervention
on the Baltic or in the Levant was as yet impossible. To complete one portion of his structure,
a cordon must first be drawn about both Sweden and Spain. The former was apparently secure,
for Gustavus IV, having nearly ruined his country by persisting in the English alliance, had
made way for his uncle, who now ruled as Charles XIII under the protection of Napoleon. The
new King, being childless, had selected as his successor Marshal Bernadotte, whose kindly dealings
with the Pomeranians had endeared him to all Swedes. The estates of Sweden, remembering that
he had married a sister of Joseph Bonaparte's wife, and recalling his long association with
Napoleon, believed that in him they had a candidate acceptable to the French emperor, and therefore
formally accepted him. They did not know the details of his unfriendly relations to Napoleon,
nor with what unwillingness consent was given by the Emperor to his candidacy. The bonds of
French citizenship were most grudgingly loosed by the Emperor, for there rankled in his breast
a deep-seated feeling of distrust. But he was forced to a distasteful compliance by the fear
of exposing unsavory details of his own policy. The new crown prince himself was well aware
of the facts. He coveted Norway and asked for it, that on his accession he might bring Sweden
a substitute for the loss of Finland; but Napoleon would not thus alienate the King of Denmark.
The Czar was not hampered in the same way, and in December, 1810, offered Sweden the coveted
land as the price of her alliance. When we recall the early republicanism of Bernadotte, his
repeated failures in critical moments,--as on the Marchfeld and elsewhere,--the impatient and
severe reproofs administered to the inefficient and fiery Gascon by his commander, we are not
amazed that the crown prince Charles John, as his style now ran, began immediately after his
installation at Stockholm to vent his spleen on Napoleon. Though there was no declared enmity,
yet this fact augured ill for the steadfastness to the French alliance of the land over which
he was soon to reign.

CHAPTER XXII

THE COURSE OF THE PENINSULAR WAR[36]

         [Footnote 36: See Napier, Peninsular War.]

     Napoleon's Plans for Spain -- Character of the Troops Sent
     Thither -- Conflicting Policies in England -- The Battle of
     Busaco -- The Lines of Torres Vedras -- Soult's Dilatoriness --
     Consequences of the Spanish Campaign -- English Opinion Opposed
     to Wellington -- Difficulties of Spanish Warfare -- Marmont
     Replaces Masséna -- French Successes -- Their Slight Value -- The
     French Character and the Spanish Invasion.

But matters were much worse beyond the Pyrenees, where there was open warfare. The seizure
of the northern provinces marked the commencement of a new policy, nothing less than the incorporation
of all Spain in France. Azanza, the envoy of Joseph at Paris, could scarcely trust his senses
when, after long and fruitless efforts to persuade Napoleon that the troubles of Spain were
due to the rapine of the French generals and the quarrels of their unbridled soldiery, and
that the new King's moderation would be a perfect remedy if left to work its effects, he was
finally shown his master's carefully written abdication, only waiting on events for publication,
and was harshly told in reply to his intercessions for the integrity of his country that it
was merely "the natural extension of France." It was Talleyrand who originally said that Italy
was the flank of France, Spain its natural continuation, and Holland its alluvium.

Spain was to be conquered step by step, and by a season of military administration each new
acquisition was to be made ready for the eventual dignity of a French department. A manifesto
setting forth this policy was prepared and was to be duly issued to the Spanish people, but
it never reached Madrid. The courier who carried it was captured by a guerrilla, and the proclamation
was at once printed in a popular journal and copied thence into the "London Courier." It is
not difficult to imagine how its perusal intensified the ever-growing national passion of the
insurgent Spaniards for emancipation from the French yoke.

This spirit was England's powerful ally and Masséna's destructive foe. The great marshal, second
in ability only to his imperial master, had succeeded to the command in the peninsula. The
Imperial Guard was the mainstay of the reinforcements despatched thither in order to end the
military conflict and inaugurate the new peaceful warfare by enforcing the Continental system
of commercial embargo for humiliating England. Besides the guard there were, however, some
of those regiments which had quailed at Vienna before the supposed approach of the Archduke
John's army from Hungary after the battle of Wagram, by no means the flower of the Emperor's
troops. These newcomers, together with the forces already in Spain under Suchet, Augereau,
Reille, and Thouvenot, and the remnant of those troops which had been under Soult, were quickly
organized for offensive warfare, first against the Spaniards and then against the English under
Wellington who were still holding Portugal. The three army corps which were collected in Leon
ready for advance were commanded respectively by Ney, Junot, and Regnier. Their number on paper
was eighty thousand; in reality there were not more than fifty thousand effective fighting
men. By the arrival of Hill's corps to reinforce Wellington the English numbered nearly if
not quite as many.

For three years public opinion in England had been divided, some sustaining on the one hand
Canning's policy of striving to defeat Napoleon by rousing the Continental nations and furnishing
them with subsidies for warfare, others preferring that of Castlereagh, which advocated the
sending of English forces into the Continent. The latter theory had temporarily prevailed.
Three expeditions, one to Portugal, one to Walcheren, and one to Sicily, had been entire or
partial failures. But Wellington's victory at Talavera having kept the peninsular ports open
to English trade, his older brother, Lord Wellesley, who was now secretary for foreign affairs
in the new cabinet, and who ardently believed that thus alone could England win, managed continuously
to reinforce the army in Portugal until at last it was strong in numbers and efficient as a
fighting machine.

From beginning to end Masséna's campaign was marked by unexpected disaster. Such were the zeal
and endurance of the Spaniards that the old, ill-constructed fortress of Ciudad Rodrigo held
out from the beginning of June until the ninth of July. Owing to the great heat and the preparations
necessary in a hostile and deserted land, Almeida, which next blocked the way, was not even
beleaguered until August fifteenth, and it held out for nearly a fortnight. Finally, on September
sixteenth, Masséna crossed the Portuguese frontier, and Wellington, who lay near by but had
not ventured to assume the offensive, began a slow and cautious retreat down the valley of
the Mondego, devastating the country as he went. At last he made a stand on the heights near
Busaco, over against a gorge where the river breaks through the hills into the plains below.
Masséna attacked on September twenty-seventh and was repulsed with a loss of four thousand
five hundred dead and wounded. His division commanders showed at once a spirit which soon developed
into unruliness: they had declared from the outset that their force was not sufficiently strong
for the task assigned to it, and they now demanded a retreat. But the veteran Masséna stood
firm: his scouts had brought word of a certain unprotected vale or rather depression of the
land on the English left, which, having apparently escaped Wellington's observation, was not
fortified, and the French commander determined to outflank his foe on that line. The movement
was thoroughly successful and the British began a rapid retreat southward before the advancing
French.

Masséna found easy sustenance for man and beast in the rich lowlands about Coimbra, and halting
in that town for a short time to recruit his strength and nurse his sick, started at last in
the full tide of success for Lisbon and the sea, to drive the English to their ships and complete
the Continental embargo. As one day succeeded another, his hopes grew higher until at last
he overtook and began to skirmish with the English rear-guard. But after a final dash on October
eleventh, that rear-guard suddenly vanished. Two days later the French were brought suddenly
to a standstill before a long, perfectly constructed, and bristling line of fortifications
of whose existence they had known absolutely nothing. These were the famous lines of Torres
Vedras, constructed by Wellington in his recent enforced vacation, to guard his eventual retreat
and embarkment, provided Sir John Moore's unfortunate campaign and the last Austrian war should
find a climax in a similar French victory over all Spain. These lines effectually protected
the right bank of the Tagus. They consisted of one hundred and fifty-two redoubts, equipped
with seven hundred guns and manned by thirty thousand English, thirty thousand Portuguese,
and eight thousand Spaniards. As Masséna now had but forty-five thousand men, there could be
no question of storming such a fortress, and nothing was left but to await reinforcements and
plan a strategic movement by which he might cross the Tagus, threaten Lisbon from the left
bank, draw off the foe to its defense, and thus perhaps, having weakened the garrison, secure
the possibility of a successful attack on the fortified lines in front.

The notion was not visionary. Soult had been despatched with a strong force southward into
Andalusia, with orders to crush out the resistance of that province; he was then to turn westward,
join Masséna in Portugal, and coöperate with him under his orders for the expulsion of the
English. The belated expedition had not arrived, but in spite of the delay and disappointment
it must surely come at last; and if the Emperor would but consent to order up the troops lying
in Castile, the quickly formed and brilliant plan of Masséna would be feasible. But, alas for
the scheme, what was apparently jealousy on the part of Soult had quenched all ardor in the
Andalusian invasion. He was at this moment before Cadiz, carrying on a siege in which either
the Spanish were displaying great courage or the French but little heart. His sluggish progress
was not unobserved at Paris, and finally under pressure he left half his force before the walls
of the "white city," while with the other he advanced and captured the fortress of Badajoz.
There he paused of necessity, being falsely informed that Masséna, who had only withdrawn toward
Santarem, was in full retreat, but being correctly notified that the portions of his own force
left before Cadiz were not able to hold their own. Having been virtually defeated in his attack
on Sir John Moore, his invasion of Portugal in 1809 had been temporarily successful; but he
had occupied Oporto only to conspire like Junot for the crown of the country, and he had been
driven out without difficulty by the English. Made commander-in-chief after the empty victory
of Wellington at Talavera, he had won a great battle at Ocaña on November nineteenth, 1809;
but since then his time had been virtually wasted, for his bickerings with Joseph and his jealousy
of Masséna made all his successes, even this last one at Badajoz, entirely useless. In a short
time he returned to Cadiz, and the French before Lisbon remained therefore without their auxiliaries.

Both these checks displeased Napoleon greatly. It is often stated that it was because he felt
contempt alike for the Spanish guerrillas and the English infantry that he delegated the conduct
of affairs in the peninsula to his lieutenants. Quite the reverse appears to be the truth.
Foy, Masséna's envoy, reached Paris about the end of November, and found the Emperor in something
like a dull fury. His personal experience had now the confirmation of that undergone by Masséna
and Soult, two of his greatest lieutenants. He had himself found the rugged and ill-cultivated
country unable to support large armies. It was a discouraging fact that neither Soult nor Masséna
had succeeded better than the great captain himself, and Napoleon was thus convinced that the
Continental System could not be enforced against such dogged persistency as that of the unreasoning,
disorganized, but courageous and frenzied Spaniards, assisted by the cold, calculating, and
lucky Wellington: at least not without terrible cost in life and money. Accordingly Masséna
was left without immediate reinforcement, while on December tenth, 1809, was promulgated the
decree incorporating the North Sea coast into the Empire. Alexander chose to regard this fateful
act as merely disrespectful, remonstrated with the French envoy at St. Petersburg, and sent
a circular to the powers reserving the rights of his house over Oldenburg; he refused the petty
indemnification of Erfurt offered by Napoleon, and a year later, in December, 1810, issued
a ukase which laid prohibitive duties on French silks and wines, while at the same time it
favored the "neutral" traffic in English wares. But at the moment he bore the affront without
any menace of war, and merely called attention to the common obligations of friendship between
sovereigns. If the breach were to occur, it must be plainly and manifestly Napoleon's doing.

Napoleon's failure to reinforce Masséna left the situation before Lisbon precarious. It cannot
be proved that he understood all the difficulties in Wellington's position, but it is not unlikely
that he did. Lisbon was overcrowded with fugitives, and demanded speedy relief by offensive
operations. If Masséna had opened a bombardment from the opposite bank, its inhabitants would
have risen in rebellion against the English general. The opposition party in Westminster used
what seemed in England to be the perennial and everlasting delay of the younger brother as
ground to attack the older one's conduct and to arraign the entire ministerial policy. The
English people had heard of the Spanish insurrection with wild delight, but the inefficiency
and stubbornness of the insurgent leaders, together with the untrustworthiness of the provisional
governments, had cooled their ardor, and after the defeat at Ocaña--a battle which the vainglorious
Spaniards had fought in direct opposition to Wellington's advice--they were loud in abuse of
their allies. Lord Liverpool openly attacked Wellington, popular discontent was heightened
by the opposition taunts, and it seemed for a time as if the ministry must abandon the expedition
or fall.

But if Wellington required all the force of his will and the compulsion of a higher necessity
to make him deaf to the clamor of his allies for an advance, Masséna had equal need for strength
to sustain his forces, and to resist the clamor of his own generals for retreat. Foy finally
brought back the necessary orders for reinforcements to come in from Castile; but, as a large
proportion of the men stationed in that province existed merely on paper, only nine thousand
could be spared from those who actually were there. Still Masséna stood like a rock. Wellington
wrote home that with all his money, and assisted by the good will of the inhabitants, he could
not have maintained one division where all the winter long Masséna found sustenance for sixty
thousand men and twelve thousand beasts. This tribute to the campaigning powers of the French
reveals incidentally the exaggerated conception of their strength entertained by the enemy.

The return of Soult to Cadiz emboldened Wellington to advance into Spain. After various movements
on the part of both sides, Masséna was beaten at Fuentes de Onoro, and Almeida was retaken
by the English. Badajoz was beset by the English, and Soult once more advanced to its assistance.
He, too, was defeated in a battle at Albuera, but succeeded finally in effecting a junction
with Masséna, so that Wellington felt compelled to retreat again into Portugal before the united
army. The exasperation of Napoleon at the failure of Masséna in the battle of Fuentes de Onoro
led to the disgrace of the old marshal, and Marmont was sent to replace him. Such was the difficulty
which the French experienced in securing commissary stores from an impoverished land that Wellington
seemed content to let want fight his battles. The season of 1811 was marked by inactivity on
both sides except in the east, where Suchet captured Aragon and Valencia, annihilating the
Spanish army under Blake. But at the close of the year Soult was compelled to withdraw southward
toward the coast, in the hope of securing indispensable supplies. The Spanish guerrillas of
central Spain harassed the French soldiers and took the heart out of them. Wellington at once
resumed the offensive; Ciudad Rodrigo fell before him on January twelfth, 1812, and on April
eighth, after one of the bravest and bloodiest assaults recorded in English annals, Badajoz
also was carried.

Marmont drew back for concentration, and the English advanced to the Duero. Thereupon the French
turned again, Wellington retreated on Salamanca, and there made his stand, defeating his enemy
on July twenty-second, in a brilliant engagement. The French commander then marched to Burgos,
but his opponent, instead of following, turned toward Madrid, in order first to drive Joseph
from his capital. By that time Burgos had been made so strong that all efforts to capture it
proved unavailing, Soult at once abandoned Cadiz and turned northward to aid Joseph. The English
were thus between two foes, and such was the demoralization of the British soldiery when they
understood their danger that Wellington could with difficulty lead them back into Portugal.
At the close of 1812 the French were in control of all Spain except the south, which had been
freed by Soult's northward movement. Cadiz became the capital of the nationalists, but they
could not restrain their revolutionary impulses long enough to form a respectable or trustworthy
government, and Wellington was once more relegated to inactivity. His enforced leisure was
occupied by the consideration of plans for the great successes with which he crowned the following
season.

Viewed from a military standpoint, the French warfare in Spain appeared utterly disastrous.[37]
Regiments melted away like ice before an April sun; desertions became ominously numerous, and
disease laid thousands low. Guerrilla warfare demoralized the regular forces. The new conscripts
at first showed a noisy zeal, but they had been torn too young from their home nurture, and
had neither strength nor power of resistance. The troops from vassal kingdoms and newly annexed
territories were dismayed by the sufferings they had to endure, and beheld with interest the
national uprising of the Spaniards, which, in spite of local jealousies, of rabid and radical
doctrines that could lead to nothing but anarchy, of disastrous failure in government, of feebleness
and falsehood in the temporary rulers, seemed likely to render of no avail the efforts and
successes of a great empire.

         [Footnote 37: Oman, History of the Peninsular War, furnishes
         much valuable material on this period. His point of view in
         one feature is corrected by J. B. Rye and R. A.
         Bence-Pembroke of Oxford. See the Army Service Corps
         Quarterly, October, 1905.]

Yet in some respects the French character appeared in a stronger light throughout the disasters
of the Peninsular war than at any other time. Marbot's tale of the beautiful young cantinière,
or woman sutler, of the Twenty-sixth regiment, who after Busaco rushed unhurt through the English
outposts in order to alleviate the sufferings of the captured general of her brigade, and who
returned on her donkey through the lines without having suffered an insult, reflects equal
credit on the unselfish daring of the French, which she typified, and on the pure-minded gallantry
of the English. The same writer's narrative of the French deserters who, under a leader nicknamed
Marshal Stockpot, established themselves as freebooters in a convent not far from Masséna's
headquarters at Santarem, and of the general's swift, condign punishment of such conduct, graphically
delineates the straits of the French, which led them into the extreme courses that devastated
the land, but it also displays the quality of the discipline which was exercised whenever possible.
Nor should it be forgotten that the two most splendid writers of France's succeeding age were
profoundly impressed with the terrible scenes of the French invasion of Spain. George Sand
was in Madrid as an infant for a considerable portion of 1808; Victor Hugo passed the year
1811 in a Madrid school, fighting childish battles for "the great Emperor," whom his Spanish
schoolmates called Napoladron (Napo the robber). Upon both the fact of their connection with
the repulse of Napoleon's armies left a profound impression. The former was irresistibly drawn
to revisit the country; the latter recalled his impressions in some of his noblest verse.

CHAPTER XXIII

BIRTH OF THE KING OF ROME[38]

         [Footnote 38: References as before, and Helfert: Marie
         Louise. Welschinger: La censure sous le premier empire.
         Wertheimer: Die Heirat der Erzherzogin Marie Louise mit
         Napoleon I. Montbel: Le duc de Reichstadt. Welschinger: Le
         roi de Rome.]

     England Under the Continental System -- End of Constitutional
     Government in France -- Napoleon's Personal Rule -- Wealth of his
     High Officials -- Literature and the Empire -- Mme. de Staël's
     Aspirations -- Her Attempts to Win Napoleon -- Her Genius Saved
     by Defeat -- The Decennial Prizes -- Pregnancy of Maria Louisa --
     The Heir of the Napoleon Dynasty.

[Sidenote: 1810-11]

It would be idle to suppose that during the winter of 1810-11 the Spanish situation was not
thoroughly appreciated by the imperial bridegroom at Paris, or that he underrated the ultimate
effects of what was taking place in the Iberian peninsula if the process were to go on. Still
less is it probable that with the direction of all his energy toward that quarter he could
not have quenched the uncertain and spasmodic efforts of Spanish patriotism, either by arts
of which he was a master, or by making a desert to call it a peace. No; every indication is
that his eye was still fixed on England at her vital point, and that he took his measures in
the North to deal her such a thrust that the life-blood which sustained the Peninsular war
would either flow inefficacious, or be turned away altogether from Spain, and change the ever-doubtful
success of Wellington into assured disaster. Wealthy as England was, it was certain that her
credit could not long hold out in view of the lavish subsidies she was constantly granting
to continental powers, while the expeditions to Spain, Holland, and Sicily were even more costly,
inconclusive as they had so far been. In 1810 English bank-notes were twenty per cent. below
par, and the sovereign could be exchanged on the Continent for only seventeen francs instead
of the twenty-five it usually brought. Business failures were becoming ominously frequent in
London, and panic was stalking abroad. What must be the necessary result if the continental
embargo were more thoroughly enforced? The enormous contraband trade of the North was now virtually
at an end. Where English merchants had so far been able to secure at least half of the prices
obtained from the consumers by smugglers, they could now no longer secure even that doubtful
market at any price; the incorporation of Holland and the North Sea shores into France left
virtually no opening into Europe for them except through Russia. The fate of England and of
the world seemed to hang on how far the Czar could or would keep the engagements which he had
made at Tilsit.

This might not have been so completely true if the French finances had been desperate; but
they were not--that is, the Emperor's personal finances were not. After the legislative assembly
met in December, 1809, it was soon clear to France that the farce of constitutional government
under the Empire was nearly played out. Not only were the members of the senate, who should
have retired according to the constitution, kept in their seats by a decree of the body to
which they belonged, but an imperial edict appointed the deputies for the new departments without
even the form of an election. Fontanes retired from the presidency of the senate to become
grand master of the university; the grand chamberlain of the palace was appointed in his stead.
The Emperor had already sold to private corporations the canals which belonged to the state;
the legislature ratified the illegal act. The penal code was now ready. It contained the iniquitous
and dangerous penalty of confiscation for certain crimes, thus punishing the children for the
faults of their sires, and opening a most tempting avenue to the courts for indulgence in venality
under legal forms. There was little debate, and the code was adopted in its entirety as presented.

The reason for this paralysis of constitutional government is clear. Even the immense war indemnities
taken from conquered states did not suffice for the maintenance of the enormous armies which
covered Europe like swarms of locusts. The marshals and generals were insatiate, and the greed
of the civil administrators was scarcely less. From the top to the bottom of the public service
every official stood with open hand and hungry eyes. This state of things was directly due
to Napoleon's policy of attaching everybody to himself by personal ties, and in giving he had
the lavish hand of a parvenu. The recipients were never content, hoarding their fees, and becoming
opulent, pursuing all the time each his personal ambitions, and ofttimes returning insolence
for favors. To meet these enormous expenditures there had been inaugurated throughout Europe
a system of what may be termed private confiscations, the vast dimensions of which can never
be justly estimated. German princes and Spanish grandees, English merchants and the Italian
clergy, had all been wrung dry; timorous statesmen, crafty churchmen and sly contractors, unprincipled
financiers and ambitious politicians, not one was forgotten or overlooked in the accumulation
of hoards which, having long been called the army chest, were now erected into the dignity
of an "extraordinary domain."

Kept so far in a decent obscurity, these ill-gotten possessions, which belonged, if not to
their original owners, then to the state, were, in the low condition of public morality, not
merely recognized--they were actually increased from new sources of supply. The confiscated
palaces, forests, lands, and fisheries, the proceeds from the sale of American ships, values
of every kind, were all made the private property of the Emperor. If any of these rills of
revenue should run dry, the criminal code with its legislation of confiscation might be relied
on to supply a menace strong enough to express inexhaustible treasure from storehouses yet
untouched. One orator declared this barbaric fund to have been in the Emperor's hands a "French
Providence, which made the laurel a fertile tree, the fruits of which had nourished the brave
whom its branches covered." Napoleon had found the crown moneys sufficient for himself. Berthier
now had a revenue of one million three hundred and fifty thousand eight hundred francs, and
Davout was scarcely less regal with one of nine hundred and ten thousand; Ney had only seven
hundred and twenty-eight thousand, and Masséna five hundred thousand; Soult was ambitious to
increase his income of three hundred and five thousand by securing the Portuguese crown. What
with the great public charities endowed from this extraordinary fund, what with the great public
works in Paris and elsewhere which had been carried on by its means, the total expenditures
had been more than four hundred and thirty million francs. The total receipts had risen to
about seven hundred and sixty millions, and there were therefore still in the Emperor's purse
upward of three hundred millions. He could not be called destitute or even poor.

[Illustration: NAPOLEON BONAPARTE in 1809.

From a painting by René-Théodore Berthon, in the possession of the painter's descendants in
Canada.]

The same years which saw the extinction of the remnants of legislative independence saw likewise
the establishment of six state prisons, in which were to be confined those disaffected persons
who were too powerful to be left at liberty, but whose trials in open court would have revealed
troublesome facts. The censorship of the press was likewise reëstablished with iron rigidity,
and the publishers purchased the meager immunities they were permitted to enjoy by the payment
of whatever pensions the Emperor chose to grant to needy men of letters. Chénier the poet,
Bernardin de Saint-Pierre, the author of "Paul and Virginia," and others enjoyed, in addition
to decorations of the Legion of Honor, substantial incomes that were virtually paid by their
fellow-craftsmen; while a chosen few--including Gros, Gérard, Guérin, Lagrange, Monge, and
Laplace--were elevated to the new baronage. Even Carnot did not hesitate to accept employment
and place from Napoleon. At first he solicited a loan for the relief of his urgent necessities.
This the Emperor made unnecessary by ordering the War Office to pay all arrears in his rations
and other perquisites, by giving him a commission to prepare a volume on fortification, and
by according him a pension of ten thousand francs. The ponderous sledge-hammer of the censorship
was apparently forged to kill a gnat. Nothing is known to the history of literature so subservient
and humble as the conduct of the great majority of French writers and artists under the Empire.

There was one exception--Mme. de Staël. That overestimated woman had gained the halo of martyrdom
by the so-called persecution of the Emperor. But the persecution was, in the opinion of keen
observers, more on her part than his. The Committee of Public Safety had found her an intriguer,
and had called upon her husband to remove her from Paris; the Directory kept her under watch
at Coppet, and ordered her arrest should she return to France. Her aspirations were boundless,
and Mallet du Pan, royalist agent, said that she shamelessly flaunted her charms on public
occasions. In 1796, aspiring to rule the country through her friends, she wrote to Bonaparte,
who was in Italy, that the widow Beauharnais was far from possessing the necessary qualities
to supplement those of a genius such as he was, and on his return to Paris she at once made
suspicious advances to win his favor. Bourrienne declares that he saw one of her letters to
Bonaparte, in which she flatly stated that they two, she herself and her correspondent, had
been created for each other. Mention has elsewhere been made of the coldness with which Bonaparte
treated her when by her own request she was presented to him in Talleyrand's drawing-room.
Not long afterward, at the reception given by the minister of foreign affairs to the conqueror
of Italy, the indefatigable seeker for notoriety addressed the latter once again.

The scene is given in the memoirs of Arnault. At first she plied her suit with fulsome compliment.
Bonaparte listened coldly, and the conversation flagged. In despair she blurted out, "General,
what woman could you love the most?" "My own," was the stinging reply. ("Quelle femme?" "La
mienne.") Woman and wife being the same word in French, Napoleon's retort was a disdainful
pun. "Very well; but which would esteem you the highest?" she persisted. "The best housekeeper."
"Yes, I understand; but which one would be for you the foremost among women?" "She who should
bear the most children, madame," was the icy rejoinder, as the harried and disgusted soldier
turned on his heel. Somewhat later she said to Lucien in a melting voice, "I am but a fool
in my desire to please your brother. I am at a loss when I wish to converse with him. I choose
my language and modify my expressions; I want to make him think of me and occupy himself with
me. It ends in my being and feeling as silly as a goose." When the complacent Lucien reported
the language his brother replied: "I know her thoroughly.... She declared to one who informed
me that since I would neither love her nor permit her to love me, there was nothing left but
for her to hate me, as she could not remain indifferent. What a virago!" In a letter to Joseph,
dated March nineteenth, 1800, the future Emperor wrote: "M. de Staël is in the depths of misery,
and his wife is giving dinners and balls. If you should continue to see her, would it not be
well to have the woman allow her husband one thousand or one thousand two hundred francs a
month? Have we already reached a time when, without any protest from decent people, not merely
morality but the most sacred ties which bind children to their parents can be trampled under
foot? Suppose we judge Mme. de Staël as we should a man,--only, of course, as a man inheriting
the fortune of M. de Necker,--one who had long enjoyed the prerogatives of a distinguished
name, and who should leave his wife in misery while he lived in abundance: could we associate
with a man like that?"

Soon afterward the battle of Marengo was fought. All her passion being now turned into hate,
the scheming woman openly desired Bonaparte's defeat. Thenceforward she was an avowed and bitter
enemy; he would have called her a conspirator. The ten years of her banishment, as she herself
declared, were occupied in wandering from court to court in England, Russia, Prussia, and Sweden,
engaged in the task of undermining the Emperor's name and fame, and in fomenting the coalitions
which eventually ruined him. As Bonaparte became an ultra-imperialist she became an ultra-liberal.
Her book on Germany, published in 1810, was a laudation, in the main just and fair, of a regenerated
land; but it held up to France as a model the achievements of the country which was now her
bitterest foe. The censors gave it a fictitious renown by ordering its complete suppression.

When, in November, 1810, the decennial prizes, instituted as a spur to literature and science,
were distributed, the judges could find nothing in science later than 1803 worthy of their
favor; but the prize-winners, old as they were, were all men of real distinction. The names
of the literary men who were crowned are now known only to the student of history. Napoleon
demanded why the name of Chateaubriand had been omitted from the list, as it was. He may have
remembered, as one of his detractors suggests, that in that writer's great book the Roman doctrine
of obedience to constituted authority was attractively presented; or else, and more probably,
he may have wished his list of authors to be more brilliant. The Emperor may have instituted
those prizes, as his apologists declared he himself said that he did, to keep active minds
from occupying themselves with politics; but the exhibition of how the Empire had crushed out
originality and fecundity in the French brain must have appalled him, whatever were his thoughts.

During the winter of 1810-11 Napoleon's private life was virtually devoted to beneficence.
In addition to the favors granted to Carnot, he lavished money on other objects, some not so
worthy. Canova, who had been called from Rome to make a portrait-statue of the Empress, obtained
a substantial grant for the learned societies of that city. Chénier, like Carnot, had been
a pronounced adversary of the Empire. He now sought employment under it, and was made inspector-general
of the university, an office which he did not live long to enjoy. All the old favorites were
remembered in a general distribution of good things. Talleyrand having just lost an immense
sum by the failure of a trusted bank, the Emperor came to his relief by purchasing one of his
minister's most splendid palaces for more than two million francs. The court resided sometimes
at St. Cloud, sometimes at Rambouillet, sometimes at the Trianon, but for the most part at
Fontainebleau, where the ceremonious life, to which all concerned were now well accustomed,
was marked by none of the old awkwardness and friction, but ran as brilliantly as lavish expenditure
could make it.

The pregnancy of the Empress was celebrated with great festivities, during which Napoleon performed
one of his most applauded acts--the endowment of a vast maternity hospital. The Empress was
brought into great prominence as the president of a society consisting of a thousand noble
ladies under whose patronage the charity was placed.

The unconcealed and ecstatic delight of the prospective father found vent in delicate and tender
attention to the mother of his child, and until her deliverance he was a gentle, devoted, and
considerate husband. His whole nature seemed transformed. When in the early morning of March
twentieth, 1811, word was brought that the Empress was in labor, and that a false presentation
made it of instant necessity to choose between the life of the mother and that of the child,
the feelings of the Emperor can better be imagined than described.

If the expected heir should die his dynasty would be jeopardized, his enemies would once more
be making appointments over his grave, the hopes of a lifetime might be shattered. But there
was not a moment's wavering. "Think only of the mother," he cried. The fears of the attending
physician were vain, after all, and the man-child, coming without a cry into the world and
lying breathless for seven minutes as if hesitating to accept or decline his destiny, finally
gave a wail as at last he caught the breath of life. Napoleon turned, caught up his treasure,
and pressed it to his bosom. A hundred guns announced the birth, and the city burst into jubilations,
which were reëchoed throughout Europe from Dantzic to Cadiz. Festival succeeded festival, and
for an interval men believed that the temple of Janus would be again closed. No boy ever came
on the earthly stage amid such splendors, or seemed destined to honors such as appeared to
await this one. The devotion of the father was passionate and unwavering. It lasted even after
he had been deserted and betrayed by the mother, after the child had been estranged and turned
into an Austrian prince.

CHAPTER XXIV

TENSION BETWEEN EMPEROR AND CZAR[39]

         [Footnote 39: References: Bernhardi, Geschichte Russlands,
         II. Ranke, Hardenberg u. Preussen (vol. 48 of his complete
         works, 1879). Lefebvre, Histoire des Cabinets de l'Europe.
         Vandal, Napoléon et Alexandre Ier, parts of Vols. II and
         III.]

     Menaces of War -- Napoleon's "Extraordinary Domain" -- Rupture of
     the Concordat -- The Prospect of War -- The Empire Prepared for a
     Commercial Siege -- Napoleon's Self-deception -- The Empires of
     Ocean and Continent -- The Czar's Humiliation -- Poland and the
     French Empire -- Alexander's Approach to Francis -- Spurious
     Negotiations.

[Sidenote: 1811]

Among other bodies which sent deputations to congratulate the Emperor on the birth of his child
was the Paris Chamber of Commerce. Their address was sufficiently adulatory, but it contained
a suggestion that the trade and commerce of the country were not all that could be desired.
Napoleon replied in language which attracted attention throughout Europe. There was some irritability
in his tone, but there was an unqualified assurance with regard to the future. He said, among
other things, that England was depressed. This was true; the new measures taken to enforce
the Continental system had told. British harbors were glutted with the products of all the
colonies--not only of her own, but of those she had seized during the Napoleonic wars. The
storehouses could hold no more; and as colonial trade was conducted by barter, all the products
of English industry must remain at home for lack of an export market. Business was at a standstill,
and the specter of English bankruptcy stalked abroad. As to France, the Emperor declared that
he was in no sense the successor of either Louis XIV or Louis XV, but of Charles the Great;
for the present Empire was but the continuation of the old Frankish dominion. In four years,
he said in substance, I shall have a navy. When my fleets shall have been three or four years
at sea we can hold our own with the English. I know I may lose three or four battles; very
good, I will lose them. But we are ever courageous, ever booted and spurred, and we shall succeed.
Before ten years have expired I shall have beaten England. No state of Europe will any longer
have intercourse with her. It is my customhouses which do the greatest harm to the English.
Her blockade has injured herself the most by teaching us how to get on without her products,
her sugar, her indigo. A few years longer, and we shall be thoroughly accustomed to it. I shall
soon have enough beet-root sugar to supply all Europe; for your manufactures there is an open
market in France, Italy, Naples, and Germany. At the close he added words to this effect: The
Bank of France is full of silver, while that of England has not a white sou [five francs].
Since 1806 I have taken over a milliard francs in contributions. I alone have money. Austria
is already bankrupt, and Russia and England will be. There exist three versions of this famous
allocution. In one of them are the words: "I showed mercy to the Emperor of Russia at Tilsit
in return for promises of help; but if those promises are not kept, I will go, if need be,
to Riga, to Moscow, to St. Petersburg."

Three points of the utmost significance demand attention in this, a typical deliverance of
the "imperator," uttered at the flood-tide of imperial success: two of them, both negative,
are ominous; the third is positive and plain. There is no reference to the financial condition
of France, or to the ecclesiastical situation. Russia was openly threatened. The boast of wealth
referred to Napoleon's own "extraordinary domain." About this time Metternich reported to his
government that France was the richest country in Europe, but that her treasury was empty.
The budget of 1811 had nine hundred millions on the credit side, but it had also nine hundred
and fifty-four millions on the debit. The previous year had required five hundred and ten millions
for army and navy, the present required six hundred and fifty millions. It was a fixed principle
of the Emperor to make each generation pay its own expenses. The only source of supply he could
find was an increase of the indirect taxes and the institution of a state monopoly in tobacco.
His remedy would have been adequate but for two causes--the drought of the ensuing summer and
Russia's hostile attitude in regard to French silks and wines. The year 1811 closed with a
deficit of forty-eight millions. This fact had a bearing on the political situation because
in general the Emperor's remedy for an empty treasury was a new war.

The ecclesiastical situation had now become acute. As one bishopric after another had fallen
vacant, bishops had been nominated by the Emperor; but the Pope, who was still sitting in captivity
at Savona, had from the moment of his incarceration steadily refused to institute them. For
a time, as has been explained, the difficulty had been ingeniously avoided by the process of
ecclesiastical law, according to which the chapters of the various dioceses elected the imperial
candidates as vicars capitular, and thus enabled them to perform episcopal functions without
regard to institution. But this could not go on forever, and every effort had been made to
induce the prisoner of Savona to yield. In response he took a firmer stand, and indicated to
the chapters both of Italy and France that they should no longer elect the imperial nominees
as vicars capitular. This was a rupture of the Concordat, and was so regarded by Napoleon.
The attitude of all pious Catholics was becoming uneasy, and this new declaration of war by
the Church could only serve to heighten the bellicose humor of the Emperor. The Pope was eventually
brought to terms, partly by increasing the rigors of his imprisonment, partly by terrorizing
his agents in France, but chiefly through the representations made to him by the ablest ecclesiastics
of the realm, and by the summoning of a church council, which turned out nearly as subservient
to the secular authority as the Jewish Sanhedrim had been.

With reference to the third point, it seems impossible to determine whether the menace to Russia
was actually made, as one version of the reply has it, or whether a later speech, at the opening
of the legislature in June, and the report on the situation of France, issued in the same month,
have not both been confused with the Emperor's talk in March. In either case the result was
identical, for France and Europe instinctively took in the situation, and clearly understood
that the Emperor was not indisposed toward the renewal of war in northern Europe. This third
point was of course the most noteworthy of the three, for it could be only a question of time
when the storm should burst.

If it were possible at that epoch of the world's history to distinguish between Napoleon the
man and Napoleon the embodied political force of Europe, the aspect of the former would abound
in human interest. Filled with paternal tenderness, his sole ambition appeared for a time to
be that of retaining what he had gained, the leadership of a Western empire as splendid as
that of Charles the Great. To make sure of this acquisition and hand it on to his heir, he
seems for a moment to have dreamed of standing forth as the pacificator of Europe. He actually
withdrew the mass of his troops from Germany for use in Spain, leaving only enough to watch
Prussia and guard Westphalia; with the former power he finally formulated his pecuniary demands,
as if thus to put an end to strife. The "rebellion" in Spain he intended to crush out by the
pacific operations of a commercial warfare with England, which he felt certain would bring
Great Britain to terms, now that for the first time since the outbreak of hostilities the blood
of her soldiers "was flowing in a stream." He was probably strengthened in this conviction
by the reluctant consent of the cabinet of St. James to open negotiations for the exchange
of prisoners on the very basis he had suggested long before. Believing, moreover, that European
princes had by this time lost their delicate sensibility, it seemed no monstrous crime to consolidate
his empire for its commercial siege by the simple expedient of removing the Duke of Oldenburg
from his hereditary domains which bordered on the ocean and offering him the inland sovereignty
of Erfurt, or by adopting the alternative expedient of leaving him to enjoy the former under
French protection. It seems presumptuous to attempt any revelation of his feelings, but surely
he might hope that then, controlling every inlet to European commerce from Corfu around by
Triest, Italy, Spain, and the Texel as far as Lübeck, his wall of protection for French manufactures
would do its work, that in a few years France would be the industrial and commercial center
of continental Europe. With Paris the capital of a new Western empire, the true relation between
the secular and ecclesiastical heads of the world would be reëstablished, as it could not be
while the papacy had its seat at Rome, and all things would work together under a strong hand
to humble the island empire of England, destroy her ascendancy on the mainland, and thus bring
in a moral and material millennium for the civilized world.

But alas for such self-deception, if, indeed, it ever existed. Nature is too complex and habit
too strong for such sudden sublimations of purpose. Had the true, complex Napoleon in his supposed
communing asked the question, What then? sincerity would have compelled him to reply, More
beyond. Men remembered to have heard him use the expression, "Emperor of the Continent," in
these very days, jocularly, perhaps, but still with significance. Orders were issued in March,
1811, to fit out vessels for two expeditions, one against Sicily and Egypt, one against Ireland;
if these were successful he could then work his will at the Cape of Good Hope and ultimately
in the East and West Indies. "They want to know where we are going, where I shall plant the
new Pillars of Hercules," he said. "We will make an end of Europe, and then, as robbers fling
themselves on others less bold, we will fling ourselves on India, which the latter class have
mastered." About the same time the Bavarian minister, pleading for peace, received the retort:
"Three years more, and I am lord of the universe." When Mollien advised against war, on account
of the fiscal disorders, the reply was: "On the contrary, the finances are falling into disorder,
and for that very reason need war." Behind Napoleon the father was the ambitious and haughty
statesman combined with the self-reliant general, the embodiment of French ambitions as they
had consolidated in the old régime, and had been transmitted through the Revolution, the Directory,
and the Consulate to the Empire.

But there were two other gladiators in the arena: England, hard pressed but still undaunted
in her mastery of the seas which flowed around her majestic colonial empire; Russia, grimly
determined to hold an even balance with France in Europe while reëstablishing by the overthrow
of Turkey the eastern counterpoise to Napoleon's western dominion. The Czar of Muscovy would
fain have passed for a philosopher. Fourteen years earlier, when in his eighteenth year, he
had fallen under the charm of Prince Adam Czartoryski, a youth of about his own age, whom the
Empress Catherine had taken as a hostage after the final dismemberment of Poland in 1795. Trained
by his grandmother to play her own rôle of enlightened despot, the young ruler, still in those
early years when generous impulses rule, conversed with his friend, the representative of a
downtrodden land, about the possibility of a restored and regenerated Poland, avowing his secret
detestation of all that he was compelled in public to profess. We may picture the joy of the
noble Pole at the thought of his country made whole once more, even though it were destined
to be but semi-autonomous as a member of the Russian empire. But years rolled by, and Czartoryski,
though preferred to place and honor by the Czar, heard less and less of the young philosopher's
scheme. In 1805 he finally wrung from Alexander a promise that he would begin to act; but it
was very soon withdrawn, and Czartoryski retired to his estates. The realities and selfishness
of life eclipsed the man of sensibility and developed the despot. For a time, however, he essayed
the rôle of European mediator, with what success Tilsit is the witness.

Disgusted from the practical point of view with the old dynasties and their chicanery, Alexander
had not only eschewed the idea of a reconstructed Poland, but had become indifferent to the
territorial lines of all ancient Europe, and momentarily dreamed of Napoleon as his twin emperor.
To this end he too must likewise be a conqueror. Finland he had gained, but at the price of
adhesion to a commercial system which was gradually ruining his people. The exhausting, slow-moving
war with Turkey was still dragging on, and neither Moldavia nor Wallachia was yet acquired.
Oldenburg was incorporated into France. The grand duchy of Warsaw was not merely the specter
of a restored Poland: the addition of Galicia to its territories had given it solidity and
substance. The Franco-Austrian alliance was a menace to all the Czar's aspirations on the Balkan
peninsula. It was clear that he must choose between keeping his engagements to the letter and
an open rupture. He had been beaten and humiliated at his own game.

The first steps toward a rupture had already been taken before Napoleon's second marriage.
In the last days of 1809 Alexander had negotiated with Caulaincourt, the French ambassador
at St. Petersburg, a treaty requiring from his ally a formal promise that Poland should never
be restored and the name never officially used. It is certain, from the language used at the
time, that the two questions of Poland and the Russian marriage were not connected; the former
he could raise merely as an ally with a just expectation of a favorable reply. It is of course
possible that Alexander hoped Napoleon might connect them, and thus sign the Polish treaty
in the hope that his request for the grand duchess would be granted as a return. In that case
the Russian emperor could still have refused his sister's hand, putting his ally's compliance
in regard to Poland on the ground of existing political relations. He might then have laughed
in his sleeve at his outwitted dupe. Be that as it may, Napoleon was the craftier. He replied
that he would sign, not this document, but one slightly different, though quite as satisfactory
to Russia. Accordingly he drew up, executed, and forwarded to Russia a counter-project promising
"never to give help or assistance to any power, or to any internal rising whatsoever, looking
to a restoration of the kingdom of Poland." A few days after its arrival at St. Petersburg
came the news of the Austrian marriage.

Two courses were now open to the Czar. One was to take advantage of the strong Russian party
which existed among the Poles in Warsaw, promise a restoration of Poland with himself as king,
and enter on an offensive campaign against France. This scheme is contained in an extant letter
addressed to him by Prince Galitzin. The other was to negotiate further and await events. After
dallying for a time with the former idea, the Czar at length told Czartoryski that he could
never consider giving up provinces already incorporated into Russia,--which meant of course
that he would not restore the integrity of Poland,--but that he might accept the crown of the
grand duchy of Warsaw as it was, including Galicia. Secret agents were thereupon despatched
to sound the Austrian court. If the partition of Turkey should take place, as was already determined,
could not Russia and Austria join hands to secure each her own interests against France? In
view of the fact that Napoleon had rejected the idea of destroying Turkey because Russia had
displayed jealousy of Austria and had refused her any share in the Turkish lands, this was
a virtual declaration of hostilities.

Alexander's overture was unheeded at Vienna, at least for the moment, because Metternich was
in Paris wooing Napoleon's good will. Simultaneously and openly, therefore, the fencing between
Paris and St. Petersburg went on. A rejoinder to the counter-project was laid on Napoleon's
desk, containing the identical words, "that the kingdom of Poland shall never be restored."
This persistence angered the recipient, and seemed capable of but one interpretation. If Alexander
did not consider the guarantees given by France after Friedland and Wagram to be sufficient,
could Napoleon see in this reiterated demand anything more or less than a determination of
the Czar not to abide by the engagements of Russia unless new ones were given by himself? He
returned therefore a softly worded, non-committal reply, and began to make unmistakable preparations:
a journey to Flanders for the purpose of rousing public opinion on his behalf, the strengthening
of certain fortresses, and a general rapprochement to Austria in all his relations. The negotiations
continued a little longer, Russia insisting on the phrase as first written, France declaring
that its use would be a confession of the insinuation contained in it, and therefore incompatible
with her dignity. Any other equivalent language she would use, but not that.

CHAPTER XXV

THE ARRAY OF NATIONS[40]

         [Footnote 40: References as before, to which add Lehmann:
         Scharnhorst, Vol. II.]

     Estrangement of France and Russia -- Premonitions of War --
     Alexander's Secret Policy -- The Various Factors in the Situation
     -- Bernadotte -- The Eve of a General Conflagration -- England
     and Prussia -- Austria and Prussia -- Alliance between Sweden and
     Russia -- England and the United States -- The Confederation of
     the Rhine -- The State of France.

[Sidenote: 1811-12]

Meanwhile Metternich, confident that in the partition of Turkey better terms could be obtained
for Austria from Napoleon than from Alexander, was doing his utmost to embitter the relations
of France and Russia. A strong Russian party in Vienna was in close touch with the numerous
Poles in Warsaw who looked to Alexander for the restoration of their country's integrity. In
both places there was much talk of the restoration of Poland, in Warsaw especially, and the
phrase was constantly in the newspapers. Alexander's ambassador in Paris made urgent representations
concerning "a persistent rumor that the Emperor intends to restore Poland." Napoleon retorted
in fury, and threatened war, but immediately wrote a soothing assurance that he was still true
to the engagements of Tilsit, and as to the treaty itself he would agree to changes, but would
never brand his own memory with dishonor. On July first, while the lines were in the copyist's
hands, there occurred the incident which many thought at the time changed the course of history.
During a magnificent festival given by the Austrian ambassador, the decorations in an open
court took fire, and the conflagration spread, enveloping the entire embassy. All the important
guests escaped unhurt except Kourakine, the Russian ambassador, who was so injured that he
could no longer perform his official duties. It appeared to throw a strong light on Napoleon's
character as a man that almost immediately his humor seemed to change; his personal obligations
to the much-abused but well-bred envoy could not now be wiped out by a gentle reply to the
master; hence, apparently, he curtly dismissed the Russian chargé d'affaires, and ended the
negotiation. It was when this news reached St. Petersburg that Alexander a second time offered
Norway to Sweden.

The real cause of Napoleon's abrupt manner was the news communicated by Metternich that the
Russian army had advanced successfully to the Danube. On July seventeenth Francis despatched
an envoy requesting his new son-in-law to join him in a protest against the aggressions of
the Czar; in other words, to throw the agreements of Tilsit and Erfurt to the winds. Napoleon
returned an unhesitating and honorable refusal, but said significantly to Metternich: "If Russia
quarrels with us she will lose Finland, Moldavia, and Wallachia," adding that if the Czar,
contrary to his engagement of 1808, should seize anything south of the Danube, then he himself
would intervene on Austria's behalf. But all Europe seemed convinced that war was inevitable.
In all the watering-places the talk was of nothing else. The Russian party in Vienna grew bolder;
Pozzo di Borgo, Napoleon's life-long foe, who had been temporarily under a cloud in Russia,
appeared in Vienna in his Russian uniform, courted and oracular. A French interpreter on his
way to Persia was stopped by him, and bribed to enter the Russian service. In a terse personal
note written by his own hand, Napoleon called Alexander's attention to the facts, but without
awaiting the reply he went further. Kourakine, partly recovered, was leaving Paris for home.
Through him the Emperor poured into his ally's ear a long exposure of the situation, saying
in substance that war was to be avoided, that he had not the slightest intention of restoring
Poland, and that if the Czar would write what was desired as a guarantee in the form of a newspaper
article, the words should be inserted unchanged in the "Moniteur." At the same time orders
were sent commanding Caulaincourt to end all negotiation, and the Poles were peremptorily enjoined
to silence. Simultaneously schemes for a new naval campaign were gradually being perfected,
so that they might be realized the following year.

Something of Alexander's secret diplomacy must have leaked out, but he appeared unmoved. He
was steadily preparing for war, strengthening his fortresses, and locating fortified camps
in the district between the Dwina and the Dnieper. But his chief concern was with Poland. Relying
on the Jesuit influence at Warsaw for support against the jailer of the Pope, he again took
up his old scheme of restoring the country as an appanage of the Russian crown, and wrote to
Czartoryski. The plan was dazzling: a national army, a national administration, and a liberal
constitution. But that nobleman, after a long residence in his native land, had learned how
strong was the conviction of his countrymen that Napoleon would give them a more complete autonomy
than the Czar, and sent back what must have been a discouraging reply, although it has never
been found. Alexander on its receipt determined that the coming war should be defensive on
his part, and immediately opened communications with England and Sweden concerning the Continental
System. Finally, in the closing days of the year, he issued a ukase excluding wines, silks,
and similar luxuries from France, but facilitating the entry of the colonial wares in which
England dealt. This was an act of open hostility to his old ally, a declaration of commercial
war. Prussia immediately made semi-official advances to the Czar, but they were repelled.

It is not easy to estimate Napoleon's responsibility for what had happened and was about to
happen. He was persistently domineering, contemptuous of national feeling and dynastic politics,
over-confident in the unswerving devotion of France, inflexible in his policy of territorial
aggrandizement, ruthless in applying his peculiar conceptions of finance and political economy,
and pitiless in his own self-seeking. On the other hand, Alexander, having received Prussia's
autonomy as his part, had proved an untrustworthy ally from the outset. Having seized Finland,
he would not pay the price, but first evaded the Continental System, then rejected it, and
finally declared commercial war on France; in the latest conflict between France and Austria
he had actually wooed the latter's favor. Procrastinating in the marriage affair, he was furious
when the suppliant turned elsewhere, and at once displayed an insulting mistrust concerning
Poland; finally, he declared diplomatic war by his overtures to England and his secret machinations
in Vienna; there was but a final step in the evolution of complete hostility, the declaration
of military war. Austria, too, had done her utmost to bring on a conflict, hoping to find her
account in the dissensions of the two empires. Her policy demanded her territorial aggrandizement
at the expense of Turkey; in a war between France and Russia she was sure to find her account,
and there was nothing in Metternich's dealings with Napoleon which tended to preserve the peace
of Europe.

Sweden, under Bernadotte, was manifestly anxious to find a cause of offense, being defiant
in temper, and ready to do anything for the purpose of strengthening the hands of Alexander
and escaping from French protection. So feeble was the titular King of Sweden that the adoptive
crown prince speedily became the real ruler, and his personal desires were soon the public
policy. It was a strange transformation which took place in the man. He had been generous and
kindly in the difficult positions he held as a French general. Avowedly a revolutionary democrat
of the most radical stripe, he was nevertheless a true Gascon and failed to display his great
abilities wherever his heart was not engaged. He had, moreover, basked in the sunshine of imperial
favor, and in an age of atheism had remained in the fold of the Roman Church. Having himself
schemed against Napoleon under the promptings of personal ambition, he often gave aid and comfort
to the Emperor's enemies. When adopted into the royal family of Sweden it cost him little effort
to profess Lutheranism; his republican sympathies were quenched, and he developed into a beneficent
despot anxious to put Sweden in line with Russia. He never was able to win the affections of
his people, and when before the close of his life they demanded a liberal constitution, this
democratic sovereign, brought up under the illumination of French revolutionary doctrines,
held back until the paper had to be wrung from him. The phases of Napoleon's life are scarcely
more startling than those of this rather commonplace actor on a stage which was provincial
when compared with the cosmopolitan scene of the Emperor's life-drama.

In the spring of 1811 all Europe knew that war was inevitable. "It will occur," wrote Napoleon
on April second of that year, "in spite of me, in spite of the Emperor Alexander, in spite
of the interests of France and those of Russia. I have already so often seen this that it is
my experience of the past which unveils to me the future.... It is all a scene in an opera,
and the English control the machinery." A week later he notified Alexander that he was aware
of the movement of Russian troops toward Poland, and declared that he himself was likewise
preparing. Lauriston was sent to replace the too pacific Caulaincourt at St. Petersburg, and
Champagny was removed from the Foreign Office to make way for the fiery Maret. There was much
to be done before the actual outbreak of hostilities. England's history is the story of her
struggles for nationality, for religious, civil, and political liberty, and for mercantile
ascendancy. Her inborn longings for the highest civilization were not inconsistent with her
grim determination to resist a system that stood on the Continent for progress, but which she
had come to believe meant national ruin for her. Prussia, with a new vigor born of self-denial,
education, and passionate patriotism; Sweden, restless and uneasy under the yoke of Napoleonic
supremacy; Denmark, friendly, but independent in her quasi-autonomy; the United States, chafing
under the restrictions of her commerce; Turkey, sick to death, but then as now pivotal in all
European politics--the relation of all these powers to the coming conflict was still a question,
and during a year much might be done in a diplomatic way to determine it. The whole civilized
world was to be in array, although the life-and-death struggle was to be between two insatiate
despotisms, one Western and modern, the other Oriental and theocratic. Napoleon grasped the
tendency of his own career but dimly. Goethe said of him, "He lives entirely in the ideal,
but can never consciously grasp it." Unconsciously, too, Alexander the Great had fought for
the extension of Greek culture; Cæsar, to destroy the stifling institutions of a worn-out system;
Charles the Great, to realize the "city of God" on earth; Napoleon, for nationality, individual
liberty, popular sovereignty. What was personal and petty in the work of these Titans, being
ephemeral, disappeared in the death of each; what was human and large has endured and will
endure. The creative ideas of the revolutionary era with which Napoleon's name is so closely
connected are no longer called in question; his own career was now verging to its decline,
but in his fall the fundamental conceptions of the epoch were firmly established.

In January, 1812, Wellington, as has been mentioned, stormed Ciudad Rodrigo; on April sixth
Badajoz fell. On April eighteenth Napoleon offered terms of peace, Spain to be kept intact
under Joseph, Portugal to be restored to the house of Braganza, Sicily to remain under Ferdinand,
and Naples under Murat. Considering all the circumstances, the offer was worthy of consideration;
but the English cabinet refused it. The possibility of peace with Great Britain being thus
extinguished, Napoleon considered what course he should pursue toward the other great Protestant
land, which also felt itself to be struggling for life. Some well-informed persons asserted
that at first the Emperor contemplated destroying the Hohenzollern power utterly. If so, he
quickly dismissed the idea as involving unnecessary risk. With the reforms of Stein and Hardenberg
successfully accomplished, with her educational system completed and her army reorganized,
with her people electrified at last into true patriotism, Prussia was again a redoubtable power.
Her influence permeated all Germany, and the secret associations which ramified everywhere
labored for German unity, their members already dreaming of the Jura, Vosges, and Ardennes
as the western frontier of their fatherland. At first Frederick William made overtures to the
Czar, offering an army of a hundred thousand men. Alexander, desiring a purely defensive war,
was cold; but late in 1811 he agreed, in case of an attack on Prussia, to advance as far as
the Vistula, "if possible."

Meantime Austria had at first contemplated neutrality, but she abandoned the policy when convinced
that, whichever side should be victorious, Prussia would be dismembered. Francis saw Alexander's
continued successes on the Danube with growing anxiety, and, learning that Napoleon would put
four hundred thousand men into the field, made up his mind that France must win. Accordingly,
in March, 1812, a treaty was executed which put thirty thousand Austrian troops under Napoleon's
personal command, and stipulated for Austria's enlargement by Galicia, Illyria, and even Silesia,
in certain contingencies. During these negotiations Frederick William had learned how stupendous
Napoleon's preparations were, and, with some hesitancy, he finally sent Scharnhorst to sound
Austria. The result was determinative, and on February twenty-fourth, 1812, a treaty between
France and Prussia was signed, which gave Prussia nothing, but exacted from her twenty thousand
men for active service, with forty-two thousand for garrison duty, and afforded the French
armies free course through her territories, with the right to charge up such requisitions as
were made against the war indemnity. To this pass Alexander's narrowness had brought the proud,
regenerated nation; its temper can be imagined.

French diplomacy, triumphant elsewhere, was utterly unsuccessful with Sweden. Alexander offered
Norway as the price of alliance, with hints of the crown of France for Bernadotte somewhere
in the dim future. Napoleon temptingly offered Finland for forty thousand Swedish soldiers.
But the new crown prince was seemingly coy, and dallied with both. This temporizing was brought
to a sudden end in January, 1812, when Davout occupied Swedish Pomerania. On April twelfth
the alliance between Sweden and Russia was sealed. It carried with it an armistice between
Russia and Great Britain. This was essential to the Czar, for he would be compelled to withdraw
his troops from the Danube for service in the North, and to that end must make some arrangement
with Turkey. He offered the most favorable terms; Napoleon, on the other hand, demanded a hundred
thousand men if he were to restore to the Sublime Porte all it had lost. England threatened
to bombard Constantinople if there should be too much hesitancy, and on May twenty-eighth,
1812, the Sultan closed a bargain with Russia which gave him the Pruth as a frontier.

In spite of Turkey's submission, Great Britain was not to be left passive. The neutrality of
the United States had, on the whole, been successfully maintained, but their commerce suffered.
On May first, 1810, Congress enacted that trade with Great Britain should be forbidden if France
revoked her decrees, and vice versa. Madison and the Republicans believed that this would relieve
the strain under which farmers as well as merchants were now suffering. This enabled Napoleon,
in those days of slow communication, to make a pretense of relaxing the Berlin and Milan decrees,
while continuing to seize American ships as before. England was not for a moment deceived,
and enforced the orders in council with added indignities. This conduct so exasperated the
American people that they demanded war with the oppressor, and on June nineteenth the war of
1812 began. Napoleon's diplomatic juggling had been entirely successful.

A year earlier the princes of the Rhenish Confederation had received their orders. Their peoples
were unresponsive, but the zeal of the rulers overcame all opposition. The King of Saxony was
grateful in a lively sense of favors to come, and his grand duchy of Warsaw became an armed
camp, the Poles themselves expecting their national resurrection. The prince primate's realm
was erected into a grand duchy for Eugène, whose viceroyalty was destined for the little King
of Rome, and under the stimulus of a fresh nationality the people gave more than was demanded.
Würtemberg and Baden learned that Napoleon "preferred enemies to uncertain friends," and both
found means to supply their respective quotas. Jerome, true to the fraternal instincts of the
Bonapartes, hesitated; but his queen was a woman of sound sense, and both were alive to the
uncertainties of tenure in royal office, so that, receiving a peremptory summons, Westphalia
fell into line. Bavaria and Switzerland furnished their contingents as a matter of course.
Among the Germans, some hated Napoleon for his dealings with the papacy, some as the destroyer
of their petty nationalities; some devout Protestants even thought him the antichrist. But
the great majority were in a state of expectancy, many realizing that even the dynastic politics
of Europe had been vitalized by his advent; others, liberals like Goethe, Wieland, and Dalberg,
hoped for the complete extinction of feudalism and dynasticism before his march.

This had already been accomplished in France, and for that reason the peasantry and the townsfolk
upheld the Empire. In Paris the upper classes had never forgotten the Terror, and were ready
for monarchy in any form if only it brought a settled order and peace. There were still a few
radicals and many royalists, but the masses cared only for two things, glory and security.
They enjoyed the temporary repose under a rule which protected the family, property, and in
a certain sense even religion. Family life at the Tuileries was a model, the Emperor finding
his greatest pleasure in domestic amusements, playing billiards, riding, driving, and even
romping, with his young wife, while his tenderness for the babe was phenomenal. Still he was
no puritan, and the lapsed classes could indulge themselves in vice if only they paid; from
their purses fabulous sums were turned into the Emperor's secret funds. Under the Continental
System industry was at a standstill, and every household felt the privation of abstaining from
the free use of sugar and other colonial wares. There was, however, general confidence in speedy
relief, and there were worse things than waiting. The peasantry were weary of seeing their
soldier sons return from hard campaigning with neither glory nor booty, and began to resent
the conscription law, which tore the rising generation from home while yet boys. Desertions
became so frequent that a terrible law was passed, making, first the family, then the commune,
and lastly the district, responsible for the missing men. It was enforced mercilessly by bodies
of riders known as "flying columns." Finally, every able-bodied male was enrolled for military
service in three classes--ban, second ban, and rear ban, the last including all between forty
and sixty. Nevertheless, and in spite of all other hardships, there was much enthusiasm at
the prospect of a speedy change for the better. In March, 1812, Napoleon could count not far
from four hundred and seventy-five thousand men ready for the field. Berthier was retained
as chief of staff. In the guard were forty-seven thousand picked men, the old guard under Lefebvre,
the young guard under Bessières. Davout's corps numbered seventy-two thousand, all French;
Oudinot's thirty-seven thousand, French and Swiss; Ney's thirty-nine thousand, French and Würtembergers;
Prince Eugène's forty-five thousand, French and Italians; Poniatowski's thirty-six thousand,
all Poles; Gouvion Saint-Cyr's twenty-five thousand, all Bavarians; Regnier's seventeen thousand,
all Saxons; Vandamme's eighteen thousand, Hessians and Westphalians; Macdonald's thirty-two
thousand, Prussians and Poles. Murat commanded the cavalry reserve of four corps under Nansouty,
Montbrun, Grouchy, and Latour-Maubourg respectively, and numbering in all forty thousand. In
addition to this majestic array there were thirty thousand Austrians under Schwarzenberg, and
the ninth corps of thirty-three thousand French and Germans under Victor was to follow. "I
have never made greater preparations," the Emperor wrote to Davout.

CHAPTER XXVI

THE CONGRESS OF KINGS[41]

         [Footnote 41: References: Bittard des Portes: Les
         préliminaires de l'entrevue d'Erfurt (1808). In Revue
         d'histoire diplomatique, tom. IV, pp. 95-144. Sklower:
         Entrevue de Napoleon Ier et de Goethe suivie de notes et
         commentaires.]

     Forebodings -- Napoleon and Maria Louisa -- The Czar's Ultimatum
     and the Emperor's Choice -- Napoleon's Last Diplomatic Move --
     The Imperial Court at Dresden -- Napoleon and Poland -- The
     Health of Napoleon -- His Strategic Powers Undiminished.

[Sidenote: 1812]

Ready--at least to outward appearance, Napoleon was in truth ready as far as equipment, organization,
commissariat, strategic plan, and every nice detail of official forethought could go. But how
about the efficiency and zeal of men and officers? There had been murmurings for some years
past. It was remarked that Napoleon's studies in 1808 were the campaigns of Rome against the
Parthians from the days of Crassus onward; from his death-bed Lannes had warned his chief in
1809 how ready many of his most trusted servants were to betray him if he continued his career
of conquest; Decrès, another true friend, expressed his anxiety in 1810 lest they should all
be thrown into a final horrid elemental crash; and in 1811 Regnault de Saint-Jean-d'Angély
exclaimed, "The unhappy man will undo himself, undo us all, undo everything." The Emperor heard
neither of these last forebodings, but is doubtfully reported to have himself declared, "I
am driven onward to a goal which I know not." Caulaincourt made no secret of how his anxiety
increased as he knew Russia better. He was recalled because, having learned Russia's pride
and Russia's resources, he made no attempt to conceal his aversion to the final arbitrament
of bloodshed. Poniatowski believed Lithuania would refuse to rise against her despot; Ségur
and Duroc foresaw that France, if degraded to be but one province of a great empire, would
lose her enthusiasm; even Fouché, having been permitted, on the plea of ill-health, to return
from his exile in Italy, ventured to draw up a vigorous and comprehensive memorial against
war, and instanced the fate of Charles XII. The contents of Fouché's paper were divulged to
Napoleon by a spy, and when the author presented it he was met by contemptuous sarcasm. The
Emperor believed Prussia to be helpless, chiding Davout for his doleful reports of the new
temper which had been developed. Jomini declared, but long afterward, that the great captain
had avowed to a confidential friend his eagerness for the excitement of battle.

But in spite of the anxiety felt by a few leading Frenchmen, there was general confidence,
and it was not until after the catastrophe that details like those enumerated were recalled.
It is customary to attribute Napoleon's zeal for war to the fiery counsels of Maret. But there
is no necessity to seek any scapegoat. In reality the outlook in 1812 was better than in 1809.
Napoleon's spirits were higher, his conscripts were not visibly worse than any drafted since
the beginning of the Consulate, and the veteran Coignet's remark concerning the march to Russia
is that "Providence and courage never abandon the good soldier." As to the commander-in-chief,
he had largely forsaken his licentious courses, partly from reasons of policy, partly because
of his sincere attachment to wife and child. Throughout the years of youth and early manhood
he had indulged his amorous passions, but until his second marriage not a single woman had
been preferred to power, not even Josephine. Maria Louisa, however, was an imperial consort,
for whom no attention, no elevation, was too great. Pliant while an Austrian archduchess, she
remained so as empress, apparently without will or enterprise. Men felt, nevertheless, that,
remaining an Austrian externally, she was probably still one at heart, perhaps a mere lure
thrown out to keep the hawk from other quarry. There was much in her subsequent conduct to
justify such suspicions, but the utter shamelessness of her later years argues rather the self-abandonment
of one in revolt against the rigid social restraints and personal annihilation of early life.
The hours which Napoleon spent with her were so many that he laid himself open to the charge
of uxoriousness. The physician attendant at the birth of the infant King of Rome declared that
the mother would succumb to a second confinement, and the father exercised a self-restraint
consonant with the consideration he had displayed at the birth of his heir. He was the squire
and constant attendant of his spouse, her riding-master even, and often her playfellow in the
romps of which she was still fond. Scenes of idyllic bliss were daily observed by the keen
eyes of the attendants. The choice of governesses, tutors, and servants for the little prince
was personally superintended by his sire, and every detail of the feeding, dressing, and airing
of the prospective emperor was the subject of minute inquiry and regulation. When it was clear
that war was imminent, Napoleon seemed for the first time ready to abandon his abhorrence for
female governance. Certainly his domestic happiness had not sapped his moral power; possibly
it rendered him over-anxious at times, and, perhaps in revulsion from anxiety, over-confident.

During two years of diplomatic fencing the initiative had been Russian, the instigation French.
For the war which followed no single cause can be assigned. Some blamed Napoleon, claiming
that with his scheme of universal empire it was inevitable; Metternich said Russia had brought
on war in an unpardonable manner. The Tilsit alliance was personal; the separation of the contracting
parties inevitably weakened it. The affiliations of the Russian aristocracy with the Austrian;
the smart of both under the Continental System, which rendered their agriculture unprofitable;
England's stand under Castlereagh; the Oldenburg question--all these were cumulative in their
effect. With Alexander, Poland and the Continental System were the real difficulties; the marriage
question was only secondary. On January twelfth, 1812, the Czar with mournful and solemn mien
declared his hands clean of blood-guiltiness and laid down his ultimatum. To the concentration
of Russian troops Napoleon had replied by sending his own to Erfurt and Magdeburg. Alexander
formally stated his readiness to take back his own move if the Emperor would withdraw the French
soldiers; he would even accept Erfurt for Oldenburg, and permit Warsaw to be capital of a Saxon
province. But he said not a word about the Continental System, being fully determined not to
yield one jot, and for Napoleon this was the primary matter. Alexander's ultimatum by its clever
form compelled his ally either to abandon the scheme of Western empire or to fight. Both parties
to the Tilsit alliance understood that with European harbors shut to English trade, Great Britain
must cease to support the Spanish insurrection, which in that case a few thousand troops could
hold in check. Then the great scheme of revolutionary extension which had been inaugurated
by the Convention and logically developed by Napoleon step by step in every war and treaty
since Campo Formio would in a few short years be complete. But two real powers would thus remain
in continental Europe--France and Russia. They could by united action crush British power both
by land and by sea. To dash this brimming cup from his lips was for Napoleon an insupportable
thought. With the hope, apparently, of securing from the Czar the last essential concession,
he set his troops in motion toward the Vistula on the very day after his treaty with Prussia
was signed.

The natural counter-move to Napoleon's advance would be the invasion of Warsaw; although the
new Poland was fortified for defense, yet it might be overwhelmed before assistance could reach
the garrisons. Moreover, there were ominous signs in France at the opening of 1812. Food supplies
were scarce, and speculators were buying such as there were. Napoleon felt he must remain yet
a little while to check such an outrage and to strengthen public confidence. Ostensibly to
avoid a final rupture, but really to prevent the premature opening of war, he therefore summoned
Czernicheff, the Czar's aide-de-camp, who, as a kind of licensed spy, had been hovering near
him for three years past, and offered to accept every item of the Russian ultimatum, if only
an equitable treaty of commerce could be substituted for the ukase of December, 1810; in other
words, if Alexander would agree to observe the letter and spirit of the Continental System.
During the two months intervening before the Czar's reply not a Cossack set foot on Polish
soil, while day by day Napoleon's armies flowed onward across Europe toward the plains of Russia,
and a temporary remedy for the economic troubles of France was found. When, late in April,
the answer came, it was, as expected, a declaration that without the neutral trade Russia could
not live; she would modify the ukase somewhat, but, as a condition antecedent to peace, France
must evacuate Prussia and make better terms with Sweden. On May first the French army reached
the Vistula; on May ninth Napoleon and his consort started for Dresden, whither all the allied
sovereigns had been summoned to pay their court as vassals to the second Charles the Great.

The surge of German patriotism had nearly drowned Napoleon in 1809, but for manifest reasons
it had again receded. The Austrian marriage had withdrawn the house of Hapsburg from the leadership
of Germany; the imperial progress to Dresden and the high imperial court held there were intended
to dazzle the masses of Europe, possibly to intimidate the Czar. The French were genuinely
enthusiastic; the Germans displayed no spite; princes, potentates, and powers swelled the train;
all the monarchs of the coalition, under Francis as dean of the corps, stood in array to receive
the august Emperor. From the spectacular standpoint Dresden is the climax of the Napoleonic
drama. Surrounded by men who at least bore the style of sovereigns, the Corsican victor stood
alone in the focus of monarchical splendor. At his side, and resplendent, not in her own but
in his glory, was the daughter of the Cæsars, the child of a royal house second to none in
antiquity or majesty, his wife, his consort, his defiance to a passing system. Maria Louisa
was as haughty as the Western Empress should be, patronizing her father and stepmother, and
boasting how superior the civilization of Paris was to that of Vienna. It was during these
days that she first saw Neipperg, the Austrian chamberlain, who was later her morganatic husband.
Napoleon appeared better: self-possessed, moderate, and genial. His vassals and his relatives,
his marshals and his generals, all seemed content, and even merry. The King of Prussia had
lost his beautiful and unfortunate queen; he alone wore a sad countenance. Yet it was rumored
that the Prussian crown prince was a suitor for one of Napoleon's nieces. Beneath the gay exterior
were many sad, bitter, perplexed hearts. The Emperor was seldom seen except as a lavish host
at public entertainments; most of the time he spent behind closed doors with the busy diplomats.
As a last resort, Narbonne was sent to Russia, ostensibly to invite Alexander's presence in
the interest of peace; actually, of course, to get a final glimpse of his preparations. The
Abbé de Pradt was despatched into Poland to fan the enthusiasm for France.

This unparalleled court was dismissed on May twenty-eighth, the Empress returning by way of
Prague to Paris, Napoleon hastening by Posen and Warsaw to Thorn. The Poles were exuberant
in their delight; they little knew that their supposed liberator had bargained away Galicia
to Francis in return for Austrian support. For this betrayal, and his general contempt of the
Poles, he was to pay dearly. Had he labored sincerely to organize a strong nucleus of Polish
nationality, a coalition of Russia, Prussia, and Austria such as finally overwhelmed him would
have been difficult, perhaps impossible. But the founder of an imperial dynasty could not trust
a Polish democracy. When the Diet, sitting at Warsaw, besought him to declare the existence
of Poland, he criticized the taste which made them compose their address in French instead
of Polish, and gave a further inkling of his temper by sending his Austrian contingent to serve
in Volhynia, so that neither French nor Polish enthusiasm might rouse the Russian Poles. When
he reached Vilna he found that the impassive Lithuanians had no intention of rising against
Russia, and no attempt was made to rouse them. If, as appears, his first intention had been
to wage a frontier campaign, that plan was quickly changed. Retaining Venice and Triest for
use against the Orient, with Austria virtually a member of his system, he determined to force
Russia back on to the confines of Europe, perhaps into Asia, and then--Who can say? It seems
as if Poland was to have been divided into French departments instead of being erected into
another troublesome nation, vassal state, or semi-autonomous power.

At the opening of the Russian campaign the gradual change which had been steadily going on
in Napoleon's physique was complete. He was now plethoric, and slow in all his movements. Occasionally
there were exhibitions of quickened sensibility, which have been interpreted as symptoms of
an irregular epilepsy; but in general his senses, like his expression, were dull. He had premonitions
of a painful disease (dysuria), which soon developed fully. His lassitude was noticeable, and
when he roused himself it was often for trivialities. In other campaigns he had stolen away
from Paris in military simplicity; this time he had brought the pomp of a court. He planned,
too, to bring theater companies and opera troupes to the very seat of war. Above all, he was
deeply concerned with his imperial state, having in his trunks the baubles and dress he had
worn at his coronation in Notre Dame. His bearing was proud, but there was no sparkle in his
eye; he seemed spiritless and ailing; he showed no confidence in his magnificent army.

The haughty, exacting mien of 1812 was very different from the half-jocular, half-sarcastic
curl of the lip and sparkle of the eye which had inspired his followers in former days quite
as much as his stirring, incisive harangues. Yet careful study will prove that his sagacity
as a great captain was in no way dimmed; his military combinations were greater than any he
had ever formed. As no parallel to the numbers engaged in this enterprise can be found in European
story, nothing comparable to its organization can be found in the history of any land or age.
Every corps had its ammunition-train, and great reserves of supplies were stored in Modlin,
Thorn, Pillau, Dantzic, and Magdeburg. In the two last-named arsenals were siege-trains for
beleaguering Dünaburg and Riga. There were pontoons and bridge material in abundance; one thousand
three hundred and fifty field-pieces, and eighteen thousand horses to draw them. The commissary
stores were prodigious, and there were thousands of ox-wagons to transport them. The cattle
were eventually to be slaughtered and eaten. In various convenient strongholds there were,
besides, stores for four hundred thousand men for fifty days. Knowing Russia, he had prepared
to conquer streams and morasses, to feed the army without fear of a devastating population,
and to trust the seat of war for nothing except forage. His strategic plan was amazing, containing,
as it did, the old elements of unexpected concentration, of breaking through the opposing line,
of conclusive victory, and occupation of the enemy's capital. It was carried also to successful
completion, and in one respect the execution was fine. The obstacles to be surmounted made
every movement slow, and while a vast, complicated military organization may be reliable for
weeks, to make it work for months requires qualities of greatness which increase in geometrical
ratio according to the extension of time. Twice Napoleon bared his inmost thought, once to
Metternich in Dresden, once to Jomini at a dinner company in Vilna. The first season he intended
to seize Minsk and Smolensk, winter there, and organize his conquests. If this should not produce
a peace, he would advance in the following season into the heart of the country, and there
await the Czar's surrender. To his army he issued an address as direct and ringing as that
which had echoed sixteen years before across the plains of Lombardy. Its substance is that
the second Polish war would bring the same renown to French arms as the first, but the peace
would be such as should end forever the haughty interference of Russia in European affairs.
It seemed to those who heard it as if Russia's hour had struck.

CHAPTER XXVII

THE INVASION OF RUSSIA--BORODINO[42]

         [Footnote 42: References: Tatistcheff: Alexandre Ier et
         Napoléon. Czartoryski: Memoirs. De Chambray: Oeuvres. Ségur:
         La campagne de Russie. Labaume: Relation circonstanciée de la
         campagne de Russie. Wilson: A Narrative of the Campaign in
         Russia during the Year 1812. Du Casse: Mémoires et
         Correspondance du Prince Eugène. Rapp: Mémoires. Bausset:
         Mémoires. Davout: Correspondance (ed. Mazade, 1885), Vol.
         III. Lossberg, V., Briefe in die Heimat geschrieben während
         d. Feldzugs 1812 in Russland. Yorck von Wartenburg: Napoleon
         als Feldherr. Stoltyk: Napoléon en Russie.]

     Success and Failure -- The Struggle with Summer Heat -- Napoleon
     at Vitebsk -- The Russians Over-confident -- The Fight at
     Smolensk -- Technical Victory and Real Defeat -- Napoleon's Fatal
     Decision -- The Russians at Borodino -- The Battle Array --
     Napoleon's Victory -- Russian Efforts to Burn Moscow.

