Several years ago, one of our steadfast Chinese brethren in Sacramento requested me to come
and conduct his marriage service. He had procured the bride in Marysville, purchasing her (I
suppose) of her parents after the Chinese custom. I obeyed the summons; obtained for him the
necessary license, and then at the Mission House awaited the coming of the bride. That which
at length arrived resembled more a moving package of rich and brilliant dry-goods of Chinese
manufacture than a bright and blushing bride. Something could be seen of the shoes she wore,
and when at length, in the course of the service, I somewhat firmly insisted on a joining of
hands a hand was made to appear, but there was no bridal kiss, nor any sight or semblance of
a face beneath the quadrupled or quintupled veils. However, the marriage was effected in a
Christian way, and the next morning there came to me an invitation to call upon the bride.
I found her to be the most beautiful Chinese girl I had ever seen, with manners all the more
pleasing because so very shy. Her husband had prepared quarters for her which, as compared
with the average Chinese home, were almost palatial, and everything seemed to promise a future
peaceful and joyous.

After a few months the mother-in-law made her daughter a visit as she passed through Sacramento
on her way back to her native land. What passed between mother and daughter we do not know,
but a few days after her departure, Fong Bow returning to his home was shocked to find his
little wife suspended by the neck in an attempt at suicide. He rescued her, and when she was
restored asked for the reason. She acknowledged that she had a good home and a kind and generous
husband, but there was no shrine in the house, no ancestral tablet, no Joss, and she was convinced
that some great evil must be impending from spirits thus neglected and provoked. She preferred
to sacrifice her present comfort rather than incur the woes approaching,--all the more dreadful
in her apprehension because utterly unknown. Whereupon Fong Bow told her that while he himself
could not worship such things, and knew that an idol was "nothing in the world," he did not
and would not forbid her to do what she thought right, and thus she provided herself with a
shrine and gods and was comforted.

Meanwhile, the husband lived a Christian life before her, and she herself was willing to receive
instruction from Mrs. Carrington and others. It is not improbable that she saw the difference
between a home even half Christian, like her own, and those where heathen customs made of a
husband less a protector than a lord. Doubtless she thought much in silence before coming to
the decision which changed the current of her life. It is singular that the crisis came in
consequence of her observing at a marriage of Chinese persons making no profession of Christian
faith, the absence of the rites which had been, in her view, the only safeguards against evil.
This brought her to decision. With her own hands she removed the shrine she had erected, and
then declared her purpose to worship her husband's God. Those who know her--both Chinese and
Americans--see in her the tokens of a real and radical change; and it was with great joy that
I heard, some weeks ago, that she had been baptized and welcomed to the Congregational Church
in Sacramento, to which her husband has belonged these many years.

WM. C. POND.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FUTURE OF THE NEGRO IN OUR COUNTRY.

_Address at the Annual Meeting in Chicago_,

BY THE REV. C.H. RICHARDS, D.D.

