This was exactly what happened in Spain. Napoleon's strategy had laughed at the military formation
of Frederick the Great's system; the guerrillas of Spain laughed at the formations of regular
warfare in any shape. They rose to fight, and dispersed for safety, leaving their smarting
foe unable to strike for lack of a billet. The occasional successes of the Spanish regulars
showed, moreover, that the generals were not entirely ignorant of Napoleon's own system. When
Joseph entered Madrid the whole land was already in open rebellion, except where French force
compelled a sullen acquiescence in French rule. The long inactive, sluggish ecclesiastics suddenly
seemed to feel the vigor to resist and the power to lead. They joined the insurgents, and invoked
the orthodoxy of the nation so as to inflame the passions of the masses against the persecutor
of the Pope. Irregular and undefined as were the elements of the uprising, it was nevertheless
essentially a popular movement; as Napoleon himself later admitted, it was the people themselves
who refused to ratify his new institutions, and who declared for Ferdinand VII. The sequel
furnished ample illustration of this fact: the mountaineers of Asturias rose in united rebellion;
the inhabitants of Cartagena threw open their arsenals to the volunteers of the neighborhood;
the citizens of Saragossa beat off their besiegers, while those of Valencia first massacred
the French who took refuge in their citadel, and then repulsed Moncey in a desperate conflict.
When the Spanish leaders ventured into an open battle-field they were defeated; on the other
hand, when they kept the hills and fought like bandits they were victorious.

So quick and general was the Spanish rising that the various French army divisions shut themselves
up for safety in whatever towns they could hold: pretending to defy the national guards, who
seemed to spring from the ground without, they were in reality awestricken before the wrath
of the armed citizens within. A quick burst of Spanish anger, a sharp stab of the Spanish poniard--the
frequency of such incidents began to create a panic among the French boy-soldiers. The seizure
and sack of a city had for years been a traditional amusement of the grand army, connected
in Italy and Germany with little or no loss of life, and enhanced by the acquisition of enormous
booty. The young conscripts, who had heard the oft-told tale from their fathers' lips, found
to their bitter disappointment that in Spain a sack meant much bloodshed and little, if any,
booty. Sometimes the tables were more than turned. A French squadron put in at Cadiz to coöperate
with a force despatched by Napoleon, under pretense of resisting an invasion threatened by
the English, but really for the purpose of terrorizing southern Spain. The arrival of the troops
having been delayed by the outbreak of rebellion farther north, the townsfolk of that ancient
city rose and seized the fleet. The corpses of French soldiers, wherever found throughout the
country, were mutilated by the furious Spaniards, and the wounded received no quarter.

