On the following day Russia proposed to Austria that they should enter into an exchange of
private views, with the object of an alteration in common of some clauses of the Austrian note
of July 23. _To this Austria never even replied._ The Russian Minister communicated this suggestion
to the German Minister of Foreign Affairs and expressed the hope that he would "find it possible
to advise Vienna to meet our proposal," but this did not accord with German policy, for on
that day the German Ambassador in Paris called upon the French Minister of Foreign Affairs,
and in reply to a similar suggestion that Germany should suggest to Vienna to meet Servia in
the same conciliatory spirit which Servia had shown, the Ambassador answered that that "was
not possible in view of the resolution taken not to interfere in the Austro-Servian conflict."

On the same day England asked France, Italy, and Germany to meet in London for an immediate
conference to preserve the peace of Europe, and to this fruitful suggestion, which might have
saved the peace of Europe, the German Chancellor replied with the pitiful quibble that "it
is impossible to bring our ally before a European court in its difference with Servia," although
it affected to accept "in principle" the policy of mediation.

Germany's acceptance "in principle" of a policy which she in practice thwarted suggests the
law-abiding tendencies of that Maine statesman who was "for the Maine prohibition liquor law,
but against its enforcement."

[English "White Paper," No. 46.]

Germany's refusal to have Servia's case submitted to the powers even for their consideration
is the more striking when it is recalled that the German Ambassador at London quoted to Sir
Edward Grey the German Secretary of State as saying

     "that there were some things in the Austrian note that Servia
     could hardly be expected to accept,"

thus recognizing that Austria's ultimatum was, at least in part, unjust. Sir Edward Grey then
called the German Ambassador's attention to the fact that if Austria refused the conciliatory
reply of Servia and marched into that country

     "it meant that she was determined to crush Servia at all
     costs, being reckless of the consequences that might be
     involved."

He added that the Servian reply

     "should at least be treated as a basis for discussion and
     pause,"

and asked that the German Government should urge this at Vienna, but the German Secretary of
State on July 27 replied that such a conference "was not practicable," and that it "would practically
amount to a court of arbitration," and could not, in his opinion, be called together "except
at the request of Austria and Russia."

[English "White Paper," Nos. 43 and 46.]

That this was a mere evasion is perfectly plain. Germany already knew that Austria would not
ask for such a conference, for Austria had already refused Russia's request for an extension
of time and had actually commenced its military operations. Germany's attitude is best indicated
by the letter of the Russian Minister in Germany to the Russian Foreign Office in which he
states that on July 27 he called at the German Foreign Office and asked it

     "to urge upon Vienna in a more pressing fashion to take up
     this line of conciliation. Jagow replied that he could not
     advise Austria to yield."

[Russian "Orange Paper," No. 38.]

Why not? Russia had advised Servia to yield, and Servia had conceded nearly every claim. Why
could not the German Foreign Office advise Vienna to meet conciliation by conciliation, if
its desire for peace were sincere? All that Russia and England desired was that a little time
and consideration should be given, without prejudice to the rights or claims of Austria, before
the peace of the world was hopelessly shattered.

Before this interview took place the French Ambassador had called at the German Foreign Office
on a similar errand and urged the English suggestion that action should at once be taken by
England, Germany, Russia, and France at St. Petersburg and Vienna, to the effect that Austria
and Servia

     "should abstain from any act which might aggravate the
     situation at the present hour."

By this was meant that there should be, pending further parleys, no invasion of Servia by Austria
and none of Austria by Russia. _To this the German Foreign Minister opposed a categorical refusal._

On the same day the Russian Ambassador at Vienna had "a long and earnest conversation" with
the Austrian Under Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs. He expressed the earnest hope that

     "something would be done before Servia was actually invaded.
     Baron Machio replied that this would now be difficult, as a
     skirmish had already taken place on the Danube, in which the
     Servians had been aggressors."

The Russian Ambassador then said that his country would do all it could to keep the Servians quiet,

     "and even to fall back before an Austrian advance in order to
     gain time."

He urged that the Austrian Ambassador at St. Petersburg should be furnished with full powers
to continue discussions with the Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs,

     "who was very willing to advise Servia to yield all that could
     be fairly asked of her as an independent power."

The only reply to this reasonable suggestion was that it would be submitted to the Minister
for Foreign Affairs.

[English "White Paper," No. 56.]

On the same day the German Ambassador at Paris called upon the French Foreign Office and strongly
insisted on the "_exclusion of all possibility of mediation or of conference_," and yet contemporaneously
the Imperial German Chancellor was advising London that he had

     "started the efforts toward mediation in Vienna, immediately
     in the way desired by Sir Edward Grey, and had further
     communicated to the Austrian Foreign Minister the wish of the
     Russian Foreign Minister for a direct talk in Vienna."

What hypocrisy! In the formal German defense, the official apologist for that country, after
stating his conviction

     "that an act of mediation could not take into consideration
     the Austro-Servian conflict, which was purely an
     Austro-Hungarian affair,"

claimed that Germany had transmitted Sir Edward Grey's further suggestion to Vienna, in which
Austria-Hungary was urged

     "either to agree to accept the Servian answer as sufficient or
     to look upon it as a basis for further conversations";

but the Austro-Hungarian Government--playing the rôle of the wicked partner of the combination--"in
full appreciation of our mediatory activity," (so says the German "White Paper" with sardonic
humor,) replied to this proposition that, coming as it did after the opening of hostilities,
"_it was too late_."

Does any reasonable man question for a moment that, if Germany had done something more than
merely "transmit" these wise and pacific suggestions, Austria would have complied with the
suggestions of its powerful ally or that Austria would have suspended its military operations
if Germany had given any intimation of such a wish?

On the following day, July 28, the door was further closed on any possibility of compromise
when the Austrian Minister for Foreign Affairs

     "said, quietly but firmly, _that no discussion could be
     accepted on the basis of the Servian note_; that war would be
     declared today, and that the well-known pacific character of
     the Emperor, as well as, he might add, his own, might be
     accepted as a guarantee that the war was both just and
     inevitable; that this was a matter that must be settled
     directly between the two parties immediately concerned."

To this arrogant and unreasonable contention that Europe must accept the guarantee of the Austrian
Foreign Minister as to the righteousness of Austria's quarrel the British Ambassador suggested
"the larger aspect of the question," namely, the peace of Europe, and to this "larger aspect,"
which should have given any reasonable official some ground for pause, the Austrian Foreign
Minister replied that he

     "had it also in mind, but thought that Russia ought not to
     oppose operations like those impending, which did not aim at
     territorial aggrandizement, and which could no longer be
     postponed."

[English "White Paper," No. 62.]

The private conversations between Russia and Austria having thus failed, Russia returned to
the proposition of a European conference to preserve its peace. Its Ambassador in Vienna on
July 28 had a conference with Berchtold and pointed to the dangers to the peace of Europe and
the desirability of good relations between Austria-Hungary and Russia.

To this Count Berchtold replied that he understood perfectly well the seriousness of the situation
and the advantages of a frank explanation with the Cabinet at St. Petersburg.

     "He told me that, on the other hand, the Austro-Hungarian
     Government, which had only reluctantly decided upon the
     energetic measures which it had taken against Servia, _could
     now neither withdraw nor enter upon any discussion of the
     terms of the Austro-Hungarian note."_

[Russian "Orange Paper," No. 45.]

On the same day, July 28, the German Imperial Chancellor sent for the English Ambassador and
excused his failure to accept the proposal of conference of the neutral powers, on the ground
that he did not think it would be effective,

     "because such a conference would in his opinion have the
     appearance of an 'Areopagus' consisting of two powers of each
     group sitting in judgment upon the two remaining powers."

After engaging in this pitiful and insincere quibble, and when reminded of Servia's conciliatory
reply, amounting to a virtual surrender,

     "his Excellency said that he did not wish to discuss the
     Servian note, but that Austria's standpoint, and in this he
     agreed, was that her quarrel with Servia was a purely Austrian
     concern, _with which Russia had nothing to do_."

[English "White Paper," No. 71.]

At this point the rules of the countries intervened in the dispute. The Kaiser, having returned
from Norway, telegraphed the Czar, under date of July 28, that he was

     "exerting all my influence to endeavor to make Austria-Hungary
     come to an open and satisfying understanding with Russia,"

and invoked the Czar's aid.

[German "White Paper," Annex 20.]

If the Kaiser were sincere, and he may have been, _his attitude was not that of his Foreign
Office_. Upon the face of the record we have only his own assurance that he was doing everything
to preserve peace, but the steps that he took or the communications he made to influence Austria
_are not found in the formal defense which the German Government has given to the world_. The
Kaiser can only convince the world of his innocence of the crime of his Potsdam camarilla by
giving the world _the text_ of any advice he gave the Austrian officials. He has produced his
telegrams to the Czar. _Where are those he presumably sent to Francis Joseph or Count Berchtold?
Where are the instructions he gave his own Ambassadors or Foreign Minister?_

It is significant that on the same day Sazonof telegraphed to Count Benckendorff:

     "My conversations with the German Ambassador confirm my
     impression that Germany is rather favorable to the
     uncompromising attitude adopted by Austria,"

and he adds, and history will vindicate him in the conclusion, that

     "the Berlin Cabinet, which might have been able to arrest the
     whole development of this crisis, seems to exercise no action
     on its ally."

[Russian "Orange Paper," No. 43.]

On July 29 Sir Edward Goschen telegraphed Sir Edward Grey that he had that night seen the German
Chancellor, who had "just returned from Potsdam," where he had presumably seen the Kaiser.
The German Chancellor then showed clearly how the wind was blowing in making the suggestion
to Sir Edward Goschen that if England would remain neutral, Germany would agree to guarantee
that she would not take any French territory. When asked about the French colonies, no assurance
was given.

[English "White Paper," No. 85.]

Later in the day the German Chancellor again saw the English Ambassador, and expressed regret

     "that events had marched too rapidly, and that it was
     therefore too late to act upon your [Sir Edward Grey's]
     suggestion that the Servian reply might form the basis of
     discussion."

[English "White Paper," No. 75.]

On the same day the Ambassador for Germany at St. Petersburg called upon Sazonof and expressed
himself in favor of further explanations between Vienna and St. Petersburg, to which Sazonof
assented. [Russian "Orange Paper," No. 49.] On the same day Sir Edward Grey asked the German
Government

     "_to suggest any form of procedure_ under which the idea of
     mediation between Austria and Russia, already accepted by the
     German Government in principle, _could be applied_."

To which the German Foreign Office replied that it could not act for fear that if they made
to their ally any suggestion that looked like pressure it might "_cause them [Austria] to precipitate
matter and present a fait accompli_." [See letter of Sir Edward Goschen to Sir Edward Grey,
July 29--English "White Paper," No. 70.]

This was the last and worst of the quibbles put forth to gain time while Austria was making
progress toward Belgrade. It assumes that Austria might not only fail to respect the wish in
a matter of common concern of its more powerful ally, but that it might act in disregard of
Germany's wish. This strains human credulity to the breaking point. Did the German Secretary
of State keep a straight face when he uttered this sardonic pleasantry? It may be the duty
of a diplomat to lie on occasion, but is it ever necessary to utter such a stupid falsehood?
The German Secretary of State sardonically added in the same conversation that he was not sure
that the effort for peace had not hastened the declaration of war, as though the declaration
of war against Servia had not been planned and expected from the first.

As a final effort to meet quibbles, the British Ambassador at Berlin then suggested that after
Austria had satisfied her military prestige, the moment might then be favorable for four disinterested
powers to discuss the situation and come forward with suggestions for preventing graver complications.

To this proposal the German Secretary of State seemingly acquiesced, but, as usual, _nothing
whatever was done_. [English "White Paper," No. 76.] It is true that on July 29 Sir Edward
Grey was assured by the German Ambassador that the German Foreign Office was

     "endeavoring to make Vienna explain in a satisfactory form at
     St. Petersburg the scope and extension of Austrian proceedings
     in Servia,"

but again the communications which the German Foreign Office sent to Vienna on this point _have
never yet been disclosed to the world_.

[English "White Paper," No. 84.]

In this same conference Sir Edward Grey

     "urged that the _German Government should suggest any method_
     by which the influence of the four powers could be used
     together to prevent war between Austria and Russia. France
     agreed, Italy agreed. The whole idea of mediation or mediating
     influence was ready to be put into operation _by any method
     that Germany could suggest_ if mine were not acceptable. In
     fact, mediation was ready to come into operation by any method
     that Germany thought possible, if only Germany would 'press
     the button' in the interests of peace."

[English "White Paper," No. 84.]

The difficulty was, however, that Germany never "pressed the button," although obviously it
would have been easy for her to do so, as the stronger and more influential member of the Double
Alliance.

On the same day the Austrian Government left a memorandum with Sir Edward Grey to the effect
that Count Mensdorff said that the war with Servia must proceed.

On the night of July 29 the British Ambassador at Berlin was informed that the German Foreign
Office "_had not had time to send an answer yet_" to the proposal that Germany suggest the
form of mediation, but that the question had been referred to the Austro-Hungarian Government
with a request as to "what would satisfy them."

[English "White Paper," No. 107.]

On the following day the German Ambassador informed Sir Edward Grey that the German Government
would endeavor to influence Austria, after taking Belgrade and Servian territory in the region
of the frontier, to promise not to advance further, while the powers endeavored to arrange
that Servia should give satisfaction sufficient to pacify Austria, but if Germany ever exercised
any such pressure upon Vienna, _no evidence of it has ever been given to the world_. Certainly
it was not very effective, and for the reasons mentioned it is impossible to conclude that
the advice of Germany, if in good faith, would not have been followed by its weaker ally.

From all that appears in the record, Austria made no reply to this most conciliatory suggestion
of England, but, in the meantime, the irrepressible Kaiser made the crisis more acute by cabling
to the Czar that the mobilization of Russia to meet the mobilization of Austria was affecting
his position of mediator, to which the Czar made a conciliatory reply, stating that Russia's
mobilization was only for a defense against Austria.

The Czar, to put at rest any anxiety of the Kaiser as to Russia's intentions with respect to
Germany, added:

     "I thank you cordially for your mediation which permits the
     hope that everything may yet end peaceably. It is technically
     impossible to discontinue our military preparations which have
     been made necessary by the Austrian mobilization. It is far
     from us to want war. _As long as the negotiations between
     Austria and Servia continue, my troops will undertake no
     provocative action. I give you my solemn word thereon._ I
     confide with all my faith in the grace of God, and I hope for
     the success of your mediation in Vienna for the welfare of our
     countries and the peace of Europe."

What more could Russia do? If Austria continued to mobilize, why not Russia?

On this day, July 30, the German Ambassador had two interviews at St. Petersburg with Sazonof,
and it was then that Sazonof drew up the following formula as a basis for peace:

     "If Austria, recognizing that her conflict with Servia has
     assumed character of question of European interest, declares
     herself ready to eliminate from her ultimatum the points which
     violate principle of sovereignty of Servia, _Russia engages to
     stop all military preparations_."

[Russian "Orange Paper," No. 60.]

At this stage King George telegraphed Prince Henry of Prussia that

     "the English Government was doing its utmost, suggesting to
     Russia and France to suspend further military preparations, if
     Austria will consent to be satisfied with the occupation of
     Belgrade and neighboring Servian territory as a hostage for
     satisfactory settlement of her demands, other countries
     meanwhile suspending their war preparation."

The King adds a hope that the Kaiser

     "will use his great influence to induce Austria to accept
     this proposal, thus proving that Germany and England are
     working together to prevent what would be an international
     catastrophe."

[Second German "White Paper."]

This last proposition, however, was never accepted or declined, for the impetuous Kaiser gave
his twelve-hour ultimatum to Russia to demobilize, and this was an arrogant demand which no
self-respecting power, much less so great a one as Russia, could possibly accept.

While this demand was in progress Sir Edward Grey was making his last attempt to preserve peace
by asking Germany to sound Vienna, as he would sound St. Petersburg, whether it would be possible
for the four disinterested powers to offer to Austria that they would

     "undertake to see that she obtained full satisfaction of her
     demands on Servia, provided they did not embarrass Servian
     sovereignty and the integrity of Servian territory."

Sir Edward Grey went so far as to tell the German Ambassador that if this was not satisfactory,
and if Germany would make any reasonable proposals to preserve peace and Russia and France
rejected it, that

     "his Majesty's Government would have nothing to do with the
     consequences,"

which obviously meant either neutrality or actual intervention in behalf of Germany and Austria.

On the same day the British Ambassador at Berlin besought the German Foreign Office to

     "put pressure on the authorities at Vienna to do something in
     the general interest to reassure Russia and to show themselves
     disposed to continue discussions on a friendly basis."

And Sir Edward Goschen reports that the German Foreign Minister replied that last night he had

     "begged Austria to reply to your last proposal, and that he
     had received a reply to the effect that the Austrian Minister
     for Foreign Affairs would take the wishes of the Emperor this
     morning in the matter."

_Again the text of the letter in which Germany "begged" Austria to be conciliatory is not found
in the record._

The excuse of Germany that the mobilization of Russia compelled it to mobilize does not justify
the war. Mobilization does not necessarily mean aggression, but simply preparation. If Russia
had the right to mobilize because Austria mobilized, Germany equally had the right to mobilize
when Russia mobilized, but it does not follow that either of the three nations could justify
a war to compel the other parties to demobilize. Mobilization is only a preparation against
eventualities. It is the right of the sovereign State and by no code of ethics a _casus belli_.
The demand of Germany that Russia could not arm to defend itself, when Austria was preparing
for a possible attack on Russia, has few, if any, parallels in history for bullying effrontery.
It treated Russia as an inferior, almost a vassal, State.

It must be observed that, while Germany insisted that Russia should demobilize, the Kaiser
offered no reciprocal promise. On his theory Germany and Austria were to be left free to complete
their preparations, but Russia was to tie her own hands and leave herself "naked to her enemies."
This is shown by the last telegrams which passed between the Czar and Kaiser. The Czar telegraphed:

     "I have received your telegram. I comprehend that you are
     forced to mobilize, but I should like to have from you the
     same guaranty which I have given you, viz., that these
     measures do not mean war, and that we shall continue to
     negotiate for the welfare of our two countries and the
     universal peace which is so dear to our hearts. With the aid
     of God it must be possible to our long-tried friendship to
     prevent the shedding of blood. I expect with full confidence
     your urgent reply."

To this the Kaiser replied:

     "I thank you for your telegram. I have shown yesterday to your
     Government the way through which alone war may yet be averted.
     Although I asked for a reply by today noon, no telegram from
     my Ambassador has reached me with the reply of your
     Government. I therefore have been forced to mobilize my army.
     An immediate, clear, and unmistakable reply of your Government
     is the sole way to avoid endless misery. Until I receive this
     reply I am unable, to my great grief, to enter upon the
     subject of your telegram. I must ask most earnestly that you,
     without delay, order your troops to commit, under no
     circumstances, the slightest violation of our frontiers."

This impetuous step of Germany to compel its great neighbor to desist from military preparations
to defend itself came most inopportunely, for on Aug. 1 the Austro-Hungarian Ambassador _for
the first time_ declared to the Russian Government its willingness to discuss the terms of
the Austrian ultimatum to Servia, and it was then suggested that the form of the ultimatum
and the questions arising thereon should be discussed in London. (Dispatch from British Ambassador
at Vienna to Sir Edward Grey, dated Sept. 1, 1914.) Sir Edward Grey at once advised the English
Ambassador in Berlin of the fact, and urged that it was still possible to maintain peace

     "if only a little respite in time can be gained before any
     great power begins war,"

     [English "White Paper," No. 131.]

but the Kaiser, having issued the arrogant ultimatum to Russia to demobilize in twelve hours,
had gone too far for retreat, and, spurred on by the arrogant Potsdam military party, he "let
slip the dogs of war." After the fatal Rubicon had been crossed and the die was cast the Czar
telegraphed King George:

"In this solemn hour I wish to assure you once more I have done all in my power to avert war."

Such will be the verdict of history.

The Judgment.

These are _the facts_ as shown by the record, and upon them, in my judgment, an impartial court
would not hesitate to pass the following judgment:

1--_That Germany and Austria in a time of profound peace secretly concerted together to impose
their will upon Europe and upon Servia in a matter affecting the balance of power in Europe.
Whether in so doing they intended to precipitate a European war to determine the mastery of
Europe is not satisfactorily established, although their whole course of conduct suggests this
as a possibility. They made war almost inevitable by (a) issuing an ultimatum that was grossly
unreasonable and disproportionate to any grievance that Austria had and (b) in giving to Servia,
and Europe, insufficient time to consider the rights and obligations of all interested nations._

2--_That Germany had at all times the power to compel Austria to preserve a reasonable and
conciliatory course, but at no time effectively exerted that influence. On the contrary, she
certainly abetted, and possibly instigated, Austria in its unreasonable course._

3--_That England, France, Italy, and Russia at all times sincerely worked for peace, and for
this purpose not only overlooked the original misconduct of Austria but made every reasonable
concession in the hope of preserving peace._

4--_That Austria, having mobilized its army, Russia was reasonably justified in mobilizing
its forces. Such act of mobilization was the right of any sovereign State, and as long as the
Russian armies did not cross the border or take any aggressive action no other nation had any
just right to complain, each having the same right to make similar preparations._

5--_That Germany, in abruptly declaring war against Russia for failure to demobilize when the
other powers had offered to make any reasonable concession and peace parleys were still in
progress, precipitated the war._

6--_That Belgium as a sovereign State has as an inherent right the power to determine when
and under what conditions an alien can cross her frontiers. This right exists independently
of treaties, but is, in the case of Belgium, reinforced by the Treaty of 1839 and The Hague
Convention, whereby the leading European nations (including Germany) guarantee its "perpetual
neutrality." The invasion of Belgium by Germany was in violation of these rights, and England
only respected its own solemn covenant when, in defense of that neutrality, it declared war
against Germany._

In Conclusion.

The writer of this article has reached these conclusions with reluctance, as he has a feeling
of deep affection for the German people and equal admiration for their ideals and matchless
progress. Even more he admires the magnificent courage with which the German Nation, beset
on every hand by powerful antagonists, is now defending its prestige as a nation. The whole-hearted
devotion of this great nation to its flag is worthy of the best traditions of the Teutonic
race. Nevertheless, this cannot alter the ethical truth, which stands apart from any considerations
of nationality; nor can it affect the conclusion that the German Nation has been plunged into
this abyss by its scheming statesmen and its self-centred and highly neurotic Kaiser, who in
the twentieth century sincerely believes that he is the proxy of Almighty God on earth, and
therefore infallible.

In visiting its condemnation, the Supreme Court of Civilization should therefore distinguish
between the military caste, headed by the Kaiser and the Crown Prince, which precipitated this
great calamity, and the German people.

The very secrecy of the plot against the peace of the world and the failure to disclose to
the German people the diplomatic communications hereinbefore quoted, strongly suggest that
this detestable war is not merely a crime against civilization, _but also against the deceived
and misled German people_. They have a vision and are essentially progressive and peace-loving
in their national characteristics, while the ideals of their military caste are those of the
Dark Ages.

One day the German people will know the full truth and then there will be a dreadful reckoning
for those who have plunged a noble and peace-loving nation into this fathomless chasm of misfortune.

    "Though the mills of God grind slowly,
      Yet they grind exceeding small,
    Though with patience He stands waiting,
      With exactness grinds He all."

Critics Dispute Mr. Beck

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

It is regrettable that President Wilson's admirable policy of strict neutrality is not more
sincerely and carefully observed by the press and public of this country.

We are a cosmopolitan nation. Citizens of the five great warring countries and their descendants,
to a very great extent, constitute our population. Partiality of any kind tends to destroy
the elemental ties which bind us together, to disrupt our Union, and to make us a house divided
against itself. James M. Beck's article in last Sunday's TIMES is of the kind which, serving
no good purpose, helps to loosen, if not sever, our most vital domestic ties. While not for
an instant doubting Mr. Beck's sincerity, we must take issue with his inadvertently ill-timed
expression of opinion.

The article in question is based on the following statement: "Any discussion of the ethical
merits of this great controversy must start with the assumption that there is such a thing
as international morality." How does Mr. Beck define "international morality"? How can he assume
that to exist which each of the contending nations by their diverse actions prove to be non-extant?
How can he claim that there is an "international morality" of accepted form when each nation
claims that its interpretation must be accepted by the others?

Mr. Beck's allegation that the question "Was England justified in declaring war against Germany?"
is more easily disposed of than the questions "Was Austria justified in declaring war against
Servia?" and "Was Germany justified in declaring war against Russia and France?" proves two
things--first, that his interest lies primarily in the vindication of England; second, that
he disregards the fundamental causes and recognizes only the precipitating causes of the war.

The precipitating cause of the war between England and Germany is verbosely if inadequately
covered by his article. We must admit that a treaty was broken by Germany, yet we contend that
this broken agreement was a pretext for a war fomented and impelled by basic economic causes.
At the outset, let us distinguish between a contract and a treaty. A contract is an agreement
between individuals contemplating enforcement by a court of law; punishment by money damages
in the great majority of cases, by a specific performance in a very few. A treaty is an agreement
between nations contemplating enforcement by a court of international public opinion; punishment
by money indemnity in the great majority of cases, by specific performance (i.e., force of
arms) in a very few.

Germany's Existence Threatened.

Germany contends that her breach of treaty obligation is punishable by the payment of money
indemnity to the aggrieved party. This she has offered to do in the case of Belgium, as she
has already done in the case of Luxemburg. Germany's existence was so seriously threatened
that her action seems justifiable, and there remains a sole moral obligation to compensate
any neutral country injured by her.

The mere fact that Belgium had made an unfortunate alliance with England is deplorable in that
Belgium has suffered terribly; but this suffering is not attributable to Germany. When Japan
violated Chinese neutrality, China protested. Though she was entitled to a money indemnity,
there is no valid reason under the sun why the United States as a guarantor of the integrity
of China should declare war against Japan. England's justification, in so far as there can
be any justification for adding to the toll of death, is the same as that of Germany, the preservation
of national sovereignty.

Further: "It seems unnecessary to discuss the wanton disregard of these solemn obligations."
There can be nothing wanton in a struggle for existence, and that this European war is such
a struggle is the only possible explanation of its magnitude, ferocity, and vast possible consequences.
Then, too, though deplorable, treaty obligations are not solemn, as Italy has proved to the
complete satisfaction of so many. Italy's contention that this is an aggressive war on the
part of Germany and Austria is as untenable as the German contention that it is an aggressive
war on the part of England. For this war was not an aggressive war on the part of any nation,
but an unavoidable war caused by the simultaneous bursting of the long-gathering economic storm
clouds.

Again: "The ethical aspects of this great conflict must largely depend upon the record that
has been made up by the official communications." This is similar to a contention that the
ethical rights in a case in court must depend upon the astuteness of counsel in summing up
to the jury. "A court would be deeply impressed ... by the significant omissions of documents
known to be in existence." A court of law, as our former Assistant Attorney General of the
United States surely knows, compels no one to give testimony that tends to incriminate, and,
furthermore, does not construe failure to testify on the grounds that it will tend to incriminate
against the defendant. In the law the defendant is entitled to every reasonable doubt. It is
also conceivable that a reasonable time for the defense to present its case would be granted
before passing judgment.

Passing on: "To discuss the justice of Austria's grievances against Servia would take us ...
into the realm of disputed facts." This seems a delectable bit of humor. We respectfully submit
that Mr. Beck's other assertions might also be considered as "in the realm of disputed facts."
Mr. Beck admits that Austria had a just grievance against Servia, though he questions her method
of redress. Though we conceive that in the unfortunate European tangle Austria relied on German
support in the event of international conflict, we submit that reliance on Russian support
was a bigger factor in encouraging little Servia to defy her big neighbor than the remoter
help that Germany would furnish Austria in the event of the conflict spreading.

Austria, in the exercise of her right to engage in a punitive expedition against Servia, guaranteed
that she would do nothing to generalize the conflict by her assurances to Russia and to the
world that there would be no annexation of Servian territory or annihilation of the Servian
Kingdom. Whether these assurances were genuine or not is impossible of determination. We have
no right to constitute ourselves arbiters of their sincerity.

No European Solidarity.

Mr. Beck speaks of "the solidarity of European civilization and the fact that by policy and
diplomatic intercourse ... a United European State exists, even though its organization be
as yet inchoate." This solidarity is conspicuous only by its utter non-existence. Whatever
may have been achieved by policy and diplomatic intercourse has been marred and rendered useless
by the lines of demarkation of the spheres of influence of the great powers of Europe and by
the racial and temperamental incongruities of Europe's population.

We read: "Servia had forty-eight hours to answer; ... the other European nations had barely
a day to consider what could be done to preserve the peace of Europe. Why should an Austro-Servian
war compromise the peace of Europe?" Was it not because of the tangled web of international
diplomacy, the Triple Entente as well as the Triple Alliance?

Referring to a German warning in regard to Austria's demands on Servia, "the German Foreign
Office anticipates that Servia 'will refuse to comply with these demands'--why, if they were
justified?" We grieve at the shattered ideal of Mr. Beck, who, in the face of the international
calamity which has befallen the world, still can believe that all justifiable demands are complied
with.

Again, quoting German "White Paper," Annex 1B, Germany desired "that the dispute be localized,
since any intervention of another power, on account of the various alliance obligations, would
bring consequences impossible to measure." The explanation of this statement is not--an aggressor
threatens his adversary, but, rather, a prudent man begs opposing factions to keep cool.

Great space is devoted in the article in question to Germany's unwillingness to place the Austro-Servian
controversy in the hands of France, England, Germany, and Italy. As Germany disavows all interest
in the controversy, if she speaks truly, it was not within her power to dictate to her ally
in a matter which she could in nowise control except by force of arms. Furthermore, had she
had the power, how could she be expected to exert pressure on her ally to leave a vital controversy
to a court of four, two of whom were bound by alliances with Russia, Austria's real antagonist,
and a third, (Italy,) as subsequent events have shown, Austria's natural, geographical, and
hereditary enemy? At best, had each power held to its treaty obligations, there would have
been a deadlock.

Further: "The Russian Minister ... called at the German Foreign Office and asked it 'to urge
upon Vienna ... to take up this line of conciliation. Jagow replied that he could not advise
Austria to yield.'" Elsewhere in the article a statement is made that the Austro-Servian and
Austro-Russian questions "for all practical purposes ... were indistinguishable." This inconsistency
of having Servia in the light of a principal and then again in the light of an agent is the
greatest stumbling block to a clear analysis of the precipitating cause of the war. The logical
explanation of Servia's position is that of Russia's agent. Hence Germany could not be expected
to exert the same pressure on an allied principal that Russia could exert on her agent.

It is true that Germany engaged in many blundering diplomatic quibbles in the final stages
of preparation for the war; but it is also true that England quibbled, though with greater
diplomatic finesse; for instance, "Sir Edward Grey went so far as to tell the German Ambassador
that ... if Germany would make any reasonable proposals to preserve peace, and Russia and France
rejected it, that 'his Majesty's Government would have nothing to do with the consequences.'"
Here it is apparent to every one that the word "reasonable" begs the questions.

Slav and Teuton.

The German people were encouraged to relish the idea of a war against Russia once that war
became likely, for sooner or later it seemed inevitable that Slav and Teuton would clash, and
Germany felt confident that at the present time she outmatched her enemy. The Russians, too,
were encouraged to desire the Slav provinces of Austria, which racially are a part of the Russian
domain. The English people were made to relish this opportunity to strike their great commercial
competitor, especially when they could do so with little likelihood of unfavorable criticisms.
Finally, the impressionable French people were stirred to thoughts of revenge and recovery
of their lost provinces.

Sympathy with any country in this most disgraceful yet most inevitable of wars brands the sympathizer
as a party to the material and lustful purposes of at least one of the combatants. There is
no ethical justification of this war from any standpoint. There is no justification of this
war from any standpoint. There is only an explanation of the war from an economic standpoint.
All these specious arguments on the precipitating causes of the war can be but for the display
of brilliant forensic oratory and matchless diction. Let us thrust aside in these dark moments
of peril and horror all subterfuge.

England, overburdened with taxation, was on the verge of civil war. Russia, whose masses were
overridden roughshod by a bureaucracy weighting down the peasants with onerous national burdens,
expected sooner or later the cataclysmic upheaval with which the Nihilistic societies have
long been threatening its tyrannical Government. France, seriously financially embarrassed
because of crop impoverishment and bad foreign investments in Brazil, Russia, and the Balkans,
was subject to continued internal political upheavals, with ever-changing Ministries and a
growing Socialist Party.

Austria, "the ramshackle empire," was in danger of disintegrating from a variety of causes,
not the least of which was the infusibility of its racially different elements. Germany, in
a blind race for commercial supremacy, suffered from industrial overproduction, thus creating
an unhealthy financial condition which fortified the Socialist Party to an extent which threatened
her imperialistic form of government itself.

So these monarchies whose days were numbered, because of dissatisfaction at the waste and extravagance
of a world gone mad with national excesses committed in the name of civilization, in reality
the price of our modernization, in a final desperate effort to rally their waning fortunes
stampeded their awakening masses into a ruinous interracial war in order to stave off the torch
and the guillotine.

GEORGE E. BERNHEIMER.

New York, Oct. 30, 1914.

Russia to Blame

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

Allow me to submit the following in answer to the article of James M. Beck, entitled "Case
of the Double Alliance vs. the Triple Entente," published in THE NEW YORK TIMES of Oct. 25, 1914:

The case of "Russian Mobilization vs. German Mediation." Q.--Upon whom was the duty to yield?

Mr. Beck has spent considerable time and effort to prove, at least by inference, that Germany
must have been informed beforehand of the Austrian ultimatum to Servia. Personally, I am convinced
that the ultimatum in question was sent with the full knowledge and consent of Germany; and,
whether this is true or not, I maintain that it was Austria's duty to inform her ally before
taking a step which was likely to endanger the peace of Europe.

The concession of this point takes me immediately to the ultimatum itself and to the question,
"Was the tenor of the ultimatum justified?" Mr. Beck, in his judgment, says: "The ultimatum
is grossly unreasonable and disappropriate to any grievance that Austria had." Perhaps Mr.
Beck is right, but I have good reasons to think that the tenor of the ultimatum was fully justified,
in view of Servia's former conduct.

Austria was dealing here with a Government the real spirits of which had come into power by
the commission of one of the most dastardly crimes of modern times. A crime which, at the time
of its commission, sent a shock of horror through the entire civilized world, to wit, "the
outrageous murder of the former King and Queen of Servia," outrageous because it was perpetrated
by the so-called aristocracy of Servia. The long-continued agitation carried on by Servia against
Austria, at the instigation of Russia, which finally culminated in another no less outrageous
assassination, that of the Archduke Francis Ferdinand and his consort, to my idea fully justified
Austria in making demands which under ordinary circumstances might have been termed "unreasonable."

The question whether Austria was justified in going to war against Servia is a debatable one,
but I respectfully refer to the fact that our own country, the United States, was only very
recently on the verge of precipitating war with a "much weaker" nation than ours, on account
of the latter's refusal to salute the American flag. Neither did we stop on that occasion with
the ultimatum, but we followed it up with dispatching a fleet of warships, the landing of troops,
and the seizure of Vera Cruz.

From the time Austria's ultimatum was sent all the great powers seemed to have professed a
great eagerness for the preservation of peace. Mr. Beck asserts that Germany was not sincere
in its desire for peace and could have avoided the war if it had seriously tried to exert its
influence over Austria. This finding is based on the inference drawn from the fact that Germany
failed to achieve any results.

To determine whether Mr. Beck is justified in finding as he does, it is necessary, first of
all, to examine the exact status of the powers at the time the ultimatum was sent. We find
that Austria had a just grievance against Servia, for which it was seeking redress. An issue
was therefore raised between Austria and Servia. Germany, although Austria's ally, immediately
defined its attitude by declaring emphatically that "the question at issue was one for settlement
between Servia and Austria alone."

Why Did Russia Mobilize?

I beg to ask Mr. Beck to answer the following question: By what right--moral, legal, or equitable--did
Russia make Servia's cause its own? Did Russia have any alliance with Servia? I further ask:
What privity existed between Austria, Servia, and Russia?

Suppose Mr. Beck can justify the action of Russia, although a "rank outsider," in taking Servia's
part, how can he possibly justify the positively unreasonable and, under the circumstances,
most dangerous step of "actual mobilization" on the part of Russia?

Mr. Beck has tried to justify the mobilization by quoting the Russian excuse "that Russia's
mobilization was only for a defense against Austria." On close examination what does this amount
to? It resolves itself into a situation somewhat like this: A sends an ultimatum to B seeking
redress for a wrong committed by B upon A, whereupon C mobilizes "for defense against A." I
leave it to the average American of ordinary intelligence to find a reason for C's mobilization
"for defense against A." Mr. Beck might as well try to justify a mobilization on the part of
Japan if the United States was preparing to invade Mexico for the purpose of redressing an
insult to the American flag. Does Mr. Beck realize the seriousness of actual mobilization by
Russia at that critical moment? Not one of the other powers dared to take this one step which
among nations is regarded as tantamount to a declaration of war.

And what did the Kaiser do at this moment? He did the only thing he could do, and, I dare say,
the only thing our American Nation could have done under the same circumstances. He wired the
Czar and stated: "I am willing to bring my influences to bear upon Austria, provided you agree
to cease mobilization." Was this demand unreasonable? What else could Germany have done, I
ask, with the Russian bear standing on the border with the sword already drawn? This moment
was the crucial and decisive one in the prologue to this awful world drama.

The only question therefore and the all-important one to be submitted to the Court of Civilization,
is, Whose duty was it to yield? Was it Russia's, with the sword already drawn against a country
which had not attacked it, not even threatened it, or was it Germany's, with the sword in the
sheath?

In his "conclusion," Mr. Beck speaks of Germany as "beset on every hand by powerful antagonists."
Does he really mean to deprive the German Emperor of the right to demand as a condition precedent
to mediation on his part the discontinuance of mobilization by Russia?

Mr. Beck in his "judgment" under Paragraph 4 says "that Austria, having mobilized its army,
Russia was reasonably justified in mobilizing its forces." The use of the qualifying word "reasonably"
seems to indicate that even Mr. Beck is not quite certain that Russia was in fact justified
in mobilizing its forces.

Is it reasonable, just, and fair of Mr. Beck to expect Germany, "beset on every hand by powerful
antagonists," to permit Russia to continue mobilizing its 18,000,000 soldiers and have Germany
believe that Russia was sincere in its "peaceful intentions" in the face of actual mobilization?
At this moment the German Kaiser made a very reasonable demand upon Russia to cease mobilization,
and I ask every fair-minded American, whether lawyer or layman, "whose duty it was to yield"
at this moment. The answer to this question will settle the much-disputed point as to the actual
cause of the war.

In conclusion, I beg to ask Mr. Beck: Why expect so much of Germany and nothing of Russia,
when Germany had not merely professed her peaceful intentions, but actually maintained peace
for over forty years, during which period not a foot of territory had been acquired by her
through conquest? This is a fact.

Coming into a court of law supported by such a reputation, does Mr. Beck really believe that
the decision of the court would have been in favor of Russia? Does Mr. Beck really believe
that the decision would have been against Germany, whose war lord was begging the Czar almost
on his knees to avoid the awful calamity by the discontinuance of mobilization?

Picture the United States about to invade Mexico to redress an insult to the American flag.
Picture England as the ally of the United States, and Japan supporting Mexico, without any
alliance existing between the two latter countries. To make this example conform to the actual
facts under discussion, we must, of course, assume that both Japan and England are situated
in the North American Continent, and across the border from the United States and England.
Japan, with an army of 18,000,000 soldiers, (assumed for the purpose of argument,) mobilizes
her army, professedly for defense against the United States. Could any fair-minded American
possibly expect England to intercede with her ally, the United States, without first demanding
the demobilization of Japan? Whose duty was it to yield?

The actual fact is that Germany even then did not declare war against Russia until Russian
soldiers had actually crossed not the Austrian but the German border.

I may add that in writing the above I am prompted only by the very natural desire, viz., to
impress upon the jury composed of the American people the one fact which should be given the
most careful consideration in order to enable it to arrive at a just verdict in the case submitted,
and this fact is "the mobilization of Russia."

FRANK SEGGEBRUCH.

New York, Oct. 29, 1914.

In Defense of Austria

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

Referring to your editorial, "The Evidence Examined," in your Sunday edition, I wish to protest
emphatically against your assertion that a "Court of Civilization" must inevitably come to
the conclusion that Germany precipitated the war. There are still millions of civilized people
who see these things quite differently.

Mr. Beck makes out a case from the viewpoint of the accusing party--of course, nobody will
doubt the legal abilities of Mr. Beck--but before the Supreme Court of Civilization there is
also a law: audiatur et altera pars. Mr. Beck, as he presents the case to the court, has not
mentioned very important points which, for the decision of the Supreme Court, would be most
vital ones.

At first the breach of Belgian neutrality, admitted and regretted by the German Government,
has nothing to do with the question--who precipitated the war? It constituted only an action
of the war itself. On the other hand, you call in your editorial the Austrian ultimatum a savage
one and take it for granted that this ultimatum started the stone rolling and brought finally
the general clash in Europe about. This presumption, when presented to the court, will have
to be thoroughly proved, because there are many people, fair and just, as you consider yourself,
who are convinced of the ample justification of this ultimatum.

It is hardly describable how many criminal acts have been committed by Servians against the
very existence of the Dual Monarchy for the last six years, under the eyes of the Servian Government
and approved by it, by intriguing against Austria's right to cultivate her own territory, Bosnia,
spreading secret societies all over the empire, &c.

The awful crime, the assassination of the heir to the throne, was only the finish of a long
chain of like acts. These facts, which immediately lead up to the ultimatum, ought to be considered
in the first place by judging Austria's justification for sending this ultimatum to Servia.
A just Judge in the Court of Civilization will, I am convinced, carefully study the ante-history
and in all probability arrive at the conclusion that the ultimatum was amply justified and
Servia fully deserved the severest punishment possible.

Mr. Beck presents to the court the Russian interference with this intended punishment and forgets
to tell the Judge that Russia had not the least right to this interference. No foreign power had.

Therefore, Austria was entirely within her right to decline any negotiations with Russia about
this punishment before its completion. Nevertheless, the German Government brought these negotiations
about, and, while these negotiations proceeded satisfactorily, Russia mobilized, mobilized
all along her western frontier against Austria and Germany, notwithstanding the fact that she
had promised not to do so and officials in Petrograd had pledged their words to the contrary.

Russia knew there could be no such thing as a war with Austria alone, as well as Germany knew
that a war with Russia meant a war with France. If the laws of morality rule in the Court of
Civilization, they should above all be applied to the conduct of Servia and Russia. Austria
was in a state of self-defense, when she decided not to bear any longer Servia's treacherous
and murderous attacks against her existence; this is entirely within the boundaries of the
laws of morality. Russia, however, without the slightest right, moral or legal, attacked Austria
from the back by interfering with Austria's own affairs.

Therefore I wish to point out that a careful student of the papers, by considering the ante-history
of the war, which, as you will admit, is very essential, may come to a quite different conclusion
and Mr. Beck as State's attorney will have a hard stand against the counsel of the defendant.

EDWARD PICK.

New York, Oct. 27, 1914.

[Illustration]

Defense of the Dual Alliance--A Reply

By Dr. Edmund von Mach.

     Instructor of Fine Arts, Harvard, 1899-1903; Instructor in
     History of Art, Wellesley College, 1899-1902; Lecturer in
     History of Art, Bradford Academy, Cambridge, Mass. Author of
     many books on Greek and Roman sculpture and the history of
     painting. Served in the German Army, 1889-91.

Hon. James M. Beck has eloquently argued the case of the Allies against Germany and Austria-Hungary,
and submitted his findings with confident assurance of their acceptance by the Supreme Court
of Civilization. Carried away by his zeal he has at times used terms not warranted by the evidence,
such as "the irrepressible Kaiser," "stupid falsehood," "duplicity," and the like, but since
the court can be trusted to disregard such expressions no further attention will be paid to them.

To a certain extent this article is not a reply but a continuation of Mr. Beck's argument,
for, wherever our personal sympathies may lie, we are all equally interested in discovering
the truth. In the final settlement of peace American public opinion may, nay, will, have a
prominent voice. If it is exerted on the strength of a true understanding of European events,
it will contribute to the establishment of a lasting peace.

As to the evidence submitted Mr. Beck seems to err in believing that Governments are accustomed
to publish in their various white, gray, or orange papers "the truth, the whole truth, and
nothing but the truth." This is nowhere done, for there are many bits of information which
come to a Government through its diplomatic connections which it would be indelicate, discourteous,
or unwise to give to the public. The official documents on American foreign relations and all
white, gray, or orange papers are "edited." They are understood to be so by Congress, Parliament,
the Reichstag, the Duma, &c., and no charge of dishonesty can be maintained against the respective
Governments on that score.

If the Chancellor says that Germany was using her good offices in Vienna, this is as valuable
a bit of evidence as the reprint of a dispatch in the "White Paper," unless we wish to impugn
his veracity, and in that case the copy of a dispatch would be valueless, for he might have
forged it. The entire argument, therefore, against Germany and Austria, based on what Mr. Beck
calls the "suppression of vitally important documents," is void, unless you will apply it equally
to Great Britain and the other countries.

In Sir Edward Grey's "White Paper" Mr. Beck has missed no important documents because he looked
at England's well-prepared case through sympathetic eyes, and it did not occur to him to ask,
"Where are all the documents bearing on Italian neutrality?" Does he believe that England was
so little interested in the question whether she would have to fight two or three foes, and
whether her way to Egypt and India would be safe or threatened? There are many dispatches to
and from Rome included in the "White Paper," but not a mention of Italy's position.

The first paper contains a letter to the British Ambassador in Berlin concerning the Austro-Servian
relations. Is it not probable that Sir Edward Grey's attention was called to this question
by his Ambassador in Vienna? Where is his letter? Or, if Sir Edward thought of it himself,
why did he not mention his conversation also to Sir M. de Bunsen in Vienna? Where is this note?
Are we to assume that Sir M. de Bunsen made his first report on July 23, although Sir Edward
Goschen in Berlin had an interesting report to make a day earlier?

We can thus go through the whole British "White Paper" and discover the omission of many interesting
documents.

No. 38 is a letter from Sir Rennell Rodd in Rome, dated on July 23 and received on July 27.
He had no doubt sent also a telegram. What did it contain, and why was it not published under
the date of its arrival instead of the letter which had been delayed in transit?

Where Is No. 28?

In No. 29 Sir Edward Grey refers in a telegram to Sir R. Rodd to what "I had said to the German
Ambassador." Such a reference could have a meaning for Sir R. Rodd only if he had been informed
of this conversation. There is no dispatch printed in the "White Paper" containing this information.
Possibly it was so entwined with other instructions, which Sir Edward Grey did not care to
have known, that it could not be published. Was it perhaps sent to the printer first as No.
28, and removed at the last moment when it was too late to change the subsequent numbers? Or,
if this assumption is wrong, what was printed originally as No. 28? Where is No. 28? There
are other omissions, and one especially noteworthy one between Nos. 80 and 106 which will be
discussed later.

Viewed in this light, the English "White Paper" loses much of the value of a complete record,
which it has had in the eyes of many. There is absolutely no reason to doubt the accuracy of
those dispatches which have been printed, but it becomes incumbent upon the searcher after
the truth to inquire whether the existence of unprinted (in the case of the German "White Paper"
Mr. Beck uses the term "suppressed") papers may not at times alter the interpretation which
should be given to those that are printed.

Since we have no published records anywhere concerning the advice given to Italy by the Allies,
and the gradual steps leading up to Italy's decision to remain neutral; nor any hint as to
the day when her decision was communicated to England and the other powers, it would be futile
to speculate on this subject. Since, however, the Queen of Italy and the wife of the Commander
in Chief of the Russian forces are sisters, and since it was in the interest of the Allies
to keep Italy neutral, it is not unreasonable to assume that an exchange of opinion took place
between Italy and the Allies concerning the conditions under which Italy would remain neutral.

If the actual opening of hostilities could be so managed that Germany could be called the aggressor,
then Italy probably declared that she would not enter the war. This is a very important phase
of the case, and the omission from Sir Edward Grey's "White Paper" of all dispatches dealing
with Italian neutrality is much to be regretted.

Since we are dealing with the Italian dispatches here, it may be advisable to consider at once
all the communications which are published as having passed between Sir Edward Grey and the
British Ambassador, Sir Rennell Rodd, in Rome. They are numbered 19, (perhaps 28,) 29, 35,
36, 38, 49, 57, 63, 64, 80, 81, 86, 92, 100, and 106, of which the important numbers are 38,
57, 64, 80, and 86.

On July 23 Sir Edward Grey was informed that "the gravity of the situation lay in the conviction
of the Austro-Hungarian Government that it was absolutely necessary for their prestige, after
the many disillusions which the turn of events in the Balkans has occasioned, to score a definite
success." (No. 38.)

Austria, in other words, believed that to let the murder of her heir-apparent pass unpunished
would have meant a deathblow to her prestige, and consequently, as any one familiar with her
conditions will agree, to her existence. Russia, on the other hand, on July 25 said (see No.
17, report from Sir G. Buchanan) that she could not "allow (note the word) Austria to crush
Servia and become the predominant power in the Balkans, and if she feels secure of the support
of France, she will face all the risks of war."

These two dispatches to Sir Edward Grey tell the whole story in a nutshell. Austria believed,
rightly or wrongly, that it was a question of life or death for her, while Russia claimed the
right of preventing Austria from becoming the predominate power in the Balkans, and actually
threatened war. Russia did not claim to be concerned with the justice of Austria's demands
on Servia.

No such definite word of Russia's intention was sent to Germany, for on July 26 Sir M. de Bunsen
reported Germany's confident belief that "Russia will keep quiet during the chastisement of
Servia." (No. 32.)

On the next day Sir Rennell Rodd reports from Rome (No. 57) that the Minister of Foreign Affairs
believes that "if Servia will even now accept it (the Austrian note) Austria will be satisfied"
and refrain from a punitive war. He, moreover, believes--and this is very important--that Servia
may be induced to accept the note in its entirety on the advice of the four powers invited
to the conference, and this would enable her to say that she had yielded to Europe and not
to Austria-Hungary alone. Since Italy was to be one of the four powers, the Minister's belief
was doubtless based on accurate information. There is then as late as July 27 no claim made
by Servia that Austria's demands are unreasonable. She only hates to yield to Austria alone.
Austria, in the meanwhile, (No. 57,) repeats her assurance that she demands no territorial
sacrifices from Servia.

On the next day, July 28, Sir Rennell Rodd reports (No. 64) that "Servia might still accept
the whole Austrian note, if some explanation were given regarding mode in which Austrian agents
would require to intervene." Austria, on her part, had explained that "the co-operation of
the Austrian agents in Servia was to be only in investigation, not in judicial or administrative
measures. Servia was said to have willfully misinterpreted this." (No. 64.)

From these reports it appears that the differences between Austria and Servia were on the way
to a solution. Austria claimed that her demands were just, and Servia did not deny this. Austria
further claimed that her prestige, her very existence, demanded the prompt compliance with
her requests by Servia. She explained in a satisfactory way the one point on which Servia had
taken exceptions, and Servia was on the point of complying, and would have complied, if the
powers had been willing to let her do so. Such a conclusion of the incident would have strengthened
Austria's prestige and assured the punishment of the murderers of Serajevo.

Russia's Remark About Austria.

The reason why Servia was not allowed to submit was Russia's remark, quoted above, that she
would not "allow" Austria to become the predominant power in the Balkans. It was, therefore,
Russia's task to prevent Servia from accepting Austria's note. Since war was her alternative,
baldly stated to England from the first, she had to do three things--first, to secure as many
allies as possible; secondly, to weaken her enemies, preferably by detaching from them Italy,
and, thirdly, to get as much of a start in her mobilization as possible.

The treaties between Russia, France, and Great Britain, unlike those between Germany, Austria,
and Italy, have never been published. Whatever their wording may be, Russia was at first apparently
not absolutely sure of the support of France, (No. 17,) and France, it would seem, was unwilling
to tempt fate without the help of England. That England should be willing to join such a combination
for such a cause seemed so preposterous to Germany that she did not believe it. Without England
no France, without France no war, for alone Russia could not measure herself against Austria.
Austria would not have attacked her of her own free will, but if Russia had attacked Austria,
the whole world knew from the published treaties that Germany was bound to come to the assistance
of her ally. It would have been two against one, and the two could have waited until Russia
had finished her cumbersome mobilization. For even if she had her whole army of many million
men on the frontier, Austria and Germany together were strong enough to stem her advance.

Russia's only chance, therefore, when Servia was on the point of yielding, and Austria had
almost re-established her prestige, was to secure the help of France, but this meant also the
promise of England.

The demands made on England by Russia, some of which are quoted in the "White Paper," are too
well known to deserve repetition. This was the chief thing that counted, to get England's promise.
The next was to detach Italy from her allies, (but of this there are no documents available,)
and the third to gain time for her mobilization. All the other suggestions and counter-suggestions
which fill the English "White Paper" are insignificant, as soon as the fundamental positions
of Austria and Russia are understood.

Germany has claimed that England promised her support to Russia and France on July 30, or in
the night of July 29, and, to prove it, has published the letter from the Belgian Minister
in St. Petersburg to his Minister of Foreign Affairs, printed in translation in THE NEW YORK
TIMES on Oct. 7. This letter, which has not been officially denied by the Allies, states that
the promise of England's support gave the Russian war party the upper hand and resulted in
the order of complete mobilization.

English "White Paper's" Testimony.

Strangely enough, and doubtless by an oversight, the English "White Paper" contains two dispatches
(Nos. 80 and 106) which seem to confirm the accuracy of M. de l'Escaille's statement, viz.,
that England promised the Russian-French combination her support.

On July 29 Sir Rennell Rodd wrote to Sir Edward Grey (No. 80) that the Italian Minister of
Foreign Affairs had told him "there seemed to be a difficulty in making Germany believe that
Russia was in earnest. As Germany, however, was really anxious for good relations with ourselves,
if she believed that Great Britain would act with Russia and France, he thought it would have
a great effect."

In a later dispatch of the same day (No. 86) he deprecates Russia's partial mobilization, which
he fears has spoiled the chances of Germany's exerting any pressure on Austria.

But on the next day, July 30, these remarkable words occur: "He [the Italian Minister] had
reason to believe that Germany was now disposed to give more conciliatory advice to Austria,
as she seemed convinced that we should act with France and Russia, and was most anxious to
avoid issue with us." (No. 106.)

Readers of the "White Paper" will look in vain for an explanation of such a change of heart
on Germany's part. What does "now" mean in the last letter? And why does Germany seem "convinced"
that England will act with Russia--if not that she has heard of the promise mentioned by M.
de l'Escaille, as given early on July 30 or late the 29th? The dates agree, and unless Sir
Edward Grey publishes further papers to explain the change that had taken place between July
29 and July 30 one seems forced to accept this explanation.

What is Germany's attitude? Does she rush into war? Not at all, for she is "most anxious to
avoid issue" with England. (No. 106.) Germany knew that Russia had begun to mobilize. Every
day, every hour counted; for against the masses of Russia she had only her greater speed to
match. She knew that England had gone over to Russia, although she was probably hoping that
the alliance between the Saxon and the Slav was not yet irrefragable. Still, the prospects
were dark. But in spite of this the efforts were renewed to see what could be done in Vienna.

The famous exchange of telegrams between royalty began in the evening of July 29; and here
it is wise to halt for a moment. On July 30 the Czar telegraphed to the Emperor in reply to
the Emperor's expression of regret that Russia should be mobilizing, as follows: "The military
measures in force now were decreed five days ago." That is, according to the Czar, the Russian
mobilization had begun on July 25. On July 27, however, the Russian Minister of War, M. Suchomlinow,
had declared to the German Military Attaché "on his word of honor" that no mobilization order
had been issued. July 25, however, it will be remembered, was the day on which Sir G. Buchanan
had reported from St. Petersburg that Russia will "face all risks of war" if she can feel sure
of the support of France.

On July 31 Russia mobilized her entire army, which led to Germany's ultimatum that Russia demobilize
within twelve hours. No reply was received to the request, and orders for the mobilization
of the German Army were issued at 5:15 P.M., Aug. 1, after the German Ambassador in St. Petersburg
had been instructed to declare that, owing to the continued mobilization of the Russian Army,
a state of war existed between the two countries.

Kaiser Tried to Keep Peace.

In order to understand this step one should read the book "La France Victorieuse dans la Guerre
de Demain," ("France Victorious in the Next War,") by Col. Arthur Boucher, published in 1911.
Col. Boucher has stated the case baldly and so simply that every one can understand it. In
substance his argument is this: "Alone France has no chance, but together with Russia she will
win against Germany. Suppose the three countries are beginning mobilization on the same day.
Germany finishes first, France second, and Russia last. Germany must leave some of her troops
on her eastern frontier, the rest she throws against France. All France has to do is to hold
them for a few days. [Col. Boucher mentions the exact number of days. This book is not at hand,
and the writer prefers not to quote from memory.] Then Russia comes into play, more German
troops will be needed in the East, the French proceed to an attack on their weakened enemy,
and La France sera victorieuse."

Everything hinges on just a couple of days or so. A couple of days! And how much of a start
had Russia? She had begun on July 25; on July 27 definite news of the Russian mobilization
was reported in Berlin, although the Minister of War denied it "on his honor." On July 30 England
was understood to have promised her support to Russia, and the Czar acknowledged that Russia
had been mobilizing for the past five days. Five days! And Col. Boucher, expressing the opinion
of military experts, had counted on victory on a much smaller margin!

Do the Judges of the Supreme Court of Civilization realize the almost super-human efforts in
the interest of peace made by the German Emperor? Russia has a start of five days, and on July
31 a start of six days. Can we not hear all the military leaders imploring the Emperor not
to hesitate any longer? But in the interest of peace the Emperor delays. He has kept the peace
for Germany through the almost thirty years of his reign. He prays to his God, in Whom he has
placed his trust through all his upright life, with a fervor which has often brought him ridicule.
Also, he still believes in England, and hopes through her efforts to be able to keep the peace.
He waits another day. A start of seven days for Russia! The odds against Germany have grown
tremendously. At last he orders mobilization. For a longer delay he would not have been able
to answer to his country. As it is, there are many people who blame him severely for having
waited so long.

But William II. was right, for when the world will begin to realize the agonies through which
he must have passed during these days of waiting, and the sacrifices he made in his effort
to preserve peace, it will judge Germany rightly, and call the Emperor the great prince of
peace that he is.

But, it has been said, why did he not avoid war, either by forcing Austria to yield to Russia,
or, if she refused, by withdrawing from her? In common with the whole of Germany, he probably
felt that Austria's position was right. Servia herself, as has been seen above, did not claim
that she was unjustly treated, whatever outsiders thought of Austria's demands; and Austria
was fully justified by past events in believing that it was with her a question of life and
death. Should Germany sacrifice her faithful friend under such circumstances, and for what?
For the arrogance of Russia, who would not "allow" her to re-establish her prestige in a righteous
cause? The word "righteous" is used advisedly, because in the early stages of the controversy
nobody, not even Russia nor Servia herself, denied the justice of Austria's demands. The writer
is informed that even the liberal English press found no fault with the course taken by Austria,
although it commented adversely on the language used in the note.

What would have been the result of peace bought by Germany at such a cost? It would have alienated
her only faithful friend without laying the foundations for a lasting friendship with her opponents.
This at least was Germany's honest belief. She may have been wrong. History more probably will
call her right. To desert Austria might have postponed the war, but when it would have come
Germany would have stood alone, and, worse, she would have lost her self-respect.

This claim may sound strange in the ears of those who have just witnessed and will never forget
the suffering of that beautiful little country, Belgium. They hold that, since Germany invaded
Belgium, it is Germany who broke a treaty and who is to blame.

Mr. Beck considers this to be so self-evident that he deems it unnecessary to advance any proof.
He quotes the Chancellor's speech, and, moving for a quick verdict, declares his motion of
guilty carried. The matter, however, is not quite so simple for the man who is seeking for
the whole truth. Let us look at the facts.

Belgium was a neutral country, just as any country has the right to declare itself neutral,
with this difference: that in 1839 she had promised to five powers--Great Britain, France,
Russia, Austria, and Prussia--that she would remain perpetually neutral. These five powers
in their turn had promised to guarantee her neutrality. She was, however, a sovereign State,
and as such had the undoubted right to cease being neutral whenever she chose by abrogating
the Treaty of 1839. If the other high contracting parties did not agree with her, it was their
right to try to coerce Belgium to keep to her pledges, although this would undoubtedly have
been an infringement of her sovereignty.

The Treaty of 1839 contains the word "perpetual," but so does the treaty between France and
Germany, in which Alsace and Lorraine are ceded by France to be perpetually an integral part
of the German Empire. Does this mean that France, if the Allies should win, could not retake
these provinces? Nobody probably will believe this.

The Treaty of 1839 was a treaty just like the Treaty of 1871, with this difference, that the
latter treaty was concluded between two powers, and the earlier one between five powers on
one side and Belgium and Holland on the other. This gave certain rights to all the signatory
powers, any one of whom had the right to feel itself sufficiently aggrieved to go to war if
any other power disregarded the treaty.

Rights of Neutrals.

There was once another neutral State, the city and district of Cracow, also established by
a treaty to which Great Britain was a signatory. Three of the signers considered the conditions
developing in Cracow to be so threatening that they abolished Cracow as an independent State.
Great Britain sent a polite note of protest, and dropped the matter.

Since that time, however, two Hague Conferences have been held and certain rules agreed upon
concerning the rights and duties of neutrals. The Belgian status of inviolability rests on
these rules, called conventions, rather than on the Treaty of 1839. During the Franco-Prussian
War of 1870 Mr. Gladstone very clearly stated that he did not consider the Treaty of 1839 enforceable.
Great Britain, therefore, made two new treaties, one with France and one with Prussia (quoted
and discussed in Boston Evening Transcript, Oct. 14, 1914) in which she promised to defend
Belgian neutrality, by the side of either France or Prussia, against that one of them who should
infringe the neutrality.

These treaties were to terminate one year after peace had been concluded between the contestants.
A treaty, like the one of 1839, however, which was considered unenforceable in 1870, can hardly
be claimed to have gained new rights in 1914. In calm moments nobody will claim that a greater
sanctity attaches to it than to the treaty in which Alsace and Lorraine are ceded forever to
Germany.

No, it is The Hague Conventions to which we must look. The first convention (1899) contained
no rules forbidding belligerents from entering neutral territory. In the second conference
it was thought desirable to formulate such rules, because it was felt that in war belligerents
are at liberty to do what is not expressly forbidden. At the request of France, therefore,
a new set of rules was suggested, to which Great Britain and Belgium offered valuable amendments.
The rules were finally accepted, and are today parts of international law. They read; "Article
I. The territory of neutral powers is inviolable. Article II. Belligerents are forbidden to
move troops or convoys of either munitions of war or supplies across the territory of a neutral
power."

These articles, together with the whole convention called "Rights and duties of neutral powers
and persons in case of war on land," have been ratified and therefore accepted as law by the
United States of America, Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, Japan, and Russia and other minor
powers. Great Britain experienced a change of heart, and, although her own delegates had moved
these articles, she refused to ratify them, when she ratified most of the other conventions
on Nov. 27, 1909. (A table showing the ratifications of conventions has been published by The
World Peace Foundation, Boston.)

The Case of Belgium.

Since Great Britain did not accept these articles as law, she was not bound by them, for the
principle of The Hague Conferences is that a nation is bound only by those laws which it accepts.
The remarkable fact, therefore, appears that the only one of the big nations which had refused
to accept these articles, and which, therefore, might have moved her troops across a neutral
country and have claimed that she could do so with a clear conscience because she broke no
law which was binding on her, was Great Britain. And the world now sees the spectacle of Great
Britain claiming to have gone to war because another power did what she herself could have
done, according to her own interpretation, with impunity. Japan has broken the international
law by infringing the neutrality of China, but Great Britain can claim that she did not break
a law by doing exactly what Japan did.

It is not asserted here that the citizens of Great Britain are not absolutely sincere in their
belief of the causes which have allied them with the Russians and the Japanese, and the Indians
and the Zouaves, and the negroes and the French and the Belgians against Germany. Their Government,
however, should have known that the presumption of insincerity exists when one charges against
others a crime which one would have felt at liberty to commit one's self. Yet, more, the British
Government knew better than anybody else that Germany had not even committed this crime; for,
according to all laws of justice, no person or nation can claim the inviolability of a neutral
when he has committed "hostile acts against a belligerent, or acts in favor of a belligerent."
(Article XVII. of The Hague Conference of 1907.)

The question, therefore, arises, "Did Belgium commit acts in favor of one of Germany's opponents,
if not actually hostile acts against Germany?" In order to understand Germany's charge that
Belgium had committed such acts, attention must be directed to one of the most unfortunate
stipulations of the Treaty of 1839, which compelled Belgium to maintain several fortresses.
This meant that a small neutral people, sandwiched in between two great powers, had to keep
itself informed on military affairs. Instead of being able to foster a peaceful state of mind,
which is the surest guarantee of neutrality, the Belgians were forced to think military thoughts.

[Illustration: ANDREW CARNEGIE

_(Photo (c) by Underwood & Underwood.)_

_See Page 415_]

[Illustration: JACOB H. SCHIFF

_(Photo by American Press Assn.)_

_See Page 459_]

In the eighties and early nineties they suspected France of designs on their integrity. Since
then a change in the popular feeling has taken place and in recent years the instruction of
the Belgian artillery, for instance, was intrusted to French officers in active service. These
officers were constantly at home and very properly concerned with solving military problems
such as a future war with Germany might present. What was more natural than that these same
officers, when they were detached for a few months or years to Liège or Namur or Huy, taught
their Belgian charges to prepare against a German attack, and to look upon the French as their
friends and the Germans as their enemies? If conditions had been different, and German officers
had been in charge of Belgian fortresses, the Belgian guns in practice would always have been
trained on imaginary French invaders.

French Officers in Belgian Forts.

If this is understood it will be seen that in the case of war the actual neutrality of the
Belgian garrisons would naturally be determined by the position taken by that nation whose
officers had been in charge of the Belgian fortresses. And this might be entirely independent
of the professed wishes of the Belgian people or their Government. If French officers in active
service remained in the several fortresses, or even only in one after the beginning of hostilities,
and if the French campaign plans contemplated an attack through Belgium, then Belgium had committed
an "act in favor of France" by not forcing the French officers to leave, and had forfeited
the rights and privileges granted by The Hague Convention of 1907 to a neutral State.

Did French officers remain in Liège or in any other Belgian fortress after hostilities had
begun, and did France plan to go through Belgium? Germany has officially made both claims.
The first can easily be substantiated by the Supreme Court of Civilization by an investigation
of the prisoners of war taken in Belgium. Until an impartial investigation becomes possible
no further proof than the claim made by the German Government can be produced.

The second charge is contained in No. 157 of the English "White Paper" in these words of instruction
from the German Foreign Secretary to the German Ambassador in London: "Please impress upon
Sir Edward Grey that German Army could not be exposed to French attack across Belgium, which
was planned according to absolutely unimpeachable information."

Sir Edward Grey has attacked Germany for invading Belgium, but has nowhere denied that Germany
had the unimpeachable evidence she said she had, and which of course nullified any previous
assurance from France.

It is not known whether Sir Edward Grey was shown this evidence or not, but if the preservation
of Belgian neutrality was Great Britain's chief concern, why did she not offer to negotiate
treaties with Germany and France as she had done in 1870? It will be remembered that then she
bound herself to join with either of the contestants in defending Belgian neutrality against
the attacks of the other.

As the case stands today, on the evidence of Sir Edward Grey's own "White Paper" and speeches,
Great Britain is making war on Germany because:

1. She broke the Treaty of 1839, although her own Gladstone had declared this treaty to be
without force, and although the status of neutral States had been removed by The Hague Convention
from the uncertainty of treaties to the security of international law.

2. Great Britain makes war against Germany because Germany has broken Articles I. and II. of
Chapter 1 of The Hague Convention referring to neutrals, although Great Britain herself has
refused to recognize these articles as binding upon her own conduct.

3. She makes war on Germany although she has never denied the correctness of Germany's assertion
that she had unimpeachable proof of France's intentions of going through Belgium, which, together
with the sojourn of French officers in Belgium, constitutes the offense which, according to
The Hague Convention, deprives a so-called neutral State of the privileges granted in Articles
I. and II.

It is impossible to say here exactly what these proofs are which Germany possesses, and which
for military reasons she has not yet been able to divulge. She has published some of them,
namely, the proof of the continued presence of French officers on Belgian soil, and has given
the names and numbers of the several army corps which France had planned to push through Belgium.

The case then stands as follows:

1. Was the inviolability of Belgium guaranteed by Articles I. and II. of The Hague Convention? Yes.

2. Had Germany ratified these articles? Yes.

3. Had Great Britain ratified these articles? No.

4. Would Belgium have forfeited the right of having her country held inviolable if she had
committed "acts in favor of France," even if these acts were not actually hostile acts? Yes,
according to Article XVII. of The Hague Convention.

5. Did Belgium commit "acts in favor of France," and was Germany, therefore, justified in disregarding
the inviolability of her territory?

The Main Question.

This is the important question, and the answer must be left to the Supreme Court of Civilization.
The weight of the evidence would seem to point to a justification of Germany. Yet no friend
of Germany can find fault with those who would wish to defer a verdict until such a time when
Germany can present her complete proof to the world, and this may be when the war is over.

Throughout this argument the famous passage of the Chancellor's speech in the Reichstag has
been disregarded. It reads:

     Our troops have occupied Luxemburg and perhaps are already on
     Belgian soil. Gentlemen, that is contrary to the dictates of
     international law. It is true that the French Government has
     declared at Brussels that France is willing to respect the
     neutrality of Belgium so long as her opponents respect it. We
     knew, however, that France stood ready for invasion. The
     wrong--I speak openly--that we are committing we will endeavor
     to make good.

This has been understood to mean that the Chancellor acknowledged that Germany was breaking
the Treaty of 1839 without warrant, and that Germany, therefore, deserved the contempt of the
world. May it not bear another interpretation? Thus:

The Chancellor, like Gladstone in 1870, did not consider the 1839 Treaty enforceable, but saw
the guarantee for Belgium in The Hague Convention. He did not wish to offend Belgium by announcing
to the world that she had lost her rights as a neutral because of her acts favorable to France,
for when he spoke he was still of the opinion that she would accept the German offer which
guaranteed to her both her independence and integrity.

And just as Servia would have accepted Austria's note if Russia had permitted her, so Belgium
would not have resisted the German demand if it had not been for England.

This can be proved by the British "White Paper," Nos. 153 and 155. In the former the King of
the Belgians appeals "to the diplomatic intervention of your Majesty's Government to safeguard
the integrity of Belgium," being apparently of the impression that Germany wished to annex
parts, if not the whole, of his country. The London reply advises the Belgians "to resist by
any means in their power, and that his Majesty's Government will support them in offering such
resistance, and that his Majesty's Government in this event are prepared to join Russia and
France, if desired, in offering to the Belgian Government at once common action for the purpose
of resisting use of force by Germany against them, and a guarantee to maintain their independence
and integrity in future years."

Has Mr. Beck really not noticed in this promise the omission of the word neutrality? By the
Treaty of 1839 Belgium enjoyed not only independence and integrity, but also perpetual neutrality.
Does Great Britain offer to fight Germany for the enforcement of the Treaty of 1839? No! Because
hereafter the word neutrality is dropped from her guarantee, and since she alone of all the
great powers has not ratified the articles of The Hague Convention concerning neutrals she
alone will be able to disregard the inviolability of Belgian soil, even though Belgium kept
strictly neutral in a future war.

And what, finally, does she guarantee her? Independence and integrity! That is exactly the
same that Germany had promised her. For this Belgium had to be dragged through the horrors
of war, and the good name of Germany as that of an honest nation had to be dragged through
the mire, and hatred and murder had to be started, that Belgium might get on the battlefield,
from the insufficient support of Russia and France and England, what Germany had freely offered
her--independence and integrity.

Casual readers would not miss the word neutrality from Sir Edward Grey's guarantee, because
they do not differentiate between the words integrity, independence, and neutrality. Great
Britain and her ally Japan, marching through China into Kiao-Chau, may be said to have violated
China's neutrality, but not her independence, nor, so long as they refrain from annexing any
Chinese territory, her integrity.

Fixing the Blame.

Nobody familiar with the careful work of Sir Edward Grey can for one moment believe that Sir
Edward inadvertently dropped the word, just as little as J. Ramsay Macdonald and other British
leaders believe that he inadvertently dropped one of the two remaining words, integrity and
independence, when he told Parliament of Germany's guarantee, and why Great Britain should
not accept it, but go to war.

When the blame for the horrors committed in Belgium are assessed these facts must be remembered:

1. Belgium was by treaty bound to maintain fortresses.

2. France tempted her to commit "acts friendly" to herself, by which Belgium forfeited her
rights to the protection of The Hague articles governing the rights and duties of neutrals.

3. England urged her to take up arms, when she had only asked to have her integrity guaranteed
by diplomatic intervention. (Nos. 153, 155.)

4. Germany promised her independence and integrity and peace, while England, quietly dropping
her guarantee of neutrality "in future years," promised her independence and integrity and war.

5. And Sir Edward Grey was able to sway Parliament, according to one of the leaders of Parliament
himself, only because he misrepresented Germany's guarantee, and, having dropped, in his note
to Belgium, the word "neutrality," dropped yet another of the two remaining words, integrity
and independence.

This is the case as it appears on the evidence contained in the various "White Papers." Austria
was attending properly to her own affairs; Servia was willing to yield; Russia, however, was
determined to humiliate Austria or to go to war. Germany proved a loyal friend to her ally,
Austria; she trusted in the British professions of friendship to the last, and sacrificed seven
valuable days in the interest of peace. France was willing to do "what might be required by
her interests," while Great Britain yielded to Russia and France, promising them their support
without which France, and therefore Russia, would not have decided on war.

As to Belgium, Germany told Sir Edward Grey that she had unimpeachable evidence that France
was planning to go through Belgium, and she published her evidence concerning the French officers
who remained in Belgium. Although Belgium had thus lost any rights attaching to her state of
neutrality, Germany promised to respect her integrity and independence, and to pay for any
damage done. She preferred, however, to listen to Great Britain, who promised exactly the same
except pay for any damage done.

Unlike Mr. Beck, who in the same article pleads his case as the counsel for the Allies and
casts his verdict as the Supreme Court of Civilization, the present writer prefers to leave
the judgment to his readers as a whole, and further still, to the whole American people--yea,
to all the peoples of the world. Nor is he in a hurry, for he is willing to wait and have the
Judges weigh the evidence and call for more, if they consider insufficient what has already
been submitted.

Snap judgments are ever unsatisfactory. They have often to be reversed. The present case, however,
is too important to warrant a hasty decision. The final judgment, if it is based on truth,
will very strongly influence the nature of the peace, which will either establish good-will
and stable conditions in the world, or lead to another and even more complete breakdown of
civilization.

What Gladstone Said About Belgium

By George Louis Beer.

     Historian; winner of the first Loubat Prize, 1913, for his
     book on the origins of the British Colonial system.

In the course of his solemn speech of Aug. 8, 1914, in the House of Commons Sir Edward Grey
quoted some remarks made by Gladstone in 1870 on the extent of the obligation incurred by the
signatory powers to the Quintuple Treaty of 1839 guaranteeing the neutrality of Belgium. Shorn
from their context as they were, these sentences are by no means illuminating, and it cannot
be said that their citation in this form by Sir Edward Grey was a very felicitous one. During
the paper polemics of the past months these detached words of Gladstone have been freely used
by Germany's defenders and apologists to maintain that Great Britain of 1870 would not have
deemed the events of 1914 a casus belli, and that its entrance into the present war on account
of the violation of Belgium's neutrality was merely a pretext. During the course of this controversy
Gladstone's attitude has in various ways been grossly misrepresented, Dr. von Mach of Harvard
even stating in the columns of THE NEW YORK TIMES that Gladstone had declared the Treaty of
1839 "to be without force." But, apart from such patent distortions, Gladstone's real position
is apparently not clearly defined in the mind of the general public, which is merely seeking
for the unadulterated truth, regardless of its effect upon the case of any one of the belligerents.

Shortly after the outbreak of the Franco-Prussian war in 1870 the Prussian Ambassador in London
informed Gladstone, then Prime Minister, that some time prior to the existing war France had
asked Prussia to consent to the former country's absorption of Belgium, and that there was
in the possession of the Prussian Government the draft of a treaty to this effect in the handwriting
of M. Benedetti, then French Ambassador at Berlin. This communication was obviously made, as
Lord Morley tells us, with the object of prompting Gladstone to be the agent in making the
evil news public and thus of prejudicing France in the judgment of Europe. Gladstone thought
this "no part of his duty," and very shortly thereafter, at the direct instance of Bismarck,
this draft treaty of 1866-7 was communicated by Baron Krause of the Prussian Embassy in London
to Delane, the editor of The Times. On July 25, 1870, it was published in the columns of that
paper and aroused considerable anxiety in England.

It immediately became imperative upon the British Government to take some action. As Gladstone
wrote to Bright, the publication of this treaty

     has thrown upon us the necessity of doing something fresh to
     secure Belgium, or else of saying that under no circumstances
     would we take any step to secure her from absorption. This
     publication has wholly altered the feeling of the House of
     Commons, and no Government could at this moment venture to
     give utterance to such an intention about Belgium. But neither
     do we think it would be right, even if it were safe, to
     announce that we would in any case stand by with folded arms
     and see actions done which would amount to a total extinction
     of the public right in Europe.

The Special Identical Treaties.

A simple declaration of Great Britain's intention to defend the neutrality of Belgium by arms
in case it were infringed seemed to Gladstone not to meet the special requirements of the case
as revealed by the proposed Treaty of 1866-7 between Prussia and France. His main object was
to prevent the actual execution of such an agreement, by means of which the two belligerent
powers would settle their quarrels and satisfy their ambitions at the expense of helpless Belgium.
Hence, on July 30, the British Government opened negotiations with France and Prussia and within
a fortnight had concluded separate but identical treaties with each of these powers. According
to these treaties, in case the neutrality of Belgium were violated by either France or Germany,
Great Britain agreed to co-operate with the other in its defense. The preamble of these treaties
states that the contracting powers

     being desirous at the present time of recording in a solemn
     act their fixed determination to maintain the independence and
     neutrality of Belgium,

as provided in the Treaty of 1839, have concluded this separate treaty, which,

     without impairing or invalidating the conditions of the said
     Quintuple Treaty, shall be subsidiary and accessory to it.

Article III. further provided that these Treaties of 1870 were to expire twelve months after
the conclusion of the existing war, and that thereafter the independence and neutrality of
Belgium would "continue to rest, as heretofore," on the Treaty of 1839.

These documents tell a plain tale, which is amply confirmed by the proceedings in Parliament
in connection with this matter. On Aug. 5, 1870, while the negotiations leading to the above-mentioned
treaties were still pending, questions were raised in the House of Commons about the recently
published abortive Treaty of 1866-7 between Prussia and France. In reply Gladstone stated that

     the Treaty of 1839 is that under which the relations of the
     contracting powers with Belgium are at present regulated;

and that, while he could not explain the intentions of the Government "in a matter of this
very grave character in answer to a question," he hoped to be able to communicate some further
information in an authentic manner. Three days later, as these treaties with France and Prussia
had been virtually concluded, Gladstone was able to satisfy the anxiety of the House and outlined
their terms. He explicitly stated that, after their expiration,

     the respective parties, being parties to the Treaty of 1839,
     shall fall back upon the obligations they took upon themselves
     under that treaty.

After Gladstone had finished speaking the leader of the opposition, Disraeli, took the floor
and pointed out that, as a general proposition,

     when there is a treaty guarantee so explicit as that expressed
     in the Treaty of 1839, I think the wisdom of founding on that
     another treaty which involves us in engagements may be open to
     doubt.

But he accepted Gladstone's statement

     as the declaration of the Cabinet, that they are resolved to
     maintain the neutrality and independence of Belgium, I accept
     it as a wise and spirited policy, and a policy, in my opinion,
     not the less wise because it is spirited.

Gladstone then replied, saying that the reason the Government had not made a general declaration
of its intentions regarding Belgium was that much danger might arise from such a declaration
and that inadvertently they might have given utterance to words

     that might be held to import obligations almost unlimited and
     almost irrespectively of circumstances.

We had made up our minds, he continued, that we had a duty to perform, and we thought a specific
declaration of what we thought the obligations of this country better than any general declaration.
Referring to the two treaties in process of ratification, he concluded:

     We thought that by contracting a joint engagement we might
     remove the difficulty and prevent Belgium from being
     sacrificed.

The policy of the Government continued, however, to be criticised, mainly on the ground that
the Treaty of 1839 amply covered the case. On Aug. 10 Gladstone defended his policy in the
House of Commons in a speech pitched on a high moral plane, in which he dilated upon Belgium's
historic past and splendid present and on Great Britain's duty to this little nation irrespective
of all questions of its own self-interest. With genuine fervor, he exclaimed:

     If, in order to satisfy a greedy appetite for aggrandisement,
     coming whence it may, Belgium were absorbed, the day that
     witnessed that absorption would hear the knell of public right
     and public law in Europe.... We have an interest in the
     independence of Belgium which is wider than that which we may
     have in the literal operation of the guarantee. It is found in
     answer to the question whether under the circumstance of the
     case this country, endowed as it is with influence and power,
     would quietly stand by and witness the perpetration of the
     direst crime that ever stained the pages of history, and thus
     become participators in the sin.

What Gladstone Had in Mind.

What Gladstone had in mind was the scheme of 1866-7, by which France was to absorb Belgium,
with Prussia's consent and aid. He distinctly stated that the Treaties of 1870 were devised
to meet the new state of affairs disclosed by the publication of this incomplete treaty. It
was in order to prevent the revival of such a conspiracy that Gladstone made separate and identical
treaties in 1870 with France and Prussia. They were a practical device to secure an effectual
enforcement of the Treaty of 1839 under unforeseen and difficult circumstances. The agreement
of 1870 was, as Gladstone said, a cumulative treaty added to that of 1839, and the latter treaty

     loses nothing of its force, even during the existence of this
     present treaty.

During the course of this speech defending the Government's action against those critics who
claimed that the Treaty of 1839 adequately met the situation, Gladstone made some general remarks
about the extent of the obligation incurred by the signatories to the Treaty of 1839:

     It is not necessary, nor would time permit me, to enter into
     the complicated question of the nature of the obligations of
     that treaty, but I am not able to subscribe to the doctrine of
     those who have held in this House what plainly amounts to an
     assertion that the simple fact of the existence of a guarantee
     is binding on every party to it, irrespectively altogether of
     the particular position in which it may find itself at the
     time when the occasion for acting on the guarantee arises.

It is, of course, impossible to state precisely what were those unuttered thoughts that passed
through Gladstone's mind as he spoke these characteristically cautious words, but what in general
they were can be satisfactorily gleaned from a letter that he had written six days before this
to John Bright:

     That we should simply declare _we_ will defend the neutrality
     of Belgium by arms in case it should be attacked. Now, the
     sole or single-handed defense of Belgium would be an
     enterprise which we incline to think quixotic; if these two
     great military powers [France and Prussia] combined against
     it--that combination is the only serious danger; and this it
     is which by our proposed engagements we should, I hope, render
     improbable to the very last degree. I add for myself this
     confession of faith: If the Belgian people desire, on their
     own account, to join France or any other country, I for one
     will be no party to taking up arms to prevent it. But that the
     Belgians, whether they would or not, should go "plump" down
     the maw of another country to satisfy dynastic greed is
     another matter. The accomplishment of such a crime as this
     implies would come near to an extinction of public right in
     Europe, and I do not think we could look on while the
     sacrifice of freedom and independence was in course of
     consummation.

Fight to the Bitter End

AN INTERVIEW WITH ANDREW CARNEGIE.

     Retired ironmaster and philanthropist; builder of the Peace
     Temple at The Hague; founder of the Carnegie Institution at
     Washington; founder and patron of a chain of libraries in the
     United States and Great Britain, and benefactor of many
     societies and institutions.

By Edward Marshall.

Here is the report of a truly remarkable statement by Mr. Carnegie. He is the world's most
notable peace advocate, and in this interview he voices the reflections suggested to him by
the great European war.

They are unusual, and make this interview especially worthy of a place upon the pages of the
Christmas issue of THE TIMES, although it principally deals with war, and Christmas is the
festival of peace.

"Has war ever settled anything which might not have been settled better by arbitration?" I
asked Mr. Carnegie.

"No; never," he replied. "No truer inference was ever made than may be found in Milton's query,
penned three centuries ago and never answered: 'What can war but wars breed?'

"War can breed only war. Of course, peace inevitably must follow war, but, truly, no peace
ever was born of war. We all revere the memory of him who voiced the warning: 'In time of peace
prepare for war'; but, as a matter of fact, we all know that when one nation prepares for war
others inevitably must follow its dangerous lead.

"Hence, and hence only, the huge armaments which have oppressed the world, making its most
peaceful years a spectacle of sadness--a spectacle of men preparing and prepared to fight with
one another. Sooner or later men prepared to fight will fight; huge armaments and armies mean
huge battles; huge battles mean huge tragedies.

"This never has been otherwise, and never can be. Peace can come only when mankind abandons
warful preparation. And so I seem to have replied to your inquiry with an answer with a tail
to it; and the tail is more important than the answer, for the answer merely says that war
never settled anything which might not have been settled better by arbitration, while the tail
proclaims the folly of a world prepared for war."

How to Prevent War.

"Armament must mean the use of armament, and that is war. If we are to prevent war we must
prevent preparation for war, just as if we are to prevent burglary we must prevent preparation
for burglary by prohibiting the carrying of the instruments of burglary. The only cure for
war" [Mr. Carnegie in speaking italicized the word "cure"] "is war which defeats some one;
but two men who are unarmed are certain not to shoot at one another. Here, as in medicine,
prevention is much better than cure.

"Plainly it must be through such prevention, not through such a cure as victory sometimes is
supposed to represent, that warfare can be stopped. Warfare means some one's defeat, of course,
and that implies his temporary incapacity for further war, but it goes without saying that
all conquered nations must be embittered by their defeat.

"Few nations ever have fought wars in which the majority of at least their fighting men did
not believe the side they fought for to be in the right. Defeat by force of arms, therefore,
always has meant the general conviction throughout conquered nations that injustice has been done."

Nations Like Individuals.

"In such circumstances nations must be like individuals under similar conditions. The individual
believing himself to have been in the right, yet finding himself beaten in his efforts to maintain
it, will not accept the situation philosophically; he will be angry and rebellious; he will
nurse what he believes to be his wrong.

"To nurse a wrong, whether it be real or fancied, is to help it grow in the imagination, and
that must mean at least the wish to find some future means of righting it, either by strategy
or increased strength.

"There are two things which humanity does not forget--one is an injury, and, no matter how
strongly some may argue against the truth of this contention, the other is a kindness.

"In the long run both will be repaid. And nations, like individuals, prefer the coin which
pays the latter debt. Military force never has accomplished kindness. Kindness means industrial
armies decked with the garlands of peace; military armies, armed and epauletted, must mean
minds obsessed with the spirit of revenge or conquest, hands clenched to strike, hearts eager
to invade.

"Every military implement is designed to cut or crush, to wound and kill. Nations at peace
help one another with humanity's normal tenderness of heart at times of pestilence, of famine,
of disaster. Nations at war exert their every ounce of strength to force upon their adversaries
hunger, destruction, and death. Starvation of the enemy becomes a detail of what is considered
good military strategy in war time, just as world-embracing charity has become a characteristic
of all civilization during times of peace. Must we not admit flotillas carrying grain to famine-stricken
peoples to be more admirable than fleets which carry death to lands in which prosperity might
reign if undisturbed by war?"

"But do you not admit that wars sometimes have helped the forces of civilization in their conquest
against barbarism?"

"War has not been the chief force of civilization against barbarism," Mr. Carnegie replied
with emphasis. Then he continued more thoughtfully:

"That is one way of saying it. Another is, no effort of the forces of civilization against
barbarism is war in the true sense of the word.

"Such an armed effort is a part of the force pushing barbarism backward, and therefore, in
the last analysis, tends toward kindness and peace; while, in the sense in which we use the
word, war means the retrogression of civilization into barbarism. It is usually born of greed--greed
for territory or for power.

"Such war as that of which we all are thinking in these days is war between civilized men.
One civilized man cannot improve another civilized man by killing him, although it is not inconceivable
that a civilized man may do humanity a service by destroying human savages, for with the savages
he must destroy their savagery.

"But a war in civilized Europe destroys no savagery; it breeds it, so that it and its spawn
may defile future generations.

"There has been much balderdash in talk about unselfish motives as the origin of warfare. It
is safe to say that 99 per cent of all the slaughter wrought by civilization under the cloak
of a desire to better bad conditions really has been evil. It is impossible to conceive of
general betterment through general slaughter. There have been few altruistic wars."

"But how about our Spanish war?" I asked. "Surely it was not greed which sent our men and ships
to Cuba."

"No," said Mr. Carnegie, "that was not war, but world-police work.

"Our skirmish with Spain was a most unusual international episode. We harmed none of the people
of the land wherein we fought, but taught them what we could of wise self-government and gave
them independence. To battle for the liberation of the slave is worthy work, and this of ours
was such a battle.

"Our Spanish war was not the outgrowth of our rivalry with any one or any one's with us; it
was the manifestation of our high sense of responsibility as strong and healthy human beings
for the welfare of the weak and oppressed."

That Was Police Work.

"It did not make toward militarism on this continent, but the reverse; in a few months it established
permanent peace where peace had been a stranger. It was police work on the highest plane, substituting
order for disorder."

"But did it not emphasize the need for the maintenance, even here, of a competent and efficient
naval and military force?" I asked.

Mr. Carnegie shook his head emphatically.

"That is the old, old argument cropping up again," said he, "the argument that a provocative
is a preventive. For us to maintain a great army for the purpose of preventing war thereby
would be as sensible as for each of us to be afraid to walk about except with a lightning rod
down his back, since men have been struck by lightning. No nation wants to fight us. We have
friends throughout the world.

"Millions now resident in military nations are hoping that some day they may be able to become
citizens of our beloved republic, principally because it now is not, nor is it every likely
to be, military. Humanity loves peace. Here peace abides, and, if we follow reason, will remain
unbroken.

"Note the advantages of our own position. Imagine what the task would be of landing seventy
thousand hostile soldiers on our shores! First they would need to cross three thousand miles
of the Atlantic or five thousand miles of the Pacific.

"And what if they should come? My plan of operation would be to bid them welcome as our visitors,
considering them as men, not soldiers; to take them to our great interior, say, as far west
as Chicago, and there to say to them:

"'Here we shall leave you. Make yourselves at home, if that thought pleases you; fight us if
it does not. If you think you can conquer us, try it.'

"They would make themselves at home and, learning the advantages of staying with us, would
become applicants for our citizenship, rather than our opponents in warfare.

"And if they tried to fight us, what would happen to them? Our nation is unique in an important
respect. Its individuals are the best armed in the world. Not only, for example, are its farmers
armed, but they can shoot, which is far more than can be said of those of Britain or of any
other nation.

"The Governments of Europe cannot afford to give their citizenry arms, and, as for the European
citizenry, it not only cannot afford to purchase arms, but cannot afford even to pay the license
fees which Government demands of those possessing arms with the right to use them.

"But ours? Most Americans can afford to and do own guns with which to shoot, and, furthermore,
most Americans, when they shoot, can hit the things at which they shoot.

"Combine this powerful protective influence with the fact that thousands of any army coming
to invade us would not want to fight when once they got here, but would want to settle here
and enjoy peace, and we find that we thus are protected as no nation in the world ever has
been protected or can be.

"Imagine the effect upon the European fighting man's psychology if he found that an army transport
had conveyed him to a land where one man's privilege is every man's right! Learning this, it
is not a joke to say, but is a statement of the probable fact, that the invading soldiery would
not want to fire its first volleys, but would want to file its first papers. They would not
ask for cartridges, but for citizenship.

"America is protected by a force incomparable, which I may call its peaceful militia, and the
man who, above all other men, I most should wish to see appointed to its command would be Gen.
Leonard Wood were it not for the fact that there would be some danger that in such an eventuation
his professional training would carry him beyond the rule of reason.

"That is likely to be the most serious trouble with the trained soldier. The doctor wants to
dose, the parson to preach, and the soldier to fight. Professional habit may make any of us
dangerous.

"But if it came to fighting I do not consider it within the bounds of possibility that we could
lose. I once asked Gen. Sherman how the troops which he commanded during the civil war compared
for efficiency with European troops. His answer was:

"'The world never has seen the army that I would be afraid to trust my boys with, man for man.'"

Would Surprise the Enemy.

"That thought of welcoming an invading army appeals strongly to me. The hostile General would
be amazed by the ease with which he got his forces in, but he would be more startled by the
difficulty he would find if he tried to get them out. If they once learned the advantages of
our liberties they would find it hard not to get away, but to go away. I restrain my temper
with difficulty when I contemplate the foolishness of the people who discuss with gravity the
possibility of a successful invasion of these United States by a foreign foe. The thought always
arises when I hear these cries from our army and naval officers for a greater armament: 'Are
these men cowards?' I don't believe it. It is their profession which makes them alarmists.

"Not only are the physical difficulties which would hamper an invasion practically insuperable,
but the reception enemies would get, if any of them landed, would be wholly without parallel
in the world's history.

"If our liberties really were threatened, every man, and very nearly every woman, in our vast
population would rise to their defense as never any people yet has risen to any national defense.
Americans, young and old, en masse, would sweep to the protection of what they know, and what
the world knows, would be the cause of right and human liberty.

"I, myself, should wish to be invited to advance and meet invading forces if they came. I would
approach them without any weapons on my person. I would not shoot at them. I would make a speech
to them.

"'Gentlemen,' I would say, 'here's the chance of your life to win life's chief prize. Now you
are peasant soldiers. You have the opportunity to become citizen kings. We are all kings here.
Here the least of you can take a rank much higher than that of any General in your army. He
can become a sovereign in a republic.'

"I think they would hurrah for me, not harm me, after they had heard my speech.

"Striving for peace, we shall become so powerful that if war comes we shall be invincible.
Peace, not war, makes riches; the rich nation is the powerful nation.

"Perhaps I was as much a peace man in my youth as I am now, but when I was asked, during the
civil war, to organize a corps of telegraph operators and railroad conductors and engineers
and take them to Washington, I considered it the greatest of all privileges to obey the order.

"I was the last man to get on the last train leaving Burkes Station, after Bull Run, and, now,
if the country ever should be invaded, I would be, I hope, one of the first to rush to meet
the enemy--but I think my haste would be to convert, not to kill, him.

"The man who has done well in business, however, learns to abhor all waste, and I must admit
that it does pain me to see hundreds of millions of our dollars spent on battleships which
will but rust away, and thousands of our able men vegetating on them or in an army.

"The men who urge this vast waste of our money and men mean well, no doubt, but they do not
know the nation of which they have the good fortune to be citizens--they do not realize how
very potent a force we have become in the wide world, nor the fact that one of the great reasons
why we have become a force lies in the circumstance that our national development has not been
hampered by the vast expense of militarism."

Mr. Carnegie paused.

Some weeks ago, in an interview granted me for publication in THE NEW YORK TIMES, Dr. Nicholas
Murray Butler, President of Columbia University, predicted that the present war would find
its final outcome in the establishment of the United States of Europe. I asked Mr. Carnegie
to express his view upon this subject.

"Nothing else could occur which would be of such immense advantage to Europe," he replied.

"United we stand, and divided they fall. If the territory now occupied by the homogeneous and
co-operative federation known as the United States of America were occupied instead by a large
number of small, independent competitive nations, that is, if each section of our territory
which now is a State were an independent country, America would be constantly in turmoil.

"Europe has been set back a century because she substituted the present war of nations for
the promotion of a federation plan. The latter would have meant peace and prosperity, the former
means ruin.

"If in Europe this year such a federation as Dr. Butler regards as a future probability had
been a present actuality, 1914 would have left a record very different from that which it is
making.

"For instance, it would have been as difficult for the State of Germany to fight the State
of Russia, or the State of France, or that of England, or all of them, and to trample neutral
Belgium, as it now would be, here, for the State of Pennsylvania to declare war on the States
of New York and Connecticut and to wreck New Jersey as she sent her troops to the invasion.

"Originally we had thirteen States, and thirteen only, but there was other territory here,
and the attractive force of the successful union of the thirteen States brought the other territory
in as it was organized.

"Thus we started right. Europe had begun before men had become so wise, and, having begun wrong,
has found herself, through the centuries, unable to correct old errors."

A Federation of Europe.

"Certainly I hope that out of the great crime of this vast war some good will come. The greatest
good which could come would be a general European federation. I do not believe that this will
come at once; but the world will be infinitely the better if it comes at length--if the natural
law of mutual attraction for mutual advantage draws these nations now at war into a union which
shall make such wars impossible in future, as wars between our States, here, are impossible.

"But before this can come peace must come, and before peace can come one or the other of the
nations now at war must at least ask for an armistice.

"If I were in the place of that great General, Lord Kitchener, and should receive the news
that such a request had been made by the commander of the opposing forces, I should say: 'No
armistice! Surrender!'

"But, then, if the surrender should be made, I should say, in effect:

"'Gentlemen, we have made up our minds that these terrible explosions must mark the end of
war between our civilized nations. Our sacrifices in this war have been too great to permit
us to be satisfied with less than this.

"'If we now cannot feel assured of such a federation of nations as will result in the settlement
of all future disputes by peaceful arbitration at The Hague, then we shall keep on fighting
till the day comes when we can achieve that end.

"'Upon the other side of the Atlantic,' I should continue if I were Lord Kitchener and should
be confronted by such a situation, 'we see in the United States of America an example which
must satisfy us that world peace now can be maintained.

"'There,' I should go on, 'thirteen States were banded into union in 1776. Their total population
was less than the present population of their largest city and their area has spread until
it links two oceans and offers homes in forty-eight States to one hundred millions, and the
population still increases rapidly. An experiment of world significance was tried, and is a
success, for the aggregated nation has grown and now is growing in power more rapidly than
any other nation on the surface of the earth.'"

Would Mean World Peace.

"'It is plain to me and should be plain to all of us,' I should continue, if I were Lord Kitchener,
so placed, 'that we in Europe have but to follow this example which America has set for us
in order to achieve an ultimate result as notably desirable. When we have accomplished it world
peace will be enthroned and all the peoples of the earth will be able safely to go about the
pleasant and progressive business of their lives without apprehension of their neighbors. Humanity,
thus freed of its most dreadful burden, will be able to leap forward toward the realization
of its ultimate possibilities of progress.'"

"And do you really think there is the immediate possibility of an effective European league
for permanent peace and general disarmament?" I asked Mr. Carnegie.

"Naturally my mind has dwelt much on this problem," he replied. "The culmination of the European
situation in the present war is very dreadful, but no good ever came out of crying over spilled
milk. However, it seems safe to conclude that a majority of the people of the civilized world
will presently decide that a step forward must be taken.

"Everywhere in Europe, when the present conflict ends, this fact will be emphasized by shell-wrecked,
fire-blackened buildings; by the vacant chairs of sons and fathers who have fallen victims;
by innumerable graves and by a general impoverishment, the inevitable result of war's great
waste, which will touch and punish every man, every woman, every child.

"In the face of such an emphasis no denial of the facts will be among the possibilities, and
I scarcely think that any even will be attempted. If the federation Dr. Butler has predicted
does not come about at once, it will be admitted almost universally that future disputes occurring
between the Governments of Europe shall be settled, not by force of fighting men, but by arbitration
at The Hague.

"And now a serious question obtrudes itself. Must there not be a carefully considered and cautiously
worked out understanding, which may be considered the preliminary of peace? Later on the foremost
men of every nation can meet in conference to consider with an earnestness hitherto unknown
the great problems which will be involved in the permanent abolition of war and establishment
of peace; but for this the way must be prepared.

"Here, again, I think The Hague Tribunal is the proper body to assemble for the purpose of
devising means for the accomplishment of the great end, which must be such legislation as will
accomplish, at the end of this war, the ending of all war among the nations.

"An important duty of the conference would be some arrangement for a union of the forces of
the nations now at war, charged with and qualified to perform the duty of maintaining peace
pending the completion of the final comprehensive plan."

For One Purpose Only.

"It is possible and even probable that as a part of the accomplishment of this it may be found
to be desirable and even necessary to organize and provide for the maintenance of a joint naval
and military body of strength sufficient to enforce world peace during the period necessary
for the preparation of a plan to be submitted to all powers. But if this force is to be established,
it must be done with the clear understanding that it is designed for one thing only, the maintenance
of peace, and must not be used at any time for any other service.

"In the selection of the commanding officer to be intrusted with this task, it will be conceded
that the victors in this war, or those who have a notable advantage at the time of the beginning
of the armistice, shall have the right of his appointment.

"No protest ever will arise from the mass of the people of Europe against the abolishment of
militarism. Even the people of Germany, as a whole, have not found militarism attractive. It
has been the influence of the military aristocracy of Germany, the most powerful caste in the
world, which not only has encouraged the national tendency, but has forced the Emperor, as
I believe, to action against his will and judgment.

"But a change was notable in Germany before the war began, and will be far more notable after
it has ended. The socialistic movement waxes strong throughout the nation, and the proceedings
of the Reichstag show us that the nation is marching steadily, though perhaps slowly, toward
a real democracy.

"I believe the first election to follow peace will result in a demand by the Reichstag that
it, alone, shall be given power to declare war. It will be argued, and it is evident that it
then will be amply provable, that it is the people who suffer most through war, and that, therefore,
their representatives should utterly control it.

"That itself would be a most important step toward peace, and I feel certain that it is among
the probabilities.

"As things stand in Germany, although the Reichstag has its powerful influence in regard to
war expenditure and might accomplish important results by refusing to vote amounts demanded,
the fact remains that until it has been given the power of making or withholding declaration
of war the most important results cannot be accomplished."

"In Fried's volume," I suggested to Mr. Carnegie, "you are credited with saying that Emperor
William, himself and by himself, might establish peace. Granting that that might have been
the fact before this war began, is it your opinion that he, or any other one man, could now
control the situation to that extent?"

"Assuming that the Germans should come out victorious," Mr. Carnegie replied, "the Emperor
would become a stronger power than ever toward the maintenance of peace among the nations.
At one time I believed him to be the anointed of God for this purpose, and did not fail to
tell him so.

"Even if his forces should be defeated in this present carnage, I am sure he would be welcomed
by the conference I have suggested as the proposer of the great world peace, thus fulfilling
the glorious destiny for which at one time I considered that he had been chosen from on high."

I asked Mr. Carnegie what part he thought this country, the United States, should play in the
great movement which he has in mind and thoroughly believes is even now upon its way.

"The United States," he answered, "although, happily, not a party to the world crime which
is now in progress, seems entitled to preference as the one to call the nations of the world
to the consideration of the greatest of all blessings--universal, lasting peace."

Woman and War

"SHOT. TELL HIS MOTHER."

By W.E.P. French, Captain, U.S. Army.

What have I done to you, Brothers,--War-Lord and Land-Lord and Priest,--
That my son should rot on the blood-smeared earth where the raven and
     buzzard feast?
He was my baby, my man-child, that soldier with shell-torn breast,
Who was slain for your power and profit--aye, murdered at your behest.
I bore him, my boy and my manling, while the long months ebbed away;
He was part of me, part of my body, which nourished him day by day.
He was mine when the birth-pang tore me, mine when he lay on my heart,
When the sweet mouth mumbled my bosom and the milk-teeth made it smart,
Babyhood, boyhood, and manhood, and a glad mother proud of her son--
See the carrion birds, too gorged to fly! Ah! Brothers, what have you
     done?

You prate of duty and honor, of a patriot's glorious death,
Of love of country, heroic deeds--nay, for shame's sake, spare your
     breath!
Pray, what have you done for your country? Whose was the blood that was
     shed
In the hellish warfare that served your ends? My boy was shot in your
     stead.

And for what were our children butchered, men makers of cruel law?
By the Christ, I am glad no woman made the Christless code of war!
Shirks and schemers, why don't you answer? Is the foul truth hard to
     tell?
Then a mother will tell it for you, of a deed that shames fiends in
     hell:--
Our boys were killed that some faction or scoundrel might win mad race
For goals of stained gold, shamed honors, and the sly self-seeker's
     place;
That money's hold on our country might be tightened and made more sure;
That the rich could inherit earth's fullness and their loot be quite
     secure;
That the world-mart be wider opened to the product mulct from toil;
That the labor and land of our neighbors should become your war-won
     spoil;
That the eyes of an outraged people might be turned from your graft and
     greed
In the misruled, plundered home-land by lure of war's ghastly deed;
And that priests of the warring nations could pray to the selfsame God
For His blessing on battle and murder and corpse-strewn, blood-soaked
     sod.
Oh, fools! if God were a woman, think you She would let kin slay
For gold-lust and craft of gamesters, or cripple that trade might pay?

This quarrel was not the fighters':--the cheated, red pawns in your
     game:--
You stay-at-homes garnered the plunder, but the pawns,--wounds, death,
     and "Fame"!
You paid them a beggarly pittance, your substitute prey-of-the-sword,
But, ye canny beasts of prey, they paid, in life and limb, for your
     hoard.
And, behold! you have other victims: a widow sobs by my side,
Who clasps to her breast a girl-child. Men, she was my slain son's
     bride!

I can smell the stench of the shambles, where the mangled bodies lie; I can hear the moans
of the wounded; I can see the brave lads die; And across the heaped, red trenches and the tortured,
bleeding rows I cry out a mother's pity to all mothers of dear, dead "foes." In love and a
common sorrow, I weep with them o'er our dead, And invoke my sister woman for a curse on each
scheming head.

Nay, why should we mothers curse you? Lo! flesh of our flesh are ye; But, by soul of Mary who
bore the Christ-man murdered at Calvary, Into our own shall the mothers come, and the glad
day speed apace When the law of peace shall be the law of the women that bear the race; When
a man shall stand by his mother, for the worldwide common good, And not bring her tears and
heart-break nor make mock of her motherhood.

The Way to Peace

AN INTERVIEW WITH JACOB H. SCHIFF.

     One of the leading American financiers and noted
     philanthropist; founder of Jewish Theological Seminary and of
     Semitic Museum at Harvard University; a native of Germany and
     member of the firm of Kuhn, Loeb & Co., bankers.

By Edward Marshall.

American as I am in every fibre, and in accord as I feel with every interest of the country
of my adoption, I cannot find myself in agreement with what appears to be, to a considerable
extent, American opinion as to the origin and responsibility for the deplorable conflict in
which almost all of Europe has become involved.

For many reasons my personal sympathies are with Germany. I cannot feel convinced that she
has been the real aggressor; I believe that war was forced upon her, almost as if by prearrangement
among the nations with whom she now contends; I cannot but believe that they had become jealous
and envious of her rapid and unprecedented peaceful development and had concluded that the
moment had arrived when all was favorable for a union against her.

Although I left Germany half a century ago, I would think as little of arraying myself against
her, the country of my birth, in this the moment of her struggle for existence, as of arraying
myself against my parents.

But while I steadfastly believe this war to have been forced upon Germany against her will,
I also believe that circumstances which were stronger than the Governments of England and France,
her present enemies, were necessary to overcome an equally definite reluctance upon their part.

In other words, I cannot wholly blame the English Government, or the French Government, any
more than I can wholly blame the German Government.

Let us see how the great tragedy came about. It is safe to pass rapidly over the Servian-Bosnian-Herzegovinian-Austro-Hungarian
complication which served as the immediate precipitant of hostilities. It has been detailed
repeatedly in THE TIMES and other American publications.

It had reached a point at which the Austro-Hungarian Government felt compelled to take extreme
measures by means of which to safeguard the integrity of the empire.

The firm but fatal ultimatum to Servia followed, the reply to which, suffice it to say, was
unsatisfactory to Austria, who could not accept the suggestion of an investigation into the
circumstances attending the assassination of the Archduke Ferdinand through a commission or
court on which she was not represented.

Like Maine Case.

The situation really was analogous to that which existed between the United States and Spain
when the Maine was blown up in Havana Harbor. In order to fix the responsibility for this dastardly
affair we then similarly demanded an investigation by Spain, to be carried out with the assistance
of representatives of this Government. Spain, too, then offered to conduct an investigation,
but she peremptorily declined to allow us to take part in it.

This attitude on her part quickly brought about our declaration of war against her. It is important
that Americans should realize the similarity in the two situations and the likeness of the
Austrian action of 1914 to that which our own Government took in 1898.

As soon as Austria had rejected as unsatisfactory Servia's reply to her ultimatum she prepared
to undertake a punitive armed expedition against Servia, and Russia at once declared that she
would rank herself as Servia's protector.

Indeed, without any further parley, and to give effect to this threat, Russia immediately mobilized
her army. Since then it has been averred that this mobilization had been in progress for several
weeks previous to Servia's rejection of the Austrian ultimatum.

This made it obligatory upon Germany to go to Austria's aid, under the provisions of their
treaty of alliance, although she was well aware that such an action would bring France into
the conflict under the terms of her alliance with Russia. Indeed, an unsatisfactory reply had
been received from France as to the latter's intentions, but Germany endeavored to secure at
least an assurance of England's neutrality. This proved to be impossible.

How the German Government could indulge for a moment in the hope that in a war with Russia
and France on the one side and Germany and Austria on the other, England could be induced to
remain neutral passes comprehension, but that it did believe this seems a certainty.

The English Government, no doubt, correctly felt that without the aid of its immense resources,
and particularly without the operations of its great navy against Germany and Austria, the
latter nations would find it not so very difficult a task to dispose of both Russia and France.

English statesmen very promptly must have become alive to the probability that a Germany which
had subdued Russia and France, and thus had made itself master of the Continent, would be unlikely
long to tolerate a continuance of England's world leadership.

So, even if the neutrality of Belgium had not been violated, other reasons would have been
found by England for joining France and Russia in the war against Germany, for England would
not risk, without any effort to protect them, the loss of her continued domination of the high
seas and her undisputed possession of her vast colonial empire.

Germany Fighting for Life.

I am not defending the violation of Belgian neutrality. This, undeniably, was a most unjustifiable
action, in spite of German claims that she was forced into it by the necessities of the situation.
But I am explaining that, even had it not occurred, still England would have gone to war.

That was the situation.

Germany is now fighting for her very existence, and I, who am not without knowledge of German
conditions, am convinced that never has there been a war more wholly that of a whole people
than is this present conflict, as far as Germany is concerned.

Any one who has been in even superficial touch with German public opinion and individual feeling
in any part of the empire, since the war began, must know that there is hardly a man, woman,
or child throughout the empire who would hesitate if called upon to sacrifice possessions or
life in order to insure victory to the Fatherland. Seventy million people who are animated
by unanimous sentiment of this sort cannot be crushed, probably not subdued.

And England is confronted by the certainty that her world leadership is the stake for which
she is fighting; that her defeat would mean the end of the vast dominance which she has exercised
throughout the world, since the time of the Armada, through the power of her great navy.

Is it not apparent, therefore, that these nations, if left to themselves, inevitably must continue
the war until one side or the other, or both, shall become exhausted--an eventuation which
may be postponed not for mere months but for years?

In our own civil war Grant for almost two years stood within a hundred or a hundred and fifty
miles of Richmond, the heart of the Confederacy, and was not able to sufficiently subdue Lee's
forces to enable him to get possession of the city until the complete exhaustion of the Confederacy's
resources in men and money had been accomplished.

[Illustration: VISCOUNT JAMES BRYCE

_(Photo from George G. Bain.)_

_See Page 477_]

[Illustration: DR. BERNHARD DERNBURG

_(Photo by Campbell Studios.)_

_See Page 487_]

[Illustration: DAVID STARR JORDAN

_See Page 502_]

[Illustration: JOHN GRIER HIBBEN

_(Photo by McManus.)_

_See Page 503_]

While that situation may not offer a true parallel in all respects to that in which we find
the belligerent forces in the present European war, it nevertheless may be taken as a precedent
proving that frontal encounters of powerful opponents generally do not yield final results
until actual exhaustion compels one side or the other to abandon hope.

Such an exhaustion hardly can be expected within measurable time on the part of either one
or the other of the combatants in the existing European conflict, and this means the probable
continuation for a long period of the merciless slaughter which has marked the last few months.
We hold up our hands in horror at the stories of human sacrifices in the early ages when, after
all, these were, perhaps, less brutal and less appalling than the wholesale slaughter of the
flower of these warring peoples of which we now read almost daily.

As I see the situation there really are only three contestants in the war--England, Russia,
and Germany. France, Belgium, and Austria are important auxiliaries, but they are playing to
a certain extent secondary rôles.

England's real object is the utter defeat of Germany--nothing more nor less than that--and
if this is accomplished England will have control of Europe. It must be remembered that the
English Government and English people frequently have asserted that they would not be satisfied
with mere defeat of Germany's armed forces, but that her power must be permanently paralyzed.

If England should accomplish this, with Germany, its army and its navy, thus wholly out of
the way, no one would be left for England to fear in future upon the high seas.

That might be the chief significance of England's complete victory, and its complete significance
would be that every nation in the world would have to do the British bidding, for should any
one refuse she could completely destroy its commerce and shut off its overseas supplies.

In the cases of most nations overseas supplies include material vital to the continuance of
life and happiness; to every nation, in these days of a developed and habitual foreign trade,
overseas supplies are actually essential, even when they do not necessarily include meats and
wheat and other foodstuffs.

The effect upon the United States of such an English victory would be most disastrous.

The alliance between England and Japan is likely to be permanent. That is something which Americans
cannot afford to forget for a moment.

England needs Japan in the Far East, especially as an ally in case of need, which at some time
is certain to arrive, against Russia; and Japan for many reasons needs the strength of English
backing, without which her financial and political situation soon would become most dangerous,
if not collapse.

Such a permanent alliance would have this consequence upon us, that without even the probability
of difficulties with either England or Japan--and, personally, I do not believe that such a
probability need be feared--we nevertheless year after year would be compelled to increasingly
prepare for what may be defined as the disagreeable possibility of the eventuation of a disagreeable
possibility.

Certainly we should be under the necessity of notably and, therefore, very expensively, increasing
our naval armament; we should be under the necessity of large expenditures for coast defense.

Corollary military cost would be enormous and burdensome. The preparation which would be imposed
on us as a necessity by such a permanent alliance would be sufficiently extensive and expensive
to burden our people heavily and handicap our national progress.

It might involve, perhaps, even a greater hardship in our case than militarism has involved
in Germany. It is improbable that the average American realizes the part which absence of such
burdens has played in our national development so far; it would be difficult for the average
American who has not studied the whole subject carefully to estimate accurately the part which
the imposition of such a burden would be sure to play in our future.

We have been measurably a free people. If we were under the necessity of supporting vast military
and naval establishments we should be that no longer, no matter how completely we adhered to
our democratic political system and ideals. It is not Kings, but what they do, which burdens
countries, and the most burdensome, act of any King is to load his country up with non-productive,
threatening, and expensive war machinery.

The Real Peril.

I fear that the American people as a whole have visualized only slightly, if at all, the real
peril involved in this contingency; but I cannot feel otherwise than sure that soon they must
awake to the great danger that militarism and navalism may be imposed upon them through no
fault of their own.

American impulses trend away from armament toward peaceful development along industrial lines,
but even now political leaders in Washington begin to see what may be coming. The propositions
which already have been made for considerable increases in our naval and military forces may
be regarded as only the forerunners of what is to be expected later.

My sympathies and interests, in other words my patriotic sentiments, are definitely American.
I must repeat that I am of German origin, and that as regards the present struggle I am pro-German,
yet it would be impossible for me to say that I am anti-English, although I am anti-Russian
for reasons that are obvious.

I already have expressed the belief that the complete humiliation of England would be disastrous
to us. Now, it seems to me that if Germany should be completely successful, if she should be
able to wear out the Allies, break down France, hold Russia in check, and cripple or even invade
England, (which many German leaders actually believe can be done, incredible as it may seem
to us,) Germany would acquire a position such as never has been held by any nation since the
beginning of history. Not even the power of the Roman Empire would approach it.

The advance which has marked the development of every means of communication, transportation,
manufacturing, &c., since Rome's day would give Germany, in the case of such an eventuation,
a power which would have been inconceivable to the most ambitious Roman Emperor. It would make
her a menace not only to her immediate neighbors, but to the entire globe.

Could she be trusted with such power? Notwithstanding my personal sympathies, which I have
taken pains to clearly outline, I must admit that I cannot think so. The German character is
not only self-reliant, which is admirable, but it readily becomes domineering, particularly
when in the ascendency.

In the rôle of a world conqueror Germany would become a world dictator--would indulge in a
domination which would be almost unbearable to every other nation. Particularly would this
be the case in respect to her relations with the United States, a nation with which she always
has had and always must have intimate trade and commercial relations.

Should Germany make England impotent and France powerless we should become more or less dependent
upon German good-will, and it is highly probable, indeed I regard it as a certainty, that before
long, in such an event, the Monroe Doctrine would cease to exercise any important influence
on world events. It would become a thing of the past--a "scrap of paper."

You see that while I am not neutral to the extreme, while I fervently hope and pray that Germany
may not be wrecked and that she may emerge from the war with full ability to maintain her own,
I cannot believe that it would be good for her or good for the world in general if she found
herself absolutely and incontrovertibly victorious at the end of the great struggle. In other
words, I wish Germany to be victorious, but I do not wish her to be too victorious.

This brings us definitely to the question as to what can be done to stop this war. Its continuance
is infinitely costly of men and treasure; its prosecution to the bitter end would mean complete
disaster for one contestant and only less complete destruction for the other, and it would
give to the victor, no matter what his sufferings and losses might have been, a power dangerous
to the entire world.

How shall it end? We do not want its end to mean a new European map. Anything of the sort would
include the seed of another European war, to be fought out later and at even greater probable
cost, with all the world-disturbance implied in such an eventuation.

What the United States should desire and does desire is an understanding between these nations,
of just what they are fighting for, which I almost believe they no longer know themselves,
and a conference between them now, a pause to think, which at least may help toward stimulating
each side to make concessions, before the ultimate of damage has been done.

Such a conference might be called even without any interval in warfare and induced without
definite outside intervention from ourselves or any one else. I believe it not to be beyond
the bounds of possibility that if this course could be brought about importantly enough, a
way out of this brutal struggle and carnage might be discovered even now, and I know I am not
alone in this belief.

The situation is unprecedented. No congress such as in former times more than once has settled
wars and brought about peace by the give-and-take process could be of avail in the existing
circumstances. Something far higher than such a conference is needed. This peace must not be
temporary. It must mark not the ending of this war alone but the ending of all war.

Some means must be devised and generally agreed to which, after the re-establishment of peace,
will do away with jealousies among European nations, so that the continual increase of armament
on land and sea no longer will be necessary, and humanity will be freed from its tremendous burden.

It is not at present possible to point out any concrete means by which these things may be
accomplished, but it is not impossible that, when reason shall be returned to the Governments
now at war, they themselves may suggest to one another plans and ways and means how this may
be effectuated.

Toward this end America may help tremendously, and herein lies, it seems to me, the greatest
opportunity ever offered by events to the American press.

Let the newspapers of America stop futile philosophizing upon the merits and demerits of each
case, let them measurably cease their comment upon what each side has accomplished or failed
to accomplish during the tragic four months which have traced their bloody mark on history.

Let them begin to stimulate public opinion in favor of a rational adjustment of the points
at issue--such an adjustment as will leave each contestant unhumiliated and intact, such an
adjustment as will avoid, as far as may be possible, the complete defeat of any one, such an
adjustment as will do what can be done toward righting wrongs already wrought, and such an
adjustment as will let the world return as soon as may be to the paths of peace, productiveness,
prosperity, and happiness.

In suggesting that America should regard this effort as an obligation I am assuming for this
country no rights which are not properly hers. We, a nation of a hundred million people, laboring
constantly for peace and human progress, have a right to make our voice heard, and if we raise
it properly it will find listeners among those who can help toward the accomplishment of what
we seek. But if we would make it heard we must be earnest, be honest, and be ceaseless in the
reiteration of our demand.

Have we not the right to insist that the interests of neutral nations, of whom, with our South
American cousins, (for the better intercourse with whom we have just spent several hundred
millions upon the construction of the Panama Canal,) we form so large a percentage, shall before
long be given some consideration by the nations whose great quarrel is harming us incalculably?

Americans Should Speak Out.

The interruption of our economic development already has become marked and the war's baneful
influence upon moral conditions in our midst shows itself through constantly increasing unemployment
and, as a logical consequence of that, the rapid filling of our eleemosynary and penal institutions.
May we not reasonably demand that this shall speedily be brought to an end?

It probably is true that under the rules of the game the President of the United States cannot
offer his good offices again to the belligerents without first being invited by one or the
other side to do this, but the people of the United States have a voice even more powerful
than his; if that of the people of South America should be joined with it, and if the combined
sound should be made unquestionably apparent to the warring nations, it could not pass unheeded.

Public opinion in the United States should firmly seek to impress upon the warring nations
the conviction that nothing can secure a lasting peace except assurance of conditions under
which not mighty armies and tremendous navies are held to be the factors through which trade
expansion and the conquest of the markets of the world are to be obtained, but that this can
be accomplished better and more lastingly through rigid adherence to the qualities and methods
which generally make for success in commercial or any other peaceful competition--fairness,
thorough efficiency, and hard work.

The concentrated power of the American press and people would be tremendous. I am sure that,
in this instance, it is possible to concentrate it for righteousness and the future good of
all humanity.

Prof. Mather on Mr. Schiff

     Professor of Art at Princeton University; editorial writer for
     The New York Evening Post and Assistant Editor of The Nation,
     1901-06.

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

It seems to me that the Belgian previous question ought to be moved with all candid pro-Germans.
Mr. Schiff is plainly candid, so I have framed an open letter to elicit his opinion:

[_An Open Letter to Jacob H. Schiff._]

Mr. Jacob H. Schiff, New York.

My Dear Sir: The universal esteem which you enjoy in the country of your adoption lends great
weight to any utterance of yours on public matters. Your interview on the war in THE TIMES
of Nov. 22 will everywhere have influence for its gravity and fineness of feeling. It is with
compunction that I call your attention to the fact that your statement is ambiguous on precisely
those issues of the conflict which your fellow-citizens have nearest at heart.

Your general position may be described as a desire for prompt peace and restoration of the
former balance of power. More specifically you wish "Germany to be victorious, but not too
victorious." If this be merely an instinctive expression of the residual German in you, an
expression made with no practical implications of any sort, no American will do otherwise than
respect such a sentiment. But if you deliberately desire a moderate victory for Germany, with
all that such moderate victory practically implies, it behooves your fellow-citizens to judge
your views in the light of what these really call for.

An ever so slightly victorious Germany would presumably retain Belgium, in whole or in part.
Does such a conquest have your moral assent?

Or suppose the rather improbable event of a Germany driven out of Belgium, but otherwise slightly
victorious. In such case not a pfennig of indemnity would come to Belgium. Do you believe that
no indemnity is morally due Belgium?

Knowing your reputation as a man and philanthropist, I can hardly believe that your desire
for a "not too victorious" Germany includes its logical implication of a subjugated or uncompensated
Belgium. But if this be so, candor expects an avowal. Until you have made yourself clear on
the issue that most concerns your fellow-citizens they will remain in doubt as to your whole
moral attitude on the war. Does your pacificism contemplate a German Belgium? I feel sure you
will admit that no fairer question could be set to any one who comments on the sequels of the
war. I am, most respectfully yours,

FRANK JEWETT MATHER, Jr.

Princeton University, Oct. 23, 1914.

The Eliot-Schiff Letters

     _On Nov. 22_ THE NEW YORK TIMES _printed this interview with
     Jacob H. Schiff on the European war reproduced above. Two days
     later Dr. Charles W. Eliot, President Emeritus of Harvard, who
     is an old friend of Mr. Schiff, wrote him a letter of comment
     on THE TIMES interview. This letter resulted in considerable
     correspondence between the two. At the time this
     correspondence was penned there was not the least thought in
     the mind of either of the writers of giving the letters to the
     public. It was simply an interchange of ideas between men who
     had long known each other. When they were convinced, however,
     that publication might serve a useful purpose in shaping
     public opinion, both Mr. Schiff and Dr. Eliot cordially
     assented to their being printed._

Dr. Eliot to Mr. Schiff.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 24, 1914.

Dear Mr. Schiff: It was a great relief to me to read just now your interview in THE NEW YORK
TIMES of Nov. 22, for I have been afraid that your judgment and mine, concerning the desirable
outcome of this horrible war, were very different. I now find that at many points they coincide.

One of my strongest hopes is that one result of the war may be the acceptance by the leading
nations of the world of the precept or law--there shall be no world empire for any single nation.
If I understand you correctly, you hold the same opinion. You wish neither Germany nor England
to possess world empire. You also look forward, as I do, to some contract or agreement among
the leading nations which shall prevent competitive armaments. I entirely agree with you that
it is in the highest degree undesirable that this war should be prolonged to the exhaustion
of either side.

When, however, I come to your discussion of the means by which a good result toward European
order and peace may be brought out of the present convulsion I do not find clear guidance to
present action on your part or mine, or on the part of our Government and people. Was it your
thought that a congress of the peoples of North and South America should now be convened to
bring to bear American opinion on the actual combatants while the war is going on? Or is it
your thought that the American nations wait until there is a lull or pause in the indecisive
fighting?

So far as I can judge from the very imperfect information which reaches us from Germany, the
confidence of the German Emperor and people in their "invincible" army is not much abated,
although it clearly ought to be. It is obvious that American opinion has some weight in Germany;
but has it not enough weight to induce Germany to abandon her intense desire for Belgium and
Holland and extensive colonial possessions? To my thinking, without the abandonment of that
desire and ambition on the part of Germany, there can be no lasting peace in Europe and no
reduction of armaments. Sincerely yours,

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Jacob H. Schiff, Esq.

Mr. Schiff to Dr. Eliot.

NEW YORK, Nov. 25, 1914.

My Dear Dr. Eliot:

I am just in receipt of your thoughtful letter of yesterday, which it has given me genuine
pleasure to receive. While it is true that I have not found myself in accord with many of the
views to which you have given public expression concerning the responsibility for this deplorable
conflict and the unfortunate conditions it has created, I never doubted that as to its desirable
outcome we would find ourselves in accord, and I am very glad to have this confirmed by you,
though as to this our views could not have diverged.

As to the means by which a desirable result toward European order and peace may be brought
about out of the chaos which has become created, it is, I confess, difficult to give guidance
at present. What needs first, in my opinion, to be done is to bring forth a healthy and insistent
public opinion here for an early peace without either side becoming first exhausted, and it
was my purpose in the interview I have given to set the American people thinking concerning
this. I have no idea that I shall have immediate success; but if men like you and others follow
in the same line, I am sure American public opinion can before long be made to express itself
emphatically and insistently in favor of an early peace. Without this it is not unlikely that
this horrible slaughter and destruction may continue for a very, very long time.

Yours most faithfully,

JACOB H. SCHIFF.

President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, Cambridge, Mass.

Dr. Eliot to Mr. Schiff.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Nov. 28, 1914.

Dear Mr. Schiff:

I think, just as you do, that the thing which most needs to be done is to induce Germany to
modify its present opinion that the nation must fight for its very life to its last mark and
the last drop of its blood. Now, every private letter that I have received from Germany, and
every printed circular, pamphlet, or book on the war which has come to me from German sources
insists on the view that, for Germany, it is a question between world empire or utter downfall.
There is no sense or reason in this view, but the German philosophers, historians, and statesmen
are all maintaining it at this moment.

England, France, and Russia have no such expectations or desires as regards the fate of Germany.
What they propose to do is to put a stop to Germany's plan of attaining world empire by militarism.
Have you any means of getting into the minds of some of the present rulers of Germany the idea
that no such alternative as life or death is presented to Germany in this war, and that the
people need only abandon their world-empire ambitions while securing safety in the heart of
Europe and a chance to develop all that is good in German civilization? Sincerely yours,

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Jacob H. Schiff, Esq.

Mr. Schiff to Dr. Eliot.

The Greenbrier, WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS, W. Va., Dec. 1, 1914.

Dear Dr. Eliot:

I have received today your letter of the 28th ult., and I hasten to reply to it, for I know
of nought that is of more importance than the discussion between earnest men of what might
be done to bring to cessation this horrible and senseless war.

I believe you are mistaken--though in this I am stating nothing, absolutely, but my personal
opinion--that Germany would not listen to the suggestion for a restoration of peace until it
has either come into a position to dictate the terms or until it is utterly crushed. Indeed,
I rather feel, and I have indications that such is the case, that England is unwilling to stop
short of crushing Germany, and it is now using all the influence it can bring to bear in this
country to prevent public opinion being aroused in favor of the stoppage of hostilities and
re-establishment of peace.

The same mail which brought your letter this morning brought me also a letter from a leading
semi-military man, whom I know by name, but not personally. It is so fine and timely that I
venture to inclose a copy for your perusal. Why would not you, and perhaps Dr. Andrew D. White,
who--is it not a coincidence--has likewise written me today on the subject of my recent TIMES
interview, be the very men to carry out the suggestion made by my correspondent?

Perhaps no other two men in the entire country are so greatly looked up to by its people for
guidance as you--in the first instance--and Dr. White. You could surely bestow no greater gift
upon the entire civilized world than if now, in the evening of a life which has been of such
great value to mankind, you would call around you a number of leading, earnest Americans with
the view of discussing and framing plans through which American public opinion could be crystallized
and aroused to the point where it will insistently demand that these warring nations come together
and, with the experience they have made to their great cost, make at least an attempt to find
a way out. I cannot but believe that the Governments of England, France, and Germany--if not
Russia--will have to listen, if the American people speak with no uncertain voice. Do it, and
you will deserve and receive the blessing of this and of coming generations! Yours most faithfully,

JACOB H. SCHIFF.

Dr. Eliot to Mr. Schiff.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec. 8, 1914.

Dear Mr. Schiff:

I thank you for your letter of Dec. 1 and its interesting inclosure.

Although every thoughtful person must earnestly desire that the waste and destruction of this
greatest of wars should be stopped as soon as possible, there is an overpowering feeling that
the war should go on until all the combatants, including Germany, have been brought to see
that the Governmental régime and the state of the public mind in Germany which have made this
war possible are not consistent with the security and well-being of Europe in the future.

Personally, I feel strongly that the war ought to go on so long as Germany persists in its
policies of world empire, dynastic rule, autocratic bureaucracy, and the use of force in international
dealings. If the war stops before Germany sees that those policies cannot prevail in twentieth-century
Europe, the horrible wrongs and evils which we are now witnessing will recur; and all the nations
will have to continue the destructive process of competitive armaments. If peace should be
made now, before the Allies have arrived at attacking Germany on her own soil, there would
result only a truce of moderate length, and then a renewal of the present horrors.

I cannot but think that Europe now has a chance to make a choice between the German ideal of
the State and the Anglo-American ideal. These two ideals are very different; and the present
conflict shows that they cannot coexist longer in modern Europe.

In regard to the suggestion which your correspondent made to you that a conference of private
persons should now be called in the hope of arriving at an agreed-upon appeal to the combatants
to desist from fighting and consider terms of settlement, I cannot but feel (1) that such a
conference would have no assured status; (2) that the combatants would not listen; and (3)
that the effort would, therefore, be untimely now, though perhaps useful later.

One idea might possibly bring about peace, if it fructified in the mind of the German Emperor--the
idea, namely, that the chance of Germany's obtaining dominating power in either Europe or the
world having already gone, the wise thing for him to do is to save United Germany within her
natural boundaries for secure development as a highly civilized strong nation in the heart
of Europe. Surplus population can always emigrate happily in the future as in the past.

The security of Germany would rest, however, on an international agreement to be maintained
by an international force; whereas, the example which Germany has just given of the reckless
violation of international agreements is extremely discouraging in regard to the possibility
of securing the peace of Europe in the future.

Although this war has already made quite impossible the domination of Germany in Europe or
in the world, the leaders of Germany do not yet see or apprehend that impossibility. Hence,
many earnest peace-seekers have to confess that they do not see any means whatever available
for promoting peace in Europe now, or even procuring a short truce.

I wish I could believe with you that the Governments of England, France, Germany, and Russia
would listen to the voice of the American people. They all seem to desire the good opinion
and moral support of America; but I see no signs that they would take American advice or imitate
American example. President Wilson seems to think that this country will be accepted as a kind
of umpire in this formidable contest; but surely we have no right to any such position. Our
example in avoiding aggression on other nations, and in declining to enter the contest for
world power, ought to have some effect in abating European ambitions in that direction; but
our exhortations to peace and good-will will, I fear, have little influence. There is still
a real contest on between democracy and oligarchical methods.

You see, my dear Mr. Schiff, that I regard this war as the result of long-continuing causes
which have been gathering force for more than fifty years. In Germany all the forces of education,
finance, commercial development, a pagan philosophy, and Government have been preparing this
war since 1860. To stop it now, before these forces have been overwhelmingly defeated, and
before the whole German people is convinced that they are defeated, would be to leave humanity
exposed to the certain recurrence of the fearful convulsions we are now witnessing.

If anybody can show me any signs that the leaders of Germany are convinced that there is to
be no world empire for Germany or any other nation, and no despotic Government in Europe, I
shall be ready to take part in any effectual advocacy of peace. Sincerely yours.

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Jacob H. Schiff, Esq.

Mr. Schiff to Dr. Eliot.

NEW YORK, Dec. 5, 1914.

President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, Cambridge, Mass.

Dear Dr. Eliot:

Your letter of Dec. 3 reached me this morning, and has given me much food for thought.

I wish I could follow you in the position you have taken, for I like nothing better than to
sit at the feet of a master like you and be instructed. But, much as I have tried, even before
our recent correspondence was begun, to get at your viewpoint as from time to time published,
I have not been able to convince myself that you occupy a correct position. Please accept this
as expressed in all modesty, for I know were you not thoroughly convinced of the justice of
the position you have taken from the start you would not be so determined in holding to it.

I am perfectly frank to say that I am amazed and chagrined when you say that you feel strongly
that the war ought to go on until the Allies have arrived at attacking Germany on her own soil,
which, if this is at all likely to come, may take many months yet, and will mean sacrifice
of human life on both sides more appalling than anything we have seen yet since the war began.
So you are willing that, with all the human life that has already perished, practically the
entire flower of the warring nations shall become exterminated before even an effort be made
to see whether these nations cannot be brought to reason, cannot be made to stop and to consider
whether, with the experience of the past four months before them, it would not be better to
even now make an effort to find a way in which the causes that have led to this deplorable
conflict can be once and forever eradicated?

That it will be possible to find at this time any method or basis through the adoption of which
the world would become entirely immune against war I do not believe, even by the establishment
of the international police force such as you and others appear to have in mind.

The perpetual cessation of all war between the civilized nations of the world can, as I see
it, only be brought about in two ways, both Utopian and likely impracticable, for many years
to come. War could be made only to cease entirely if all the nations of Europe could be organized
into a United States of Europe and if free trade were established throughout the world. In
the first instance, the extreme nationalism, which has become so rampant during the past fifty
years and which has been more or less at the bottom of every war, would then cease to exist
and prevail, and in the second event, namely, if free trade became established throughout the
world the necessity for territorial expansion and aggression would no longer be needed, for,
with the entire world open on equal terms to the commerce and industry of every nation, territorial
possession would not be much of a consideration to any peoples.

You continually lay stress upon the danger of the domination of Germany in Europe and in the
world. I believe I have already made myself quite clear in my recent NEW YORK TIMES interview,
which has called forth this correspondence between us, that neither would I wish to have Germany
come into a position where it might dominate Europe, and more or less the world, nor do I believe
that the German Nation, except perhaps a handful of extremists, has any such desires.

I believe I have also made myself quite clear in the interview to which I have referred that
my feelings are not anti-English, for I shall never forget that liberal government and all
forms of liberalism have had their origin, ever since the Magna Charta, in that great nation
whom we so often love to call our cousins. But, with all of this, can you ignore the fact that
England even today, without the further power and prestige victory in the present conflict
would give her, practically dominates the high seas, that she treats the ocean as her own and
enforces her dictates upon the waters even to our very shores? That this is true the past four
months have amply proved. I am not one of those who fear that the United States, as far as
can now be foreseen, will get into any armed conflict with Great Britain or with Japan, her
permanent ally, but I can well understand that many in our country are of a different opinion,
and it takes no prophet to foresee that, with England coming out of this war victorious and
her and Japan's power on the high seas increased, the demand from a large section of our people
for the acquisition and possession of the United States of an increased powerful navy and for
the erection of vast coast defenses, both on the Atlantic and Pacific shores, will become so
insistent that it cannot be withstood. What this will mean to the American people in lavish
expenditures and in increased taxation I need not here further go into.

Yes, my dear and revered friend, I can see nought but darkness if a way cannot be soon found
out of the present deplorable situation as it exists in Europe.

But even if the Allies are victorious it will mean, as I am convinced, the beginning of the
descent of England as the world's leader and the hastened ascendency of Russia, who, not today
or tomorrow, but in times to come, is sure to crowd out England from the world's leadership.
A Russia that will have become democratic in its government, be it as a republic or under a
truly constitutional monarchy; a Russia in which education will be as free as it is in our
own country; a Russia in which the people can move about and make homes in the vast territory
she possesses wherever they can find most happiness and prosperity; a Russia with its vast
natural resources of every kind fully developed, is bound to be the greatest and most powerful
nation on the earth.

But I am going too far into the future and I must return to the sad and deplorable present.
I only wanted to show how England's alliance with this present-day Russia and its despotic,
autocratic, and inhuman Government may, if the Allies shall be victorious, prove possibly in
the nearer future, but certainly in the long run, England's Nemesis.

Before closing I want to correct the impression you appear to have received that I have meant
to suggest a conference of private persons for the purpose of agreeing upon an appeal by them
to the nations of Europe to desist from fighting and consider terms of settlement. I know this
would be entirely impracticable and useless, but what I meant to convey to you was my conviction
that if you and men like you, of whom I confess there are but too few, were to make the endeavor
to rouse public opinion in the United States to a point where it should insistently demand
that this terrific carnage of blood and destruction cease, it would not be long before these
warring Governments would take notice of such sentiments on the part of the American people;
and what should be done at once is the stoppage of the furnishing of munitions of war to any
of the belligerents, as is unfortunately done to so great an extent at present from this country.

We freely and abundantly give to the Red Cross and the many other relief societies, but we
do this, even if indirectly, out of the very profits we derive from the war material we sell
to the belligerents, and with which the wounds the Red Cross and other relief societies endeavor
to assuage are inflicted. Yours most faithfully,

JACOB H. SCHIFF.

Dr. Eliot to Mr. Schiff.

CAMBRIDGE, Mass., Dec. 8, 1914.

Dear Mr. Schiff:

Your letter of Dec. 5 tells me what the difference is between you and me in respect to the
outcome of the war--I am much more hopeful or sanguine of the world's getting good out of it
than you are. Since you do not hope to get any good to speak of out of it, you want to stop
it as soon as possible. You look forward to future war from time to time between the nations
of Europe and to the maintenance of competitive armaments. You think that the lust of dominion
must continue to be felt and gratified, now by one nation and now by another; that Great Britain
can gratify it now, but that she will be overpowered by Russia by and by.

I am unwilling to accept these conditions for Europe, or for the world, without urging the
freer nations to make extraordinary efforts to reach a better solution of the European international
problem which, unsolved, has led down to this horrible pit of general war.

I have just finished another letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES, which will probably be in print
by the time you get back to New York, so I will not trouble you with any exposition of the
grounds of my hopefulness. It is because I am hopeful that I want to see this war fought out
until Germany is persuaded that she cannot dominate Europe, or, indeed, make her will prevail
anywhere by force of arms. When that change of mind has been effected I hope that Germany will
become a member of a federation firm enough and powerful enough to prevent any single nation
from aiming at world empire, or even pouncing on a smaller neighbor.

There is another point on which I seem to differ from you: I do not believe that any single
nation has now, or can ever hereafter have, the leadership of the world, whereas you look forward
to the existence of such leadership or domination in the hands of a single great power. Are
there not many signs already, both in the East and in the West, that the time has past for
world empire? Very sincerely and cordially yours,

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Jacob H. Schiff, Esq.

Mr. Schiff to Dr. Eliot.

NEW YORK, Dec. 14, 1914.

Dear Dr. Eliot:

I have delayed replying to your valued letter of the 8th inst. until after the appearance of
your further letter to THE NEW YORK TIMES, to which you had made reference, and, like everything
emanating from you, the contents of your last TIMES letter have evoked my deepest interest.

Had our recent correspondence not already become more extended than you likely had intended
it to become when you first wrote me on the subject of my TIMES interview of some weeks ago,
I should go into your latest arguments at greater length. As it is, I shall only reiterate
that I find myself unable to follow you in your belief and hope, that world empire and world
leadership, as this now exists, is likely to cease as a consequence of the present war, much
as we all may desire this.

England has taken up arms to retain her world dominion and leadership; and to gain it, Germany
is fighting. How can you, then, expect that England, if victorious, would be willing to surrender
her control of the oceans and the dominion over the trade of the world she possesses in consequence,
and where is there, then, room for the hope you express that world leadership may become a
thing of the past with the termination of the present conflict?

I repeat, with all my attachment for my native land and its people, I have no inimical feeling
toward England, have warm sentiments for France, and the greatest compassion for brave, stricken
Belgium.

Thus, "with malice toward none," and with the highest respect for your expressed views, I am
still of the opinion that there can be no greater service rendered to mankind than to make
the effort, either through the force of public opinion of the two Americas, or otherwise, to
bring these warring Governments together at an early moment, even if this can only be done
without stopping their conflict, so that they may make the endeavor, whether--with their costly
experience of the last five months, with the probability that they now know better what need
be done to make the extreme armaments on land and sea as unnecessary as they are undesirable
in the future--a basis cannot be found upon which disarmament can be effectively and permanently
brought about.

This, at some time, they will have come to, in any event, and must there first more human lives
be sacrificed into the hundreds and hundreds of thousands, and still greater havoc be wrought,
before passions can be made to cease and reason be made to return?

If, as you seem to think, the war need go on until one country is beaten into a condition where
it must accept the terms the victor chooses to impose, because it can no longer help itself
to do else, the peace thus obtained will only be the harbinger of another war in the near or
distant future, bloodier probably than the present sanguinary conflict, and through no compact
which might be entered into will it be possible to actually prevent this.

Twenty centuries ago Christianity came into the world with its lofty message of "peace on earth
and good-will to men," and now, after two thousand years, and at the near approach of the season
when Christianity celebrates the birth of its founder, it is insisted that the merciless slaughter
of man by man we have been witnessing these last months must be permitted to be continued into
the infinite. Most faithfully yours,

JACOB H. SCHIFF.

President Emeritus Charles W. Eliot, Cambridge, Mass.

LA CATHEDRALE.

From Figaro.

By EDMOND ROSTAND.

    Ils n'ont fait que la rendre un peu plus immortelle.
    L'Oeuvre ne périt pas, que mutile un gredin.
    Demande à Phidias et demande à Rodin
    Si, devant ses morceaux, on ne dit plus: "C'est Elle!"

    La Forteresse meurt quand on la démantèle.
    Mais le Temple, brisé, vit plus noble; et soudain
    Les yeux, se souvenant du toit avec dédain,
    Préfèrent voir le ciel dans la pierre en dentelle.

    Rendons grace--attendu qu'il nous manquait encor
    D'avoir ce qu'ont les Grecs sur la colline d'or;
    Le Symbole du Beau consacré par l'insulte!--

    Rendons grace aux pointeurs du stupide canon,
    Puisque de leur adresse allemande il résulte
    Une Honte pour eux, pour nous un Parthénon!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CATHEDRAL.

A Free Translation of Rostand's Sonnet.

By FRANCES C. FAY.

    "Deathless" is graven deeper on thy brow;
    Ghouls have no power to end thy endless sway.
    The Greek of old, the Frenchman of today,
    Before thy riven shrine are bending now.

    A wounded fortress straightway lieth prone,
    Not so the Temple dies; its roof may fall,
    The sky its covering vault, an azure pall,
    Doth droop to crown its wealth of lacework stone.

    Praise to you, Vandal guns of dull intent!
    We lacked till now our Beauty's monument
    Twice hallowed o'er by insult's brutal hand,

    As Pallas owns on Athens' golden hill,
    We have it now, thanks to your far-flung brand!
    Your shame--our gain, misguided German skill!

Probable Causes and Outcome of the War

By Charles W. Eliot.

     President Emeritus of Harvard University; Officer Legion
     d'Honneur (France); Imperial Order of the Rising Sun, first
     class (Japan); Royal Prussian Order of the Crown, first class;
     Grand Officer of the Crown of Italy; Member of the General
     Education Board, and an original investigator for the cause of
     international peace.

     _Following Is Reproduced a Series of Five Letters to_ THE NEW
     YORK TIMES _from Dr. Eliot, Together with the Comments Thereon
     by Eminent Critics._

DR. ELIOT'S FIRST LETTER.

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

The American people without distinction of party are highly content with the action of their
National Administration on all the grave problems presented to the Government by the sudden
outbreak of long-prepared war in Europe--a war which already involves five great States and
two small ones. They heartily approve of the action of the Administration on mediation, neutrality,
aid to Americans in Europe, discouragement of speculation in foods, and, with the exception
of extreme protectionists, admission to American registery of foreign-built ships; although
the legislation on the last subject, which has already passed Congress, is manifestly inadequate.

Our people cannot see that the war will necessarily be short, and they cannot imagine how it
can last long. They realize that history gives no example of such a general interruption of
trade and all other international intercourse as has already taken place, or of such a stoppage
of the production and distribution of the necessaries of life as this war threatens. They shudder
at the floods of human woe which are about to overwhelm Europe.

Hence, thinking Americans cannot help reflecting on the causes of this monstrous outbreak of
primitive savagery--part of them come down from the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries and
part developed in the nineteenth--and wondering what good for mankind, if any, can possibly
come out of the present cataclysm.

The whole people of the United States, without regard to racial origin, are of one mind in
hoping that mankind may gain out of this prodigious physical combat, which uses for purposes
of destruction and death all the new forces of nineteenth-century applied science, some new
liberties and new securities in the pursuit of happiness; but at this moment they can cherish
only a remote hope of such an issue. The military force which Austria-Hungary and Germany are
now using on a prodigious scale, and with long-studied skill, can only be met by similar military
force, and this resisting force is summoned more slowly than that of Austria-Hungary and Germany,
although the ultimate battalions will be heavier. In this portentous physical contest the American
people have no part; their geographical position, their historical development, and their political
ideals combine to make them for the present mere spectators, although their interests--commercial,
industrial, and political--are deeply involved. For the moment, the best thing our Government
can do is to utilize all existing neutrality rights, and, if possible, to strengthen or develop
those rights, for out of this war ought to come more neutral States in Europe and greater security
for neutralized territory.

The Need for Discussion.

The chances of getting some gains for mankind out of this gigantic struggle will be somewhat
increased if the American people, and all other neutral peoples, arrive through public discussion
at some clear understanding of the causes and the possible and desirable issues of the war,
and the sooner this public discussion begins, and the more thoroughly it is pursued, the sounder
will probably be the tendencies of public sentiment outside of the contending nations and the
conclusions which the peace negotiations will ultimately reach.

When one begins, however, to reflect on the probable causes of the sudden lapse of the most
civilized parts of Europe into worse than primitive savagery, he comes at once on two old and
widespread evils in Europe from which America has been exempt for at least 150 years. The first
is secret diplomacy with power to make issues and determine events, and the second is autocratic
national Executives who can swing the whole physical force of the nation to this side or that
without consulting the people or their representatives.

The actual catastrophe proves that secret negotiations like those habitually conducted on behalf
of the "concert of Europe," and alliances between selected nations, the terms of which are
secret, or at any rate not publicly stated, cannot avert in the long run outrageous war, but
can only produce postponements of war, or short truces. Free institutions, like those of the
United States, take the public into confidence, because all important movements of the Government
must rest on popular desires, needs, and volitions. Autocratic institutions have no such necessity
for publicity. This Government secrecy as to motives, plans, and purposes must often be maintained
by disregarding truth, fair dealing, and honorable obligations, in order that, when the appeal
to force comes, one Government may secure the advantage of taking the other by surprise. Duplicity
during peace and the breaking of treaties during war come to be regarded as obvious military
necessities.

The second great evil under which certain large nations of Europe--notably Russia, Germany,
and Austria-Hungary--have long suffered and still suffer is the permanent national Executive,
independent of popular control through representative bodies, holding strong views about rights
of birth and religious sanctions of its authority, and really controlling the national forces
through some small council and a strong bureaucracy. So long as Executives of this sort endure,
so long will civilization be liable to such explosions as have taken place this August, though
not always on so vast a scale.

Americans now see these things more clearly than European lovers of liberty, because Americans
are detached from the actual conflicts by the Atlantic, and because Americans have had no real
contact with the feudal or the imperial system for nearly 300 years. Pilgrim and Puritan, Covenanter
and Quaker, Lutheran and Catholic alike left the feudal system and autocratic government behind
them when they crossed the Atlantic. Americans, therefore, cannot help hoping that two results
of the present war will be: (1) The abolition of secret diplomacy and secret understandings,
and the substitution therefor of treaties publicly discussed and sanctioned, and (2) the creation
of national Executives--Emperors, Sultans, Kings, or Presidents--which cannot use the national
forces in fight until a thoroughly informed national assembly, acting with deliberation, has
agreed to that use.

Opposite Tendencies.

The American student of history since the middle of the seventeenth century sees clearly two
strong though apparently opposite tendencies in Europe: First, the tendency to the creation
and maintenance of small States such as those which the Peace of Westphalia (1648) recognized
and for two centuries secured in a fairly independent existence, and, secondly, a tendency
from the middle of the nineteenth century toward larger national units, created by combining
several kindred States under one executive. This second tendency was illustrated strongly in
the case of both Germany and Italy, although the Prussian domination in Germany has no parallel
in Italy. Somewhat earlier in the nineteenth century the doctrine of the neutralization of
the territories of small States was established as firmly as solemn treaties could do it. The
larger national units had a more or less federative quality, the components yielding some of
their functions to a central power, but retaining numerous independent functions. This tendency
to limited unification is one which Americans easily understand and appreciate. We believe
in the federative principle, and must therefore hope that out of the present European horror
will come a new development of that principle, and new security for small States which are
capable of guaranteeing to their citizens "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness"--a
security which no citizen of any European country seems today to possess.

Some of the underlying causes of the horrible catastrophe the American people are now watching
from afar are commercial and economic. Imperial Germany's desire for colonies in other continents--such
as Great Britain and France secured earlier as a result of keen commercial ambitions--is intense.
Prussia's seizure of Schleswig in 1864-5 had the commercial motive; and it is with visions
of ports on the North Sea that Germany justifies her present occupation of Belgium. The Russians
have for generations desired to extend their national territory southward to the Aegean and
the Bosphorus, and eastward to good harbors on the Pacific. Later they pushed into Mongolia
and Manchuria, but were resisted successfully by Japan. Austria-Hungary has long been seeking
ports on the Adriatic, and lately seized without warrant Herzegovina and Bosnia to promote
her approach toward the Aegean, and is now trying to seize Servia with the same ends in view.
With similar motives Italy lately descended on Tripoli, without any excuse except this intense
desire for colonies--profitable or unprofitable. On the other hand, the American people, looking
to the future as well as to the past, object to acquisitions of new territory by force of arms;
and since the twentieth century opened they have twice illustrated in their own practice--first
in Cuba, and then in Mexico--this democratic objection. They believe that extensions of national
territory should be brought about only with the indubitable consent of the majority of the
people most nearly concerned. They also believe that commerce should always be a means of promoting
good-will, and not ill-will, among men, and that all legitimate and useful extensions of the
commerce of a manufacturing and commercial nation may be procured through the policy of the
"open door"--which means nothing more than that all nations should be allowed to compete on
equal terms for the trade of any foreign people, whether backward or advanced in civilization.
No American Administration has accepted a "concession" of land in China. They also believe
that peaceable extensions of territory and trade will afford adequate relief from the economic
pressure on a population too large for the territory it occupies, and that there is no need
of forcible seizure of territory to secure relief. It is inevitable, therefore, that the American
people should hope that one outcome of the present war should be--no enlargement of a national
territory by force or without the free consent of the population to be annexed, and no colonization
except by peaceable commercial and industrial methods.

Aggressive Force a Failure.

One of the most interesting and far-reaching effects of the present outbreak of savagery is
likely to be the conviction it carries to the minds of thinking people that the whole process
of competitive armaments, the enlistment of the entire male population in national armies,
and the incessant planning of campaigns against neighbors, is not a trustworthy method for
preserving peace. It now appears that the military preparations of the last fifty years in
Europe have resulted in the most terrific war of all time, and that a fierce ultimate outbreak
is the only probable result of the system. For the future of civilization this is a lesson
of high value. It teaches that if modern civilization is to be preserved, national Executives--whether
imperial or republican--must not have at their disposal immense armaments and drilled armies
held ready in the leash; that armaments must be limited, an international Supreme Court established,
national armies changed to the Swiss form, and an international force adequate to deal with
any nation that may suddenly become lawless agreed upon by treaty and held always in readiness.
The occasional use of force will continue to be necessary even in the civilized world; but
it must be made not an aggressive but a protective force and used as such--just as protective
force has to be used sometimes in families, schools, cities, and Commonwealths.

At present Americans do not close their eyes to the plain fact that the brute force which Germany
and Austria-Hungary are now using can only be overcome by brute force of the same sort in larger
measure. It is only when negotiations for peace begin that the great lesson of the futility
of huge preparations for fighting to preserve peace can be given effect. Is it too much to
expect that the whole civilized world will take to heart the lessons of this terrible catastrophe
and co-operate to prevent the recurrence of such losses and woes? Should Germany and Austria-Hungary
succeed in their present undertakings, the whole civilized world would be obliged to bear continuously,
and to an ever-increasing amount, the burdens of great armaments, and would live in constant
fear of sudden invasion, now here, now there--a terrible fear, against which neither treaties
nor professions of peaceable intentions would offer the least security.

It must be admitted, however, that the whole military organization, which has long been compulsory
on the nations of Continental Europe, is inconsistent in the highest degree with American ideals
of individual liberty and social progress. Democracies can fight with ardor, and sometimes
with success, when the whole people is moved by a common sentiment or passion; but the structure
and discipline of a modern army like that of Germany, Austria-Hungary, or Russia, has a despotic
or autocratic quality which is inconsistent with the fundamental principles of democratic society.
To make war in countries like France, Great Britain, and the United States requires the widespread,
simultaneous stirring of the passions of the people on behalf of their own ideals. This stirring
requires publicity before and after the declaration of war and public discussion; and the delays
which discussion causes are securities for peace. Out of the present struggle should come a
check on militarism--a strong revulsion against the use of force as means of settling international
disputes.

America Cannot Be Indifferent.

It must also be admitted that it is impossible for the American people to sympathize with the
tone of the imperial and royal addresses which, in summoning the people to war, use such phrases
as "My monarchy," "My loyal people," "My loyal subjects"; for there is implied in such phrases
a dynastic or personal ownership of peoples which shocks the average American. Americans inevitably
think that the right way for a ruler to begin an exhortation to the people he rules is President
Wilson's way: "My fellow-countrymen."

It follows from the very existence of these American instincts and hopes that, although the
people of the United States mean to maintain faithfully a legal neutrality, they are not, and
can not be, neutral or indifferent as to the ultimate outcome of this titanic struggle. It
already seems to them that England, France, and Russia are fighting for freedom and civilization.
It does not follow that thinking Americans will forget the immense services which Germany has
rendered to civilization during the last hundred years, or desire that her power to serve letters,
science, art, and education should be in the least abridged in the outcome of this war upon
which she has entered so rashly and selfishly and in so barbarous a spirit. Most educated Americans
hope and believe that by defeating the German barbarousness the Allies will only promote the
noble German civilization.

[Illustration: JOHN W. BURGESS

_(Photo by Alman & Co.)_

_See Page 507_]

[Illustration: WILLIAM M. SLOANE

_(Photo by Pach.)_

_See Page 515_]

The presence of Russia in the combination against Germany and Austria-Hungary seems to the
average American an abnormal phenomenon; because Russia is itself a military monarchy with
marked territorial ambitions; and its civilization is at a more elementary stage than that
of France or England; but he resists present apprehension on this score by recalling that Russia
submitted to the "Concert of Europe" when her victorious armies were within seventeen miles
of Constantinople, that she emancipated her serfs, proposed The Hague Conferences, initiated
the "Duma," and has lately offered--perhaps as war measures only--autonomy to her Poles and
equal rights of citizenship to her Jews. He also cannot help believing that a nation which
has produced such a literature as Russia has produced during the last fifty years must hold
within its multitudinous population a large minority which is seething with high aspirations
and a fine idealism.

For the clarification of the public mind on the issue involved, it is important that the limits
of American neutrality should be discussed and understood. The action of the Government must
be neutral in the best sense; but American sympathies and hopes cannot possibly be neutral,
for the whole history and present state of American liberty forbids. For the present, thinking
Americans can only try to appreciate the scope and real issues of this formidable convulsion,
and so be ready to seize every opportunity that may present itself to further the cause of
human freedom, and of peace at last.

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Asticou, Me., Sept. 1, 1914.

Appreciation from Lord Bryce

     Late Ambassador at Washington from Great Britain; Chief
     Secretary for Ireland, 1905-6; author of "The American
     Commonwealth," and of studies in history and biography.

It has been a great pleasure to see from your published letter, which has just reached us,
that you so clearly understand the motive and feelings with which Great Britain has entered
on the present war. Neither commercial rivalry nor any fancied jealousy of Germany's greatness
has led us into it, and to the German people our people bear no ill-will whatever. Along with
many others I have worked steadily during long years for the maintenance of friendship with
Germany, admiring the splendid gifts of the German race, and recognizing their enormous services
to science, philosophy, and literature. We had hoped, as some thoughtful statesmen in Germany
had also hoped, that by a cordial feeling between Germany and Britain the peace of Europe might
be secured and something done to bring about permanently better relations between Germany and
her two great neighbors with whom we found ourselves on friendly terms; and we had confidently
looked to the United States to join with us in this task. But the action of the German Government
in violating the neutrality of Belgium when France had assured us that she would respect it,
the invasion of a small State whose neutrality and independence she and England had joined
in guaranteeing, evoked in this country an almost unanimous sentiment that the faith of treaties
and the safety of small States must be protected. There has been no war for more than a century--perhaps
two centuries--into which the nation has entered with so general a belief that its action is
justified. We rejoice to be assured that this is the general feeling of the people of the United
States, whose opinion we naturally value more than we do that of any other people.

Most persons in this country, including all those who work for peace, agree with you in deploring
the vast armaments which European States have been piling up, and will hope with you that after
this war they may be reduced--and safely reduced--to slender dimensions. Their existence is
a constant menace to peace. They foster that spirit of militarism which has brought these horrors
on the world; for they create in the great countries of the Continent a large and powerful
military and naval caste which lives for war, talks and writes incessantly of war, and glorifies
war as a thing good in itself.

It is (as you say) to the peoples that we must henceforth look to safeguard international concord.
They bear the miseries of war, they ought to have the power to arrest the action of those who
are hurrying them into it.

To get rid of secret diplomacy is more difficult in Europe than in America, whose relations
with foreign States are fewer and simpler, but what you say upon that subject also will find
a sympathetic echo here among the friends of freedom and of peace. I am always sincerely yours,

JAMES BRYCE.

Forest Row, Sussex, Sept. 17, 1914.

A Reply by Dr. Francke

     Professor of the History of German Culture at Harvard
     University and Curator of the Germanic Museum; author of works
     on German literature.

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

In his letter of Sept. 1 President Eliot expresses the opinion that in the present war "England,
France, and Russia are fighting for freedom and civilization." And he adds:

     It does not follow that thinking Americans will forget the
     immense services which Germany has rendered to civilization
     during the last hundred years, or desire that her power to
     serve letters, science, art, and education should be in the
     least abridged in the outcome of this war, upon which she has
     entered so rashly and selfishly and in so barbarous a spirit.
     Most educated Americans hope and believe that by defeating the
     German barbarousness the Allies will only promote the noble
     German civilization.

In other words, German military and political power is to be crushed in order to set free the
German genius for science, literature, and art. It is interesting to contrast with such views
as these the following words of Goethe, uttered in 1813:

     I have often felt a bitter grief at the thought of the German
     people, which is so noble individually and so wretched as a
     whole. A comparison of the German people with other nations
     gives us painful feelings, which I try to overcome by all
     possible means; and in science and art I have found the wings
     which lift me above them. But the comfort which they afford
     is, after all, only a miserable comfort, and does not make up
     for the proud consciousness of belonging to a nation strong,
     respected, and feared. However, I am comforted by the thought
     of Germany's future. Yes, the German people has a future. The
     destiny of the Germans is not yet fulfilled. The time, the
     right time, no human eye can foresee, nor can human power
     hasten it on. To us individuals, meanwhile, is it given, to
     every one according to his talents, his inclinations, and his
     position, to increase, to strengthen, and to spread national
     culture. In order that in this respect, at least, Germany may
     be ahead of other nations and that the national spirit,
     instead of being stifled and discouraged, may be kept alive
     and hopeful and ready to rise in all its might when the day of
     glory dawns.

If I am not mistaken, these words of Germany's greatest poet express accurately what the German
people during the last hundred years has been striving for--national culture and national pre-eminence
in every field of human activity. To advocate the reduction of Germany to a land of isolated
scientists, poets, artists, and educators is tantamount to a call for the destruction of the
German Nation.

KUNO FRANCKE.

Harvard University, Sept. 5, 1914.

DR. ELIOT'S SECOND LETTER

The Stout and Warlike Breed

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

There is nothing new in the obsession of the principal European nations that, in order to be
great and successful in the world as it is, they must possess military power available for
instant aggression on weak nations, as well as for effective defense against strong ones.

When Sir Francis Bacon wrote his essay on "The True Greatness of Kingdoms and Estates" he remarked
that forts, arsenals, goodly races of horses, armaments, and the like would all be useless
"except the breed and disposition of the people be stout and warlike." He denied that money
is the sinews of war, giving preference to the sinews of men's arms, and quoted Solon's remark
to Croesus, "Sir, if any other come that hath better iron than you, he will be master of all
this gold"--a truly Bismarckian proposition. Indeed, Sir Francis Bacon says explicitly "that
the principal point of greatness in any State is to have a race of military men."

Goethe, reflecting on the wretchedness of the German people as a whole, found no comfort in
the German genius for science, literature, and art, or only a miserable comfort which "does
not make up for the proud consciousness of belonging to a nation strong, respected, and feared."
Because Germany in his time was weak in the military sense, he could write: "I have often felt
a bitter grief at the thought of the German people, which is so noble individually, and so
wretched as a whole"; and he longed for the day when the national spirit, kept alive and hopeful,
should be "ready to rise in all its might when the day of glory dawns."

"The day of glory" was to be the day of military power. Carlyle said of Germany and France
in November, 1870, "that noble, patient, deep, pious, and solid Germany should be at length
welded into a nation, and become Queen of the Continent, instead of vaporing, vainglorious,
gesticulating, quarrelsome, restless, and oversensitive France, seems to me that hopefulest
public fact that has occurred in my time." How did Germany attain to this position of "Queen
of the Continent"? By creating and maintaining, with utmost intelligence and skill, the strongest
army in Europe--an army which within six years had been used successfully against Denmark,
Austria, and France. Germany became "Queen" by virtue of her military power.

In the same paper Carlyle said of the French Revolution, of which he was himself the great
portrayer: "I often call that a celestial infernal phenomenon, the most memorable in our world
for a thousand years; on the whole, a transcendent revolt against the devil and his works,
(since shams are all and sundry of the devil, and poisonous and unendurable to man.)" Now,
the French Revolution was an extraordinary outbreak of passionate feeling and physical violence
on the part of the French Nation, both at home and abroad; and it led on to the Napoleonic
wars, which were tremendous physical struggles for mastery in Europe.

In a recent public statement two leading philosophical writers of modern Germany, Profs. Eucken
and Haeckel, denounce the "brutal national egoism" of England, which they say "recognizes no
rights on the part of others, and, unconcerned about morality or unmorality, pursues only its
own advantage"; and they attribute to England the purpose to hinder at any cost the further
growth of German greatness. But what are the elements of that German greatness which England
is determined to arrest by joining France and Russia in war against Germany and Austria-Hungary?
The three elements of recent German greatness are the extension of her territory; contiguous
territories in Europe and in other continents colonial possessions; the enlargement of German
commerce and wealth, and to these ends the firm establishment of her military supremacy in
Europe. These are the ideas on the true greatness of nations which have prevailed in the ruling
oligarchy of Germany for at least sixty years, and now seem to have been accepted, or acquiesced
in, by the whole German people. In this view, the foundation of national greatness is fighting
power.

This conception of national greatness has prevailed at many different epochs--Macedonian, Roman,
Saracen, Spanish, English, and French--and, indeed, has appeared from time to time in almost
all the nations and tribes of the earth; but the civilized world is now looking for better
foundations of national greatness than force and fighting.

The partial successes of democracy in Europe have much increased the evils of war. Sir Francis
Bacon looked for a fighting class; under the feudal system when a Baron went to war he took
with him his vassals, or that portion of them that could be spared from the fields at home.
Universal conscription is a modern invention, the horrors of which, as now exhibited in Germany,
Austria-Hungary, and France, much exceed those of earlier martial methods. There has never
been such an interruption of agricultural and industrial production, or such a rending of family
ties in consequence of war as is now taking place in the greater part of Europe. Moreover,
mankind has never before had the use of such destructive implements as the machine gun, the
torpedo, and the dynamite bomb. The progress of science has much increased the potential destructiveness
of warfare.

Thinking people in all the civilized countries are asking themselves what the fundamental trouble
with civilization is, and where to look for means of escape from the present intolerable conditions.
Christianity in nineteen centuries has afforded no relief. The so-called mitigations of war
are comparatively trivial. The recent Balkan wars were as ferocious as those of Alexander.
The German aviators drop aimless bombs at night into cities occupied chiefly by non-combatants.
The North Sea is strewn with floating mines which may destroy fishing, freight, or passenger
vessels of any nation, neutral or belligerent, which have business on that sea. The ruthless
destruction of the Louvain Library by German soldiers reminds people who have read history
that the destroyers of the Alexandria Library have ever since been called fanatics and barbarians.
The German Army tries to compel unfortified Belgian cities and towns to pay huge ransoms to
save themselves from destruction--a method which the Barbary States, indeed, were accustomed
to use against their Christian neighbors, but which has long been held to be a method appropriate
only for brigands and pirates--Greek, Sicilian, Syrian, or Chinese.

What Is Wrong with Civilization?

How can it be that the Government of a civilized State commits, or permits in its agents, such
barbarities? The fundamental reason seems to be that most of the European nations still believe
that national greatness depends on the possession and brutal use of force, and is to be maintained
and magnified only by military and naval power.

In North America there are two large communities--heretofore inspired chiefly by ideals of
English origin--which have never maintained conscripted armies, and have never fortified against
each other their long frontier--Canada and the United States. Both may fairly be called great
peoples even now; and both give ample promise for the future. Neither of these peoples lacks
the "stout and warlike" quality of which Sir Francis Bacon spoke; both have often exhibited
it. The United States suffered for four years from a civil war, characterized by determined
fighting, in indecisive battles, in which the losses, in proportion to the number of men engaged,
were often much heavier than any thus far reported from the present battlefields in Belgium
and France. There being then no lack of martial spirit in these two peoples, it is an instructive
phenomenon that power to conquer is not their ideal of national greatness. Much the same thing
may be said of some other self-governing constituents of the British Empire, such as Australia,
New Zealand, and South Africa. They, too, have a better ideal of national greatness than that
of military supremacy.

What are the real ambitions and hopes of the people of the United States and the people of
Canada in regard to their own future? Their expectations of greatness certainly are not based
on any conception of invincible military force, or desire for the physical means of enforcing
their own will on their neighbors. They both believe in the free commonwealth, administered
justly, and with the purpose of securing for each individual all the freedom he can exercise
without injury to his neighbors and the collective well-being. They desire for themselves,
each for itself, a strong Government, equipped to perform its functions with dignity, certainty,
and efficiency; but they wish to have that Government under the control of the deliberate public
opinion of free citizens, and not under the control of any Prætorian Guard, Oligarchic Council,
or General Staff, and they insist that the civil authority should always control such military
and police forces as it may be necessary to maintain for protective purposes.

True National Greatness.

They believe that the chief object of government should be the promotion of the public welfare
by legislative and administrative means; that the processes of government should be open and
visible, and their results be incessantly published for approval or disapproval. They believe
that a nation becomes great through industrial productiveness and the resulting internal and
external commerce, through the gradual increase of comfort and general well-being in the population,
and through the advancement of science, letters, and art. They believe that education, free
intercourse with other nations, and religious enthusiasm and toleration are means of national
greatness, and that in the development and use of these means force has no place. They attribute
national greatness in others, as well as in themselves, not to the possession of military force,
but to the advance of the people in freedom, industry, righteousness, and good-will.

They believe that the ideals of fighting power and domination should be replaced by the ideals
of peaceful competition in production and trade, of generous rivalry in education, scientific
discovery, and the fine arts, of co-operation for mutual benefit among nations different in
size, natural abilities, and material resources, and of federation among nations associated
geographically or historically, or united in the pursuit of some common ends and in the cherishing
of like hopes and aspirations. They think that the peace of the world can be best promoted
by solemn public compacts between peoples--not Princes or Cabinets--compacts made to be kept,
strengthened by mutual services and good offices, and watched over by a permanent International
Judicial Tribunal authorized to call on the affiliated nations for whatever force may be necessary
to induce obedience to its decrees.

Will not the civilized world learn from this horrible European war--the legitimate result of
the policies of Bismarck and his associates and disciples--that these democratic ideals constitute
the rational substitute for the imperialistic ideal of fighting force as the foundation of
national greatness? The new ideals will still need the protection and support, both within
and without each nation, of a restrained public force, acting under law, national and international,
just as a sane mind needs as its agent a sound and strong body. Health and vigor will continue
to be the safeguards of morality, justice, and mercy.

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Asticou, Me., Sept. 14, 1914.

DR. ELIOT'S THIRD LETTER.

Why Is America Anti-German?

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

The numerous pamphlets which German writers are now distributing in the United States, and
the many letters about the European war which Americans are now receiving from German and German-American
friends, are convincing thoughtful people in this country that American public opinion has
some weight with the German Government and people, or, at least, some interest for them; but
that the reasons which determine American sympathy with the Allies, rather than with Germany
and Austria-Hungary, are not understood in Germany, and are not always appreciated by persons
of German birth who have lived long in the United States.

It would be a serious mistake to suppose that Americans feel any hostility or jealousy toward
Germany, or fail to recognize the immense obligations under which she has placed all the rest
of the world, although they now feel that the German Nation has been going wrong in theoretical
and practical politics for more than a hundred years, and is today reaping the consequences
of her own wrong-thinking and wrong-doing.

There are many important matters concerning which American sympathy is strongly with Germany:
(1) The unification of Germany, which Bismarck and his co-workers accomplished, naturally commended
itself to Americans, whose own country is a firm federation of many more or less different
States, containing more or less different peoples; while most Americans did not approve Bismarck's
methods and means, they cordially approved his accomplishment of German unification; (2) Americans
have felt unqualified admiration for the commercial and financial growth of Germany during
the past forty years, believing it to be primarily the fruit of well-directed industry and
enterprise; (3) all educated Americans feel strong gratitude to the German Nation for its extraordinary
achievements in letters, science, and education within the last hundred years. Jealousy of
Germany in these matters is absolutely foreign to American thought, and that any external power
or influence should undertake to restrict or impair German progress in these respects would
seem to all Americans intolerable, and, indeed incredible; (4) all Americans who have had any
experience in Governmental or educational administration recognize the fact, that German administration--both
in peace and in war--is the most efficient in the world, and for that efficiency they feel
nothing but respect and admiration, unless the efficiency requires an inexpedient suppression
or restriction of individual liberty; (5) Americans sympathize with a unanimous popular sentiment
in favor of a war which the people believe to be essential to the greatness, and even the safety,
of their country--a sentiment which prompts to family and property sacrifices very distressing
at the moment, and irremediable in the future; and they believe that the German people today
are inspired by just such an overwhelming sentiment.

How is it, then, that, with all these strong American feelings tending to make them sympathize
with the German people in good times or bad, in peace or in war, the whole weight of American
opinion is on the side of the Allies in the present war? The reasons are to be found, of course,
in the political and social history of the American people, and in its Governmental philosophy
and practice today. These reasons have come out of the past, and are intrenched in all the
present ideals and practices of the American Commonwealth. They inevitably lead Americans to
object strongly and irrevocably to certain German national practices of great moment, practices
which are outgrowths of Prussian theories, and experiences that have come to prevail in Germany
during the past hundred years. In the hope that American public opinion about the European
war may be a little better understood abroad it seems worth while to enumerate those German
practices which do not conform to American standards in the conduct of public affairs:

(a) Americans object to the committal of a nation to grave measures of foreign policy by a
permanent Executive--Czar, Kaiser, or King--advised in secret by professional diplomatists
who consider themselves the personal representatives of their respective sovereigns. The American
people have no permanent Executive, and the profession of diplomacy hardly exists among them.
In the conduct of their national affairs they utterly distrust secrecy, and are accustomed
to demand and secure the utmost publicity.

(b) They object to placing in any ruler's hands the power to order mobilization or declare
war in advance of deliberate consultation with a representative assembly, and of co-operative
action thereby. The fact that German mobilization was ordered three days in advance of the
meeting of the Reichstag confounds all American ideas and practices about the rights of the
people and the proper limits of Executive authority.

(c) The secrecy of European diplomatic intercourse and of international understandings and
terms of alliance in Europe is in the view of ordinary Americans not only inexpedient, but
dangerous and unjustifiable. Under the Constitution of the United States no treaty negotiated
by the President and his Cabinet is valid until it has been publicly discussed and ratified
by the Senate. During this discussion the people can make their voice heard through the press,
the telegraph, and the telephone.

(d) The reliance on military force as the foundation of true national greatness seems to thinking
Americans erroneous, and in the long run degrading to a Christian nation. They conceive that
the United States may fairly be called a great nation; but that its greatness is due to intellectual
and moral forces acting through adequate material forces and expressed in education, public
health and order, agriculture, manufacturing, and commerce, and the resulting general well-being
of the people. It has never in all its history organized what could be called a standing or
a conscripted army; and, until twenty years ago, its navy was very small, considering the length
of its sea coasts. There is nothing in the history of the American people to make them believe
that the true greatness of nations depends on military power.

Object to Extension by Force.

(e) They object to the extension of national territory by force, contrary to the wishes of
the population concerned. This objection is the inevitable result of democratic institutions;
and the American people have been faithful to this democratic opinion under circumstances of
considerable difficulty--as, for example, in withdrawing from Cuba, the rich island which had
been occupied by American troops during the short war with Spain, (1898,) and in the refusing
to intervene by force in Mexico for the protection of American investors, when that contiguous
country was distracted by factional fighting. This objection applies to long-past acts of the
German Government an well as to its proceedings in the present war--as, for example, to the
taking of Schleswig-Holstein and Alsace-Lorraine, as well as to the projected occupation of
Belgium.

(f) Americans object strenuously to the violation of treaties between nations on the allegation
of military necessity or for any other reason whatever. They believe that the progress of civilization
will depend in future on the general acceptance of the sanctity of contracts or solemn agreements
between nations and on the development by common consent of international law. The neutralization
treaties, the arbitration treaties, The Hague Conferences, and some of the serious attempts
at mediation, although none of them go far enough, and many of them have been rudely violated
on occasion, illustrate a strong tendency in the civilized parts of the world to prevent international
wars by means of agreements deliberately made in time of peace. The United States has proposed
and made more of these agreements than any other power, has adhered to them, and profited by
them. Under one such agreement, made nearly a hundred years ago, Canada and the United States
have avoided forts and armaments against each other, although they have had serious differences
of opinion and clashes of interests, and the frontier is 3,000 miles long and for the most
part without natural barriers. Cherishing the hope that the peace of Europe and the rights
of its peoples may be secured through solemn compacts, (which should include the establishment
of a permanent international judicial tribunal, supported by an international force,) Americans
see, in the treatment by the German Government of the Belgian neutralization treaty as nothing
but a piece of paper which might be torn up on the ground of military necessity, evidence of
the adoption by Germany of a retrograde policy of the most alarming sort. That single act on
the part of Germany--the violation of the neutral territory of Belgium--would have determined
American opinion in favor of the Allies, if it had stood alone by itself--the reason being
that American hopes for the peace and order of the world are based on the sanctity of treaties.

(g) American public opinion, however, has been greatly shocked in other ways by the German
conduct of the war. The American common people see no justification for the dropping of bombs,
to which no specific aim can be given, into cities and towns chiefly inhabited by non-combatants,
the burning or blowing up of large portions of unfortified towns and cities, the destruction
of precious monuments and treasuries of art, the strewing of floating mines through the North
Sea, the exacting of ransoms from cities and towns under threat of destroying them, and the
holding of unarmed citizens as hostages for the peaceable behavior of a large population under
threat of summary execution of the hostages in case of any disorder. All these seem to Americans
unnecessary, inexpedient, and unjustifiable methods of warfare, sure to breed hatred and contempt
toward the nation that uses them, and therefore to make it difficult for future generations
to maintain peace and order in Europe. They cannot help imagining the losses civilization would
suffer if the Russians should ever carry into Western Europe the kind of war which the Germans
are now waging in Belgium and France. They have supposed that war was to be waged in this century
only against public, armed forces and their supplies and shelters.

These opinions and prepossessions on the part of the American people have obviously grown out
of the ideals which the early English colonists carried with them to the American wilderness
in the seventeenth century, out of the long fighting and public discussion which preceded the
adoption of the Constitution of the United States in the eighteenth century, and out of the
peculiar experiences of the free Commonwealths which make up the United States, as they have
spread across the almost uninhabited continent during the past 125 years.

The experience and the situation of modern Germany have been utterly different. Germany was
divided for centuries into discordant parts, had ambitious and martial neighbors, and often
felt the weight of their attacks. Out of war came accessions of territory for Prussia, and
at last German unity. The reliance of intelligent and patriotic Germany on military force as
the basis of national greatness is a natural result of its experiences. Americans, however,
believe that this reliance is unsound both theoretically and practically. The wars in Europe
since 1870-71, the many threatenings of war, and the present catastrophe seem to Americans
to demonstrate that no amount of military preparedness on the part of the nations of Europe
can possibly keep the peace of the Continent, or indeed prevent frequent explosions of destructive
warfare. They think, too, that preparation for war on the part of Germany better than any of
her neighbors can make will not keep her at peace or protect her from invasion, even if this
better preparation include advantages of detail which have been successfully kept secret. All
the nations which surround Germany are capable of developing a strong fighting spirit; and
all the countries of Europe, except England and Russia, possess the means of quickly assembling
and getting into action great bodies of men. In other words, all the European States are capable
of developing a passionate patriotism, and all possess the railroads, roads, conveyances, telegraphs,
and telephones which make rapid mobilization possible. No perfection of military forces, and
no amount of previous study of feasible campaigns against neighbors, can give peaceful security
to Germany in the present condition of the great European States. In the actual development
of weapons and munitions, and of the art of quick intrenching, the attacking force in battle
on land is at a great disadvantage in comparison with the force on the defensive. That means
indecisive battles and ultimately an indecisive war, unless each party is resolved to push
the war to the utter exhaustion and humiliation of the other--a long process which involves
incalculable losses and wastes and endless miseries. Americans have always before them the
memory of their four years' civil war, which, although resolutely prosecuted on both sides,
could not be brought to a close until the resources of the Southern States in men and material
were exhausted. In that dreadful process the whole capital of the Southern States was wiped out.

But One Possible Issue.

Now that the sudden attack on Paris has failed, and adequate time has been secured to summon
the slower-moving forces of Russia and England, and these two resolute and persistent peoples
have decided to use all their spiritual and material forces in co-operation with France against
Germany, thoughtful Americans can see but one possible issue of the struggle, whether it be
long or short, namely, the defeat of Germany and Austria-Hungary in their present undertakings,
and the abandonment by both peoples of the doctrine that their salvation depends on militarism
and the maintenance of autocratic Executives intrusted with the power and the means to make
sudden war. They believe that no human being should ever be trusted with such power. The alternative
is, of course, genuine constitutional government, with the military power subject to the civil
power.

The American people grieve over the fruitless sacrifices of life, property, and the natural
human joys which the German people are making to a wrong and impossible ideal of national power
and welfare. The sacrifices which Germany is imposing on the Allies are fearfully heavy, but
there is reason to hope that these will not be fruitless, for out of them may come great gains
for liberty and peace in Europe.

All experienced readers on this side of the Atlantic are well aware that nine-tenths of all
the reports they get about the war come from English and French sources, and this knowledge
makes them careful not to form judgments about details until the events and deeds tell their
own story. They cannot even tell to which side victory inclines in a long, far-extended battle
until recognizable changes in the positions of the combatants show what the successes or failures
must have been. The English and French win some advantage so far as the formation of public
opinion in this country is concerned, because those two Governments send hither official reports
on current events more frequently than the German Government does, and with more corroborative
details. The amount of secrecy with which the campaign is surrounded on both sides is, however,
a new and unwelcome experience for both the English and the American public.

German Ignorance of Events.

The pamphlets by German publicists and men of letters which are now coming to this country,
and the various similar publications written here, seem to indicate that the German public
is still kept by its Government in ignorance about the real antecedents of the war and about
many of the incidents and aspects of the portentous combat. These documents seem to Americans
to contain a large amount of misinformation about the attack of Austria-Hungary on Servia,
the diplomatic negotiations and the correspondence between the sovereigns which immediately
preceded the war, and the state of mind of the Belgian and English peoples. American believers
in the good sense and good feeling of the common people naturally imagine, when an awful calamity
befalls a nation, that the people cannot have been warned of its approach, else they would
have avoided it. In this case they fear that the Emperor, the Chancellery, and the General
Staff have themselves been misinformed in important respects, have made serious miscalculations
which they are proposing to conceal as long as possible, and are not taking the common people
into their confidence. American sympathies are with the German people in their sufferings and
losses, but not with their rulers, or with the military class, or with the professors and men
of letters who have been teaching for more than a generation that might makes right. That short
phrase contains the fundamental fallacy which for fifty years has been poisoning the springs
of German thought and German policy on public affairs.

Dread of the Muscovite does not seem to Americans a reasonable explanation of the present actions
of Germany and Austria-Hungary, except so far as irrational panic can be said to be an explanation.
Against possible, though not probable, Russian aggression, a firm defensive alliance of all
Western Europe would be a much better protection than the single might of Germany. It were
easy to imagine also two new "buffer" States--a reconstructed Poland and a Balkan Confederation.
As to French "revenge," it is the inevitable and praiseworthy consequence of Germany's treatment
of France in 1870-71. The great success of Germany in expanding her commerce during the last
thirty years makes it hard for Americans to understand the hot indignation of the Germans against
the British because of whatever ineffective opposition Great Britain may have offered to that
expansion. No amount of commercial selfishness on the part of insular England can justify Germany
in attempting to seize supreme power in Europe and thence, perhaps, in the world.

Finally, Americans hope and expect that there will be no such fatal issue of the present struggle
as the destruction or ruin of the German Nation. On the contrary, they believe that Germany
will be freer, happier, and greater than ever when once she has got rid of the monstrous Bismarck
policies and the Emperor's archaic conception of his function, and has enjoyed twenty years
of real peace. Your obedient servant,

CHARLES W. ELIOT.

Asticou, Me., Sept. 28, 1914.

Dr. Dernburg's Reply to the Third Letter

     Late German Secretary of State for the Colonies; lived for
     several years in the United States as member of the banking
     firm of Ladenburg, Thalmann & Co., New York.

_To the Editor of The New York Times:_

Prof. Eliot is conferring a great favor on the exponents of the German side in the present
struggle in explaining to them what he thinks of the so-called anti-German feeling in the United
States. I am sure his views will be read also in Germany with a great deal of attention, although
he will certainly not remain unchallenged in nearly all essential points. The compliment that
Prof. Eliot pays to the German people as a whole must be specially appreciated, the more so
as it comes from a scientist whose great authority is equally recognized on both sides of the
Atlantic.

The anti-German feeling, according to Prof. Eliot, takes its source from the American objection
to the committal of a nation to grave mistakes by a permanent Executive. But then, with the
exception of France, all the warring nations have permanent Executives, professional diplomatists;
all their affairs are conducted in secret, and all their rulers have the power, including the
President of France, to embroil their nations in war. The German Emperor is in this respect
certainly more restricted than the other heads of State, and I have not read that the declaration
of war has been expressly sanctioned by the English Parliament, and certainly the mobilization
of the English fleet that took place in July, and the mobilization of the Russian Army that
took place at the same time, have not even been brought to the knowledge of the respective
Parliaments. When, therefore, the same conditions prevail in all the warring States, how can
they be made the reason for such an anti-German feeling?

The same objection holds good with the American antipathy against the power of rulers to order
mobilization or declare war in advance without consultation of Parliament, to which I have
only to say that the English fleet was mobilized without consulting the English Parliament,
while in Germany the Bundesrat, the representatives of the Federal States, as well as of the
Federal Diets, has been duly consulted. I may add that also the party leaders of the Reichstag,
which could not be convoked earlier than two days after the declaration of the war, have been
continuously informed and consulted.

Against the next paragraph, where Prof. Eliot complains of the secrecy of European diplomacy
and of international treaties and understandings, the same objection must be made. The state
described here as particular to Germany prevails in all European countries, and neither the
treaty of the Russian-French alliance, nor the arrangements of the Triple Entente have ever
been submitted to the French or British Parliaments. As regards the American attitude toward
armaments, I purposely refrain from adducing the American example into my argument, much as
I could show that with a very large part of the American Nation the idea of defending the American
coast against any invader and the maintenance of a strong Pan-American policy, if need be by
arms, is just as fixed a tenet as the German idea that the Fatherland should be held safe from
invasion or destruction by the will and the strength of its people. England has always held
the same, if not through her army so through her navy, and so did the rest of Europe; and there
is no argument to be gotten from that for an anti-German feeling.

No Seizure of Schleswig-Holstein.

Americans object to the extension of territory by force. Germany has never done that, even
if one goes back as far as Prof. Eliot wishes to go. Mr. Eliot is absolutely mistaken as to
the history of the incorporation of Schleswig-Holstein into Prussia. Schleswig-Holstein was
a Dual-Dukedom that never belonged to Denmark, but having as its Duke the King of Denmark as
long as he belonged to the elder line of the House of Oldenburg. This elder line was extinct
when King Christian VIII. died without male issue. His successor wanted to incorporate the
two German Dukedoms into Denmark. Then the people stood up and expressed the desire to remain
with the German Federation, to which it had always belonged, and there it is now, of its own
free will. The natural dividing line between Denmark and Germany, however, is the River Eider.
There are about 30,000 Danes south of the Eider, who have been absorbed against their will,
a thing that can never be avoided, and that has sometimes given Prussia a little trouble.

Alsace-Lorraine Originally German.

As to Alsace-Lorraine, the facts are known to be that it had belonged to Germany until it had
been taken, against the will of the people, by France under Louis XIV., and it was returned
to Germany as a matter of right, more than three-quarters of the population being of German
descent and speaking the German language.

But let me ask in return, Mr. Eliot, when did ever in her political career England consult
the will of the people when she took a country? Can he say that, when England tore the treaty
of Majuba Hill, like a "scrap of paper," and made war on the Boers? Did she consult the people
of Cyprus in 1878? Does he know of any plébiscite in India? Has she consulted the Persians,
or has France consulted the people of Morocco, or of Indo-China, Italy the people of Tripoli?
Since Germany has not acted here in any other way forty years ago than all the other nations,
why does Dr. Eliot consider the American people justified in taking anti-German views for reasons
of such an old date, while he forgives the nations of the party he favors for much more recent
infringement of his rule?

"Americans object to the violation of treaties." So do the Germans. We have always kept our
treaties, and mean to do so in the future. The fact with Belgium is that her neutrality was
very one-sided; that, as can be proved, as early as the 25th of June, Liège was full of French
soldiers, that Belgian fortifications were all directed against Germany, and that for years
past it was the Belgian press that outdid the French press in attacks against Germany. But
I can give Mr. Eliot here some authority that he has so far not challenged. When Sir Edward
Grey presented the English case in the House of Commons on the 3d of August he declared that
the British attitude was laid down by the British Government in 1870, and he verbally cited
Mr. Gladstone's speech, in which he said he could not subscribe to the assertion that the simple
fact of the existence of a guarantee was binding on every party, irrespective altogether of
the particular position in which it may find itself at the time when the occasion for acting
on the guarantee arises. He called that assertion a "stringent and impracticable" view of the
guarantee and the whole treaty a "complicated question." So Mr. Gladstone, and with him Sir
Edward Grey, has held the Belgian neutrality treaty not binding on every party, when it was
against the interest which the particular situation dictated, when the war broke out. It was
the interest of Great Britain to maintain the treaty, and that is why she acted. It was against
German interest to maintain the treaty, and that is why she broke it. That is the British and
not the German theory, and I could very well rest my case here. My theory is with the German
Chancellor, that I greatly regret the necessity of violating the Belgian neutrality, after
Belgium had chosen to repel the German overtures for a free passage.

It is quite certain that the breach of the Belgian neutrality by Germany was used in Great
Britain as a powerful instrument to influence the public sentiment. Every war must be borne
by national unity, and it is the duty of the nation's leaders to secure such unity by all practicable
means. But has it been forgotten that the attitude of Sir Edward Grey caused such excellent
men as Lord Morley, John Burns, and Sir John Trevelyan to leave the Cabinet, where they were
looked upon as the best and most liberal members of the ruling combination? Bernard Shaw says
of Great Britain that she has never been at a loss for an effective moral attitude. Such an
attitude is a powerful weapon in diplomatical and actual warfare, and it must be resorted to,
if the necessity arises. But that cannot blind us to the fact that the British Government allowed
the political interest to be the paramount consideration in this Belgian neutrality matter.
The German interest for not acting on the guarantee was just as strong as the English to act
for it.

The proof is found in the English "White Paper." I cite the famous reprint of THE TIMES, (Dispatch
No. 148 of Aug. 2 to Paris.) Here Sir Edward Grey says: "We were considering ... whether we
should declare violation of Belgian neutrality to be a casus belli."

"Treaties Must Not Be Overrated."

I am an ardent believer in all international arrangements to prevent difficulties and wars
between nations, and I rejoice with the American people in the signal success this policy is
now having in this country. But international treaties must not be overrated. There are questions
which cannot be settled by them. It is too difficult to explain just the nature of such situations
as arose in Europe, so I may be permitted for once to ask this question: Does Prof. Eliot believe
that the majority of the American people think that the unwritten Monroe Doctrine could be
made the subject of arbitration, whether it had a right to exist or to be enforced? I must
emphatically say, No, it could not. It can be as little arbitrated upon as a matter of religion
or of personal morals.

Mr. Eliot thinks a happy result of the war would be that American institutions should prevail
in Germany thereafter. Why should Germany only become a representative republic? Does he not
demand the same regarding Russia, England, Italy, Austria, and Japan? And if not, why not?

From all this I fail to see the point in the reasons given by Prof. Eliot why fair-minded Americans
should side with the Allies because the objections made against German procedure, down to the
breach of the Belgian neutrality, must be made against all other European States. British history
is just teeming with examples of broken treaties and torn "scraps of paper." The chasing of
German diplomatic representatives out of neutral Egypt is a case in point.

I must insist that whatever anti-German feeling there is is not fully explained by Prof. Eliot,
and his article cannot be made a code by which German behavior could be regulated in the future.
Prof. Eliot is a scholar; business interests do not come very near him. So he is especially
concerned with the ethical aspect of the matter. He believes the Germans think that "might
is right." This is very unjust. Our history proves that we have never acted on this principle.
We have never got or attempted to get a world empire such as England has won, all of which,
with a very few exceptions, by might, by war, and by conquest. The German writers who have
expounded this doctrine have only shown how the large world empires of England and France were
welded together, what means have been adopted for that purpose, and against what sort of political
doctrines we must beware.

Our Sympathy for the Under Dog.

As Dr. Eliot makes his remarks for the benefit of his German confrères, may I be permitted
to say to them what I consider the reason for the American attitude? There is, in the first
place, the ethical side. Americans have a very strong sense of generosity, and are, as a rule,
very good sports. They think Belgium a small nation, brutally attacked by a much bigger fellow;
they feel that the little man stands up bravely and gamely, and fights for all he is worth.
Such a situation will always command American sympathy and antagonism against the stronger.
Then there is the business side. Americans feel that this war is endangering their political
and commercial interests, so they are naturally angry against the people who, they believe,
have brought the war about.

As Germany has not had an opportunity to make herself heard as amply as her adversaries, they
think that it was Germany which set the world afire, and that is what they resent, and in which
they were justified, if it were true. But the question of the hour is not the question of the
past, but of the present and of the future, and the people on this side who will give Germany
fair play because it is just in them will examine the situation in the light of their interests.
Then they will find that Belgium had been in league with the Allies long before the conflagration
broke out, only to be left to its own resources when the critical hour arose. They will further
find that it is not Germany but England and her allies that are throttling commerce, maiming
cables, stopping mails, and breaking neutrality and other treaties to further their aims; that,
finally, today England has established a world rule on the sea to which even America must submit.
They will then soon come to the conclusion that, no matter what happened in the past, the peace
of the world can only be assured by a good understanding between Germany and the United States
as a sort of counterbalance against the unmeasured aggrandizement of English sea power. Then
the feeling toward Germany will be considerably better, and I may add that even now it is not
so very bad after all.

I make these remarks with due respect to Prof. Eliot and his views, and with great reluctance
for being compelled to enter the field against a personality whose undoubted superiority I
wish to be the first to acknowledge.

BERNHARD DERNBURG.

New York, Oct. 4, 1914.

