What other social sphere could afford room for the vocation so aptly described in the following
sketch of his "ways and means," given in a recent picture of life in Paris by a sycophant of
millionnaires, at a period when interests, not rights, are the watchwords of the nation?--"Mon
rôle de familier dans une véritable population d'enrichis me donnait du crédit dans les boudoirs,
et mon crédit dans les boudoirs ajoutait à ma faveur près ces pauvres diables de millionaires,
presque tous vieux et blasés, courant toujours en chancelant après un plaisir nouveau. Les
marchands de vin me font la cour comme les jolies femmes, pour que je daigne leur indiqner
des connaisseurs assez riches pour payer les bonnes choses le prix qu'elles valent. Mon métier
est de tout savoir,--l'anecdote de la cour, le scandale de la ville, le secret des coulisses."
And this species of adventurer, we are told, has always the same commencement to his memoirs,--"_Il
vint à Paris en sabots._"

[Footnote 1: De Tocqueville.]

The numerous avocations of women in the French capital explain, in a measure, their superior
tact, efficiency, and force of character. This is especially true of females of the middle
class, who have been justly described as remarkable for good sense and appropriate costumes.
The participation of women in so many departments of art and industry affects, also, the social
tone and the manners. Sterne, long ago, remarked it of the fair shopkeepers. "The genius of
a people," he says, "where nothing but the monarchy is _Salique_, having ceded this department
totally to the women, by a continual higgling with customers of all ranks and sizes, from morning
to night, like so many rough pebbles in a bag, by amicable collisions, they have worn down
their asperities and sharp angles, and not only become round and smooth, but will receive,
some of them, a polish like a brilliant."

How distinctly may be read the political vicissitudes of France in her literature,--classic,
highly finished, keen, and formal, when a monarch was idolized and authors wrote only for courts
and scholars: Bossuet, with his rhetorical graces; La Bruyère, with his gallery of characters,
not one of which was moulded among the people; De la Rochefoucauld's maxims, drawn from the
arcana of fashionable life; Racine, whose heroes die with an immaculate couplet and speak the
faint echoes of Grecian or Roman sentiment! When politics became common property, and the walls
of a prescriptive and conventional system fell, how wild ran speculation and sentiment in the
copious and superficial Voltaire and the vague humanities of Rousseau! When an era of military
despotism supervened upon the reign of license, how destitute of lettered genius seemed the
nation, except when the pensive enthusiasm of Chateaubriand breathed music from American wilds
or a London garret, and Madame de Staël gave utterance to her eloquent philosophy in exile
at Geneva! "_Napoléon eût voulu faire manoeuvrer l'esprit humain comme il faisait manoeuvrer
ses vieux bataillons_." Yet more emphatic is the reaction of political conditions upon literary
development after the Restoration. The tragic horrors and protracted fever of the Revolution,
and the passion for military glory exaggerated by the victories of Napoleon, legitimately initiated
the intense school, which during the present century has signalized French literature. The
_prestige_ of the scholar revived, and literary eclipsed warlike fame; but with the revival
of letters came the revolutionary spirit before exhibited on the battle-field and in cabinets.
For the artificial and elegant was substituted the melodramatic and effective; lyrics from
the overwrought heart broke in dreamy sweetness from Lamartine and in simple energy from Béranger;
fiction the most elaborate, incongruous, and exciting, here quaintly artistic, there morbidly
scientific, revealed the chaos and the earthquakes that laid bare and upheaved life and society
in the preceding epochs; the journal became an intellectual gymnasium and Olympic game, where
the first minds of the nation sought exercise and glory; the _feuilleton_ almost necessitated
the novelist to concentrate upon each chapter the amount of interest once diffused through
a volume; criticism, from tedious analysis, became a brilliant ordeal; egotism inspired a world
of new confessions, political questions a new school of popular writing, the love of effect
and the passion for excitement a multitude of dramatic, narrative, and biographical books,
wherein the serenity of thought, the tranquil beauty of truth, and the healthful tone of nature
were sacrificed, not without dazzling genius, to immediate fame, pecuniary reward, and the
delight _d'éprouver une sensation_. Even in the history of the fine arts, we find the political
element guiding the pencil and ruling the fortunes of genius. David was the government painter,
and regarded Gros and Girodet as _suspects_. He effected a revolution in Art by going back
to severe anatomical principles in design. There were conspiracies against him in the studios,
and war was declared between color and design; the palette and the pencil were in conflict;
David, the Napoleon of the former,--Prud'hon, Géricault, Delacroix, and others, leaders in
the latter faction. Each party was surrounded by its respective corps of amateurs; and military
terms were in vogue in the _atelier_ and academy. "_S'il est permis_" says Delacroix, speaking
of his Sardanapalus, "de comparer les petites choses aux grandes, ce fut mon Waterloo. Je devenais
l'abomination de la peinture; il fallait me refuser l'eau et le sel." "If you wish to share
the favors of the government," said an official to another artist, "you must change your manner."
From the tyranny of external influences have arisen the incongruities of the French schools
of painting, and especially what has been well called "that meretricious breed which continue
to depict the Magdalen with the united attractions of Palestine and the Palais Royal." The
large pictures which Gros painted during the Empire were consigned to long obscurity at the
Restoration. The lives, too, of many of these cultivators of the arts of peace had a tragic
close. Haydon's fate made a deep impression in England, because it was an exceptional case;
while, of the modern painters of France, whose career was far more harmonious and successful
than his, Gros drowned himself, Robert cut his throat, Prud'hon died in misery, and Greuze
was buried in Potter's Field. The side of life we naturally associate with tranquillity thus
offers, in this dramatic realm, scenes of excitement and pity. It is the same in literature.
Witness the fierce struggle between the Romantic and Classic schools,--the early victories
of the _enfant sublime_, Victor Hugo. And we must acknowledge that "_les lettres et les arts
ont aussi leurs émeutes et leurs révolutions_," and accept the inference of one of the _Parisian
literati_,--that "_l'esprit a toujours quelque chose de satanique_." Every revolution is identified
with some musical air: when Louis XVIII. first appeared at the theatre, after his long exile,
he was greeted with the "Vive Henri IV.," and the new constitution of 1830 was ushered in by
the "Marseillaise." The Vaudeville theatre, we are told, during the Revolution and under the
Empire, was essentially political. An imaginary resemblance between _la chaste Suzanne_ and
Marie Antoinette caused the prohibition of that drama; and the interest which Cambacères took
in an actress of this establishment led him to give it his official protection.

In the family of nations France is the child of illusions, and excites the sympathy of the
magnanimous because her destinies have been marred through the errors of the imagination rather
than of the heart. Government, religion, and society--the three great elements of civil life--have
nowhere been so modified by the dominion of fancy over fact. Take the history of French republicanism,
of Quietism, of court and literary circles; what perspicuity in the expression, and vagueness
in the realization of ideas! In each a mania to fascinate, in none a thorough basis of truth;
abundance of talent, but no faith; gayety, gallantry, wit, devotion, dreams, and epigrams in
perfection, without the solid foundation of principles and the efficient development in practice,
either of polity, a social system, or religious belief,--the theory and the sentiment of each
being at the same time luxuriant, attractive, and prolific.

The popular writers are eloquent in abstractions, but each seems inspired by a thorough egotism.
Descartes, their philosopher, drew all his inferences from consciousness; Madame de Sévigné,
the epistolary queen, had for her central motive of all speculation and gossip the love of
her daughter; Madame Guyon eliminated her tenets from the ecstasy of self-love; Rochefoucauld
derived a set of philosophical maxims from the lessons of mere worldly disappointment; Calvin
sought to reform society through the stern bigotry of a private creed; La Bruyère elaborated
generic characters from the acute, but narrow observation of artificial society; Boileau established
a classical standard of criticism suggested by personal taste, which ignored the progress of
the human mind.

The redeeming grace of the nation is to be found in its wholesome sense of the enjoyable and
the available in ordinary life, in its freedom from the discontent which elsewhere is born
of avarice and unmitigated materialism. The love of pleasing, the influence of women, and a
frivolous temper everywhere and on all occasions signalize them. "Why, people laugh at everything
here!" naively exclaimed the young Duchess of Burgundy, on her arrival at the French court.

The amount of commodities taken by French people on a journey, and the cool self-satisfaction
with which they are appropriated as occasion demands, give a stranger the most vivid idea of
sensual egotism. The _pâté_, the long roll of bread, the sour wine, the lap-dog, the snuff,
and the night-cap, which transform the car or carriage into a refectory and boudoir, with the
chatter, snoring, and shifting of legs, make an interior scene for the novice, especially on
a night-jaunt, compared to which the humblest of Dutch pictures are refined and elegant.

The intrinsic diversity and the national relations between the French and English are curiously
illustrated by their respective history and literature. Compare, for instance, the plays of
Shakspeare, which dramatize the long wars of the early kings, with the account given in the
journals of the reception of Victoria at Paris and of Louis Napoleon in London; imagine the
royal salutation and the official recognition of the once anathematized Napoleon dynasty; General
Bonaparte becomes in his tomb Napoleon I. No wonder "Punch" affirmed that the statue of Pitt
shook its bronze head and the bones of Castlereagh stirred in protest.

"The English," says a celebrated writer, "like ancient medals, kept more apart, preserve the
first sharpness which the fair hand of Nature has given them; they are not so pleasant to feel,
but, in return, the legend is so visible, that, at the first look, you can see whose image
and superscription they bear." This is a delicate way of setting forth the superior honesty
and bluntness and the inferior smoothness and assimilating instinct of the Anglo-Saxon,--a
vital difference, which no alliance or intercourse with his Gallic neighbors can essentially
change.

A century ago there were few better tests of popular sentiment in England than the plays in
vogue. As indications of the state of the public mind, they were what the ballads are to earlier
times, and the daily press is to our own,--generalized casual, but emphatic proofs of the opinions,
prejudices, and fancies of the hour. Now a large English colony is domesticated in France;
it is but a few hours' trip from London to Paris; newspapers and the telegraph in both capitals
make almost simultaneous announcements of news; the soldiers of the two nations fight side
by side; the French shopman declares on his sign that English is spoken within; the "Times,"
porter, and tea are obtainable commodities in Paris; and _fraternité_ is the watchword at Dover
and Calais. Yet the normal idea which obtains in the conservative brain of a genuine _Anglais_,
though doubtless expanded and modified by intercourse and treaties, may be found still in that
once popular drama, Foote's "Englishman in Paris." "A Frenchman," says one of the characters,
"is a fop. Their taste is trifling, and their politeness pride. What the deuse brings you to
Paris, then? Where's the use? It gives Englishmen a true relish for their own domestic happiness,
a proper veneration for their national liberties, and an honor for the extended generous commerce
of their country. The men there are all puppies, the women painted dolls." Monsieur Ragout
and Monsieur Rosbif bandy words; the former is said to "look as if he had not had a piece of
beef or pudding in his paunch for twenty years, and had lived wholly on frogs,"--and the latter
pines to leap a five-barred gate, and is afraid of being entrapped by "a rich she-Papist."
His fair countrywoman is invited by a French marquis to marry him, with this programme,--"A
perpetual residence in this paradise of pleasures; to be the object of universal adoration;
to say what you please,--go where you will,--do what you like,--form fashions,--hate your husband,
and let him see it,--indulge your gallant,--run in debt, and oblige the poor devil to pay it."

As a pendant, take the description of one of the last French novels:--"À Paris tout s'oublie,
tout se pardonne. Par convenance, par décence, quelquefois par crainte, on s'absente, ou fait
un entr'acte: puis le rideau se rèleve pour le spectacle de nouvelles fautes et de nouvelles
folies; toute la question est de savoir s'y prendre."

Comedy is native to French genius and appreciation; it follows the changes of social life with
marvellous celerity; it is the best school of the French language; and is refined and subdivided,
as an art, both in degree and kind, in France more than in any other country. The prolific
authors in this department, and the variety and richness of invention they display, as well
as the permanent attraction of the Comic Muse, are striking peculiarities of the French theatre.
No capital affords the material and the audience requisite for such triumphs like Paris; and
there is always a play of this kind in vogue there, wherein novelty of combination, significance
of dialogue, and artistic felicities quite unrivalled elsewhere, are exhibited.

It is quite the reverse with the serious drama. In England this is a form of literature which
goes nearest to the normal facts and conditions of human nature; it teaches the highest and
deepest lessons, wins the most profound sympathy, and is remarkable and interesting through
its subtile and comprehensive truth to Nature: whereas in France the masters of tragic art
are but skilful reproducers of the classical drama. French tragedy is essentially artificial,
grafted on the conventionalities of a distant age. It gives scope either to mere elocutionary
art or melodramatic invention,--not to the universal and existing passions. There is but a
slender opportunity to identify our sympathies--those of modern civilization--with what is
going on. Figures in Roman togas or Grecian mantles rehearse the sentiments of fatalism, the
creed of ancient mythology, or Gallic rhetoric in a classic dress; and these disguises so envelope
the love, ambition, despair, hate, or patriotism, that we are always conscious of the theatrical,
and it requires the extraordinary gifts of a Rachel to enlist other than artistic interest.

The French have manuals for breathing and composing the features to secure artistic effects;
they offer academic prizes for every conceivable achievement; their very lamp-posts are designed
with taste; a huckster in the street will exhibit dramatic tact and wonderful mechanical dexterity.
"Quand il paraît un homme de génie en France," says Madame de Staël, "dans quelque carrière
que ce soit, il atteint presque toujours à un degré de perfection sans exemple; car il réunit
l'audace qui fait sortir de la route commune au tact du bon goût." And yet in vast political
interests they are victims,--in the more earnest developments of the soul, children. A new
artificial lake in the Bois de Boulogne, a grand military reception, news of a victory in some
distant corner of the globe, the distribution of eagles to brave survivors,--in a word, an
appeal to the love of amusement, of display, and of glory,--quiets the murmur about to rise
against interference with human rights or usurpation of the national will. Political interests
of the gravest character are treated with flippancy: one writer calls the formation of a new
government Talleyrand's table of whist; and another casually observes that "_tous les gouvernements
nouveaux ont leur lune de miel_."

That great principle of the division of labor, which the English carry into mechanical and
commercial affairs, the French also apply to the economy of life and to Art; but, as these
latter interests are more spontaneous and unlimited, the result is often a perfection in detail,
and a like deficiency in general effect. Thus, there are schools of painting in France more
distinct and apart than exist elsewhere; usually the followers of such are distinguished for
excellence in the mechanical aptitudes of their vocation; the figure is admirably drawn, the
costume rightly disposed, and sometimes the degree of finish quite marvellous; but, usually,
this superiority is attained at the expense of the sentiment of the picture. French historic
Art, like French life, is apt to be extravagant and melodramatic, or over-refined in unimportant
particulars; it often lacks moral harmony,--the grand, simple, true reflection of Nature in
its nicety. Delaroche, who, of all French painters, rose most above the adventitious, and gave
himself to the soul of Art, to pure expression, was, for this very reason, thought by his brother
artists to be cold and unattractive. There is one sphere, however, where this exclusiveness
of style and partition of labor are productive of the most felicitous results: namely, the
minor drama. In England and America the same theatre exhibits opera, melodrama, tragedy, comedy,
rope-dancing, and legerdemain; but in Paris, each branch and element of histrionic art has
its separate temple, its special corps of actors and authors, nay, its particular class of
subjects; hence their unrivalled perfection. Ingenuity, science, and Art are concentrated by
thus assigning free and individual scope to the dramatic niceties and phases of life, of history,
of genius, and of society. At the Opera Comique you find one kind of musical creation; at the
Italiens the lyrical drama of Southern Europe alone; at the Variétés a unique order of comic
dialogue; and at the Porte St. Martin yet another species of play. One theatre gives back the
identical tone of existing society and current events; another deals with the classical ideas
of the past. Satire and song, the horrible and the brilliant, the graceful and the highly artistic,
pictorial, elocutionary, pantomimic, tragic, vocal, statuesque, the past and present, all the
elements of Art and of life, find representation in the plot, the language, the sentiment,
the costume, the music, and the scenery of the many Parisian theatres.

Yet how much of this superiority is fugitive! how little in the whole dramatic development
takes permanent hold upon popular sympathy! Much of its significance is purely local, and of
its interest altogether temporary. Scholars and the higher classes can talk eloquently of Corneille
and Racine; the beaux and _spirituelle_ women of the day can repeat and enjoy the last hit
of Scribe, or the new _bon-mot_ of the theatre: but contrast these results with the national
love and appreciation of Shakspeare,--with the permanent reflection of Spanish life in Lope
de Vega,--the patriotic aspirations which the young Italian broods over in the tragedies of
Alfieri. The grace of movement, the triumph of tact and ingenuity, the devotion to conventionalism,
either pedantry or the genius of the hour, also rules the drama in Paris. With all its brilliancy,
entertainment, grace, wit, and popularity,--there exists not a permanently vital and universally
recognized type of this greatest department of literature, familiar and endeared alike to peasant
and peer, a representative of humanity for all time,--like the bard around whose name and words
cluster the Anglo-Saxon hearts and intelligence from generation to generation.

But nowhere do life and the drama so trench upon each other; nowhere is every incident of experience
so dramatic. Miss H.M. Williams told the poet Rogers that she had seen "men and women, waiting
for admission at the door of the theatre, suddenly leave their station, on the passing of a
set of wretches going to be guillotined, and then, having ascertained that none of their relations
or friends were among them, very unconcernedly return to the door of the theatre." A child
is born at the Opera Comique during the performance, and it is instantly made an event of sympathy
and effect by the audience; a subscription is raised, the child named for the dramatic heroine
of the moment, and the fortunate mother sent home in a carriage, amid the plaudits of the crowd.
You are listening to a play; and a copy of the "Entr'acte" is thrust into your hand, containing
a minute account of the death of a statesman two squares off whose name fills pages of history,
or a battle in the East, where some officer whom you met two months before on the Boulevard
has won immortal fame by prodigies of valor. So do the actualities and the pastimes, the real
and the imaginary drama, miraculously interfuse at Paris; the comedy of life is patent there,
and often the spectator exclaims, "_Arlequin avait bien arrangé les choses, mais Colombine
dérange tout!_"

The Parisian females are "unexceptionably shod,"--but the agricultural instruments now in use
in the rural districts of France are of a form and mechanism which, to a Yankee farmer, would
seem antediluvian; the cooks, gardeners, and other working-people, have annually the most graceful
festivals,--but the traveller sees in the fields women so bronzed and wrinkled by toil and
exposure that their sex is hardly to be recognized. When the Gothamite passes along Pearl or
Broad Street, he beholds the daily spectacle of unemployed carmen reading newspapers;--there
may be said to be no such thing as popular literature in France; mental recreation, such as
the German and Scotch peasantry enjoy, is unknown there. The Art and letters of the kingdom
flourished in her court and were cultivated as an aristocratic element for so long a period,
that neither has become domesticated among the lower classes; we find in them the sentiment
of military glory, of religion in its superstitious phase, of music perhaps, of rustic festivity,--but
not the enjoyments which spring from or are associated with thought and poetic sympathies such
as national writers like Burns inspired. An exception comparatively recent may be found in
the popular appreciation of Béranger and Souvestre.

There is not a natural object too beautiful or an occasion too solemn to arrest the French
tendency to the theatrical. Even one of their most ardent eulogists remarks,--"All that can
be said against the French sublime is this,--that the grandeur is more in the word than in
the thing; the French expression professes more than it performs"; and old Montaigne declares
that "lying is not a vice among the French, _but a way of speaking_." Both observations admit
too much; and indicate an habitual departure from Nature and simplicity as a national trait.
Who but Frenchmen ever delighted in reducing to artificial shapes the graceful forms of vegetable
life, or can so far lay aside the sentiment of grief as to engage in rhetorical panegyrics
over the fresh graves of departed friends? Compare the high dead wall with its range of flower-pots,
the porches undecked by woodbines or jessamine, the formal paths, the proximate kitchen, stables,
and ungarnished _salon_ of a French villa, with the hedges, meadows, woodlands, and trellised
eglantine of an English country-house; and a glance assures us that to the former nation the
country is a _dernier ressort_, and not an endeared seclusion. Yet they romance, in their way,
on rural subjects: "_À la campagne_," says one of their poets, "_où chaque feuille qui tombe
est une élégie toute faite_." Through an avenue of scraggy poplars we approach a dilapidated
_château_, whose owner is playing dominoes at the café of the nearest provincial town, or exhausting
the sparse revenues of the estate at the theatres, roulette-tables, or balls of Paris. People
leave these for a rural vicinage only to economize, to hide chagrin, or to die. So recognized
is this indifference to Nature and inaptitude for rural life in France, that, when we desire
to express the opposite of natural tastes, we habitually use the word "Frenchified." The idea
which a Parisian has of a tree is that of a convenient appendage to a lamp. The traveller never
sees artificial light reflected from green leaves, without thinking of his evening promenades
in the French capital, or a dance in the groves of Montmorency. The old verbal tyranny of the
French Academy, the painted wreaths sold at cemetery-gates, the colored plates of fashions,
powdered hair, and rouged cheeks, typify and illustrate this irreverent ambition to pervert
Nature and create artificial effects; they are but so many forms of the theatrical instinct,
and proofs of the ascendency of meretricious taste. It is this want of loyalty to Nature, and
insensibility to her unadulterated charms, which constitute the real barrier between the Gallic
mind and that of England and Italy, and which explain the fervent protest of such men as Alfieri
and Coleridge. Simplicity and earnestness are the normal traits of efficient character, whether
developed in action or Art, in sentiment or reflection; and manufactured verse, vegetation,
and complexions indicate a faith in appearances and a divorce from reality, which, in political
interests, tend to compromise, to theory, and to acquiescence in a military _régime_ and an
embellished absolutism.

It is this incompleteness, this comparative untruth, that gives rise to the dissatisfaction
we feel in the last analysis of French character. It is delusive. The promise of beauty held
out by external taste is unfulfilled; the fascination of manner bears a vastly undue proportion
to the substantial kindness and trust which that immediate charm suggests. "Just Heaven!" exclaims
Yorick, "for what wise reasons hast thou ordered it, that beggary and urbanity, which are at
such variance in other countries, should find a way to be at unity in this?" The bearing of
an Englishman seldom awakens expectation of courtesy or entertainment; yet, if vouchsafed,
how to be relied on is the friendship! how generous the hospitality! The urbane salutation
with which a Frenchman greets the female passenger, as she enters a public conveyance, is not
followed by the offer of his seat or a slice of his reeking _pâtè_,--while the roughest backwoodsman
in America, who never touched his hat or inclined his body to a stranger, will guard a woman
from insult, and incommode himself to promote her comfort, with respectful alacrity. It is
so in literature. How often we eagerly follow the clear exposition of a subject in the pages
of a French author, to reach an impotent conclusion! or suffer our sympathies to be enlisted
by the admirable description of an interior or a character in one of their novels, to find
the plot which embodies them an absurd melodrama! Evanescence is the law of Parisian felicities,--selfishness
the background of French politeness,--sociability flourishes in an inverse ratio to attachment;
we become skeptical almost in proportion as we are attracted. If we ask the way, we are graciously
directed; but if we demand the least sacrifice, we must accept volubility for service. Thus
the perpetual flowering in manners, in philosophy, in politics, and in economy, is rarely accompanied
by fruit in either. To enjoy Paris, we must cease to be in earnest;--to pass the time, and
not to wrest from it a blessing or a triumph, is the main object. The badges, the gardens,
the smiles, the agreeable phrase, the keen repartee, the tempting dish, the ingenious _vaudeville_,
the pretty foot, the elegant chair and becoming curtain, the extravagant gesture, the pointed
epigram or alluring formula, must be taken as so many agreeabilities,--not for things performed,
but imaginatively promised. The folly of war has been demonstrated to the entire sense of mankind;
at best, it is now deemed a painful necessity; yet the most serious phase of life in France
is military. Depth and refinement of feeling are lonely growths, and can no more spring up
in a gregarious and festal life than trees in quicksands; citizenship is based on consistent
acts, not on verbosity; and brilliant accompaniments never reconcile strong hearts to the loss
of independence, which some English author has acutely declared the first essential of a gentleman.
The civilization of France is an artistic and scientific materialism; the spiritual element
is wanting. Paris is the theatre of nations; we must regard it as a continuous spectacle, a
boundless museum, a place of diversion, of study,--not of faith, the deepest want and most
sacred birthright of humanity.

The want of directness, the absence of candor, the non-recognition of truth in its broad and
deep sense, is, indeed, a characteristic phase of life, of expression, and of manners in France.
A lover of his nation confesses that even in "_galantes aventures l'esprit prenait la place
du coeur, la fantaisie celle du sentiment_." Voltaire's creed was, that "_le mensonge n'est
un vice que quand il fait du mal; c'est une grande vertu quand il fait du bien_." "_L'exagération_"
says De Maistre, "_est le mensonge des honnêtes gens_."

In every aspect the histrionic prevails,--by facility of association and colloquial aptitude
in the common intercourse of life,--by the inventive element in dress, furniture, and material
arrangements, plastic to the caprice of taste and ingenuity,--by the habitudes of out-of-door
life, giving greater variety and adaptation to manners,--and by a national temperament, susceptible
and demonstrative. The current vocabulary suggests a perpetual recourse to the casual, a shifting
of the life-scene, a recognition of the temporary and accidental. Such oft-recurring words
as _flâneur_, _liaison_, _badinage_, etc., have no exact synonymes in other tongues. All that
is done, thought, and felt takes a dramatic expression. Lamartine elaborates a "History of
the Restoration" from two reports,--the one monarchical, the other republican,--and, by making
the facts picturesque and sentimental, wins countless readers. Comte elaborates a masterly
analysis of the sciences, proclaims a fascinating theory of eras or stages in human development;
but the positive philosophy, of which all this is but the introduction, to be applied to the
individual and society, eludes, at last, direct and complete application. A popular _savant_
dies, and students drag the hearse and scatter flowers over the grave; a philosopher lectures,
and immediately his disciples form a school, and advocate his system with the ardor of partisans;
a disappointed soldier commits suicide by throwing himself from Napoleon's column, while a
_grisette_ and her lover make their exit through a last embrace and the fumes of charcoal;
a wit seeks revenge with a clever repartee instead of his fists or cane. A lady is the centre
of attraction at a reception, and, upon inquiry, we are gravely informed that the charm lies
in the fact, that, though now fat and more than forty, as well as married to an old noble,
in her youth she was the mistress of a celebrated poet. Notoriety, even when scandalous, is
as good a social distinction as birth, fame, or beauty. Rousseau wrote a love-story, and sentiment
became the rage. An artisan has a day to spare, and takes his family to a garden or a dance.
Human existence, thus embellished, impulsive, and caricatured, becomes a continuous melodrama,
with an occasional catastrophe induced by political revolutions. Louis XIV., the most characteristic
king France ever had, is a genuine representative of this theatrical instinct and development.

Herein may we find a key to the riddle of governmental vicissitudes in France. People so easily
satisfied with illusions, so fertile in superficial expedients, are like children and savages
in their sense of what is novel and amusing, and their love of excitement,--and make no such
demands upon reality as full-grown men and educated citizens instinctively crave. Their powers,
in this regard, have not been disciplined,--their wants but vaguely realized. Accustomed to
look out of themselves for a law of action, to consult authority upon every occasion, to defer
to official sources for guidance in every detail of municipal and personal affairs,--the lesson
of self-dependence, the courage and the knowledge needful for efficiency are wanting. "_Savez-vous_,"
asks an epicure, "_ce qui a chassé la gaîté? C'est la politique_." They rally at the voice
of command, submit to interference, and take for granted a prescribed formula, partly because
it is troublesome to think, and partly on account of inexperience in assuming responsibility.
De Tocqueville has remarked, that, in every instance of attempted colonization, they have adapted
themselves to, instead of elevating savage tribes. They have never gone through the process
of state-education by the inevitable claim of personal duty, like the Anglo-Saxons. Hence their
need of a master, and the feeling of stability realized among them only under legitimacy and
despotism. Shallow reasoners argue from the mere acknowledgment of this state of things that
it is an ultimate public blessing when the man appears with wit and will enough to regulate
and keep from chaos a society thus destitute of political training. But those who look deeper
know that this political inefficiency is but the external manifestation or the latent cause
of more serious defects: by impeding healthful development in one way, it occasions a morbid
development in another. If citizenship in its most free and active privilege were enjoyed,
there would be less devotion to amusement, a more virile national character, and the sanctities
of life would have observance. Public spirit and a political career are incentives to manly
ambition,--to an employment of mind and feeling that wins men from trifling pursuits and vain
diversion; they are the national basis of private usefulness; to thwart them is to condemn
humanity to perpetual childhood,--to render members of a state machines.

The social evils and kinds of crime in France are referable in no small degree to the absence
of great motives,--the limited spheres and hopeless routine involved in arbitrary government,
unsustained by any elevated sentiment. Such a rule makes literature servile, enterprise mercenary,
and manners profligate: all history proves this. It is not, therefore, rational to infer, from
the apparent want of ability in the nation to take care of its own affairs, that a military
despotism is justifiable; when the truth is equally demonstrated, that such a sway, by indefinitely
postponing the chance to acquire the requisite training, keeps down and throws back the national
impulse and destiny. The man who thus abuses power is none the less a traitor and a parricide.

THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE UNDER DIFFICULTIES; AND WHAT CAME OF IT.

"Mr. Geer!"

Mr. Geer was unquestionably asleep.

This certainly did not indicate a sufficiently warm appreciation of Mrs. Geer's social charms;
but the enormity of the offence will be greatly modified by a brief review of the attending
circumstances. If you will but consider that the crackling of burning wood in a huge Franklin
stove is strongly soporific in its tendencies,--that the cushion of a capacious arm-chair,
constructed and adjusted as if with a single eye to a delicious dose, nay, to a long succession
of doses, is a powerful temptation to a sleepy soul,--that the regular, and, it must be confessed,
somewhat monotonous _click, click, click_ of Mrs. Geer's knitting-needles only served to measure,
without disturbing the silence,--and, lastly, that they had been husband and wife for thirty
years,--you will not cease to wonder that Mr. Geer

  "was glorious,
  O'er all the ills of life victorious."

To most men, an interruption at such a time would have been particularly annoying; but when
Mrs. Geer spoke in that way, Mr. Geer, asleep or awake, always made a point of hearing; so
he roused himself, and turned his round, honest face and placid blue eyes on the partner of
his bosom, who went on,--

"Mr. Geer, our Ivy will be seventeen, come fall."

"Possible?" replied Mr. Geer. "Who'd 'a' thunk it?"

Mr. Geer, as you may infer, was eminently a free-thinker, or rather, a free-actor, in respect
of irregular verbs. In fact, he tyrannized over all parts of speech: wrested nouns and verbs
from their original shape, till you could hardly recognize their distorted faces; and committed
that next worst sin to murdering one's mother, namely,--murdering one's mother-tongue, with
an _abandon_ that was absolutely fascinating. Having delivered his opinion thus sententiously,
he at once subsided, closed his placid eyes, and retired into his inner world of--thought, perhaps.

"_Mr. Geer!_"

This time he fairly jumped from his seat, and cast about him scared, blinking eyes.

"Mr. Geer, how can you sleep away your precious time so?"

"Sleep? I--I--am sure, I was never wider awake in my life."

"Well, then, tell me what I said."

"Said? Eh,--eh,--something about Ivy, wasn't it?"

And Mr. Geer nervously twitched up the skirts of his coat, and replaced his awry cushion, and
began to think that perhaps, after all, he had been asleep. But Mrs. Geer was too much interested
in the subject of her own cogitations to pursue her victory farther; so she answered,--

"Yes, and what is a-going to become of her?"

"Lud, lud! What's the matter?" asked Mr. Geer, wildly.

"Matter? Why, she'll be seventeen, come fall, and doesn't know a thing."

"O Lud! that all? That a'n't nothin'."

And Mr. Geer settled comfortably down into his arm-chair once more. He felt decidedly relieved.
Visions of smallpox, cholera, and throat-distemper, the worst evils that he could think of
and dread for his darling, had been conjured up by his wife's words; and when he found the
real state of the case, a great burden, which had suddenly fallen on his heart, was as suddenly
lifted.

"But I tell you it _is_ something," continued Mrs. Geer, energetically. "Ivy is 'most a woman,
and has never been ten miles from home in her life, and to no school but our little district"----

"And she's as pairk a gal," interrupted Mr. Geer, "as any you'll find in all the ten miles
round, be the other who she will."

"She's well enough in her way," replied Mrs. Geer, in all the humility of motherly pride; "and
so much the more reason why she shouldn't be let go so. There's Mr. Dingham sending his great
logy girls to Miss Porter's seminary. (I wonder if he expects they'll ever turn out anything.)
And here's our Ivy, bright as a button, and you full well able to maintain her like a lady,
and have done nothing but turn her out to grass all her life, till she's fairly run wild. I
declare it's a shame. She ought to be sent to school to-morrow."

"Nonsense, Sally! nonsense! I a'n't a-goin' lo have no such doin's. Sha'n't go off to school.
What's the use havin' her, if she can't stay at home with us? Let Mr. Dingham send his gals
to Chiny, if he wants to. All the book-larnin' in the world won't make 'em equal to our Ivy
with only her own head. I don't want her to go to gettin' up high-falutin' notions. She's all
gold now. She don't need no improvin'. Sha'n't budge an inch. Sha'n't stir a step."

"But do consider, Mr. Geer, the child has got to leave us some time. We can't have her always."

"Why can't we?" exclaimed Mr. Geer, almost fiercely.

"Sure enough! Why can't we? There a'n't nobody besides you and me, I suppose, that thinks she's
pairk. What's John Herricks and Dan Norris hangin' round for all the time?"

"And they may hang round till the cows come home! Nary hair of Ivy's head shall they touch,--nary
one on em!"

Just at this juncture of affairs, the damsel in question bounded into the room.

"Come here, Ivy," said the old man; "your mother's been a-slanderin' you; says you don't know
nothin'."

Ivy knelt before him, rested her arms on his knees, and turned upon him a pair of palpably
roguish eyes.

"Father, it _is_ an awful slander. I do know a sight."

"Lud, child, yes! I knew you did. No more you don't want to marry John Herricks, do you?"

"Oh, Daddy Geer! O--h--h!"

"Nor Dan Norris? nor none of 'em?"

"Never a one, father."

"Nor don't you ever think of gettin' married and slavin' yourself out for nobody. I'm plenty
well able to take care of you, as long as I live. You'll never live so happy as you do at home;
and you'll break my heart to go away, Ivy."

"I'll never go, papa." (She pronounced it with the accent on the first syllable.) "Indeed,
I never will. I'll never be married, as long as I live."

"No more you sha'n't, good child, good child!"

And again Farmer Geer betook himself to the depths of his arm-chair, with the complacent consciousness
of having faithfully discharged his parental duties. "She should not go to school. She would
not be married. She had said she would not, and of course she would not."

"Of course I shall not," mused Ivy, as she lay in her white bed. "What could put it into poor
papa's head? Marry John Herricks, with his everlasting smirk, and his diddling walk, and take
care of all the Herricks' sisters and mothers and aunts, and the Herricks' cows and horses
and pigs--and--hens--and--and"----

But Ivy had kept her thoughts on her marriage longer than ever before in her life; and ere
she had finished the inventory of John Herricks's personal property and real estate, the blue
eyes were closed in the sweet, sound sleep of youth and health.

Mrs. Geer, in her estimate of her daughter's attainments, was partly right and partly wrong.
Ivy had never been "finished" at Mrs. Porter's seminary, and was consequently in a highly unfinished
condition. "Small Latin and less Greek" jostled each other in her head. German and French,
Italian and Spanish, were strange tongues to Ivy. She could not dance, nor play, nor draw,
nor paint, nor work little dogs on footstools.

What, then, could she do?

_Imprimis_, she could climb a tree like a squirrel. _Secundo_, she could walk across the great
beam in the barn like a year-old kitten. In the pursuit of hens' eggs she knew no obstacles;
from scaffold to scaffold, from haymow to haymow, she leaped defiant. She pulled out the hay
from under the very noses of the astonished cows, to see if, perchance, some inexperienced
pullet might there have deposited her golden treasure. With all four-footed beasts she was
on the best of terms. The matronly and lazy old sheep she unceremoniously hustled aside, to
administer consolation and caresses to the timid, quaking lamb in the corner behind. Without
saddle or bridle she could

  "Ride a black horse
  To Banbury Cross."

(N.B.--I don't say she actually did. I only say she could; and under sufficiently strong provocation,
I have no doubt she would.) She knew where the purple violets and the white innocence first
flecked the spring turf, and where the ground-sparrows hid their mottled eggs. All the little
waddling, downy goslings, the feeble chickens, and faint-hearted, desponding turkeys, that
broke the shell too soon, and shivered miserably because the spring sun was not high enough
in the morning to warm them, she fed with pap, and cherished in cotton-wool, and nursed and
watched with eager, happy eyes. O blessed Ivy Geer! True Sister of Charity! Thrice blessed
stepmother of a brood whose name was Legion!

From the conjugal and filial conversation which I have faithfully reported, a casual observer,
particularly if young and inexperienced, might infer that the question of Miss Ivy's education
was definitively settled, and that she was henceforth to remain under the paternal roof. I
should, myself, have fallen into the same error, had not a long and intimate acquaintance with
the female sex generated and cherished a profound and mournful conviction of the truth of the
maxim, that appearances are deceitful. E.g., a woman has set her heart on something, and is
refused. She pouts and sulks: that is clouds, and will soon blow over. She scolds, storms,
and raves (I speak in a figure; I mean she does something as much like that as a tender, delicate,
angelic woman can): that is thunder, and only clears the air. She betakes herself to tears,
sobs, and embroidered cambric: that's a shower, and everything will be greener and fresher
after it. You may go your ways,--one to his farm, another to his merchandise; the world will
not wind up its affairs just yet. But, put the case, she goes on the even tenor of her way unmoved:

  "Beware! beware!
  Trust her not; she is fooling thee."

Thus Mrs. Geer, who was a thorough tactician. Like Napoleon, she was never more elated than
after a defeat. Before consulting her husband at all, she had contemplated the subject in all
its bearings, and had deliberately decided that Ivy was to go to school. The consent of the
senior partner of the firm was a secondary matter, which time and judicious management would
infallibly secure. Consequently, notwithstanding the unpropitious result of their first colloquy,
she the next day commenced preparations for Ivy's departure, as unhesitatingly, as calmly,
as assiduously, as if the day of that departure had been fixed.

Mrs. Geer was right. She knew she was, all the time. She had a sublime faith in herself. She
felt in her soul the divine afflatus, and pressed forward gloriously to her goal. Mr. Geer
had as much firmness, not to say obstinacy, as falls to the lot of most men; but Mrs. Geer
had more; and as Launce Outram, hard beset, so pathetically moaned, "A woman in the very house
has such deused opportunities!" so Farmer Geer grumbled, and squirmed, and remonstrated, and--yielded.

Mrs. Geer was _not_ right. She had reckoned without her host. Her affairs were gliding down
the very Appian Way of prosperity in a chariot-and-four, with footmen and outriders, when,
presto! they turned a sharp and unexpected corner, and over went the whole establishment into
a mirier mire than ever bespattered Dr. Slop.

To speak without a parable. When her expected Hegira was announced to Miss Mary Ives Geer,
that young lady, to the ill-concealed vexation of her mother, and the not-attempted-to-be-concealed
exultation of her father, expressed decided disapprobation of the whole scheme. As she was
the chief _dramatis persona_, the very Hamlet of the play, this unlooked-for decision somewhat
interfered with Mrs. Geer's plans. All the eloquence of that estimable woman was brought to
bear on this one point; but this one point was invincible. Expostulation and entreaty were
alike vain. Neither ambition nor pleasure could hold out any allurements to Ivy. Maternal authority
was at length hinted at, only hinted at, and the spoiled child declared that she had not had
her own will and way for sixteen years to give up quietly in her seventeenth. One last resort,
one forlorn hope,--one expedient, which had never failed to overcome her childish stubbornness:
"Would she grieve her parents so much as to oppose this their darling wish?" And Ivy burst
into tears, and begged to know if she should show her love to her father and mother by going
away from them. This drove the nail into her old father's heart, and then the little vixen
clenched it by throwing herself into his arms, and sobbing, "Oh, papa! would you turn your
Ivy out of doors and break her heart?"

Flimsiest of fallacies! Shallowest of sophists! But she was the only and beloved child of his
old age; so the fallacy passed unchallenged; the strong arms closed around the naughty girl;
and the soothing voice murmured, "There, there, Ivy! don't cry, child! Lud! lud! you sha'n't
be bothered; no more you sha'n't, lovey!" and the _status quo_ was restored.

  "It is not in the sea nor in the strife
  We feel benumbed and wish to be no more,
  But in the after silence on the shore,
  When all is lost, except a little life,"

said one who had breasted the stormiest sea and plunged into the fiercest strife. Ivy, who
had never read Byron, and therefore could not be suspected of any Byronical affectations, felt
it, when, having gained her point, she sat down alone in her own room. When her single self
had been pitted against superior numbers, age, experience, and parental authority, all her
heroism was roused, and she was adequate to the emergency; but her end gained, the excitement
gone, the sense of disobedience alone remaining, and she was thoroughly uncomfortable, nay,
miserable.

"Mamma is right; I know I am a little goose," sobbed she. (The words were mental, intangible,
unspoken; the sobs physical, palpable, decided.) "I never did know anything, and I never shall,--and
I don't care if I don't. I don't see any good in knowing so much. We don't have a great while
to stay in the world any way, and I don't see why we can't be let alone and have a good time
while we are here, and when we get to heaven we can take a fresh start. Oh, dear! I never shall
go to heaven, if I am so bad and vex mamma. But then papa didn't care. But then he would have
liked me to go to school. But there, I won't! I won't! I _will not!_ I'll study at home. Oh,
dear! I wish papa was a great man, and knew everything, and could teach me. Well, he is just
as happy, and just as rich, and everybody likes him just as well, as if he knew the whole world
full; and why can't I do so, too? Rebecca Dingham, indeed! Mercy! I hope I never shall be like
her; I would rather not know my A B C! What _shall_ I do? There's Mr. Brownslow might teach
me; he knows enough. But, dear me! he is as busy as he can be, all day long; and Squire Merrill
goes out of town every day; and there's Dr. Mix, to be sure, but he smells so strong of paregoric,
and I don't believe he knows much, either; and there's nobody else in town that knows any more
than anybody else; and there's nothing for it but I must go to school, if I am ever to know
anything." (A renewal of sobs, uninterrupted for several minutes.) "There's Mr. Clerron!" (A
sudden cessation.) "I suppose he knows more than the whole town tumbled into one; and writes
books, and--mercy! there's no end to his knowledge; and he's rich, and does everything he likes,
all day long. Oh, if I only _did_ know him! I would ask him straight off to teach me. I should
be scared to death. I've a great mind to ask him, as it is. I can tell him who I am. He never
will know any other way, for he isn't acquainted with anybody. They say he is as proud as Lucifer.
If he were ten times prouder, I would rather ask him than go to school. He might just as well
do something as not. I am sure, if God had made me him, and him me, I should be glad to help
him. I'll go straight to him the first thing to-morrow morning."

Once seeing a possible way out of her difficulties, her sorrow vanished. Not quite so gayly
as usual, it is true, did she sing about the house that night; for she was summoning all her
powers to prepare an introductory speech to Felix Clerron, Esq., a gentleman and a scholar.
Her elocutionary attempts were not quite satisfactory to herself, but she was not to be daunted;
and when morning came, she took heart of grace, slung her broadbrimmed hat over her arm, and
began her march "over the hills and far away," in search of her--fate.

"And did her mother really let her roam away, alone, on such an errand, to a perfect stranger?"

Humanly speaking, nothing was more unlikely than that Mrs. Geer, a prudent, modest, and sensible
woman, should give her consent to such an--to use the mildest term--unusual undertaking. Nor
did she. The fact is, her consent was not asked. She knew nothing whatever of the plan.

"Worse and worse! Did the wilful girl go off without leave? without even informing her parents?"

I am sorry to say she did. In writing a story of real life, one cannot take that liberty with
facts which is quite proper, not to say indispensable, in history, science, and belles-lettres
generally. Duty compels me to adhere closely to the truth; and for whatever of obloquy may
be heaped upon me, or upon my Ivy, I shall find consolation in the words of the illustrious
Harrison; or perhaps it was the illustrious Taylor; I am not quite sure, however, that it was
not the illustrious Washington:--"Do right, and let the consequences take care of themselves."
I am therefore obliged to say, that Ivy's departure in pursuit of knowledge was entirely unknown
to her respected and beloved parents. But you must remember that she was an only child, and
a spoiled child,--spoiled as only stern New England Puritan parents, somewhat advanced in years,
can spoil their children. I do not defend Ivy. On the contrary, notwithstanding my regard for
her, I hand her over to the reprobation of an enlightened community; and I hereby entreat all
young persons into whose hands this memoir may fall to take warning by the fate of poor Ivy,
and never enter upon any important undertaking, until they have, to say the least, consulted
those who are their natural guides, their warmest friends, and their most experienced counsellors.

While I have been writing this, Ivy Geer, light of heart, fleet of foot, and firm of will,
has passed over hill-side, through wood-path, and across meadow-land, and drawn near the domains
of Felix Clerron, Esq. Light of heart perhaps I scarcely ought to say. Certainly, that enterprising
organ had never before beat so furious a tattoo in Ivy's breast, as when she stood, hat in
hand, on the steps of the somewhat stately dwelling. To do her justice, she had intended to
do the penance of wearing her hat when she should have reached her destination; but in her
excitement she quite forgot it. So, as I said, she stood on the door-step, as a royal maiden
stood three hundred years before, (not in the same place,) with the "wind blowing her fair
hair about her beautiful cheeks."

There had come to Ivy from the great, gay world a vague rumor, that, instead of knocking at
a door, like a Christian, with your own good knuckles, for such case made and provided, modern
fashion had introduced "the ringing and the dinging of the bells." This vague rumor found a
local habitation, when Mr. Clerron came down upon the village and established himself, his
men and women and horses and cattle; but as Ivy stood on his door-step, looking upward, downward,
sidewise, with earnest, peering gaze, no bell, and no sign of bell, was visible; nothing unusual,
save a little door-knob at the right-hand side of the door,--a thing which could not be accounted
for. After long and serious deliberation, she came to the conclusion that the bell must be
inside, and that the knob was a screw attached to it. So she tried to twist it, first one way,
then the other; but twist it would not. In despair she betook herself to her fingers and knocked.
Nobody came. Twist again. No use. Knock again. Ditto. Then she went down to the gravelled path,
selected one of the largest pebbles, took up her station before the door, and began to pound
away. In a moment, a gentleman in dressing-gown and smoking-cap, with a cigar between his fingers,
came round the corner. Seeing her, he threw away his cigar, lifted his velvet cap, bowed, and,
with a polite "allow me," stepped to the door, pulled the bell, and again passed out of sight.
Ivy was not so confused at being detected in her assault and battery on the door of a respectable,
peaceable, private gentleman, as not to make the silent reflection, "Pulled the knob, instead
of twisting it. How easy it is to do a thing, if you only know how!"

The summons was soon answered by a black gnome, and Ivy was ushered into a large room, which,
to her dazzled, sun-weary eyes, seemed delightfully fresh and _green_-looking. Two minutes
more of waiting,--then a step in the hall, a gently opening door, and Ivy felt rather than
saw herself in the presence of the formidable Mr. Clerron. A single glance showed her that
he was the person who had rung the bell for her, though the gay dressing-gown had been changed
for a soberer suit. Mr. Clerron bowed. Ivy, hardly knowing what she did, faltered forth, "I
am Ivy Geer." A half-curious, half-sarcastic smile glimmered behind the heavy beard, and gleamed
beneath the heavy eyebrows, as he answered, "I am happy to make your acquaintance"; but another
glance at the trembling form, the frightened, pale face, and quivering lips, changed the smile
into one that was very good-natured, and even kind; and he added, playfully,--

"I am Felix Clerron, very much at your service."

"You write books and are a very learned man," pursued Ivy, hurriedly, never lifting her eyes
from the floor, and never ceasing to twirl her hat-strings.

There was no possibility of supposing her guilty of committing a little diplomatic flattery
in conveying this succinct bit of information. She made the assertion with the air of one who
has a disagreeable piece of business on hand, and is determined to go through with it as soon
as possible. He bowed and smiled again; quite unnecessarily,--since, as I have before remarked,
Ivy's eyes were steadfastly fixed on the carpet. A slight pause for breath and she pitched
ahead again.

"I am very ignorant, and I am growing old. I am almost seventeen. I don't know anything to
speak of. Mamma wishes me to go to school. Papa did not, but now he does. I won't go. I would
rather be stupid all my life long than leave home. But mamma is vexed, and I want to please
her, and I thought,--Mr. Brownslow is so busy,--and you,--if you have nothing to do,--and know
so much,--I thought"------

She stopped short, utterly unable to proceed. Wonderfully different did this affair seem from
the one she had planned the preceding evening. My dear Sir, Madam,--have not we, too, sometimes
found it an easier thing to fight the battle of life in our own chimney-corner, by the ruddy
and genial firelight, than in broad day on the world's great battle-field?

Mr. Clerron, seeing Ivy's confusion, kindly came to her aid. "And you thought my superfluous
time and wisdom might be transferred to you, thus making a more equal division of property?"

"If you would be so good,--I,--yes, Sir."

"May I inquire how you propose to effect such an exchange?"

He really did not intend to be anything but kind, but the whole matter presented itself to
him in a very ludicrous light; and in endeavoring to preserve proper gravity, he became severe.
Ivy, all-unused to the world, still had a secret feeling that he was laughing at her. Tears,
that would not be repressed, glistened in her downcast eyes, gathered on the long lashes, dropped
silently to the floor. He saw that she was entirely a child, ignorant, artless, and sincere.
His better feelings were roused, and he exclaimed, with real earnestness,--

"My dear young lady, I should rejoice to serve you in any way, I beg you to believe."

His words only hastened the catastrophe which seems to be always impending over the weaker
sex. Ivy sobbed outright,--a perfect tempest. Felix Clerron looked on with a bachelor's dismay.
"What in thunder? Confound the girl!" were his first reflections; but her utter abandonment
to sorrow melted his heart again,--not a very susceptible heart either; but men, especially
bachelors, are so--_green!_ (the word is found in Cowper.)

He sat down by her side, stroked the hair from her burning forehead, as if she had been six
instead of sixteen, and again and again assured her of his willingness to assist her.

"I must go home," whispered Ivy, as soon as she could command, or rather coax her voice.

His hospitality was shocked.

"Indeed you must not, till we have at least had a consultation. Tell me how much you know.
What have you studied?"

"Oh, nothing, Sir. I am very stupid."

"Ah! we must begin with the Alphabet, then. Blocks or a primer?"

Ivy smiled through her tears.

"Not quite so bad as that, Sir."

"You do know your letters? Perhaps you can even count, and spell your name; maybe write it.
Pray, enlighten me."

Ivy grew calm as he became playful.

"I can cipher pretty well. I have been through Greenleaf's Large."

"House or meadow? And the exact dimensions, if you please."

"Sir?"

"I understood you to say you had traversed Greenleaf's large. You did not designate what."

He was laughing at her now, indeed, but it was open and genial, and she joined.

"My Arithmetic, of course. I supposed everybody knew that. Everybody calls it so."

"Time is short. Yes. We are an abbreviating nation. Do you like Arithmetic?"

"Pretty well, some parts of it. Fractions and Partial Payments. But I can't bear Duodecimals,
Position, and such things."

"Positions are occasionally embarrassing. And Grammar?"

"I think it's horrid. It's all 'indicative mood, common noun, third person, singular number,
and agrees with John.'"

"_Bravissima!_ A comprehensive sketch! _A multum in parvo!_ A bird's-eye view, as one may say,--and
not entertaining, certainly. What other branches have you pursued? Drawing, for instance?"

"Oh, no, Sir!"

"Nor Music?"

"No, Sir."

"Good, my dear! excellent! An overruling Providence has saved you and your friends from many
a pitfall. Shall we proceed to History? Be so good as to inform me who discovered America."

"I believe Columbus has the credit of it," replied Ivy, demurely.

"Non-committal, I see. Case goes strongly in his favor, but you reserve your judgment till
further evidence."

"I think he was a wise and good and enterprising man."

"But are rather skeptical about that San Salvador story. A wise course. Never decide till both
sides have been fairly presented. 'He that judgeth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly
and shame unto him,' said the wise man. Occasionally his after-judgment is equally discreditable.
That is a thousand times worse. Exit Clio. Enter--well!--Geographia. My young friend, what
celebrated city has the honor of concentrating the laws, learning, and literature of Massachusetts,
to wit, namely, is its capital?"

"Boston, Sir."

"My dear, your Geography has evidently been attended to. You have learned the basis fact. You
have discovered the pivot on which the world turns. You have dug down to the ante-diluvian,
ante-pyrean granite,--the primitive, unfused stratum of society. The force of learning can
no farther go. Armed with that fact, you may march fearlessly forth to do battle with the world,
the flesh, and--the--ahem--the King of Beasts! Do you think you should like me for a teacher?"

"I can't tell, Sir. I did not like you as anything awhile ago."

"But you like me better now? You think I improve on acquaintance? You detect signs of a moral
reformation?"

"No, Sir, I don't like you now. I only don't dislike you so much as I did."

"Spoken like a major-general, or, better still, like a brave little Yankee girl, as you are.
I am an enthusiastic admirer of truth. I foresee we shall get on famously. I was rather premature
in sounding the state of your affections, it must be confessed,--but we shall be rare friends
by-and-by. On the whole, you are not particularly fond of books?"

"I like some books well enough, but not studying-books," said Ivy, with a sigh, "and I don't
see any good in them. If it wasn't for mamma, I never would open one,--never! I would just
as soon be a dunce as not; I don't see anything very horrid in it."

"An opinion which obtains with a wonderfully large proportion of our population, and is applied
in practice with surprising success. There is a distinction, however, my dear young lady, which
you must immediately learn to make. The dunce subjective is a very inoffensive animal, contented,
happy, and harmless; and, as you justly remark, inspires no horror, but rather an amiable and
genial self-complacency. The dunce objective, on the contrary, is of an entirely different
species. He is a bore of the first magnitude,--a poisoned arrow, that not only pierces, but
inflames,--a dull knife, that not only cuts, but tears,--a cowardly little cur, that snaps
occasionally, but snarls unceasingly; whom, which, and that, it becomes the duty of all good
citizens to sweep from the face of the earth."

"What is the difference between them? How shall one know which is which?"

"The dunce subjective is the dunce from his own point of view,--the dunce with his eyes turned
inward,--confining his duncehood to the bosom of his family. The dunce objective is the dunce
butting against his neighbor's study-door,--intruding, obtruding, protruding his insipid folly
and still more insipid wisdom at all times and seasons. He is a creature utterly devoid of
shame. He is like Milton's angels, in one respect at least: you may thrust him through and
through with the two-edged sword of your satire, and at the end he shall be as intact and integral
as at the beginning. Am I sufficiently obvious?"

"It is very obvious that I am both, according to your definition."

"It is very obvious that you are neither, I beg to submit, but a sensible young girl,--with
no great quantity of the manufactured article, perhaps, but plenty of raw material, capable
of being wrought into fabric of the finest quality."

"Do you really think I can learn?" asked Ivy, with a bright blush of pleasure.

"Demonstrably certain."

"As much as if I went to school?"

"My dear miss, as the forest oak, 'cabined, cribbed, confined' with multitudes of its fellows,
grows stunted, scrubby, and dwarfed, but, brought into the open fields alone, stretches out
its arms to the blue heavens and its roots to the kindly earth, so that the birds of the air
lodge in the branches thereof, and men sit under its shadow with great delight,--so, in a word,
shall you, under my fostering care, flourish like a green bay-tree; that is, if I am to have
the honor."

"Yes, Sir, I mean--I meant--I was thinking as if you were teaching me--I mean were going to
teach me."

"Which I also mean, if time and the favoring gods allow, and your parents continue to wish it."

"Oh, they won't care!"

"Won't care?"

"No, Sir, they will be glad, I think. Papa, at least, will be glad to have me stay at home."

"Did not they direct you to come to me to-day?"

Ivy blushed deeply, and replied, in a low voice, "No, Sir; I knew mamma would not let me come,
if I asked her."

"And to prevent any sudden temptation to disobedience, and a consequent forfeiture of your
peace of mind, you took time by the forelock and came on your own responsibility?"

"Yes, Sir."

"Very ingenious, upon my word! An accomplished casuist! A born Jesuit! But, my dear Miss Geer,
I must confess I have not this happy feminine knack of keeping out of the way of temptation.
I should prefer to consult your friends, even at the risk of losing the pleasure of your society."

"Oh, yes, Sir! I don't care, now it is all settled."

And so, over hill-side, along wood-path, and through meadow-land, with light heart and smiling
eyes, tripped Ivy back again. To Mrs. Geer shelling peas in the shady porch, and to Mr. Geer
fanning himself with his straw hat on the steps beside her, Ivy recounted the story of her
adventures. Mrs. Geer was thunderstruck at Ivy's temerity; Mr. Geer was lost in admiration
of her pluck. Mrs. Geer termed it a wild-goose chase; Mr. Geer declared Ivy to be as smart
as a steel trap. Mrs. Geer vetoed the whole plan; Mr. Geer didn't know. But when at sunset
Mr. Clerron rode over, and admired Mr. Geer's orchard, and praised the points of his Durhams,
and begged a root of Mrs. Geer's scarlet verbena, and assured them he should be very glad to
refresh his own early studies, and also to form an acquaintance with the family,--he knew very
few in the village,--and if Mrs. Geer would drive over when Ivy came to recite,--or perhaps
they would rather he should come to their house. Oh, no! Mrs. Geer could not think of that.
Just as they pleased. Mrs. Simm, the housekeeper, would be very glad of Mrs. Geer's company
while Miss Ivy was reciting, in case Mrs. Geer should not wish to listen; and the house and
grounds would be shown by Mrs. Simm with great pleasure. By the way, Mrs. Simm was a thrifty
and sensible woman, and he was sure they would be mutually pleased.--When, in short, all this
and much more had been said, it was decided that Ivy should be regularly installed pupil of
Mr. Felix Clerron.

"_Eureka!_" cries the professional novel-reader, that far-sighted and keen-scented hound that
snuffs a _dénouement_ afar off; and anon there rises before his eyes the vision of poor little
Stella drinking in love and learning, especially love, from the divine eyes of the anything
but divine Swift,--of Shirley, the lioness, the pantheress, the leopardess, the beautiful,
fierce creature, sitting, tamed, quiet, meek, by the side of Louis Moore, her tutor and master,--and
of all the legends of all the ages wherein Beauty has sat at the feet of Wisdom, and Love has
crept in unawares, and spoiled the lesson while as yet half-unlearnt;--so he cries, "She is
going the way of all heroines. The man and the girl,--they will fall in love, marry, and live
happily all the rest of their days."

Of course they will. Is there any reason why they should not? If any man can show just cause
why they may not lawfully be joined together, let him now speak, or else hereafter forever
hold his peace.

I repeat it, of course they will. You surely cannot suppose I should, in cold blood, sit down
to write a story in which nobody was to fall in love or be in love! Sir, scoff as you may,
love is the one vital principle in all romance. Not only does your cheek flush and your eye
sparkle, till "heart, brain, and soul are all on fire," over the burning words of some Brontean
Pythoness, but when you open the last thrilling work of Maggie Marigold, and are immediately
submerged "in a weak, washy, everlasting flood" of insipidity, twaddle, bosh, and heart-rending
sorrow, you do not shut the book with a jerk. Why not? Because in the dismal distance you dimly
descry two figures swimming, floating, struggling towards each other, and a languid _soupçon_
of curiosity detains you till you have ascertained, that, after infinite distress, Adolphus
and Miranda have made

  "One of the very best matches,
  Both well mated for life:
  She's got a fool for her husband,
  He's got a fool for his wife."

Sir, scoff as you may, love is the one sunbeam of poetry that gilds with a softened splendor
the hard, bare outline of many a prosaic life. "Work, work, work, from weary chime to chime";
tramp behind the plough, hammer on the lapstone, beat the anvil, drive the plane, "from morn
till dewy eve"; but when the dewy eve comes, ah! Hesperus gleams soft and golden over the far-off
pinetrees, but

  "The star that lightens your bosom most,
  And gives to your weary feet their speed,
  Abides in a cottage beyond the mead."

It is useless to assert that the subject is worn threadbare. Threadbare it may be to you, enervated
and _blasé_ man of pleasure, worn and hardened man of the world; but it is not for you I write.
The fountain which leaps up fresh and living in every new life can never be exhausted till
the springs of all life are dry. Tell me, O lover, gazing into those tender eyes uplifted to
yours, twining the silken rings around your bronzed finger, pressing reverently the warm lips
consecrated to you,--does it abate one jot or tittle of your happiness to know that eyes just
as tender, curls just as silken, lips just as red, have stirred the hearts of men for a thousand
years?

Love, then, is a _sine qua non_ in stories; and if love, why not marriage? What pleasure can
a humane and benevolent man find in separating two individuals whose chief, perhaps whose sole
happiness, consists in being together? For certain inscrutable reasons, Divine Benevolence
permits evil to exist in the world. All who have a taste for misery can find it there in exhaustless
quantities. Johns are every day falling in love with Katys, but marrying Isabels, and Isabels
the same, _mutatis mutandis_. We submit to it because there is no alternative; and we believe
that good shall finally be wrought and wrested from evil. Don't, for heaven's sake, let us
in mere wantonness introduce into our novel-world the work of our own hand, an abridged edition,
a daguerreotype copy of the world without, of which we know so little and so much. I always
do and always shall read the last page of a novel first; and if I perceive there any indications
that matters are not coming out "shipshape," my reading invariably terminates with the last page.

For the rest, please to remember that I am not writing about a princess of the blood, nor of
the days of the bold barons, but only the life of a quiet little girl in a quiet little town
in the eastern part of Massachusetts; and so far as my experience and observation go, men and
women in the eastern part of Massachusetts are not given to thrilling adventures, hairbreadth
escapes, wonderful concatenations of circumstances, and blood and thunder generally,--but pursue
the even tenor of their way, and of their love, with a sober and delightful equanimity. If
you want a plot, go to the "Children of the Abbey," "Consuelo," and myriads of that kin, and
help yourself. As for me, I must confess I hate plots. I see no pleasure in stumbling blindfolded
through a story, unable to see a yard ahead, fancying every turn to be the last, and the road
to go straight on to a glorious goal,--and, lo! we are in a more hopeless labyrinth than ever.
I have a sense of restraint. I want to breathe freely, and can't. I want to have leisure to
observe the style, the development of character, the author's tone of thought, and not be galloped
through on the back of a breathless desire to know "how they are coming out."

But, my dear plot-loving friend, be easy. I will not leave you in the lurch. I am not going
to marry my man and woman out of hand. An obstacle, of which I suppose you have never heard,--an
obstacle entirely new, fresh, and unhackneyed, will arise; so, I pray you, let patience have
her perfect work.

Wonderful was the new world opened to Ivy Geer. It was as if a corpse, cold, inert, lifeless,
had suddenly sprung up, warm, invigorated, informed with a spirit which led her own spell-bound.
Grammar,--Grammar, which had been a synonyme for all that was dry, irksome, useless,--a beating
of the wind, the crackling of thorns under a pot,--Grammar even assumed for her a charm, a
wonder, a glory. She saw how the great and wise had shrined in fitting words their purity,
and wisdom, and sorrow, and suffering, and penitence; and how, as this generation passed away,
and another came forth which knew not God, the golden casket became dim, and the memory of
its priceless gem faded away; but how, at the touch of a mighty wand, the obedient lid flew
back, and the long-hidden thought "sprang full-statured in an hour." She saw how love and beauty
and freedom lay floating vaguely and aimlessly in a million minds till the poet came and crystallized
them into clear-cut, prismatic words, tinged for each with the color of his own fancy, and
wrought into a perfect mosaic, not for an age, but for all time. Led by a strong hand, she
trod with reverent awe down the dim aisles of the Past, and saw how the soul of man, bound
in its prison-house, had ever struggled to voice itself in words. Roaming in the dense forest
with the stern and bloody Druid,--bounding over the waves with the fierce pirates who supplanted
them, and in whose blue eyes and beneath whose fair locks gleamed indeed the ferocity of the
savage, but lurked also, though unseen and unknown, the tender chivalry of the English gentleman,--gazing
admiringly on the barbaric splendor of the cloth-of-gold, whereon trod regally, to the sound
of harp and viol, the beauty and bravery of the old Norman nobility, she delighted to see how
the mother-tongue, our dear mother-tongue, had laid all the nations under contribution to enrich
her treasury,--gathering from one its strength, from another its stateliness, from a third
its harmony, till the harsh, crude, rugged dialect of a barbarous horde became worthy to embody,
as it does, the love, the wisdom, and the faith of half a world.

So Grammar taught Ivy to reverence language.

History, in the light of a guiding mind, ceased to be a bare record of slaughter and crime.
Before her eyes filed, in a statelier pageant than they knew, the long procession of "simple
great ones gone for ever and ever by," and the countless lesser ones whose names are quenched
in the darkness of a night that shall know no dawn. She saw the "great world spin forever down
the ringing grooves of change"; but amid all the change, the confusion, the chaos, she saw
the finger of God ever pointing, and heard the sublime monotone of the Divine voice ever saying
to the children of men, "This is the way, walk ye in it." And Ivy thought she saw, and rejoiced
in the thought, that, even when this warning was unheeded,--when on the brow of the mournful
Earth "Ichabod, Ichabod," was forever engraven,--when the First Man with his own hand put from
him the cup of innocence, and went forth from the happy garden, sin-stained and fallen, the
whole head sick, and the whole heart faint,--even then she saw within him the divine spark,
the leaven of life, which had power to vitalize and vivify what Crime had smitten with death.
Though sea and land teemed with strange perils, though night and day pursued him with mysterious
terrors, though the now unfriendly elements combined to check his career, still, with unswerving
purpose, undaunted courage, she saw him march constantly forward. Spirits of evil could not
drive from his heart the prescience of greatness; and his soul dwelt calmly under the foreshadow
of a mighty future.

And as Ivy looked, she saw how the children of men became a great nation, and possessed the
land far and wide. They delved into the bosom of the pleased earth, and brought forth the piled-up
treasures of uncounted cycles. They unfolded the book of the skies, and sought to read the
records thereon. They plunged into the unknown and terrible ocean, and decked their own brows
with the gems they plucked from hers. And when conquered Nature had laid her hoards at their
feet, their restless longings would not be satisfied. Brave young spirits, with the dew of
their youth fresh upon them, set out in quest of a land beyond their ken. Over the mountains,
across the seas, through the forests, there came to the ear of the dreaming girl the measured
tramp of marching men, the softer footfalls of loving women, the pattering of the feet of little
children. Many a day and many a night she saw them wander on towards the setting sun, till
the Unseen Hand led them to a fair and fruitful country that opened its bounteous arms in welcome.
Broad rivers, green fields, laughing valleys wooed them to plant their household gods,--and
the foundations of Europe were laid. Here were sown the seeds of those heroic virtues which
have since leaped into luxuriant life,--seeds of that irresistible power which fastened its
grasp on Nature and forced her to unfold the secret of her creation,--seeds of that far-reaching
wisdom which in the light of the unveiled past has read the story of the unseen future.

And still under Ivy's eye they grouped themselves. Some gathered on the pleasant hills of the
sunny South, and the beauty of earth and sea and sky passed into their souls forever. They
caught the evanescent gleam, the passing shadow, and on unseemly canvas limned it for all time
in forms of unuttered and unutterable loveliness. They shaped into glowing life the phantoms
of grace that were always flitting before their enchanted eyes, and poured into inanimate marble
their rapt and passionate souls. They struck the lyre to wild and stirring songs whose tremulous
echoes still linger along the corridors of Time. Some sought the icebound North, and grappled
with dangers by field and flood. They hunted the wild dragon to his mountain-fastnesses, and
fought him at bay, and never quailed. Death, in its most fearful forms, they met with grim
delight, and chanted the glories of the Valhalla waiting for heroes who should forever quaff
the "foaming, pure, and shining mead" from skulls of foes in battle slain. Some crossed the
sea, and on

  "that pale, that white-faced shore,
  Whose foot spurns back tho ocean's swelling
  tide,"

they reared a sinewy and stalwart race, whose "morning drum-beat encircles the world."

And History taught Ivy to reverence man.

But there was one respect in which Ivy was both pupil and teacher. Never a word of Botany had
fallen upon her ears; but through all the unconscious bliss of infancy, childhood, and girlhood,
for sixteen happy years, she had lived among the flowers, and she knew their dear faces and
their wild-wood names. She loved them with an almost human love. They were to her companions
and friends. She knew their likings and dislikings, their joys and sorrows,--who among them
chose the darkest nooks of the old woods, and who bloomed only to the brightest sunlight,--who
sent their roots deep down among the mosses by the brook, and who smiled only on the southern
hill-side. Around each she wove a web of beautiful individuality, and more than one had received
from her a new christening. It is true, that, when she came to study from a book, she made
wry faces over the long, barbarous, Latin names which completely disguised her favorites, and
in her heart deemed a great many of the definitions quite superfluous; but she had strong faith
in her teacher, and when the technical was laid aside for the real, then, indeed, "her foot
was on her native heath, and her name was MacGregor." A wild and merry chase she led her grave
instructor. Morning, noon, or night, she was always ready. Under the blue sky, breathing the
pure air, treading the green turf familiar from her infancy, she could not be otherwise than
happy; but when was superadded to this the companionship of a mind vigorous, cultivated, and
refined, she enjoyed it with a keen and intense delight. Nowhere else did her soul so entirely
unfold to the genial light of this new sun which had suddenly mounted above her horizon. Nowhere
else did the freshness and fulness and splendor of life dilate her whole being with a fine ecstasy.

And what was the end of all this? Just what you would have supposed. She had led a life of
simple, unbounded love and trust,--a buoyant, elastic gladness,--a dream of sunshine. No gray
cloud had ever lowered in her sky, no thunderbolt smitten her joys, no winter rain chilled
her warmth. Only the white fleeciness of morning mist had flitted sometimes over her summer-sky,
deepening the blue. Little cooling drops had fluttered down through the leafiness, only to
span her with a rainbow in the glory of the setting sun. But the time had come. From the deep
fountains of her heart the stone was to be rolled away. The secret chord was to be smitten
by a master-hand,--a chord which, once stirred, may never cease to quiver.

At first Ivy worshipped very far off. Her friend was to her the embodiment of all knowledge
and goodness and greatness. She marvelled to see him so at home in what was to her so strange.
Every word that fell from his lips was an oracle. She secretly contrasted him with all the
men she had ever met, to the utter discomfiture of the latter. Washington, the Apostle Paul,
and Peter Parley were the only men of the past or present whom she considered at all worthy
to be compared with him; and in fact, if these three men and Felix Clerron had all stood before
her, and offered each a different opinion on any given subject, I have scarcely a doubt as
to whose would have commended itself to her as combining the soundest practical wisdom and
the highest Christian benevolence.

So the summer passed on, and her shyness wore off,--and their intimacy became less and less
that of teacher and pupil, and more and more that of friend and friend. With the sudden awakening
of her intellectual nature, there woke also another power, of whose existence she had never
dreamed. It was natural, that, in ranging the fields of thought so lately opened to her, she
should often revert to him whose hand had unbarred the gates; she was therefore not startled
that the image of Felix Clerron was with her when she sat down and when she rose up, when she
went out and when she came in. She ceased, indeed, to think _of_ him. She thought _him_. She
lived him. Her soul fed on his life. And so--and so--by a pleasant and flowery path, there
came into Ivy's heart the old, old pain.

Now the thing was on this wise:--

One morning, when she went to recite, she did not find Mr. Clerron in the library, where he
usually awaited her. After spending a few moments in looking over her lessons, she rose and
was about to pass to the door to ring, when Mrs. Simm looked in, and, seeing Ivy, informed
her that Mr. Clerron was in the garden, and desired her to come out. Ivy immediately followed
Mrs. Simm into the garden. On the south side of the house was a piazza two stories high. Along
the pillars which supported it a trellis-work had been constructed, reaching several feet above
the roof of the piazza. About this climbed a vigorous grape-vine, which not only completely
screened nearly the whole front of the piazza, but, reaching the top of the trellis, shot across,
by the aid of a few pieces of fine wire, and overran a part of the roof of the house. Thus
the roof of the piazza was the floor of a beautiful apartment, whose walls and ceiling were
broad, rustling, green leaves, among which drooped now innumerable heavy clusters of rich purple
grapes.

From behind this leafy wall a well-known voice cried, "Hail to thee, my twining vine!" Ivy
turned and looked up, with the uncertain, inquiring smile we often wear when conscious that,
though unseeing, we are not unseen; and presently two hands parted the leaves far enough for
a very sunshiny smile to gleam down on the upturned face.

"Oh, I wish I could come up there!" cried Ivy, clasping her hands with childish eagerness.

"The wish is father to the deed."

"May I?"

"Be sure you may."

"But how shall I get in?"

"Are you afraid to come up the ladder?"

"No, I don't mean that; but how shall I get in where you are, after I am up?"

"Oh, never fear! I'll draw you in safely enough."

"Lorful heart! Miss Ivy, what are you going to do?" cried Mrs. Simm, in terror.

Ivy was already on the third round of the ladder, but she stopped and answered, hesitatingly,--"He
said I might."

"He said you might, yes," continued Mrs. Simm,--talking _to_ Ivy, but _at_ Mr. Clerron, with
whom she hardly dared to remonstrate in a more direct way. "And if he said you might throw
yourself down Vineyard Cliff, it don't follow that you are bound to do it. He goes into all
sorts of hap-hazard scrapes himself, but you can't follow him."

"But it looks so nice up there," pleaded Ivy, "and I have been twice as high at home. I don't
mind it at all."

"If your father chooses to let you run the risk of your life, it's none of my look-out, but
I a'n't going to have you breaking your neck right under my nose. If you want to get up there,
I'll show you the way in the house, and you can step right out of the window. Just wait till
I've told Ellen about the dinner."

As Mrs. Simm disappeared, Mr. Clerron said softly to Ivy, "Come!"--and in a moment Ivy bounded
up the ladder and through an opening in the vine, and stood by his side.

"I'm ready now, Miss Ivy," said Mrs. Simm, reappearing. "Miss Ivy! Where is the child?"

A merry laugh greeted her.

"Oh, you good-for-nothing!" cried the good-natured old housekeeper, "you'll never die in your bed."

"Not for a good while, I hope," answered Mr. Clerron.

Then he made Ivy sit down by him, and took from the great basket the finest cluster of grapes.

"Is that reward enough for coming?"

"Coming into so beautiful a place as this is like what you read yesterday about poetry to Coleridge,
'its own exceeding great reward.'"

"And you don't want the grapes?"

"I don't know that I have any intrinsic objection to them as a free gift. It was only the principle
that I opposed."

"Very well, we will go shares, then. You may have half for the free gift, and I will have half
for the principle. Little tendril, you look as fresh as the morning."

"Don't I always?"

"I should say there was a _little_ more dew than usual. Stand up and let me survey you, if
perchance I may discover the cause."

Ivy rose, made a profound curtsy, and then turned slowly around, after the manner of the revolving
fashion-figures in a milliner's window.

"I don't know," continued Mr. Clerron, when Ivy, after a couple of revolutions, resumed her
seat. "You seem to be the same. I think it must be the frock."

"I don't wear a frock. I don't think it would improve my style of beauty, if I did. Papa wears
one sometimes."

"And what kind of a frock, pray, does 'papa' wear?"

"Oh, a horrid blue thing. Comes about down to his knees. Made of some kind of woollen stuff.
Horrid!"

"And what name do you give to that white thing with blue sprigs in it?"

"This?"

"Yes."

"This is a dress."

"No. This, and your collar, and hat, and shoes, and sash are your dress. This is a frock."

Ivy shook her head doubtfully.

"You know a great deal, I know."

"So you informed me once before."

"Oh, don't mention that!" said Ivy, blushing, and quickly added, "Do you know I have discovered
the reason why you like me this morning?"

"And every morning."

"Sir?"

"Go on. What is the reason?"

"It is because I clear-starched and ironed it myself with my owny-dony hands; and that, you
know, is the reason it looks nicer than usual."

"Ah, me! I wish I wore dresses."

"You can, if you choose, I suppose. There is no one to hinder you."

"Simpleton! that is not what you were intended to say. You should have asked the cause of so
singular a wish, and then I had a pretty little speech all ready for you,--a veritable compliment"

"It is well I did not ask, then. Mamma does not approve of compliments, and perhaps it would
have made me vain."

"Incorrigible! Why did you not ask me what the speech was, and thus give me an opportunity
to relieve myself. Why, a body might die of a plethora of flattery, if he had nobody but you
to discharge it against."

"He must take care, then, that the supply does not exceed the demand."

"Political economy, upon my word! What shall we have next?"

"Domestic, I suppose you would like. Men generally, indeed, prefer it to the other, I am told."

"Ah, Ivy, Ivy! little you know about men, my child!"

He leaned back in his seat and was silent for some minutes. Ivy did not care to interrupt his
thinking. Presently he said,--

"Ivy, how old are you?"

"I shall be seventeen the last day of this month."

A short pause.

"And then eighteen."

"And then nineteen."

"And then twenty. In three years you will be twenty."

"Horrid old, isn't it?"

He turned his head, and looked down upon her with what Ivy thought a curious kind of smile,
but only said,--

"You must not say 'horrid' so much."

By-and-by Ivy grew rather tired of sitting silent and watching the rustle of the leaves, which
hid every other prospect; she turned her face a little so that she could look at him. He sat
with folded arms, looking straight ahead; and she thought his face wore a troubled expression.
She felt as if she would like very much to smooth out the wrinkles in his forehead and run
her fingers through his hair, as she sometimes did for her father. She had a great mind to
ask him if she should; then she reflected that it might make him nervous. Then she wondered
if he had forgotten her lessons, and how long they were to sit there. Determined, at length,
to have a change of some kind, she said, softly,--

"Mr. Clerron!"

He roused himself suddenly, and stood up.

"I thought, perhaps, you had a headache."

"No, Ivy. But this is not climbing the hill of science, is it?"

"Not so much as it is climbing the piazza."

"Suppose we take a vacation to-day, and investigate the state of the atmosphere?"

"Yes, Sir, I am ready."

Ivy did not fully understand the nature of his proposition; but if he had proposed to "put
a girdle round the earth in forty minutes," she would have said and acted, "Yes, Sir, I am
ready," just the same.

He took up the basket of grapes which he had gathered, and led the way through the window,
down-stairs. Ivy waited for him at the hall-door, while he carried the grapes to Mrs. Simm;
then he joined her again and proposed to walk through the woods a little while, before Ivy
went home.

"You must know, my docile pupil, that I am going to the city to-morrow, on business, to be
gone a week or two. So, as you must perforce take a vacation then, why, we may as well begin
to vacate today, and enjoy it."

"I am sorry you are going away."

"You are? That is almost enough to pay me for going. Why are you sorry?"

"Because I shall not see you for a week; and I have become so used to you, that somehow I don't
seem to know what to do with a day without you; and then the cars may run off the track and
kill you or hurt you, or you may get the smallpox, or a great many things may happen."

"And suppose some of these terrible things should happen,--the last, for instance,--what would
you do?"

"I? I should advise you to send for the doctor at once."

Mr. Clerron laughed.

"So you would not come and nurse me, and take care of me, and get me well again?"

"No, because I should then be in danger of taking it myself and giving it to papa and mamma;
besides, they would not let me, I am quite sure."

"So you love your papa and mamma better than"----

He stopped abruptly. Ivy finished for him.

"Better than words can tell. Papa particularly. Mamma, somehow, seems strong of herself, and
don't depend upon me; but papa,--oh, you don't know how he is to me! I think, if I should die,
he would die of grief. I have, I cannot help having, a kind of pity for him, he loves me so."

"Do you always pity people, when they love you very much?"

"Oh, no! of course not. Besides, nobody loves me enough to be pitied, except papa.--Isn't it
pleasant here? How very green it is! It looks just like summer. Oh, Mr. Clerron, did you see
the clouds this morning?"

"There were none when I arose."

"Why, yes, Sir, there was a great heap of them at sunrise."

"I am not prepared to contradict you."

"Perhaps you were not up at sunrise."

"I have an impression to that effect."

He smiled so comically, that Ivy could not help saying, though she was half afraid he might
not be pleased,--

"I wonder whether you are an early riser."

"Yes, my dear, I consider myself tolerably early. I believe I have been up every morning but
one, this week, by nine o'clock."

Ivy was horror-struck. Her country ideas of "early to bed and early to rise" received a great
shock, as her looks plainly showed. He laughed gayly at her amazed face.

"You don't seem to appreciate me, Miss Geer."

"'Nine o'clock!'" repeated Ivy, slowly,--"'every morning but one!' and it is Tuesday to-day."

"Yes, but you know yesterday was a dark, cloudy day, and excellent for sleeping."

"But, Mr. Clerron, then you are not more than fairly up when I come. And when do you write?"

"Always in the evening."

"But the evenings are so short,--or have been."

"Mine are not particularly so. From six to three is about long enough for one sitting."

"I should think so. And you must be so tired!"

"Not so tired as you think. You, now, rising at five or six, and running round all day, become
so tired that you have to go to bed by nine; of course you have no time for reflection and
meditation. I, on the contrary, take life easily,--write in the night, when everything is still
and quiet,--take my sleep when all the noise of the world's waking-up is going on,--and after
creation is fairly settled for the day, I rise leisurely, breakfast leisurely, take a smoke
leisurely, and leisurely wait the coming of my little pupil."

"Mr. Clerron!"

"Well!"

"May I tell you another thing I don't like in you? a bad habit?"

"As many as you please, provided you won't require me to reform."

"What is the use of telling it, then?"

"But it may be a relief to you. You will have the satisfaction arising from doing your duty.
We shall ventilate our opinions, and perhaps come to a better understanding. Go on."

"Well, Sir, I wish you did not smoke so much."

"I don't smoke very much, little Ivy."

"I wish you would not at all. Mamma thinks it is very injurious, and wrong, even. And papa
says cigars are bad things."

"Some of them are outrageous. But, my dear, granting your father and mother and yourself to
be right, don't you see I am doing more to extirpate the evil than you, with all your principle?
I exterminate, destroy, and ruin them at the rate of three a day; while you, I venture to say,
never lifted a finger or lighted a spark against them."

"Now, Sir, that is only a way of slipping round the question. And I really wish you did not.
Before I knew you, I thought it was almost as bad to smoke as it was to steal. I know, however,
now, that it cannot be; still"--

"Feminine logic."

"I have not studied Logic yet; still, as I was going to say, Sir, I don't like to think of
you as being in a kind of subjection to anything."

"Ivy, seriously, I am not in subjection to a cigar. I often don't smoke for months together.
To prove it, I promise you I won't smoke for the next two months."

"Oh, I am so glad! Oh, I am so much obliged to you! And you are not in the least vexed that
I spoke to you about it?"

"Not in the least."

"I was afraid you would be. And one thing more, Sir, I have been afraid of, the last few days.
You know when I first knew you, or before I knew you, I supposed you did nothing but walk round
and enjoy yourself all day. But now I know you do work very hard; and I have feared that you
could not well spare two hours every day for me,--particularly in the morning, which are almost
always considered the best. But if you like to write in the evening, you would just as soon
I would come in the morning?"

"Certainly."

"But if two hours are too much, I hope you won't, at any time, hesitate to tell me. I have
no claim on a moment,--only"--

"My dear Ivy Geer, pupil and friend, be so good as to understand, henceforth, that you cannot
possibly come into my house at any time when you are not wanted; nor stay any longer than I
want you; nor say anything that will not please me;--well, I am not quite sure about that;--but,
at least, remember that I am always glad to see you, and teach you, and have you with me; and
that I can never hope to do you as much good as you do me every day of your blessed life."

"Oh, Mr. Clerron!" exclaimed Ivy, with a great gush of gratitude and happiness; "do I, can
I, do _you_ any good?"

"You do and can, my tendril! You supply an element that was wanting in my life. You make every
day beautiful to me. The flutter of your robes among these trees brings sunshine into my heart.
Every morning I walk in my garden as soon as I am, as you say, fairly up, till I see you turn
into the lane; and every day I watch you till you disappear. You are fresh and truthful and
natural, and you give me new life. And now, my dear little trembling benefactor, because we
are nearly through the woods, I can go no farther with you; and because I am going away to-morrow,
not to see you again for a week, and because I hope you will be a little lonesome while I am
gone, why, I think I must let you--kiss me!"

Ivy had been looking intently into his face, with an expression, at first, of the most beaming,
tearful delight, then gradually changing into waiting wonder; but when his sentence finally
closed, she stood still, scarcely able to comprehend. He placed his hands on her temples, and,
smiling involuntarily at her blushes and embarrassment, half in sport and half in tenderness,
bent her head a little back, kissed brow, cheeks, and lips, whispered softly, "Go now! God
bless you for ever and ever, my darling!" and, turning, walked hastily down the winding path.
As for Ivy, she went home in a dream, blind and stunned with a great joy.

[To be continued.]

"IMPLORA PACE."

  No more Joy-roses! their perfume
  To this dull pain brings short surcease:
  But tell me, if ye know, where bloom
  The golden lily-bells of Peace.

  Leap, winnowing all the air of light,
  Ye wild wraiths of the waterfall!
  But for that fabled fountain's sight,
  That giveth sleep, I'd give you all.

  Bound, gay barks, o'er the bounding main!
  Shake all your white wings to the breeze!
  My joy was erst the hurricane,
  The plunging of the purple seas;

  My hope to find the mystic marge
  Of all strange lands, the strange world o'er:
  But bear me now to yon still barge,
  Calm cradled by a tideless shore!

  Wild birds, that cleave the crystal deeps
  With May-time matins loud and long,
  Oh, not for you my sick heart weeps!
  Its pulses time not to your song!

  But know ye where she hides her nest,
  Beneath what balmy dropping eaves,
  The Dove that bears on her white breast
  The sacred green of olive-leaves?

  Not when the Spring doth rosy rise
  From white foam of the Northern snows;
  Not when 'neath passion-throbbing skies
  The fire-pulsed June in beauty glows:

  But when amid the templed hills,
  Deep drained from every purple vine,
  Soft for her dying lips distils
  The Summer's sacramental wine;

  While all her woodland priests put on
  Their vestures dipped in sacrifice,
  And, as 'twere golden bells far swung,
  A rhythmic silence holds the skies;

  What time the Day-spring softly wells
  From Night's dark caverns, till it sets
  In long, melodious, tidal swells,
  Toward the wide flood-gates of the West;--

  Oh, open then my dungeon door!
  Let Nature lead me, blind of eyes,
  If haply I may _feel_ once more
  The pillars of the steadfast skies;

  If haply there may fall for me
  Some strange assurance in my fears,--
  As he who heard on Galilee,
  That stormy night in wondrous years,

  The "It is I," and o'er the foam
  Of what seemed phantom-haunted seas,
  Saw glory of the kingdom come,
  The footsteps of the Prince of Peace!

THE PROGRESS OF THE ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.

  "Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
   the end of the world."
                           PSALMS, xix. 4.

Among the impossibilities enumerated to convince Job of his ignorance and weakness, the Almighty
asks,--

"Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go, and say unto thee, Here we are?"

At the present day, every people in Christendom can respond in the affirmative.

The lines of electric telegraph are increasing so rapidly, that the length in actual use cannot
be estimated at any moment with accuracy. At the commencement of 1848, it was stated that the
length in operation in this country was about 3000 miles. At the end of 1850, the lines in
operation, or in progress, in the United States, amounted to 22,000. In 1853, the total number
of miles of wire in America amounted to 26,375.

It is but fifteen years since the first line of electric telegraph was constructed in this
country; and at the present time there are not less than 50,000 miles in successful operation
on this continent, having over 1400 stations, and employing upwards of 10,000 operators and clerks.

The number of messages passing over all the lines in this country annually is estimated at
upwards of 5,000,000, producing a revenue of $2,000,000; in addition to which, the press pays
$200,000 for public despatches.

In Europe there are lines rivalling those in America. The electric wire extends under the English
Channel, the German Ocean, the Black and Red Seas, and the Mediterranean; it passes from crag
to crag on the Alps, and runs through Italy, Switzerland, France, Germany, and Russia.

India, Australia, Cuba, Mexico, and several of the South American States have also their lines;
and the wires uniting the Pacific and Atlantic States will shortly meet at the passes of the
Rocky Mountains.

The electric telegraph, which has made such rapid strides, is yet in its infancy. The effect
of its future extension, and of new applications, cannot be estimated, when, as a means of
intercourse at least, its network shall spread through every village, bringing all parts of
our republic into the closest and most intimate relations of friendship and interest. In connection
with the railroad and steamboat, it has already achieved one important national result. It
has made possible, on this continent, a wide-spread, yet closely linked, empire of States,
such as our fathers never imagined. The highest office of the electric telegraph, in the future,
is thus to be the promotion of unity, peace, and good-will among men.

In Europe, Great Britain and Ireland have the greatest number of miles of electric telegraph,--namely,
40,000. France has 26,000; Belgium, 1600; Germany, 35,000; Switzerland, 2000; Spain and Portugal,
1200; Italy, 6600; Turkey and Greece, 500; Russia, 12,000; Denmark and Sweden, 2000.

In Italy, Sardinia has the largest share of lines, having about 1200 miles; and in Germany,
after Austria and Prussia, the largest share belongs to Bavaria, which has 1050. Saxony has
400 miles; Würtemberg, 195.

The distance between stations on lines of Continental telegraph is from ten to twelve miles
on the average, and the number of them is about 3800.

In France the use of the electric telegraph has rapidly increased within the last few years.
In 1851, the number of despatches transmitted was 9014, which produced 76,723 francs. In 1858,
there were 463,973 despatches transmitted, producing 3,516,634 francs. During the last four
years, that is to say, since all the chief towns in France have been in electric communication
with Paris, and consequently with each other, there have been sent by private individuals 1,492,420
despatches, which have produced 12,528,591 francs. Out of the 97,728 despatches exchanged during
the last three months of 1858, 23,728 were with Paris, and 15,409 with the thirty most important
towns of France. These 15,409 despatches are divided, as to their object or nature, as follows:--Private
and family affairs, 3102; journals, 523; commerce and manufactures, 6132; Bourse affairs, 5253;
sundry affairs, 399.

In Australia, the electric telegraph is in constant use, affording a remunerating revenue,
and the amount of business has forced on the government the necessity of additional wires.

Cuba has six hundred miles of wire in operation. Messages can be transmitted only in Spanish,
and the closest surveillance is maintained by the government officials over all despatches
offered for transmission. From the fact that no less than a dozen errors occurred in a dispatch
transmitted by a Boston gentleman from Cardenas to Havana, we judge that the telegraphic apparatus,
invented by our liberty-loving American, Professor House, rebels at such petty tyranny.

Several hundred miles of electric telegraph have been constructed in Mexico; but the unfortunate
condition of the country for the last few years has precluded the possibility of maintaining
it in working order, and it has, like everything else in the land of Monteznma, gone to decay.

The English and Dutch governments have come to an understanding upon a system of cables which
will unite India and Australia, and eventually be extended to China. The arrangements between
the governments are:--That the Indian and Imperial governments shall connect India with Singapore;
that the Dutch government shall connect Singapore with the southeast point of Java; that the
Australian governments shall connect their continent with Java. The cable for the Singapore-Java
section was to have been laid during the last month; the Indian-Singapore section is to be
laid this spring; and the connection with Australia will, it is believed, be completed in the
course of next year.

The Red Sea and India Telegraph Company have announced the arrangements under which they are
prepared to transmit messages for the public between Alexandria and Aden. Messages for Australia
and China will be forwarded by post from Aden. It is considered probable that a direct communication
with Alexandria will be established through Constantinople in the course of a few weeks, and
then the news from India will reach London in ten or eleven days.

A late European steamer brings a report that two Russian engineers have proceeded to Pekin,
China, to make preparations for a telegraphic connection between that place and the Russian
territory.

There is reason to believe that arrangements will soon be made at St. Petersburg, through private
companies and government subsidies, for completing the line of telegraph from Novgorod to the
mouth of the Amoor, and thence across the straits to Russian America. In the mean time, a company
has already been formed and incorporated in Canada, under the name of the Transmundane Telegraphic
Company, which will afford important aid in continuing the proposed line through British America.
The plan is, to carry the wires from the mouth of the Amoor across Behring's Strait, to and
through Russian and British America. From Victoria a branch will be extended to San Francisco,
and another to Canada. The line from San Francisco to Missouri is under way, and Mr. Collins,
who is engaged in the Russian and Canadian enterprise, thinks that by the time it is in operation
he shall have extended his line to San Francisco.

This is unquestionably the most feasible route for telegraphic communication between America
and Europe; and, though the longest by several thousand miles, it would afford the most rapid
means of communication, owing to the great superiority of aërial over subaqueous lines.

No limit has yet been found to aërial telegraphing; for, by inserting transferrers into the
more extended circuits, renewed energy can be attained, and lines of several thousands of miles
in length can be worked, if properly insulated, as surely as those of a hundred. The lines
between New York and New Orleans are frequently connected together by means of transferrers,
and direct communication is had over a distance of more than, two thousand miles. No perceptible
retardation of the current takes place; on the contrary, the lines so connected work as successfully
as when divided into shorter circuits.

This is not the case with subaqueous lines. The employment of submarine, as well as of subterranean
conductors, occasions a small retardation in the velocity of the transmitted electricity. This
retardation is not due to the length of the path which the electric current has to traverse,
since it does not take place with a conductor equally long, insulated in the air. It arises,
as Faraday has demonstrated, from a static reaction, which is determined by the introduction
of a current into a conductor well insulated, but surrounded outside its insulating coating
by a conducting body, such as sea-water or moist ground, or even simply by the metallic envelope
of iron wires placed in communication with the ground. When this conductor is presented to
one of the poles of a battery, the other pole of which communicates with the ground, it becomes
charged with static electricity, like the coating of a Leyden jar,--electricity which is capable
of giving rise to a discharge current, even after the voltaic current has ceased to be transmitted.

Professor Wheatstone experimented upon the cable intended to unite La Spezia, upon the coast
of Piedmont, with the Island of Corsica. It was one hundred and ten miles in length, and contained
six copper wires one-sixteenth of an inch in diameter, individually insulated, and each covered
with a coating of gutta-percha one-twelfth of an inch in thickness. The cable was coiled in
a dry pit in the yard, with its two ends accessible. The ends of the different wires could
be united, so as to make of all these wires merely one wire six hundred and sixty miles in
length, through which the electric current could circulate in the same direction. This current
was itself furnished by an insulated battery formed of one hundred and forty-four Wheatstone's
pairs, equal to fifty of Grove's. In the first series of experiments, it was proved, that,
if one of the ends of the long wire, whose other end remained insulated, were made to communicate
with one of the poles of the battery, the wire became charged with the electricity of that
pole, which, so long as it existed, gave rise to a current which was made evident by a galvanometer:
but, in order to obtain this result, the second pole of the battery must communicate with the
ground, or with another long wire similar to the first.

In a second series of experiments, Professor Wheatstone interposed three galvanometers in the
middle and at the ends of the circuit, determining in this manner the progress of the current
by the order which they followed in their deviation. If the two poles of the battery were connected
by the long conductor of six hundred and sixty miles, the precaution having been taken to divide
it into two portions of equal length, it was observed, on connecting the two free extremities
of these two portions in order to close the circuit, that the galvanometer placed in the middle
was the first to be deflected, whilst the galvanometers placed in the vicinity of the poles
were not deflected until later.

By a third series of experiments, Wheatstone, with the galvanometer, has shown that a continuous
current may be maintained in the circuit of the long wire of an electric cable, of which one
of the ends is insulated, whilst the other communicates with one of the poles of a battery
whose other pole is connected with the ground. This current is due to the uniform and continual
dispersion of the statical electricity with which the wire is charged along its whole length,
as would happen to any other conducting body placed in an insulating medium.

It was owing to the retardation from this cause that communication through the Atlantic Cable
was so exceedingly slow and difficult, and not, as many suppose, because the cable was defective.
It is true that there was a fault in the cable, discovered by Varley, before it left Queenstown;
but it was not of so serious a character as to offer any substantial obstacle to the passage
of the electric current.

As everything pertaining to the actual operation of the Atlantic Cable has been studiously
withheld from the public, until it has come to be seriously doubted whether any despatches
were ever transmitted through it, we presume it will not be out of place here to give the actual
_modus operandi_ of this great wonder and mystery.

The only instrument which could be used successfully in signalling through the Atlantic Cable
was one of peculiar construction, by Professor Thompson, called the marine galvanometer. In
this instrument momentum and inertia are almost wholly avoided by the use of a needle weighing
only one and a half grains, combined with a mirror reflecting a ray of light, which indicates
deflections with great accuracy. By these means a gradually increasing or decreasing current
is at each instant indicated at its due strength. Thus, when this galvanometer is placed as
the receiving instrument at the end of a long submarine cable, the movement of the spot of
light, consequent on the completion of a circuit through the battery, cable, and earth, can
be so observed as to furnish a curve representing very accurately the arrival of an electric
current. Lines representing successive signals at various speeds can also be obtained, and,
by means of a metronome, dots, dashes, successive _A_-s, etc., can be sent with nearly perfect
regularity by an ordinary Morse key, and the corresponding changes in the current at the receiving
end of the cable accurately observed. The strength of the battery employed was found to have
no influence on the results; curves given by batteries of different strengths could be made
to coincide by simply drawing them to scales proportionate to the strengths of the two currents.
It was also found that the same curve represented the gradual increase of intensity due to
the arrival of a current and the gradual decrease due to the ceasing of that current. The possible
speed of signalling was found to be very nearly proportional to the squares of the lengths
spoken through. Thus, a speed which gave fifteen dots per minute in a length of 2191 nautical
miles reproduced all the effects given by a speed of thirty dots in a length of 1500. At these
speeds, with ordinary Morse signals, speaking would be barely possible. In the Red Sea, a speed
of from seven to eight words per minute was attained in a length of 750 nautical miles. Mechanical
senders, and attention to the proportion of the various contacts, would materially increase
the speed at which signals of any kind could be transmitted. The best trained hand cannot equal
the accuracy of mechanism, and the slightest irregularity causes the current to rise or fall
quite beyond the limits required for distinct signals. No important difference was observed
between signals sent by alternate reverse currents and those sent by the more usual method.
The amount of oscillation, and the consequent distinctness of signalling, were nearly the same
in the two cases. An advantage in the first signals sent is, however, obtained by the use of
Messrs. Sieman's and Halske's submarine key, by which the cable is put to earth immediately
on signalling being interrupted, and the wire thus kept at a potential half-way between the
potentials of the poles of two counter-acting batteries employed, and the first signals become
legible, which, with the ordinary key, would be employed in charging the wire.

A system of arbitrary characters, similar to those used upon the Morse telegraph, was employed,
and the letter to be indicated was determined by the number of oscillations of the needle,
as well as by the length of time during which the needle remained in one place. The operator,
who watched the reflection of the deflected needle in the mirror, had a key, communicating
with a local instrument in the office, in his hand, which he pressed down or raised, as the
needle was deflected; and another operator occupied himself in deciphering the characters thus
produced upon the paper. As the operator at Trinity Bay had no means of arresting the operations
at Valentia, and _vice versâ_, and as the fastest rate of speed over the cable could not exceed
three words per minute, it will not surprise the reader that the operators were nearly two
days in transmitting the Queen's despatch.

However, notwithstanding all the difficulties in the way, there were transmitted from Ireland
to Newfoundland, through the Atlantic Cable, between the 10th of August and the 1st of September,
97 messages, containing 1102 words; and from Newfoundland to Ireland, 269 messages and 2840
words, making a total of 366 messages, containing 3942 words. Among these were the message
from the Queen to the President of the United States, and his reply; the one announcing the
safety of the steamer Europa, her mails and passengers, after her collision with the Arabia;
and two messages for Her Majesty's War-Office, which last effected a very large saving to the
revenue of the English government.

In Liverpool, £150,000 have already been subscribed to the project of completing or relaying
the Atlantic Cable.

A contract has been recently made by the English government for a cable to be laid from Falmouth
to Gibraltar, 1200 miles, which is to be ready in June next. This will be succeeded by one
from Gibraltar to Malta and Alexandria, thus giving England an independent line, free from
Continental difficulties.

Steamers were to have left Liverpool at the end of the last month, with the remainder of the
cable to connect Kurrachee with Aden. The cable to connect Alexandria with England is now to
be laid through the islands of Rhodes and Scio to Constantinople, and not by way of Candia,
as previously intended; it is expected to be laid this season. Hellaniyah, one of the Kuria-Muria
Islands, has been decided on as a station for the Red Sea Telegraph.

The new electric cable between Malta and the opposite coast of Sicily at Alga Grande is safely
laid. Two previous attempts had been made; but, in consequence of the late strong winds, nothing
could be done. The shore end on the Malta side had been laid down and connected with the company's
offices before the expedition started; the outer end, about one mile off the Marsamuscetto
harbor, into which the cable has been taken, being buoyed ready to complete the communication
from shore to shore the moment the cable was submerged. The operation of paying out the cable
was completed without the least accident. The mid-portion of the cable is of great strength,
being able to sustain a strain of ten or twelve tons without parting, and the shore ends are
of nearly double that strength. The depth of water throughout is within eighty fathoms; so
that, if any accident should ever occur, it may be remedied without much difficulty.

A great change in the rates to Sicily and the Italian States will result from the completion
of this new line, a reduction in some cases of seventy-five per cent. being made,--a great
boon to the English merchants. Messages in French, English, or Italian will be transmitted,
and we must congratulate the company upon their success in inducing the Neapolitan government
to make this concession, and upon the exceedingly low tariff proposed.

Mr. De Sauty is the electrician of this company. He will be remembered by the reader as the
mysterious operator at Trinity Bay, from whom an occasional vague and exceedingly brief despatch
was received in relation to the working of the cable. Nothing really satisfactory could ever
be obtained, and, when visited by some officers connected with the United States Coast Survey,
he would not permit them to enter the office or examine the apparatus. His name was published
in the daily journals with several different varieties of spelling, and for this reason, and
in consequence of his extreme reticence, one of them perpetrated the following:--

  "Thou operator, silent, glum,
  Why wilt them act so naughty?
  Do tell us _what_ your name is,--come:
  De Santy, or De Sauty?

  "Don't think to humbug any more,
  Shut up there in your shanty,--
  But solve the problem, once for all,--
  De Sauty, or De Santy?"

Electric telegraphy in the Ottoman Empire has within a few months had a remarkable development.
Several lines are already in course of construction. A direct line from Varna to Toultcha,
passing by Baltschik. A line from Toultcha to Odessa, passing by Reni and joining the Russian
telegraph at Ismail. The subaqueous cable from Toultcha to Reni, on the Danube, is the sixth
in the Ottoman Empire. This line, which will place Constantinople in direct communication with
Odessa, will not only have the advantage of increasing and accelerating the communications,
but will very considerably reduce their cost.

There is also to be a line from Rodosto to Enos and Salonica; and from Salonica to Monastir,
Valona, and Scutari in Albania. The line from Salonica to Monastir and Valona will be joined
by a submarine cable crossing the Adriatic to Otranto, and carried on to Naples. It will have
the effect of placing Southern Italy in communication with Constantinople, and also of reducing
the cost of messages. A convention to this effect has been signed by a delegate of the Neapolitan
government and the director-general of the telegraphic lines of the Ottoman Empire, touching
this line to Naples. The ratification of the two governments will shortly be given to this
convention.

A line from Scutari in Albania to Bar-Bournon, and thence to Castellastua, passing round the
Montenegrin territory by a submarine cable. This line is already laid, and will begin working
immediately on, the completion of the Austrian lines to the point where it ends.

A line from Constantinople to Bagdad. Three sections of this are being simultaneously laid
down. The first from Constantinople to Ismid, Angora, Yuzgat, and Sivas: the works on this
have been already carried to Sabanja, between Ismid and Angora. The second section, from Sivas
to Moussoul: the works on this line are in a state of favorable preparation, and the line will
be actively gone on with. The third section, from Bagdad to Moussoul: for this also the preparations
have been made, and the works will begin when the season opens, the materials being all ready
along the line. From Bagdad this line will extend to Bassora, to join a submarine cable to
be carried thence to British India.

A projected line from Constantinople to Smyrna. For this, two routes are thought of: one, the
shortest, but most difficult, would run from Constantinople to the Dardanelles, Adramyti, and
Smyrna; the other, the longest, but offering fewest difficulties, would pass from Constantinople
by Muhalitch, Berliek-Hissar, and Maneesa, to Smyrna.

A line from Mostar to Bosna-Serai. Mostar is already connected with the Austrian telegraphs
at Metcovich.

Other lines have been in the mean time completed and extended, and will soon be opened to the
public. Thus, a third and fourth wire are being laid on the line from Constantinople to Rodosto;
from the latter point three wires have been carried to Gallipoli and the Dardanelles, two of
which are for messages from Gallipoli to the Dardanelles, and the third is to join the submarine
cable connecting Constantinople, Candia, Syra, and the Piraeus. The communications between
Constantinople and Candia would already have begun but for an accident to the engineer. Those
with Syra and the Piraeus will begin as soon as the ratification of the convention entered
into between the Ottoman and Greek governments on this subject shall have taken place. The
laying of the cable between Candia and Alexandria, which has not yet succeeded, will be resumed
this spring.

Thus, after the completion of these lines, Constantinople will be in communication with nearly
all the chief provinces and towns of the empire, with Africa, and with Europe, by five different
channels,--by the Principalities, by Odessa, by Servia, by Dalmatia, and the Kingdom of the
Two Sicilies. With such a development of the system, it will be imperatively necessary to increase
the telegraphic working-staff. Already the number of despatches arriving every day renders
the service very difficult, and occasions much confusion and many grievous mistakes. Nothing
is easier than to remedy all this by increasing the number of the _employés_.

The great distinguishing feature of the telegraphs used in Great Britain is, that they are
of the class known as oscillating telegraphs,--that is, telègraphs in which the letters are
denoted by the number of motions to the right or left of a needle or indicator. Those of France
are of the class called dial telegraphs, in which an index, or needle, is carried around the
face of a dial, around the circumference of which are placed the letters of the alphabet; any
particular letter being designated by the brief stopping of the needle. A similar system has
been used in Prussia; but, recently, the American, or recording instrument of Professor Morse,
has been introduced into this, as well as every other European country; and even in England,
the national prejudice is gradually giving way, and our American system is being introduced.

In America none but recording instruments have ever been used. Of these we have many kinds,
but only five are in operation at present, namely:--The electro-magnetic timing instrument
of Professor Morse; the electro-magnetic step-by-step printing of Mr. House; the electro-magnetic
synchronous printing of Mr. Hughes; the electro-chemical rhythmic of Mr. Bain; and the combination-printing,
combining the essential parts of the Hughes instrument with portions of the House. The Morse
apparatus is, however, most generally used in this country and every other. Out of the two
hundred and fifty thousand miles of electric telegraph now in operation or in the course of
construction in the world, at least two hundred thousand give the preference to it.

Although the Morse apparatus is a recording one, yet, for the last six years, the operators
in this country have discontinued the use of the paper, and confined themselves to reading
by the ear, which they do with the greatest facility. By this means a great saving is made
in the expense of working the telegraph, and far greater correctness insured; as the ear is
found much more reliable in comprehending the clicks of the instrument, than the eye in deciphering
the arbitrary alphabet of dots and lines.

The rapidity of the several instruments in use may be given as follows:--Cooke and Wheatstone's
needle telegraph of Great Britain, 900 words per hour; Froment's dial telegraph, of France,
1200; Bregnet's dial telegraph, also French, 1000; Sieman's dial telegraph, formerly used upon
the Prussian lines, 900; Bain's chemical, in use between Liverpool and Manchester, and formerly
to a considerable extent in the United States, 1500; the Morse telegraph, in use all over the
world, 1500; the House printing, used in the United States to a limited extent, and in Cuba,
2800; Hughes's and the combination instruments, 2000. The three last systems are American inventions;
thus it will be seen, that to our country is due the credit of inventing the most rapid and
the most universally used telegraphic systems.

But though we surpass all other nations in the value of our electric apparatus, we are far
behind many, and indeed most countries, in the construction of our lines. This does not arise
from want of knowledge or of means, but from the custom which obtains to a great extent among
all classes and professions in this country, of providing something which will answer for a
time, instead of securing a permanent success.

"But to my mind,--though I am native here, And to the manner born,--it is a custom More honored
it in the breach than the observance,"-- especially in building lines of electric telegraph,
where the best are always the cheapest.

When Shakspeare made Puck promise to "put a girdle round about the earth in forty minutes,"
he undoubtedly supposed he would thereby accomplish a remarkable feat; but when the great Russo-American
line _via_ Behring's Strait and the Amoor is completed, and the Atlantic Cable is again in
operation, we can put an electric girdle round about the earth before Puck could have time
to spread his wings!

In view of what must actually take place at no distant day,--the girdling of the earth by the
electric wires,--a singular question arises:--If we send a current of electricity east, it
will lose twenty-four hours in going round the globe; if we send one west, it will gain twenty-four,
or, in other words, will get back to the starting-place twenty-four hours before it sets out.
Now, if we send a current half-way round the world, it will get there twelve hours in advance
of, or twelve hours behind our time, according as we send it east or west; the question which
naturally suggests itself, therefore, is, What is the time at the antipodes? is it _yesterday_
or _to-morrow?_ LOVE AND SELF-LOVE.

"Friendless, when you are gone? But, Jean, you surely do not mean that Effie has no claim on
any human creature, beyond the universal one of common charity?" I said, as she ceased, and
lay panting on her pillows, with her sunken eyes fixed eagerly upon my own.

"Ay, Sir, I do; for her grandfather has never by word or deed acknowledged her, or paid the
least heed to the letter her poor mother sent him from her dying bed seven years ago. He is
a lone old man, and this child is the last of his name; yet he will not see her, and cares
little whether she be dead or living. It's a bitter shame, Sir, and the memory of it will rise
up before him when he comes to lie where I am lying now."

"And you have kept the girl safe in the shelter of your honest home all these years? Heaven
will remember that, and in the great record of good deeds will set the name of Adam Lyndsay
far below that of poor Jean Burns," I said, pressing the thin hand that had succored the orphan
in her need.

But Jean took no honor to herself for that charity, and answered simply to my words of commendation.

"Sir, her mother was my foster-child; and when she left that stern old man for love of Walter
Home, I went, too, for love of her. Ah, dear heart! she had sore need of me in the weary wanderings
which ended only when she lay down by her dead husband's side and left her bairn to me. Then
I came here to cherish her among kind souls where I was born; and here she has grown up, an
innocent young thing, safe from the wicked world, the comfort of my life, and the one thing
I grieve at leaving when the time that is drawing very near shall come."

"Would not an appeal to Mr. Lyndsay reach him now, think you? Might not Effie go to him herself?
Surely, the sight of such a winsome creature would touch his heart, however hard."

But Jean rose up in her bed, crying, almost fiercely,--

"No, Sir! no! My child shall never go to beg a shelter in that hard man's house. I know too
well the cold looks, the cruel words, that would sting her high spirit and try her heart, as
they did her mother's. No, Sir,--rather than that, she shall go with Lady Gower."

"Lady Gower? What has she to do with Effie, Jean?" I asked, with increasing interest.

"She will take Effie as her maid, Sir. A hard life for my child! but what can I do?" And Jean's
keen glance seemed trying to read mine.

"A waiting-maid? Heaven forbid!" I ejaculated, as a vision of that haughty lady and her three
wild sons swept through my mind.

I rose, paced the room in silence for a little time, then took a sudden resolution, and, turning
to the bed, exclaimed,--

"Jean, I will adopt Effie. I am old enough to be her father; and she shall never feel the want
of one, if you will give her to my care."

To my surprise, Jean's eager face wore a look of disappointment as she listened, and with a
sigh replied,--

"That's a kind thought, Sir, and a generous one; but it cannot be as you wish. You may be twice
her age, but still too young for that. How could Effie look into that face of yours, so bonnie,
Sir, for all it is so grave, and, seeing never a wrinkle on the forehead, nor a white hair
among the black, how could she call you father? No, it will not do, though so kindly meant.
Your friends would laugh at you, Sir, and idle tongues might speak ill of my bairn."

"Then what can I do, Jean?" I asked, regretfully.

"Make her your wife, Sir."

I turned sharply and stared at the woman, as her abrupt reply reached my ear. Though trembling
for the consequences of her boldly spoken wish, Jean did not shrink from my astonished gaze;
and when I saw the wistfulness of that wan face, the smile died on my lips, checked by the
tender courage which had prompted the utterance of her dying hope.

"My good Jean, you forget that Effie is a child, and I a moody, solitary man, with no gifts
to win a wife or make home happy."

"Effie is sixteen, Sir,--a fair, good lassie for her years; and you--ah, Sir, _you_ may call
yourself unfit for wife and home, but the poorest, saddest creature in this place knows that
the man whose hand is always open, whose heart is always pitiful, is not the one to live alone,
but to win and to deserve a happy home and a true wife. Oh, Sir, forgive me, if I have been
too bold; but my time is short, and I love my child so well, I cannot leave the desire of my
heart unspoken, for it is my last."

As the words fell brokenly from her lips, and tears streamed down her pallid cheek, a great
pity took possession of me, the old longing to find some solace for my solitary life returned
again, and peace seemed to smile on me from little Effie's eyes.

"Jean," I said, "give me till to-morrow to consider this new thought. I fear it cannot be;
but I have learned to love the child too well to see her thrust out from the shelter of your
home to walk through this evil world alone. I will consider your proposal, and endeavor to
devise some future for the child which shall set your heart at rest. But before you urge this
further, let, me tell you that I am not what you think me. I am a cold, selfish man, often,
gloomy, often stern,--a most unfit guardian for a tender creature like this little girl. The
deeds of mine which you call kind are not true charities; it frets me to see pain, and I desire
my ease above all earthly things. You are grateful for the little I have done for you, and
deceive yourself regarding my true worth; but of one thing you may rest assured,--I am an honest
man, who holds his name too high to stain it with a false word or a dishonorable deed."

"I do believe you, Sir," Jean answered, eagerly. "And if I left the child to you, I could die
this night in peace. Indeed, Sir, I never should have dared to speak of this, but for the belief
that you loved the girl. What else could I think, when you came so often and were so kind to us?"

"I cannot blame you, Jean; it was my usual forgetfulness of others which so misled you. I was
tired of the world, and came hither to find peace in solitude. Effie cheered me with her winsome
ways, and I learned to look on her as the blithe spirit whose artless wiles won me to forget
a bitter past and a regretful present." I paused; and then added, with a smile, "But, in our
wise schemes, we have overlooked one point: Effie does not love me, and may decline the future
you desire me to offer her."

A vivid hope lit those dim eyes, as Jean met my smile with one far brighter, and joyfully replied,--

"She _does_ love you, Sir; for you have given her the greatest happiness she has ever known.
Last night she sat looking silently into the fire there with a strange gloom on her bonnie
face, and, when I asked what she was dreaming of, she turned to me with a look of pain and
fear, as if dismayed at some great loss, but she only said, 'He is going, Jean! What shall I do?'"

"Poor child! she will miss her friend and teacher, when I'm gone; and I shall miss the only
human creature that has seemed to care for me for years," I sighed,--adding, as I paused upon
the threshold of the door, "Say nothing of this to Effie till I come to-morrow, Jean."

I went away, and far out on the lonely moor sat down to think. Like a weird magician, Memory
led me back into the past, calling up the hopes and passions buried there. My childhood,--fatherless
and motherless, but not unhappy; for no wish was ungratified, no idle whim denied. My boyhood,--with
no shadows over it but those my own wayward will called up. My manhood,--when the great joy
of my life arose, my love for Agnes, a midsummer dream of bloom and bliss, so short-lived and
so sweet! I felt again the pang that wrung my heart when she coldly gave me back the pledge
I thought so sacred and so sure, and the music of her marriage-bells tolled the knell of my
lost love. I seemed to hear them still wafted across the purple moor through the silence of
those fifteen years.

My life looked gray and joyless as the wide waste lying hushed around me, unblessed with the
verdure of a single hope, a single love; and as I looked down the coming years, my way seemed
very solitary, very dark.

Suddenly a lark soared upward from the heath, cleaving the silence with its jubilant song.
The sleeping echoes woke, the dun moor seemed to smile, and the blithe music fell like dew
upon my gloomy spirit, wakening a new desire.

"What this bird is to the moor might little Effie be to me," I thought within myself, longing
to possess the cheerful spirit which had power to gladden me.

"Yes," I mused, "the old home will seem more solitary now than ever; and if I cannot win the
lark's song without a golden fetter, I will give it one, and while it sings for love of me
it shall not know a want or fear."

Heaven help me! I forgot the poor return I made my lark for the sweet liberty it lost.

All that night I pondered the altered future Jean had laid before me, and the longer I looked
the fairer it seemed to grow. Wealth I cared nothing for; the world's opinion I defied; ambition
had departed, and passion I believed lay dead;--then why should I deny myself the consolation
which seemed offered to me? I would accept it; and as I resolved, the dawn looked in at me,
fresh and fair as little Effie's face.

I met Jean with a smile, and, as she read its significance aright, there shone a sudden peace
upon her countenance, more touching than her grateful words.

Effie came singing from the burn-side, as unconscious of the change which awaited her as the
flowers gathered in her plaid and crowning her bright hair.

I drew her to my side, and in the simplest words asked her if she would go with me when Jean's
long guardianship was ended. Joy, sorrow, and surprise stirred the sweet composure of her face,
and quickened the tranquil beating of her heart. But as I ceased, joy conquered grief and wonder;
for she clapped her hands like a glad child, exclaiming,--

"Go with you, Sir? Oh, if you knew how I long to see the home you have so often pictured to
me, you would never doubt my willingness to go."

"But, Effie, you do not understand. Are you willing to go with me as my wife?" I said,--with
a secret sense of something like remorse, as I uttered that word, which once meant so much
to me, and now seemed such an empty title to bestow on her.

The flowers dropped from the loosened plaid, as Effie looked with a startled glance into my
face; the color left her cheeks, and the smile died on her lips, but a timid joy lit her eye,
as she softly echoed my last words,--

"Your wife? It sounds very solemn, though so sweet. Ah, Sir, I am not wise or good enough for
that!"

A child's humility breathed in her speech, but something of a woman's fervor shone in her uplifted
countenance, and sounded in the sudden tremor of her voice.

"Effie, I want you as you are," I said,--"no wiser, dear,--no better. I want your innocent
affection to appease the hunger of an empty heart, your blithe companionship to cheer my solitary
home. Be still a child to me, and let me give you the protection of my name."

Effie turned to her old friend, and, laying her young face on the pillow close beside the worn
one grown so dear to her, asked, in a tone half pleading, half regretful,--

"Dear Jean, shall I go so far away from you and the home you gave me when I had no other?"

"My bairn, I shall not be here, and it will never seem like home with old Jean gone. It is
the last wish I shall ever know, to see you safe with this good gentleman who loves my child.
Go, dear heart, and be happy; and Heaven bless and keep you both!"

Jean held her fast a moment, and then, with a whispered prayer, put her gently away. Effie
came to me, saying, with a look more eloquent than her meek words,--

"Sir, I will be your wife, and love you very truly all my life."

I drew the little creature to my breast, and felt a tender pride in knowing she was mine. Something
in the shy caress those soft arms gave touched my cold nature with a generous warmth, and the
innocence of that confiding heart was an appeal to all that made my manhood worth possessing.

Swiftly those few weeks passed, and when old Jean was laid to her last sleep, little Effie
wept her grief away upon her husband's bosom, and soon learned to smile in her new English
home. Its gloom departed when she came, and for a while it was a very happy place. My bitter
moods seemed banished by the magic of the gentle presence that made sunshine there, and I was
conscious of a fresh grace added to the life so wearisome before.

I should have been a father to the child, watchful, wise, and tender; but old Jean was right,--I
was too young to feel a father's calm affection or to know a father's patient care. I should
have been her teacher, striving to cultivate the nature given to my care, and fit it for the
trials Heaven sends to all. I should have been a friend, if nothing more, and given her those
innocent delights that make youth beautiful and its memory sweet.

I was a master, content to give little, while receiving all she could bestow.

Forgetting her loneliness, I fell back into my old way of life. I shunned the world, because
its gayeties had lost their zest. I did not care to travel, for home now possessed a charm
it never had before. I knew there was an eager face that always brightened when I came, light
feet that flew to welcome me, and hands that loved to minister to every want of mine. Even
when I sat engrossed among my books, there was a pleasant consciousness that I was the possessor
of a household sprite whom a look could summon and a gesture banish. I loved her as I loved
a picture or a flower,--a little better than my horse and hound,--but far less than I loved
my most unworthy self.

And she,--always so blithe when I was by, so diligent in studying my desires, so full of simple
arts to win my love and prove her gratitude,--she never asked for any boon, and seemed content
to live alone with me in that still place, so utterly unlike the home she had left. I had not
learned to read that true heart then. I saw those happy eyes grow wistful when I went, leaving
her alone; I missed the roses from her cheek, faded for want of gentler care; and when the
buoyant spirit which had been her chiefest charm departed, I fancied, in my blindness, that
she pined for the free air of the Highlands, and tried to win it back by transient tenderness
and costly gifts. But I had robbed my lark of heaven's sunshine, and it could not sing.

I met Agnes again. She was a widow, and to my eye seemed fairer than when I saw her last, and
far more kind. Some soft regret seemed shining on me from those lustrous eyes, as if she hoped
to win my pardon for that early wrong. I never could forget the deed that darkened my best
years, but the old charm stole over me at times, and, turning from the meek child at my feet,
I owned the power of the stately woman whose smile seemed a command.

I meant no wrong to Effie, but, looking on her as a child, I forgot the higher claim I had
given her as a wife, and, walking blindly on my selfish way, I crushed the little flower I
should have cherished in my breast. "Effie, my old friend Agnes Vaughan is coming here to-day;
so make yourself fair, that you may do honor to my choice; for she desires to see you, and
I wish my Scotch harebell to look lovely to this English rose," I said, half playfully, half
earnestly, as we stood together looking out across the flowery lawn, one summer day.

"Do you like me to be pretty, Sir?" she answered, with a flush of pleasure on her upturned
face. "I will try to make myself fair with the gifts you are always heaping on me; but even
then I fear I shall not do you honor, nor please your friend, I am so small and young."

A careless reply was on my lips, but, seeing what a long way down the little figure was, I
drew it nearer, saying, with a smile, which I knew would make an answering one,--

"Dear, there must be the bud before the flower; so never grieve, for your youth keeps my spirit
young. To me you may be a child forever; but you must learn to be a stately little Madam Ventnor
to my friends."

She laughed a gayer laugh than I had heard for many a day, and soon departed, intent on keeping
well the promise she had given. An hour later, as I sat busied among my books, a little figure
glided in, and stood before me with its jewelled arms demurely folded on its breast. It was
Effie, as I had never seen her before. Some new freak possessed her, for with her girlish dress
she seemed to have laid her girlhood by. The brown locks were gathered up, wreathing the small
head like a coronet; aerial lace and silken vesture shimmered in the light, and became her
well. She looked and moved a fairy queen, stately and small.

I watched her in a silent maze, for the face with its shy blushes and downcast eyes did not
seem the childish one turned frankly to my own an hour ago. With a sigh I looked up at Agnes's
picture, the sole ornament of that room, and when I withdrew my gaze the blooming vision had
departed. I should have followed it to make my peace, but I fell into a fit of bitter musing,
and forgot it till Agnes's voice sounded at my door.

She came with a brother, and seemed eager to see my young wife; but Effie did not appear, and
I excused her absence as a girlish freak, smiling at it with them, while I chafed inwardly
at her neglect, forgetting that I might have been the cause.

Pacing down the garden paths with Agnes at my side, our steps were arrested by a sudden sight
of Effie fast asleep among the flowers. She looked a flower herself, lying with her flushed
cheek pillowed on her arm, sunshine glittering on the ripples of her hair, and the changeful
lustre of her dainty dress. Tears moistened her long lashes, but her lips smiled, as if in
the blissful land of dreams she had found some solace for her grief.

"A 'Sleeping Beauty' worthy the awakening of any prince!" whispered Alfred Vaughan, pausing
with admiring eyes.

A slight frown swept over Agnes's face, but vanished as she said, with that low-toned laugh
that never seemed unmusical before,--

"We must pardon Mrs. Ventnor's seeming rudeness, if she welcomes us with graceful scenes like
this. A child-wife's whims are often prettier than the world's formal ways; so do not chide
her, Basil, when she wakes."

I was a proud man then, touched easily by trivial things. Agnes's pitying manner stung me,
and the tone in which I wakened Effie was far harsher than it should have been. She sprang
up; and with a gentle dignity most new to me received her guests, and played the part of hostess
with a grace that well atoned for her offence.

Agnes watched her silently as she went before us with young Vaughan, and even I, ruffled as
my temper was, felt a certain pride in the loving creature who for my sake conquered her timidity
and strove to do me honor. But neither by look nor word did I show my satisfaction, for Agnes
demanded the constant service of lips and eyes, and I was only too ready to devote them to
the woman who still felt her power and dared to show it.

All that day I was beside her, forgetful in many ways of the gentle courtesies I owed the child
whom I had made my wife. I did not see the wrong then, but others did, and the deference I
failed to show she could ask of them.

In the evening, as I stood near Agnes while she sang the songs we both remembered well, my
eye fell on a mirror that confronted me, and in it I saw Effie bending forward with a look
that startled me. Some strong emotion controlled her, for with lips apart and eager eyes she
gazed keenly at the countenances she believed unconscious of her scrutiny.

Agnes caught the vision that had arrested the half-uttered compliment upon my lips, and, turning,
looked at Effie with a smile just touched with scorn.

The color rose vividly to Effie's cheek, but her eyes did not fall,-- they sought my face,
and rested there. A half-smile crossed my lips; with a sudden impulse I beckoned, and she came
with such an altered countenance I fancied that I had not seen aright.

At my desire she sang the ballads she so loved, and in her girlish voice there was an undertone
of deeper melody than when I heard them first among her native hills; for the child's heart
was ripening fast into the woman's.

Agnes went, at length, and I heard Effies sigh of relief when we were left alone, but only
bid her "go and rest," while I paced to and fro, still murmuring the refrain of Agnes's song.

The Vaughans came often, and we went often to them in the summer-home they had chosen near
us on the riverbank. I followed my own wayward will, and Effie's wistful eyes grew sadder as
the weeks went by.

One sultry evening, as we strolled together on the balcony, I was seized with a sudden longing
to hear Agnes sing, and bid Effie come with me for a moonlight voyage down the river.

She had been very silent all the evening, with a pensive shadow on her face and rare smiles
on her lips. But as I spoke, she paused abruptly, and, clenching her small hands, turned upon
me with defiant eyes,--crying, almost fiercely--

"No, I will not go to listen to that woman's songs. I hate her! yes, more than I can tell!
for, till she came, I thought you loved me; but now you think of her alone, and chide me when
I look unhappy. You treat me like a child; but I am not one. Oh, Sir, be more kind, for I have
only you to love!"--and as her voice died in that sad appeal, she clasped her hands before
her face with such a burst of tears that I had no words to answer her.

Disturbed by the sudden passion of the hitherto meek girl, I sat down on the wide steps of
the balcony and essayed to draw her to my knee, hoping she would weep this grief away as she
had often done a lesser sorrow. But she resisted my caress, and, standing erect before me,
checked her tears, saying, in a voice still trembling with resentment and reproach,--

"You promised Jean to be kind to me, and you are cruel; for when I ask for love, you give me
jewels, books, or flowers, as you would give a pettish child a toy, and go away as if you were
weary of me. Oh, it is not right, Sir! and I cannot, no, I will not bear it!"

If she had spared reproaches, deserved though they were, and humbly pleaded to be loved, I
should have been more just and gentle; but her indignant words, the sharper for their truth,
roused the despotic spirit of the man, and made me sternest when I should have been most kind.

"Effie," I said, looking coldly up into her troubled face, "I have given you the right to be
thus frank with me; but before you exercise that right, let me tell you what may silence your
reproaches and teach you to know me better. I desired to adopt you as my child; Jean would
not consent to that, but bid me marry you, and so give you a home, and win for myself a companion
who should make that home less solitary. I could protect you in no other way, and I married
you. I meant it kindly, Effie; for I pitied you,--ay, and loved you, too, as I hoped I had
fully proved."

"You have, Sir,--oh, you have! But I hoped I might in time be more to you than a dear child,"
sighed Effie, while softer tears flowed as she spoke.

"Effie, I told Jean I was a hard, cold man,"--and I was one as those words passed my lips.
"I told her I was unfitted to make a wife happy. But she said you would be content with what
I could offer; and so I gave you all I had to bestow. It was not enough; yet I cannot make
it more. Forgive me, child, and try to bear your disappointments as I have learned to bear mine."

Effie bent suddenly, saying, with a look of anguish, "Do you regret that I am your wife, Sir?"

"Heaven knows I do, for I cannot make you happy," I answered, mournfully.

"Let me go away where I can never grieve or trouble you again! I will,-- indeed, I will,--for
anything is easier to bear than this. Oh, Jean, why did you leave me when you went?"--and with
that despairing cry Effie stretched her arms into the empty air, as if seeking that lost friend.

My anger melted, and I tried to soothe her, saying gently, as I laid her tear-wet cheek to mine,--

"My child, death alone must part us two. We will be patient with each other, and so may learn
to be happy yet."

A long silence fell upon us both. My thoughts were busy with the thought of what a different
home mine might have been, if Agnes had been true; and Effie--God only knows how sharp a conflict
passed in that young heart! I could not guess it till the bitter sequel of that hour came.

A timid hand upon my own aroused me, and, looking down, I met such an altered face, it touched
me like a mute reproach. All the passion bad died out, and a great patience seemed to have
arisen there. It looked so meek and wan, I bent and kissed it; but no smile answered me as
Effie humbly said,--

"Forgive me, Sir, and tell me how I can make you happier. For I am truly grateful for all you
have done for me, and will try to be a docile child to you."

"Be happy yourself, Effie, and I shall be content. I am too grave and old to be a fit companion
for you, dear. You shall have gay faces and young friends to make this quiet place more cheerful.
I should have thought of that before. Dance, sing, be merry, Effie, and never let your life
be darkened by Basil Ventnor's changeful moods."

"And you?" she whispered, looking up.

"I will sit among my books, or seek alone the few friends I care to see, and never mar your
gayety with my gloomy presence, dear. We must begin at once to go our separate ways; for, with
so many years between us, we can never find the same paths pleasant very long. Let me be a
father to you, and a friend,--I cannot be a lover, child."

Effie rose and went silently away; but soon came again, wrapped in her mantle, saying, as she
looked down at me, with something of her former cheerfulness,--

"I am good now. Come and row me down the river. It is too beautiful a night to be spent in
tears and naughtiness."

"No, Effie, you shall never go to Mrs. Vaughan's again, if you dislike her so. No friendship
of mine need be shared by you, if it gives you pain."

"Nothing shall pain me any more," she answered, with a patient sigh. "I will be your merry
girl again, and try to love Agnes for your sake. Ah! do come, _father_, or I shall not feel
forgiven."

Smiling at her April moods, I obeyed the small hands clasped about my own, and through the
fragrant linden walk went musing to the river-side.

Silently we floated down, and at the lower landing-place found Alfred Vaughan just mooring
his own boat. By him I sent a message to his sister, while we waited for her at the shore.

Effie stood above me on the sloping bank, and as Agnes entered the green vista of the flowery
path, she turned and clung to me with sudden fervor, kissed me passionately, and then stole
silently into the boat.

The moonlight turned the waves to silver, and in its magic rays the face of my first love grew
young again. She sat before me with water-lilies in her shining hair, singing as she sang of
old, while the dash of falling oars kept time to her low song. As we neared the ruined bridge,
whose single arch still cast its heavy shadow far across the stream, Agnes bent toward me,
softly saying,--

"Basil, you remember this?"

How could I forget that happy night, long years ago, when she and I went floating down the
same bright stream, two happy lovers just betrothed? As she spoke, it all came back more beautiful
than ever, and I forgot the silent figure sitting there behind me. I hope Agnes had forgotten,
too; for, cruel as she was to me, I never wished to think her hard enough to hate that gentle
child.

"I remember, Agnes," I said, with a regretful sigh. "My voyage has been a lonely one since then."

"Are you not happy, Basil?" she asked, with a tender pity thrilling her low voice.

"Happy?" I echoed, bitterly,--"how can I be happy, remembering what might have been?"

Agnes bowed her head upon her hands, and silently the boat shot into the black shadow of the
arch. A sudden eddy seemed to sway us slightly from our course, and the waves dashed sullenly
against the gloomy walls; a moment more and we glided into calmer waters and unbroken light.
I looked up from my task to speak, but the words were frozen on my lips by a cry from Agnes,
who, wild-eyed and pale, seemed pointing to some phantom which I could not see. I turned,--the
phantom was Effie's empty seat. The shining stream grew dark before me, and a great pang of
remorse wrung my heart as that sight met my eyes.

"Effie!" I cried, with a cry that rent the stillness of the night, and sent the name ringing
down the river. But nothing answered me, and the waves rippled softly as they hurried by. Far
over the wide stream went my despairing glance, and saw nothing but the lilies swaying as they
slept, and the black arch where my child went down.

Agnes lay trembling at my feet, but I never heeded her,--for Jean's dead voice sounded in my
ear, demanding the life confided to my care. I listened, benumbed with guilty fear, and, as
if summoned by that weird cry, there came a white flash through the waves, and Effie's face
rose up before me.

Pallid and wild with the agony of that swift plunge, it confronted me. No cry for help parted
the pale lips, but those wide eyes were luminous with a love whose fire that deathful river
could not quench.

Like one in an awful dream, I gazed till the ripples closed above it. One instant the terror
held me,--the next I was far down in those waves, so silver fair above, so black and terrible
below. A brief, blind struggle passed before I grasped a tress of that long hair, then an arm,
and then the white shape, with a clutch like death. As the dividing waters gave us to the light
again, Agnes flung herself far over the boat-side and drew my lifeless burden in; I followed,
and we laid it down, a piteous sight for human eyes to look upon. Of that swift voyage home
I can remember nothing but the still face on Agnes's breast, the sight of which nerved my dizzy
brain and made my muscles iron.

For many weeks there was a darkened chamber in my house, and anxious figures gliding to and
fro, wan with long vigils and the fear of death. I often crept in to look upon the little figure
lying there, to watch the feverish roses blooming on the wasted cheek, the fitful fire burning
in the unconscious eyes, to hear the broken words so full of pathos to my ear, and then to
steal away and struggle to forget.

My bird fluttered on the threshold of its cage, but Love lured it back, for its gentle mission
was not yet fulfilled.

The _child_ Effie lay dead beneath the ripples of the river, but the _woman_ rose up from that
bed of suffering like one consecrated to life's high duties by the bitter baptism of that dark
hour.

Slender and pale, with serious eyes and quiet steps, she moved through the home which once
echoed to the glad voice and dancing feet of that vanished shape. A sweet sobriety shaded her
young face, and a meek smile sat upon her lips, but the old blithesomeness was gone.

She never claimed her childish place upon my knee, never tried the winsome wiles that used
to chase away my gloom, never came to pour her innocent delights and griefs into my ear, or
bless me with the frank affection which grew very precious when I found it lost.

Docile as ever, and eager to gratify my lightest wish, she left no wifely duty unfulfilled.
Always near me, if I breathed her name, but vanishing when I grew silent, as if her task were
done. Always smiling a cheerful farewell when I went, a quiet welcome when I came. I missed
the April face that once watched me go, the warm embrace that greeted me again, and at my heart
the sense of loss grew daily deeper as I felt the growing change.

Effie remembered the words I had spoken on that mournful night; remembered that our paths must
lie apart,--that her husband was a friend, and nothing more. She treasured every careless hint
I had given, and followed it most faithfully. She gathered gay, young friends about her, went
out into the brilliant world, and I believed she was content.

If I had ever felt she was a burden to the selfish freedom I desired, I was punished now, for
I had lost a blessing which no common pleasure could replace. I sat alone, and no blithe voice
made music in the silence of my room, no bright locks swept my shoulder, and no soft caress
assured me that I was beloved.

I looked for my household sprite in girlish garb, with its free hair and sunny eyes, but found
only a fair woman, graceful in rich attire, crowned with my gifts, and standing afar off among
her blooming peers. I could not guess the solitude of that true heart, nor see the captive
spirit gazing at me from those steadfast eyes.

No word of the cause of that despairing deed passed Effie's lips, and I had no need to ask
it. Agnes was silent, and soon left us, but her brother was a frequent guest. Effie liked his
gay companionship, and I denied her nothing,--nothing but the one desire of her life.

So that first year passed; and though the ease and liberty I coveted were undisturbed, I was
not satisfied. Solitude grew irksome, and study ceased to charm. I tried old pleasures, but
they had lost their zest,--renewed old friendships, but they wearied me. I forgot Agnes, and
ceased to think her fair. I looked at Effie, and sighed for my lost youth.

My little wife grew very beautiful to me, for she was blooming fast into a gracious womanhood.
I felt a secret pride in knowing she was mine, and watched her as I fancied a fond brother
might, glad that she was so good, so fair, so much beloved. I ceased to mourn the plaything
I had lost, and something akin to reverence mingled with the deepening admiration of the man.

Gay guests had filled the house with festal light and sound one winter's night, and when the
last bright figure had vanished from the threshold of the door, I still stood there, looking
over the snow-shrouded lawn, hoping to cool the fever of my blood, and case the restless pain
that haunted me.

I shut out the keen air and wintry sky, at length, and silently ascended to the diverted rooms
above. But in the soft gloom of a vestibule my steps were stayed. Two figures, in a flowery
alcove, fixed my eye. The light streamed full upon them, and the fragrant stillness of the
air was hardly stirred by their low tones.

Effie was there, sunk on a low couch, her face bowed upon her hands; and at her side, speaking
with impassioned voice and ardent eyes, leaned Alfred Vaughan.

The sight struck me like a blow, and the sharp anguish of that moment proved how deeply I had
learned to love.

"Effie, it is a sinful tie that binds you to that man; he does not love you, and it should
be broken,--for this slavery will wear away the life now grown so dear to me."

The words, hot with indignant passion, smote me like a wintry blast, but not so coldly as the
broken voice that answered them:--

"He said death alone must part us two, and, remembering that, I cannot listen to another love."

Like a guilty ghost I stole away, and in the darkness of my solitary room struggled with my
bitter grief, my newborn love. I never blamed my wife,--that wife who had heard the tender
name so seldom, she could scarce feel it hers. I had fettered her free heart, forgetting it
would one day cease to be a child's. I bade her look upon me as a father; she had learned the
lesson well; and now what right had I to reproach her for listening to a lover's voice, when
her husband's was so cold? What mattered it that slowly, almost unconsciously, I had learned
to love her with the passion of a youth, the power of a man? I had alienated that fond nature
from my own, and now it was too late.

Heaven only knows the bitterness of that hour;--I cannot tell it. But through the darkness
of my anguish and remorse that newly kindled love burned like a blessed fire, and, while it
tortured, purified. By its light I saw the error of my life: self-love was written on the actions
of the past, and I knew that my punishment was very just. With a child's repentant tears, I
confessed it to my Father, and He solaced me, showed me the path to tread, and made me nobler
for the blessedness and pain of that still hour.

Dawn found me an altered man; for in natures like mine the rain of a great sorrow melts the
ice of years, and their hidden strength blooms in a late harvest of patience, self-denial,
and humility. I resolved to break the tie which bound poor Effie to a joyless fate; and gratitude
for a selfish deed, which wore the guise of charity, should no longer mar her peace. I would
atone for the wrong I had done her, the suffering she had endured; and she should never know
that I had guessed her tender secret, nor learn the love which made my sacrifice so bitter,
yet so just.

Alfred came no more; and as I watched the growing pallor of her cheek, her patient efforts
to be cheerful and serene, I honored that meek creature for her constancy to what she deemed
the duty of her life.

I did not tell her my resolve at once, for I could not give her up so soon. It was a weak delay,
but I had not learned the beauty of a perfect self-forgetfulness; and though I clung to my
purpose steadfastly, my heart still cherished a desperate hope that I might be spared this loss.

In the midst of this secret conflict, there came a letter from old Adam Lyndsay, asking to
see his daughter's child; for life was waning slowly, and he desired to forgive, as he hoped
to be forgiven when the last hour came. The letter was to me, and, as I read it, I saw a way
where-by I might be spared the hard task of telling Effie she was to be free. I feared my new-found
strength would desert me, and my courage fail, when, looking on the woman who was dearer to
me than my life, I tried to give her back the liberty whose worth she had learned to know.

Effie should go, and I would write the words I dared not speak. She would be in her mother's
home, free to show her joy at her release, and smile upon the lover she had banished.

I went to tell her; for it was I who sought her now, who watched for her coming and sighed
at her departing steps,--I who waited for her smile and followed her with wistful eyes. The
child's slighted affection was atoned for now by my unseen devotion to the woman.

I gave the letter, and she read it silently.

"Will you go, love?" I asked, as she folded it.

"Yes,--the old man has no one to care for him but me, and it is so beautiful to be loved."

A sudden smile touched her lips, and a soft dew shone in the shadowy eyes, which seemed looking
into other and tenderer ones than mine. She could not know how sadly I echoed those words,
nor how I longed to tell her of another man who sighed to be forgiven.

"You must gather roses for these pale cheeks among the breezy moorlands, dear. They are not
so blooming as they were a year ago. Jean would reproach me for my want of care," I said, trying
to speak cheerfully, though each word seemed a farewell.

"Poor Jean! how long it seems since she kissed them last!" sighed Effie, musing sadly, as she
turned her wedding-ring.

My heart ached to see how thin the hand had grown, and how easily that little fetter would
fall off when I set my captive lark at liberty.

I looked till I dared look no longer, and then rose, saying,--

"You will write often, Effie, for I shall miss you very much."

She cast a quick look into my face, asking, hurriedly,--

"Am I to go alone?"

"Dear, I have much to do and cannot go; but you need fear nothing; I shall send Ralph and Mrs.
Prior with you, and the journey is soon over. When will you go?"

It was the first time she had left me since I took her from Jean's arms, and I longed to keep
her always near me; but, remembering the task I had to do, I felt that I must seem cold till
she knew all.

"Soon,--very soon,--to-morrow;--let me go to-morrow, Sir. I long to be away!" she cried, some
swift emotion banishing the calmness of her usual manner, as she rose, with eager eyes and
a gesture full of longing.

"You shall go, Effie," was all I could say; and with no word of thanks, she hastened away,
leaving me so calm without, so desolate within.

The same eagerness possessed her all that day; and the next she went away, clinging to me at
the last as she had clung that night upon the river-bank, as if her grateful heart reproached
her for the joy she felt at leaving my unhappy home.

A few days passed, bringing me the comfort of a few sweet lines from Effie, signed "Your child."
That sight reminded me, that, if I would do an honest deed, it should be generously done. I
read again the little missive she had sent, and then I wrote the letter which might be my last;--with
no hint of my love, beyond the expression of sincerest regard and never-ceasing interest in
her happiness; no hint of Alfred Vaughan; for I would not wound her pride, nor let her dream
that any eye had seen the passion she so silently surrendered, with no reproach to me and no
shadow on the name I had given into her keeping. Heaven knows what it cost me, and Heaven,
through the suffering of that hour, granted me an humbler spirit and a better life.

It went, and I waited for my fate as one might wait for pardon or for doom. It came at length,--a
short, sad letter, full of meek obedience to my will, of penitence for faults I never knew,
and grateful prayers for my peace.

My last hope died then, and for many days I dwelt alone, living over all that happy year with
painful vividness. I dreamed again of those fair days, and woke to curse the selfish blindness
which had hidden my best blessing from me till it was forever lost.

How long I should have mourned thus unavailingly I cannot tell. A more sudden, but far less
grievous loss befell me. My fortune was nearly swept away in the general ruin of a most disastrous
year. This event roused me from my despair and made me strong again,--for I must hoard what
could be saved, for Effie's sake. She had known a cruel want with me, and she must never know
another while she bore my name. I looked my misfortune in the face and ceased to feel it one;
for the diminished fortune was still ample for my darling's dower, and now what need had I
of any but the simplest home?

Before another month was gone, I was in the quiet place henceforth to be mine alone, and nothing
now remained for me to do but to dissolve the bond that made my Effie mine. Sitting over the
dim embers of my solitary hearth, I thought of this, and, looking round the silent room, whose
only ornaments were the things made sacred by her use, the utter desolation struck so heavily
upon my heart, that I bowed my head upon my folded arms, and yielded to the tender longing
that could not be repressed.

The bitter paroxysm passed, and, raising my eyes, the clearer for that stormy rain, I beheld
Effie standing like an answer to my spirit's cry.

With a great start, I regarded her, saying, at length, in a voice that sounded cold, for my
heart leaped up to meet her, and yet must not speak,--

"Effie, why are you here?"

Wraith-like and pale, she stood before me, with no sign of emotion but the slight tremor of
her frame, and answered my greeting with a sad humility:--

"I came because I promised to cleave to you through health and sickness, poverty and wealth,
and I must keep that vow till you absolve me from it. Forgive me, but I knew misfortune had
befallen you, and, remembering all you had done for me, came, hoping I might comfort when other
friends deserted you."

"Grateful to the last!" I sighed, low to myself, and, though deeply touched, replied with the
hard-won calmness that made my speech so brief,--

"You owe me nothing, Effie, and I most earnestly desired to spare you this."

Some sudden hope seemed born of my regretful words, for, with an eager glance, she cried,--

"Was it that desire which prompted you to part from me? Did you think I should shrink from
sharing poverty with you who gave me all I own?"

"No, dear,--ah, no!" I said, "I knew your grateful spirit far too well for that. It was because
I could not make your happiness, and yet had robbed you of the right to seek it with some younger
and some better man."

"Basil, what man? Tell me; for no doubt shall stand between us now!"

She grasped my arm, and her rapid words were a command.

I only answered, "Alfred Vaughan."

Effie covered up her face, crying, as she sank down at my feet,--

"Oh, my fear! my fear! Why was I blind so long?"

I felt her grief to my heart's core; for my own anguish made me pitiful, and my love made me
strong. I lifted up that drooping head and laid it down where it might never rest again, saying,
gently, cheerily, and with a most sincere forgetfulness of self,--

"My wife, I never cherished a harsh thought of you, never uttered a reproach when your affections
turned from a cold, neglectful guardian, to find a tenderer resting-place. I saw your struggles,
dear, your patient grief, your silent sacrifice, and honored you more truly than I can tell.
Effie, I robbed you of your liberty, but I will restore it, making such poor reparation as
I can for this long year of pain; and when I see you blest in a happier home, my keen remorse
will be appeased."

As I ceased, Effie rose erect and stood before me, transformed from a timid girl into an earnest
woman. Some dormant power and passion woke; she turned on me a countenance aglow with feeling,
soul in the eye, heart on the lips, and in her voice an energy that held me mute.

"I feared to speak before," she said, "but now I dare anything, for I have heard you call me
'wife,' and seen that in your face which gives me hope. Basil, the grief you saw was not for
the loss of any love but yours; the conflict you beheld was the daily struggle to subdue my
longing spirit to your will; and the sacrifice you honor but the renunciation of all hope.
I stood between you and the woman whom you loved, and asked of death to free me from that cruel
lot. You gave me back my life, but you withheld the gift that made it worth possessing. You
desired to be freed from the affection which only wearied you, and I tried to conquer it; but
it would not die. Let me speak now, and then I will be still forever! Must our ways lie apart?
Can I never be more to you than now? Oh, Basil! oh, my husband! I have loved you very truly
from the first! Shall I never know the blessedness of a return?"

Words could not answer that appeal. I gathered my life's happiness close to my breast, and
in the silence of a full heart felt that God was very good to me.

Soon all my pain and passion were confessed. Fast and fervently the tale was told; and as the
truth dawned on that patient wife, a tender peace transfigured her uplifted countenance, until
to me it seemed an angel's face.

"I am a poor man now," I said, still holding that frail creature fast, fearing to see her vanish,
as her semblance had so often done in the long vigils I had kept,--"a poor man, Effie, and
yet very rich, for I have my treasure back again. But I am wiser than when we parted; for I
have learned that love is better than a world of wealth, and victory over self a nobler conquest
than a continent. Dear, I have no home but this. Can you be happy here, with no fortune but
the little store set apart for you, and the knowledge that no want shall touch you while I live?"

And as I spoke, I sighed, remembering all I might have done, and dreading poverty for her alone.

But with a gesture, soft, yet solemn, Effie laid her hands upon my head, as if endowing me
with blessing and with gift, and answered, with her steadfast eyes on mine,--

"You gave me your home when I was homeless; let me give it back, and with it a proud wife.
I, too, am rich; for that old man is gone and left me all. Take it, Basil, and give me a little
love."

I gave not little, but a long life of devotion for the good gift God had bestowed on me,--finding
in it a household spirit the daily benediction of whose presence banished sorrow, selfishness,
and gloom, and, through the influence of happy human love, led me to a truer faith in the Divine.

TO THE MUSE.

  Whither? albeit I follow fast,
  In all life's circuit I but find
  Not where thou art, but where thou wast,
  Fleet Beckoner, more shy than wind!
  I haunt the pine-dark solitudes,
  With soft, brown silence carpeted,
  And think to snare thee in the woods:
  Peace I o'ertake, but thou art fled!
  I find the rock where thou didst rest,
  The moss thy skimming foot hath prest;
  All Nature with thy parting thrills,
  Like branches after birds new-flown;
  Thy passage hill and hollow fills
  With hints of virtue not their own;
  In dimples still the water slips
  Where thou hast dipped thy finger-tips;
  Just, just beyond, forever burn
  Gleams of a grace without return;
  Upon thy shade I plant my foot,
  And through my frame strange raptures shoot;
  All of thee but thyself I grasp;
  I seem to fold thy luring shape,
  And vague air to my bosom clasp,
  Thou lithe, perpetual Escape!

  One mask and then another drops,
  And thou art secret as before.
  Sometimes with flooded ear I list
  And hear thee, wondrous organist,
  Through mighty continental stops
  A thunder of strange music pour;--
  Through pipes of earth and air and stone
  Thy inspiration deep is blown;
  Through mountains, forests, open downs,
  Lakes, railroads, prairies, states, and towns,
  Thy gathering fugue goes rolling on,
  From Maine to utmost Oregon;
  The factory-wheels a rhythmus hum;
  From brawling parties concords come;--
  All this I hear, or seem to hear;
  But when, enchanted, I draw near
  To fix in notes the various theme,
  Life seems a whiff of kitchen-steam,
  History a Swiss street-singer's thrum,
  And I, that would have fashioned words
  To mate that music's rich accords,
  By rash approaches startle thee,
  Thou mutablest Perversity!
  The world drones on its old _tum-tum_,
  But thou hast slipped from it and me,
  And all thine organ-pipes left dumb.

  Not wearied yet, I still must seek,
  And hope for luck next day, next week.
  I go to see the great man ride,
  Ship-like, the swelling human tide
  That floods to bear him into port,
  Trophied from senate-hall or court:
  Thy magnetism, I feel it there,
  Thy rhythmic presence fleet and rare,
  Making the mob a moment fine
  With glimpses of their own Divine,
  As in their demigod they see
  Their swart ideal soaring free;
  'Tis thou that bear'st the fire about,
  Which, like the springing of a mine,
  Sends up to heaven the street-long shout:
  Full well I know that thou wast here;
  That was thy breath that thrilled mine ear;
  But vainly, in the stress and whirl,
  I dive for thee, the moment's pearl.

  Through every shape thou well canst run,
  Proteus, 'twixt rise and set of sun,
  Well pleased with logger-camps in Maine
  As where Milan's pale Duomo lies
  A stranded glacier on the plain,
  Its peaks and pinnacles of ice
  Melted in many a quaint device,
  And sees, across the city's din,
  Afar its silent Alpine kin;
  I track thee over carpets deep
  To Wealth's and Beauty's inmost keep;
  Across the sand of bar-room floors,
  'Mid the stale reek of boosing boors;
  Where drowse the hayfield's fragrant heats,
  Or the flail-heart of Autumn beats;
  I dog thee through the market's throngs,
  To where the sea with myriad tongues
  Laps the green fringes of the pier,
  And the tall ships that eastward steer
  Curtsy their farewells to the town,
  O'er the curved distance lessening down;--
  I follow allwhere for thy sake,--
  Touch thy robe's hem, but ne'er o'ertake,--
  Find where, scarce yet unmoving, lies,
  Warm from thy limbs, their last disguise,--
  But thou another mask hast donned,
  And lurest still, just, just, beyond!

  But here a voice, I know not whence,
  Thrills clearly through mine inward sense,
  Saying, "See where she sits at home,
  While thou in search of her dost roam!
  All summer long her ancient wheel
  Whirls humming by the open door,
  Or, when the hickory's social zeal
  Sets the wide chimney in a roar,
  Close-nestled by the tinkling hearth,
  It modulates the household mirth
  With that sweet, serious undertone
  Of Duty, music all her own;
  Still, as of old, she sits and spins
  Our hopes, our sorrows, and our sins;
  With equal care she twines the fates
  Of cottages and mighty states;
  She spins the earth, the air, the sea,
  The maiden's unschooled fancy free,
  The boy's first love, the man's first grief,
  The budding and the fall o' the leaf;
  The piping west-wind's snowy care
  For her their cloudy fleeces spare,
  Or from the thorns of evil times
  She can glean wool to twist her rhymes;
  Morning and noon and eve supply
  To her their fairest tints for dye,
  But ever through her twirling thread
  There spires one strand of warmest red,
  Tinged from the homestead's genial heart,
  The stamp and warrant of her art;
  With this Time's sickle she outwears,
  And blunts the Sisters' baffled shears.

  "Harass her not; thy heat and stir
  The greater coyness breed in her:
  Yet thou may'st find, ere Age's frost,
  Thy long apprenticeship not lost,
  Learning at last that Stygian Fate
  Supples for him that knows to wait.
  The Muse is womanish, nor deigns
  Her love to him who pules and plains;
  With proud, averted face she stands
  To him who wooes with empty hands.
  Make thyself free of manhood's guild;
  Pull down thy barns and greater build;
  The wood, the mountain, and the plain
  Wave breast-deep with the poet's grain;
  Pluck thou the sunset's fruit of gold;
  Glean from the heavens and ocean old;
  From fireside lone and trampling street
  Let thy life garner daily wheat;
  The epic of a man rehearse,
  Be something better than thy verse,
  Make thyself rich, and then the Muse
  Shall court thy precious interviews,
  Shall take thy head upon her knee,
  And such enchantment lilt to thee,
  That thou shalt hear the lifeblood flow
  From farthest stars to grass-blades low,
  And find the Listener's science still
  Transcends the Singer's deepest skill!"

SCREW-PROPULSION:

ITS RISE AND PROGRESS.

The earliest conception of an auxiliary motive power in navigation is contemporaneous with
the first use of the wind; the name of the inventor, "unrecorded in the patent-office," is
lost in the lapse of ages. The first motor was, undoubtedly, the hand; next followed the paddle,
the scull, and the oar; sails were an after-thought, introduced to play the secondary part
of an auxiliary.

Scarce was man in possession of this means of _impressing_ the wind, and resting his weary
oar, than, scorning longer confinement to the coast, he boldly ventured upon the conquest of
the main. Under the same impulse, the tiny skiff, in which he hardly dared to quit the river's
bank, was enlarged, and made fit companion of his distant emprise. These footprints of the
infant steps of navigation may all still be traced among the maritime tribes of the Pacific.

From that period sails became the chief motor, and the paddle and the sweep auxiliaries,--which
position they still hold to some extent, even in vessels of considerable burden. But as the
proportions of naval architecture enlarged, these puny instruments were thrown aside; although
the importance and necessity of some such auxiliary in the ordinary exigencies of marine life
have always been felt and it has long been earnestly sought.

From the first successful application of steam to navigation--by Fulton, in 1803--it was supposed
to be the simplest thing in the world to provide ships with an auxiliary motor; but the result
has shown the fallacy of this conception.

For more than twenty years steam-navigation has advanced with giant strides, overstepping several
times the limits which science had assigned it; but the paddle-wheel, by which the agency of
steam has been applied, forms so bad an alliance with canvas, and supplies so indifferently
the requirements of a man-of-war, that it has been impossible by this intermediary to render
steam the efficient coadjutor of sails; and it is for this reason that steam so speedily took
rank as a primary motor upon the ocean; for, in all the successful marine applications of steam
by means of the paddle, steam is the dominant power, and sails the accessory, or almost superfluous
auxiliary. It is the screw alone, in some of its modifications, which offers the means of a
successful and economical adaptation of steam to ships of war or of commerce; for it is susceptible
of a more complete protection than, the paddle, and of an easy and advantageous combination
with canvas.

The screw-propeller, in fact, has assumed so important a part in all naval enterprise, that
it may not be without interest to trace briefly its rise and progress to the consideration
it now commands, and to review, in general terms, the various experiments by which the screw-frigate
has been brought to its present high state of efficiency, excelling, for purposes of war, all
other kinds of vessels.

As early as 1804, John Stevens, of Hoboken, New Jersey, engaged in experiments to devise some
means of driving a vessel through the water by applying the motive power at the stern, and
with a screw-propeller and a defective boiler attained for short distances a speed of seven
knots; and it is surprising, that, with the genius and determination so characteristic of his
race, he should have abandoned the path on which he appears to have so fairly entered.

Within the last half-century numerous attempts of a similar character have been made in Europe
and America; but although many of the contrivances for this purpose were exceedingly ingenious,
and the success of some of the experiments sufficient, one would suppose, to excite the interest
of the public and encourage perseverance in the undertaking, yet in no instance were they followed
by any practical and useful results until the year 1836, when both Captain Ericsson and Mr.
F. P. Smith so fully demonstrated the speed and safety with which vessels could be moved by
the screw-propeller, as to convince every intelligent and unprejudiced mind of the importance
of their inventions, and immediately to attract the attention of the principal naval powers
of the world.

Captain Ericsson is a native of Sweden, but for some years previous to 1836 he had resided
in England, where he had become known as an engineer and mechanician of distinguished ability.

In July, 1836, he took out a patent in England for his method of propelling vessels; and during
that year the results of his experiments with a small boat were so satisfactory, that in the
following year he built a vessel forty-five feet long, with eight feet beam, and drawing three
feet of water, called the Francis B. Ogden, in compliment to the gentleman then consul of the
United States at Liverpool, who was the first person to appreciate the merits of his invention,
and to encourage him in his efforts to perfect it. This vessel was tried upon the Thames in
April, 1837, and succeeded admirably. She made ten knots an hour, and towed the American ship
Toronto at the rate of four and a half knots an hour; and in the following summer, Sir Charles
Adam, one of the Lords of the Admiralty, Sir William Symonds, the Surveyor of the Navy, and
several other scientific gentlemen and officers of rank, were towed by her in the Admiralty
barge at the speed of ten miles an hour.

Notwithstanding this demonstration of the powers of his vessel, Captain Ericsson did not succeed
in exciting the interest of any of the persons who witnessed the performance; and it seems
almost incredible that no one of them had the intelligence to perceive or the magnanimity to
admit the importance of his invention. But, fortunately for Ericsson and the reputation of
our country, he soon after met with Captain Stockton, of the United States navy, who at once
took the deepest interest in his plans. The result of one experiment with Ericsson's steamer
was sufficient to convince a man of Stockton's sagacity of the immense advantages which the
new motor might confer upon the commerce and upon the navy of his country, and forthwith he
ordered an iron steamer to be built and fitted with Ericsson's propeller. This vessel was named
the Stockton, and was launched in July, 1838, and, after being thoroughly tested and her success
demonstrated, she was sent under sail to the United States in April of the next year, and was
soon after followed by Captain Ericsson; when, in consequence of the representations of Captain
Stockton, the government ordered the Princeton to be built under Ericsson's superintendence,
and to be fitted with his propeller.

The Princeton, of 673 tons, was launched in April, 1842, and her propeller, of six blades,
of thirty-five feet pitch, and of fourteen feet diameter, was driven by a semi-cylinder engine
of two hundred and fifty horse-power, and all her machinery placed _below_ the water-line.
Her smoke-stack was so arranged that the upper parts could be let into the lower, so as not
to be visible above the rail; and as the anthracite coal which she used evolved no smoke, she
could not, at a short distance, be distinguished from a sailing-ship.

Her best speed under steam alone, _at sea_, was 8.6, and under sail alone, 10.1 knots; her
mean performance under steam and sail, 8.226; and considering the imperfect form of boiler
employed, and the small amount of fuel consumed, it may be doubted if this has since been much
excelled. She worked and steered well under canvas or steam alone, or under both combined;
was dry and weatherly, but pitched heavily, and was rather deficient in stability.

[Footnote: For a particular account of the Princeton, by B. F. Isherwood, U. S. N., see _Journal
of the Franklin Institute_ for June, 1853. Taking everything into consideration, the Princeton
was a most successful experiment, and, in her day, the most efficient man-of-war of her class.
By her construction the government of the United States had placed itself far in advance of
all the world in the path of naval improvement, and it is deeply to be regretted that it did
not avail itself of the advantage thus gained; that it did not immediately order the construction
of other vessels, in which successively the few defects of the Princeton might have been corrected;
that it did not persist in that path of improvement into which it had fortunately been directed,
instead of suffering our great naval rivals to outstrip us in the race, and compel us at last
to resort to them for instruction in that science the very rudiments of which they had learned
from us.]

The success of the Princeton was followed by the general adoption in America of the screw-propeller.
When Ericsson left England, he confided his interests to Count Rosen, who, in 1843, placed
an Ericsson propeller in the French frigate Pomone, and soon afterwards the British Admiralty
determined to place it in the Amphion. Not only was the performance of these vessels highly
satisfactory, but they were the first ships in the navies of Europe in which the great desideratum
was secured of placing the machinery below the load-line. Ericsson's propeller having been
the first introduced into France, it was generally adopted; but afterwards, in consequence
of the accounts of Smith's screw received from England, it underwent various modifications.

Such was the result of Ericsson's labors; it now remains to relate the success of Smith. The
efforts of either had been sufficient to have secured to navigation the inestimable advantages
of screw-propulsion, but their rivalry probably hastened the solution of the problem.

In May, 1836, Mr. F. P. Smith, a farmer of Hendon, in England, took out a patent for his screw-propeller,
and exhibited some experiments with it attached to a model boat, and in the following autumn
built a boat of six tons' burden, of ten horse-power, and fitted with a wooden screw. This
vessel was kept running upon the Thames for nearly a year, and her performance was so satisfactory,
that Mr. Smith determined to try her qualities at sea; and in the course of the year 1837,
he visited in her several ports on the coast of England, and proved that she worked well in
strong winds and rough water.

These trials attracted much attention, and at last awakened the interest of the Admiralty,
who requested Mr. Smith to try his propeller on a larger vessel, and the Archimedes, of ninety
horse-power and 237 tons, built for this purpose, was launched in October, 1838, and made her
experimental trip in 1839. It was thought that her performance would be satisfactory, if she
could make four or five knots an hour; but she made nearly ten! In May, 1839, she went from
Gravesend to Portsmouth, a distance of one hundred and ninety miles, and made the run in twenty
hours.

In April, 1840, Captain Chappel, R. N., and Mr. Lloyd, Chief Engineer of Woolwich Dockyard,
were appointed by the Admiralty to try a series of experiments with her at Dover. The numerous
trials made under the superintendence of these officers fully proved the efficiency of the
new propeller, and their report was entirely favorable.

The Archimedes next circumnavigated Great Britain under command of Captain Chappel, visiting
all the principal ports: she afterwards went to Oporto, Antwerp, and other places, and everywhere
excited the admiration of engineers and seamen.

Up to this period, the British engineers were nearly unanimous in the opinion that the use
of the screw involved a great loss of power, and they had concluded that it could not be adopted;
but it was impossible any longer to resist the impressions made on the public by the demonstration
which had been given both by Smith and Ericsson; and although the engineers were still unwilling
to admit the screw to a comparison with the paddle, it was evident that their first conclusions
regarding it were erroneous, and thereafter it was viewed by them with less disdain and spoken
of more hopefully. One of the great objections by engineers to the use of the screw was their
inability, at the time of its introduction, to construct properly a screw engine,--that is
to say, a direct-acting horizontal engine, working at a speed of from sixty to one hundred
revolutions per minute,--all their experience having been in paddle-wheel engines, working
from ten to fifteen revolutions per minute. The peculiar mechanical details required in the
screw engine, the necessity for accurate counterbalancing, etc., were then unknown, and had
to be learned from a long succession of expensive failures. In England, the first machines
applied to the screw were paddle-wheel engines, working it by gearing; there were consequently
lost all the advantages of the reduced cost, bulk, and weight of the screw engine proper, including,
for war purposes, the important feature of its being placed below the water-line. At first,
the screw had not only to contend with physical difficulties, but to struggle against nearly
universal prejudice; many inventors had succumbed to these obstacles, and therefore too much
applause cannot be bestowed upon those who, unsustained by public sympathy, and in defiance
of a prevailing skepticism, maintained their faith and courage unshaken, and gallantly persisted
in their efforts, until crowned with a world-wide success.

Ericsson, before interesting himself with the screw, was, as has been seen, an engineer and
mechanician of distinguished ability; whereas Smith, in commencing his new vocation, had all
to acquire but his first conception. Ericsson could rely upon the fertility of his own genius,
was his own draughtsman, and designed his own engines, accommodating them to the new propeller
by dispensing with gearing, and adapting them to a speed of from thirty to forty revolutions,--a
great and bold advance for an initiative step. Smith, on the contrary, not being an engineer,
had to intrust the execution of his plans to others, whose knowledge of construction was in
the routine of paddle-wheel engines; and this accounts for the fact, that all the earliest
British screw-steamers were driven by gearing. This want of mechanical resources on the part
of Smith added to the difficulties of his career; but his resolution and perseverance rose
superior to all obstacles, and carried him to the goal in triumph. Briefly, then, these were
the respective merits of Smith and Ericsson, in the introduction of screw-propulsion; and it
is much to their honor, that, throughout their career, no narrow-spirited jealousies dimmed
the lustre of a noble rivalry.

Such was the origin of the new motor,--the mighty engine by which armadas are marshalled in
battle-array, the burdens of commerce borne to distant marts, the impatient emigrant transferred
to the promised land, and by which the breathings of affection, the pangs of distress, and
the sighs of love are wafted to far-off continents.

In consequence of the success of the Archimedes, the Admiralty ordered the Rattler to be fitted
with a screw, and it was no small satisfaction to find that her double-cylinder engines could
be easily adapted to the new propeller. She is of 888 tons, and two hundred horse-power, and
was launched in the spring of 1843, being the first screw-vessel in the British navy.

In the course of the two succeeding years, she was tried with a great many different screws,
and numerous experiments were made to discover the length, diameter, pitch, and number of blades
of the screw, most effective in all the various conditions of wind and sea. A screw of two
blades, each equal to one-sixth part of a convolution, and of a uniform pitch, was, on the
whole, found to be the most efficient, and this is the screw now adopted in most of the ships
of all classes in the British navy.[1]

A propeller of very different construction, which had given great results in a ship of the
Peninsular and Oriental Steamship Company, and was afterwards exhibited in the docks at Southampton,
here claims a passing notice. This propeller is so constructed as to enable the engineer to
regulate the speed of the piston; for _the pitch of the screw can be increased or diminished
at pleasure_. Thus, with a fair wind, by increasing the pitch, without increasing the revolutions,
the full power of the engine is effectually exerted in driving the ship, instead of consuming
fuel in driving the engine to no purpose; and with a headwind, by diminishing the pitch, the
engines are made to do their utmost duty; and when the ship is under canvas only, the blades
of the propeller may be placed in line with the stern-post, and thus offer little resistance.
Another advantage claimed for this propeller (known as Griffith's) is, that, in the event of
breaking a blade, it may be readily replaced by "tipping the ship"; which method merits careful
consideration by engineers, as does especially every new propeller which promises a more perfect
alliance with canvas.

To resume the narrative,--the speed of the Rattler was afterwards tested by a trial with the
Alecto, a paddle-wheel steamer of equal power, built from the same moulds; and the result was
so favorable, that the Admiralty ordered the construction or conversion of _twenty-three_ vessels
as screw-steamers, and thus was laid the foundation of the present formidable steam-navy of
England.

The superiority which has been asserted for the Princeton was established during the Mexican
War by her performance before Vera Cruz as a blockading ship of unprecedented efficiency, which,
having been displayed under the admiring observation of a British squadron, tended more than
any other single event to confirm the Admiralty in the conclusions to be drawn from the experiments
just related, and to decide them in the adoption of the screw as the best auxiliary of sail,
the best mechanical motor upon the ocean. Thus did England, in embracing at once the practical
demonstration of the Princeton, display that forecast by which she won her ascendency at sea,
and the vigilance with which she maintains it; whilst our own government awaited, in unbecoming
hesitation, the results which England's more extended trials with the screw might develop.

This cautious policy, rather than the bold and liberal course which the maritime genius of
the country demands, condemned us for long years to inaction, until, at length, the absolute
necessity for the renewal of a portion of our naval force produced the "Minnesota" class of
frigates. Although they developed little that was absolutely new, they are very far from being
imitations; but in model, capacity, equipment, and above all in their armament, they have challenged
admiration throughout the world, and called from a distinguished British admiral in command
the significant declaration, that, until he had seen them, he had never realized his ideal
of a perfect man-of-war.

A leading idea in the conception of these ships was to reduce the number of gun-decks from
two and three to a single deck, and, consequently, the space in which shells could be lodged.
This is a consideration which must, it is believed, sooner or later govern in naval construction;
although France and England, long accustomed to measure the power of ships by the number of
gun-decks, may be more slow in following our lead in this respect than in imitating the increased
calibre of our ordnance.

The new classes of steamers preparing for sea, of which the Hartford and Iroquois are types,
promise to be most efficient ships, and to reflect much credit upon our naval authorities for
their bold, yet judicious departure from traditions which had long hampered the administration
of this important branch of the public service. Although the reflection is seldom made, it
is nevertheless true, that much of the reputation enjoyed and of the influence exercised by
the United States is due to the efficiency of her navy; and if these are to remain undiminished,
then it is of the utmost consequence that the national ships should always represent the highest
advancement of nautico-military science.

[Footnote 1: A series of experiments with the screw were made on board the Dwarf in 1845, and
on board the Minx in 1847 and 1848, but the results did not materially differ from those previously
obtained. In the Rattler, Dwarf, and Minx twenty-nine different propellers were tried.]

The efficiency of the screw having been demonstrated, it was seen that the next requirement
for a war-steamer was to place her machinery below the waterline; and hence arose a demand
for an entirely new description of engines, which it was clear would make a great change in
all the labors of the engineer and machinist. Such change it was evident would greatly enhance
the risk of failure, and therefore it was determined by the Admiralty to insure success in
this very difficult task by enlisting all the best talent of the country. Accordingly, for
the twenty-three ships an equal number of screw engines were ordered; and as with the constructors,
so with the engineers, each was required to comply with certain conditions, yet each was permitted
to put forth his own individuality, and each has illustrated his views of what was required
by a distinct plan of engine.

The wise and liberal action of the British Admiralty, which faltered at no expense, and made
trial of every improvement in machinery that gave assurance of good performance and promised
in any way to increase the efficiency of the fleet, produced no less than fourteen distinct
varieties of the screw engine. Among them all, Penn's horizontal trunk-engine appears to be
the favorite, and had performed so well in the Encounter of fourteen guns, the Arrogant of
forty-six, the Impérieuse of fifty, and the Agamemnon of ninety, that two years ago it had
been placed, in about equal proportions of two hundred, four hundred, six hundred, and eight
hundred horse-power, on board of forty ships and many smaller vessels of the British navy;
it had fulfilled all the promises made for it, without in any instance requiring repairs. These
engines comply with all the conditions reasonably demanded in the machinery of a man-of-war;
they lie very low, and the fewness and accessibility of their parts leave scarcely anything
to be desired;--a lighter, more compact, or more simple combination has yet to be conceived.[1]

In all the ships above referred to the connection of the engines is direct, and many of them
are driven at rates varying from fifty to seventy-five revolutions. This point is dwelt upon
because it is observed that many engineers find difficulty in freeing themselves from early
impressions made by long-stroke engines, express apprehensions at fifty and sixty revolutions,
and stand ready to obviate the difficulty by gearing,--which it is hoped may not henceforth
be adopted in our national ships. Geared engines are much heavier than those of direct connection,
and occupy more space,--a great consideration in ships where room for fuel is in such demand,
besides making it more difficult to place them below the waterline,--a consideration which
in men-of-war should be regarded of paramount importance, as the engines of a war-steamer should
be as secure from shot as her magazine. Experience has shown that the apprehensions entertained
from the quick stroke of direct engines were without foundation; and that, in auxiliary ships,
with a properly modelled propeller, there will be no necessity for a very high speed of piston.

The form of engine generally adopted with great success in the later screw-ships.

[Footnote 1: "Its large amount of friction" is an objection often speciously urged against
the trunk-engine, although the friction diagram shows it to be actually less in this than in
most other engines.] of the United States navy is the "horizontal direct action," with the
connecting-rod returning from a cross-head towards the cylinder; these engines make from sixty
to eighty revolutions per minute. The steam-valve is a packed slide with but little lap, and
the expansion-valve is an adjustable slide working on the back of the steam-valve. The boilers
are of the vertical water-tube type, with the tubes above the furnaces, and are supplied with
fresh water by tubular surface-condensers, which, together with the air-pumps, are placed opposite
the cylinders.

While the vessels ordered by the Admiralty were on the stocks, it was suggested by Mr. Lloyd
that the model of their after-bodies was not that most favorable to speed,--that they were
too "full," and that a "finer run" would be preferable. To settle this question, the Dwarf,
a vessel of fine run, was taken into dock, and her after-body filled out by three separate
layers of planking, so as to give it the form and proportions of the vessels then building.
These layers of planking could be removed in succession, and the effects of a fuller or finer
run upon the speed of the vessel easily ascertained. A trial was then made, and the result
proved the correctness of Mr. Lloyd's opinion; the removal of the different layers of planking
increasing the speed from 3.75 to 5.75, to 9, and finally to 11 knots. A trial between the
Rifleman and the Sharpshooter, vessels of four hundred and eighty tons and two hundred horse-power,
and the Minx and Teaser, of three hundred tons and one hundred horse-power, gave similar results,--the
speed in each trial being twenty-four per cent. in favor of the finer run.

Although great efficiency and economy had now been attained, there was still an important defect
to be remedied, namely, the impediment to speed and to evolution under sail presented by the
dragging propeller; which was accomplished by the invention of the "trunk" or "well," into
which the propeller can be raised at pleasure; and there is no longer anything to prevent the
construction of a screw-frigate which shall be fit to accompany, under canvas only, a fleet
of fast sailers, with the assurance that she may arrive at the point of destination in company
with her consorts, having in reserve all her steam-power.

The mechanism by which the emersion of the screw is effected is as follows:--There are two
stern-posts; between these, and connecting them with each other and with the keel, is a massive
metallic frame, in which rests another frame, or _châssis_, in which the screw is suspended;
near the water-line, the deck and wales are extended to the after stern-post, and through an
opening or trunk in this overhanging stern the frame suspending the screw is raised by worms,
working in a rack secured to the frame, and operated from the deck, as shown in the accompanying
drawing,--or by a tackle, as is now most common. In the British ship Agamemnon, of ninety guns,
the propeller is raised by a hydrostatic pump,--a neat arrangement, but liable to get out of
order. When it is desirable to raise the propeller, the blades are first placed in a vertical
position, and the operation of lifting is performed in a few minutes.

The relative advantages of the propeller fitted to lift, and that which is permanently fixed,
have long been the subject of much discussion.

For merchant steamers, having an established route to perform, on which the aid of steam is
in constant demand, it is generally conceded that the position of the screw should be permanent.
The construction of the ship is then less costly, while greater strength is preserved; and
as these vessels are out of port but for short intervals, should repairs be needed, they have
access to the docks. But for men-of-war the case is widely different. Having frequently to
keep the sea for long periods, much under canvas, and often far distant from a dock-yard, they
should be provided with the means of lifting the screw to repair or to clear it, or to be relieved
from the impediment it offers to sailing and to evolution, and also from the injurious "shake"
occasioned by a dragging propeller.

[Illustration: MODE OF LIFTING SCREW.]

On the other hand, the construction of a trunk or well impairs the solidity of the stern, renders
it much more vulnerable, and weakens its defences, while it opposes to speed the very considerable
resistance of the after stern-post.[*] Nevertheless, no modern ship of the British navy is
without the means of raising her propeller, and the best opinion of commanders and engineers
of that service, of longest experience in screw-ships, goes to establish the conviction, that,
for men-of-war, the advantages of being able to lift the propeller far more than outweigh the
objections urged against lifting. In this connection we mention the fact, that all screw-ships
"by the wind" have a strong tendency to gripe. Would not this be obviated by having a gate
or slide to fill out the dead-wood when the screw is lifted?

[Footnote *: Might not a metallic stern-post, combining strength, lightness, and little resistance,
be introduced?]

The best illustration of the effects of a dragging propeller was afforded on the departure
of a Russian squadron from Cronstadt, bound to the Amoor, in 1857-'58, consisting of three
sloops of war bark-rigged, and three three-masted schooners, under the flag of Commodore Kouznetsoff.
The vessels of each class were built from the same moulds, and at the time of the experiment
were of the same draft and displacement. On clearing the land, signal was made to lift screws
and make sail. Soon after, all the squadron reported the execution of the order, except the
Voyerada sloop, which had the misfortune to break a key in the couplings, and therefore could
not lift her screw. Every effort was tried to get out the key, and meanwhile a very instructive
example was presented to the squadron of the effect of a dragging propeller on the speed of
the vessel. The circumstances were as follows:--The wind, a gentle breeze, right aft; the Voyerada
carrying all sail but the main course; the other two sloops holding way with her with their
topsails on the cap, and the schooners with their peaks dropped. Under these conditions, the
Voyerada, having her screw-blades fixed horizontally, could scarcely keep her position, running
two and a half and three knots. The Voyerada next succeeded in getting her screw vertical,
when, without any change in the wind, the speed increased to four and a half knots. The other
sloops then mastheaded their topsails, and the schooners peaked their gaffs. At length the
Voyerada succeeded in lifting her screw, when immediately all the sloops under the same canvas
continued their course, making six to six and a half knots. A better example of the obstruction
offered by a dragging propeller could not have been afforded.[1]

The "shake," to which reference has been made, is the tremulous or vibratory motion communicated
to the after-body of the ship, and particularly to the stern, by the revolution of the propeller,
often opening the seams, and in old ships sometimes starting the butts and causing dangerous
leaks. This movement arises from two causes,--one inherent in the screw, the other due to its
position in the deadwood. The first cause is the difference in the propelling efficiency of
the upper and lower blades when in any other position than horizontal. The centre of pressure
of the lower blade, being at a greater depth below the surface than the centre of pressure
of the upper blade, acts upon a medium of greater resistance to displacement, and the differential
of the pressures of the two blades produces inevitably a vibratory motion in the stern of the
vessel. This effect is greatly increased when the clearance given to the screw in the dead-wood
is too small; for the reduction of the hydrostatic pressure at the stern-post, and the increase
of it at the rudder-post, on each passage of the blades, must be followed by concussion. Therefore,
if the "well," or distance between the posts, be made sufficiently long in proportion to the
screw, the "shake" due to the latter cause can be almost entirely obviated.

In 1851, the British Admiralty selected three auxiliary screw-ships, of different classes and
qualities, for an experimental cruise, namely:--

[Footnote 1: _Russian Nautical Magazine_, No. XLI., December, 1857.]

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  | Guns. | Horse  | Screw. | Speed. | Day's |    Sail
  |       | Power. |        |        | Fuel. |  Equipment
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  The       |       |        |   2    |   9    |   8   |
  Arrogant  |  46   |  360   | blades | knots  | days  | Ship full rig
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  The       |       |        |   2    |  11    |  11   |
  Dauntless |  24   |  580   | blades | knots  | days  | Ship light rig
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  The       |       |        |   2    | 10-1/2 |   6   |
  Encounter |  14   |  360   | blades | knots  | days  | Barque
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------

They were ordered to pass round the Azores, each ship holding her course, and using sail or
steam, or both, as was deemed most advantageous. An officer was sent on board each ship to
keep a record of her performance, and to note the time when and the position where, the coal
being entirely consumed, the contest ended. In this trial, the Arrogant was found superior
to the Dauntless, and both of them far excelled the Encounter; indeed, no very different result
was expected, the object of the trial being to ascertain their relative as well as positive
value. These ships afterwards formed a part of the experimental squadron stationed at Lisbon
in the same year, which was composed of the finest ships in the British navy.

