He passed before the lights of Martin's restaurant, the most aristocratic in the city, and
stopped.  It was a place where he had often dined, in better days, and Martin knew him well.
Standing aside, just out of the range of the light, he worshiped the quails and steaks in the
show window, and imagined that may be the fairy times were not gone yet and some prince in
disguise would come along presently and tell him to go in there and take whatever he wanted.
He chewed his stick with a hungry interest as he warmed to his subject.  Just at this juncture
he was conscious of some one at his side, sure enough; and then a finger touched his arm. 
He looked up, over his shoulder, and saw an apparition--a very allegory of Hunger!  It was
a man six feet high, gaunt, unshaven, hung with rags; with a haggard face and sunken cheeks,
and eyes that pleaded piteously.  This phantom said:

"Come with me--please."

He locked his arm in Blucher's and walked up the street to where the passengers were few and
the light not strong, and then facing about, put out his hands in a beseeching way, and said:

"Friend--stranger--look at me!  Life is easy to you--you go about, placid and content, as I
did once, in my day--you have been in there, and eaten your sumptuous supper, and picked your
teeth, and hummed your tune, and thought your pleasant thoughts, and said to yourself it is
a good world --but you've never suffered!  You don't know what trouble is--you don't know what
misery is--nor hunger!  Look at me!  Stranger have pity on a poor friendless, homeless dog!
As God is my judge, I have not tasted food for eight and forty hours!--look in my eyes and
see if I lie!  Give me the least trifle in the world to keep me from starving--anything --twenty-five
cents!  Do it, stranger--do it, please.  It will be nothing to you, but life to me.  Do it,
and I will go down on my knees and lick the dust before you!  I will kiss your footprints--I
will worship the very ground you walk on!  Only twenty-five cents!  I am famishing --perishing--starving
by inches!  For God's sake don't desert me!"

Blucher was bewildered--and touched, too--stirred to the depths.  He reflected.  Thought again.
Then an idea struck him, and he said:

"Come with me."

He took the outcast's arm, walked him down to Martin's restaurant, seated him at a marble table,
placed the bill of fare before him, and said:

"Order what you want, friend.  Charge it to me, Mr. Martin."

"All right, Mr. Blucher," said Martin.

Then Blucher stepped back and leaned against the counter and watched the man stow away cargo
after cargo of buckwheat cakes at seventy-five cents a plate; cup after cup of coffee, and
porter house steaks worth two dollars apiece; and when six dollars and a half's worth of destruction
had been accomplished, and the stranger's hunger appeased, Blucher went down to French Pete's,
bought a veal cutlet plain, a slice of bread, and three radishes, with his dime, and set to
and feasted like a king!

Take the episode all around, it was as odd as any that can be culled from the myriad curiosities
of Californian life, perhaps.

CHAPTER LX.

By and by, an old friend of mine, a miner, came down from one of the decayed mining camps of
Tuolumne, California, and I went back with him. We lived in a small cabin on a verdant hillside,
and there were not five other cabins in view over the wide expanse of hill and forest.  Yet
a flourishing city of two or three thousand population had occupied this grassy dead solitude
during the flush times of twelve or fifteen years before, and where our cabin stood had once
been the heart of the teeming hive, the centre of the city.  When the mines gave out the town
fell into decay, and in a few years wholly disappeared--streets, dwellings, shops, everything--and
left no sign.  The grassy slopes were as green and smooth and desolate of life as if they had
never been disturbed.  The mere handful of miners still remaining, had seen the town spring
up spread, grow and flourish in its pride; and they had seen it sicken and die, and pass away
like a dream.  With it their hopes had died, and their zest of life.  They had long ago resigned
themselves to their exile, and ceased to correspond with their distant friends or turn longing
eyes toward their early homes.  They had accepted banishment, forgotten the world and been
forgotten of the world.  They were far from telegraphs and railroads, and they stood, as it
were, in a living grave, dead to the events that stirred the globe's great populations, dead
to the common interests of men, isolated and outcast from brotherhood with their kind. It was
the most singular, and almost the most touching and melancholy exile that fancy can imagine.--One
of my associates in this locality, for two or three months, was a man who had had a university
education; but now for eighteen years he had decayed there by inches, a bearded, rough-clad,
clay-stained miner, and at times, among his sighings and soliloquizings, he unconsciously interjected
vaguely remembered Latin and Greek sentences--dead and musty tongues, meet vehicles for the
thoughts of one whose dreams were all of the past, whose life was a failure; a tired man, burdened
with the present, and indifferent to the future; a man without ties, hopes, interests, waiting
for rest and the end.

In that one little corner of California is found a species of mining which is seldom or never
mentioned in print.  It is called "pocket mining" and I am not aware that any of it is done
outside of that little corner.  The gold is not evenly distributed through the surface dirt,
as in ordinary placer mines, but is collected in little spots, and they are very wide apart
and exceedingly hard to find, but when you do find one you reap a rich and sudden harvest.
There are not now more than twenty pocket miners in that entire little region.  I think I know
every one of them personally.  I have known one of them to hunt patiently about the hill-sides
every day for eight months without finding gold enough to make a snuff-box--his grocery bill
running up relentlessly all the time--and then find a pocket and take out of it two thousand
dollars in two dips of his shovel.  I have known him to take out three thousand dollars in
two hours, and go and pay up every cent of his indebtedness, then enter on a dazzling spree
that finished the last of his treasure before the night was gone.  And the next day he bought
his groceries on credit as usual, and shouldered his pan and shovel and went off to the hills
hunting pockets again happy and content.  This is the most fascinating of all the different
kinds of mining, and furnishes a very handsome percentage of victims to the lunatic asylum.

Pocket hunting is an ingenious process.  You take a spadeful of earth from the hill-side and
put it in a large tin pan and dissolve and wash it gradually away till nothing is left but
a teaspoonful of fine sediment. Whatever gold was in that earth has remained, because, being
the heaviest, it has sought the bottom.  Among the sediment you will find half a dozen yellow
particles no larger than pin-heads.  You are delighted.  You move off to one side and wash
another pan.  If you find gold again, you move to one side further, and wash a third pan. 
If you find no gold this time, you are delighted again, because you know you are on the right
scent.

You lay an imaginary plan, shaped like a fan, with its handle up the hill--for just where the
end of the handle is, you argue that the rich deposit lies hidden, whose vagrant grains of
gold have escaped and been washed down the hill, spreading farther and farther apart as they
wandered.  And so you proceed up the hill, washing the earth and narrowing your lines every
time the absence of gold in the pan shows that you are outside the spread of the fan; and at
last, twenty yards up the hill your lines have converged to a point--a single foot from that
point you cannot find any gold.  Your breath comes short and quick, you are feverish with excitement;
the dinner-bell may ring its clapper off, you pay no attention; friends may die, weddings transpire,
houses burn down, they are nothing to you; you sweat and dig and delve with a frantic interest--and
all at once you strike it!  Up comes a spadeful of earth and quartz that is all lovely with
soiled lumps and leaves and sprays of gold.  Sometimes that one spadeful is all--$500.  Sometimes
the nest contains $10,000, and it takes you three or four days to get it all out. The pocket-miners
tell of one nest that yielded $60,000 and two men exhausted it in two weeks, and then sold
the ground for $10,000 to a party who never got $300 out of it afterward.

The hogs are good pocket hunters.  All the summer they root around the bushes, and turn up
a thousand little piles of dirt, and then the miners long for the rains; for the rains beat
upon these little piles and wash them down and expose the gold, possibly right over a pocket.
Two pockets were found in this way by the same man in one day.  One had $5,000 in it and the
other $8,000.  That man could appreciate it, for he hadn't had a cent for about a year.

In Tuolumne lived two miners who used to go to the neighboring village in the afternoon and
return every night with household supplies.  Part of the distance they traversed a trail, and
nearly always sat down to rest on a great boulder that lay beside the path.  In the course
of thirteen years they had worn that boulder tolerably smooth, sitting on it.  By and by two
vagrant Mexicans came along and occupied the seat.  They began to amuse themselves by chipping
off flakes from the boulder with a sledge-hammer.  They examined one of these flakes and found
it rich with gold. That boulder paid them $800 afterward.  But the aggravating circumstance
was that these "Greasers" knew that there must be more gold where that boulder came from, and
so they went panning up the hill and found what was probably the richest pocket that region
has yet produced. It took three months to exhaust it, and it yielded $120,000.  The two American
miners who used to sit on the boulder are poor yet, and they take turn about in getting up
early in the morning to curse those Mexicans--and when it comes down to pure ornamental cursing,
the native American is gifted above the sons of men.

I have dwelt at some length upon this matter of pocket mining because it is a subject that
is seldom referred to in print, and therefore I judged that it would have for the reader that
interest which naturally attaches to novelty.

CHAPTER LXI.

One of my comrades there--another of those victims of eighteen years of unrequited toil and
blighted hopes--was one of the gentlest spirits that ever bore its patient cross in a weary
exile: grave and simple Dick Baker, pocket-miner of Dead-House Gulch.--He was forty-six, gray
as a rat, earnest, thoughtful, slenderly educated, slouchily dressed and clay-soiled, but his
heart was finer metal than any gold his shovel ever brought to light--than any, indeed, that
ever was mined or minted.

Whenever he was out of luck and a little down-hearted, he would fall to mourning over the loss
of a wonderful cat he used to own (for where women and children are not, men of kindly impulses
take up with pets, for they must love something).  And he always spoke of the strange sagacity
of that cat with the air of a man who believed in his secret heart that there was something
human about it--may be even supernatural.

I heard him talking about this animal once.  He said:

"Gentlemen, I used to have a cat here, by the name of Tom Quartz, which you'd a took an interest
in I reckon--most any body would.  I had him here eight year--and he was the remarkablest cat
I ever see.  He was a large gray one of the Tom specie, an' he had more hard, natchral sense
than any man in this camp--'n' a power of dignity--he wouldn't let the Gov'ner of Californy
be familiar with him.  He never ketched a rat in his life--'peared to be above it.  He never
cared for nothing but mining. He knowed more about mining, that cat did, than any man I ever,
ever see. You couldn't tell him noth'n 'bout placer diggin's--'n' as for pocket mining, why
he was just born for it.

"He would dig out after me an' Jim when we went over the hills prospect'n', and he would trot
along behind us for as much as five mile, if we went so fur.  An' he had the best judgment
about mining ground--why you never see anything like it.  When we went to work, he'd scatter
a glance around, 'n' if he didn't think much of the indications, he would give a look as much
as to say, 'Well, I'll have to get you to excuse me,' 'n' without another word he'd hyste his
nose into the air 'n' shove for home.  But if the ground suited him, he would lay low 'n' keep
dark till the first pan was washed, 'n' then he would sidle up 'n' take a look, an' if there
was about six or seven grains of gold he was satisfied--he didn't want no better prospect 'n'
that--'n' then he would lay down on our coats and snore like a steamboat till we'd struck the
pocket, an' then get up 'n' superintend.  He was nearly lightnin' on superintending.

"Well, bye an' bye, up comes this yer quartz excitement.  Every body was into it--every body
was pick'n' 'n' blast'n' instead of shovelin' dirt on the hill side--every body was put'n'
down a shaft instead of scrapin' the surface.  Noth'n' would do Jim, but we must tackle the
ledges, too, 'n' so we did.  We commenced put'n' down a shaft, 'n' Tom Quartz he begin to wonder
what in the Dickens it was all about.  He hadn't ever seen any mining like that before, 'n'
he was all upset, as you may say--he couldn't come to a right understanding of it no way--it
was too many for him.  He was down on it, too, you bet you--he was down on it powerful --'n'
always appeared to consider it the cussedest foolishness out.  But that cat, you know, was
always agin new fangled arrangements--somehow he never could abide'em.  You know how it is
with old habits.  But by an' by Tom Quartz begin to git sort of reconciled a little, though
he never could altogether understand that eternal sinkin' of a shaft an' never pannin' out
any thing.  At last he got to comin' down in the shaft, hisself, to try to cipher it out. 
An' when he'd git the blues, 'n' feel kind o'scruffy, 'n' aggravated 'n' disgusted--knowin'
as he did, that the bills was runnin' up all the time an' we warn't makin' a cent--he would
curl up on a gunny sack in the corner an' go to sleep.  Well, one day when the shaft was down
about eight foot, the rock got so hard that we had to put in a blast--the first blast'n' we'd
ever done since Tom Quartz was born.  An' then we lit the fuse 'n' clumb out 'n' got off 'bout
fifty yards--'n' forgot 'n' left Tom Quartz sound asleep on the gunny sack.

"In 'bout a minute we seen a puff of smoke bust up out of the hole, 'n' then everything let
go with an awful crash, 'n' about four million ton of rocks 'n' dirt 'n' smoke 'n; splinters
shot up 'bout a mile an' a half into the air, an' by George, right in the dead centre of it
was old Tom Quartz a goin' end over end, an' a snortin' an' a sneez'n', an' a clawin' an' a
reachin' for things like all possessed.  But it warn't no use, you know, it warn't no use.
An' that was the last we see of him for about two minutes 'n' a half, an' then all of a sudden
it begin to rain rocks and rubbage, an' directly he come down ker-whop about ten foot off f'm
where we stood Well, I reckon he was p'raps the orneriest lookin' beast you ever see.  One
ear was sot back on his neck, 'n' his tail was stove up, 'n' his eye-winkers was swinged off,
'n' he was all blacked up with powder an' smoke, an' all sloppy with mud 'n' slush f'm one
end to the other.

"Well sir, it warn't no use to try to apologize--we couldn't say a word. He took a sort of
a disgusted look at hisself, 'n' then he looked at us --an' it was just exactly the same as
if he had said--'Gents, may be you think it's smart to take advantage of a cat that 'ain't
had no experience of quartz minin', but I think different'--an' then he turned on his heel
'n' marched off home without ever saying another word.

"That was jest his style.  An' may be you won't believe it, but after that you never see a
cat so prejudiced agin quartz mining as what he was. An' by an' bye when he did get to goin'
down in the shaft agin, you'd 'a been astonished at his sagacity.  The minute we'd tetch off
a blast 'n' the fuse'd begin to sizzle, he'd give a look as much as to say: 'Well, I'll have
to git you to excuse me,' an' it was surpris'n' the way he'd shin out of that hole 'n' go f'r
a tree.  Sagacity?  It ain't no name for it.  'Twas inspiration!"

I said, "Well, Mr. Baker, his prejudice against quartz-mining was remarkable, considering how
he came by it.  Couldn't you ever cure him of it?"

"Cure him!  No!  When Tom Quartz was sot once, he was always sot--and you might a blowed him
up as much as three million times 'n' you'd never a broken him of his cussed prejudice agin
quartz mining."

The affection and the pride that lit up Baker's face when he delivered this tribute to the
firmness of his humble friend of other days, will always be a vivid memory with me.

At the end of two months we had never "struck" a pocket.  We had panned up and down the hillsides
till they looked plowed like a field; we could have put in a crop of grain, then, but there
would have been no way to get it to market.  We got many good "prospects," but when the gold
gave out in the pan and we dug down, hoping and longing, we found only emptiness--the pocket
that should have been there was as barren as our own.--At last we shouldered our pans and shovels
and struck out over the hills to try new localities.  We prospected around Angel's Camp, in
Calaveras county, during three weeks, but had no success.  Then we wandered on foot among the
mountains, sleeping under the trees at night, for the weather was mild, but still we remained
as centless as the last rose of summer.  That is a poor joke, but it is in pathetic harmony
with the circumstances, since we were so poor ourselves.  In accordance with the custom of
the country, our door had always stood open and our board welcome to tramping miners--they
drifted along nearly every day, dumped their paust shovels by the threshold and took "pot luck"
with us--and now on our own tramp we never found cold hospitality.

Our wanderings were wide and in many directions; and now I could give the reader a vivid description
of the Big Trees and the marvels of the Yo Semite--but what has this reader done to me that
I should persecute him? I will deliver him into the hands of less conscientious tourists and
take his blessing.  Let me be charitable, though I fail in all virtues else.

Note: Some of the phrases in the above are mining technicalities, purely, and may be a little
obscure to the general reader.  In "placer diggings" the gold is scattered all through the
surface dirt; in "pocket" diggings it is concentrated in one little spot; in "quartz" the gold
is in a solid, continuous vein of rock, enclosed between distinct walls of some other kind
of stone--and this is the most laborious and expensive of all the different kinds of mining.
"Prospecting" is hunting for a "placer"; "indications" are signs of its presence; "panning
out" refers to the washing process by which the grains of gold are separated from the dirt;
a "prospect" is what one finds in the first panful of dirt--and its value determines whether
it is a good or a bad prospect, and whether it is worth while to tarry there or seek further.

CHAPTER LXII.

After a three months' absence, I found myself in San Francisco again, without a cent.  When
my credit was about exhausted, (for I had become too mean and lazy, now, to work on a morning
paper, and there were no vacancies on the evening journals,) I was created San Francisco correspondent
of the Enterprise, and at the end of five months I was out of debt, but my interest in my work
was gone; for my correspondence being a daily one, without rest or respite, I got unspeakably
tired of it. I wanted another change.  The vagabond instinct was strong upon me. Fortune favored
and I got a new berth and a delightful one.  It was to go down to the Sandwich Islands and
write some letters for the Sacramento Union, an excellent journal and liberal with employees.

We sailed in the propeller Ajax, in the middle of winter.  The almanac called it winter, distinctly
enough, but the weather was a compromise between spring and summer.  Six days out of port,
it became summer altogether.  We had some thirty passengers; among them a cheerful soul by
the name of Williams, and three sea-worn old whaleship captains going down to join their vessels.
These latter played euchre in the smoking room day and night, drank astonishing quantities
of raw whisky without being in the least affected by it, and were the happiest people I think
I ever saw.  And then there was "the old Admiral--"  a retired whaleman. He was a roaring,
terrific combination of wind and lightning and thunder, and earnest, whole-souled profanity.
But nevertheless he was tender-hearted as a girl.  He was a raving, deafening, devastating
typhoon, laying waste the cowering seas but with an unvexed refuge in the centre where all
comers were safe and at rest.  Nobody could know the "Admiral" without liking him; and in a
sudden and dire emergency I think no friend of his would know which to choose--to be cursed
by him or prayed for by a less efficient person.

His Title of "Admiral" was more strictly "official" than any ever worn by a naval officer before
or since, perhaps--for it was the voluntary offering of a whole nation, and came direct from
the people themselves without any intermediate red tape--the people of the Sandwich Islands.
It was a title that came to him freighted with affection, and honor, and appreciation of his
unpretending merit.  And in testimony of the genuineness of the title it was publicly ordained
that an exclusive flag should be devised for him and used solely to welcome his coming and
wave him God-speed in his going.  From that time forth, whenever his ship was signaled in the
offing, or he catted his anchor and stood out to sea, that ensign streamed from the royal halliards
on the parliament house and the nation lifted their hats to it with spontaneous accord.

Yet he had never fired a gun or fought a battle in his life.  When I knew him on board the
Ajax, he was seventy-two years old and had plowed the salt water sixty-one of them.  For sixteen
years he had gone in and out of the harbor of Honolulu in command of a whaleship, and for sixteen
more had been captain of a San Francisco and Sandwich Island passenger packet and had never
had an accident or lost a vessel.  The simple natives knew him for a friend who never failed
them, and regarded him as children regard a father.  It was a dangerous thing to oppress them
when the roaring Admiral was around.

Two years before I knew the Admiral, he had retired from the sea on a competence, and had sworn
a colossal nine-jointed oath that he would "never go within smelling distance of the salt water
again as long as he lived."  And he had conscientiously kept it.  That is to say, he considered
he had kept it, and it would have been more than dangerous to suggest to him, even in the gentlest
way, that making eleven long sea voyages, as a passenger, during the two years that had transpired
since he "retired," was only keeping the general spirit of it and not the strict letter.

The Admiral knew only one narrow line of conduct to pursue in any and all cases where there
was a fight, and that was to shoulder his way straight in without an inquiry as to the rights
or the merits of it, and take the part of the weaker side.--And this was the reason why he
was always sure to be present at the trial of any universally execrated criminal to oppress
and intimidate the jury with a vindictive pantomime of what he would do to them if he ever
caught them out of the box.  And this was why harried cats and outlawed dogs that knew him
confidently took sanctuary under his chair in time of trouble.  In the beginning he was the
most frantic and bloodthirsty Union man that drew breath in the shadow of the Flag; but the
instant the Southerners began to go down before the sweep of the Northern armies, he ran up
the Confederate colors and from that time till the end was a rampant and inexorable secessionist.

He hated intemperance with a more uncompromising animosity than any individual I have ever
met, of either sex; and he was never tired of storming against it and beseeching friends and
strangers alike to be wary and drink with moderation.  And yet if any creature had been guileless
enough to intimate that his absorbing nine gallons of "straight" whiskey during our voyage
was any fraction short of rigid or inflexible abstemiousness, in that self-same moment the
old man would have spun him to the uttermost parts of the earth in the whirlwind of his wrath.
Mind, I am not saying his whisky ever affected his head or his legs, for it did not, in even
the slightest degree.  He was a capacious container, but he did not hold enough for that. 
He took a level tumblerful of whisky every morning before he put his clothes on--"to sweeten
his bilgewater," he said.--He took another after he got the most of his clothes on, "to settle
his mind and give him his bearings."  He then shaved, and put on a clean shirt; after which
he recited the Lord's Prayer in a fervent, thundering bass that shook the ship to her kelson
and suspended all conversation in the main cabin.  Then, at this stage, being invariably "by
the head," or "by the stern," or "listed to port or starboard," he took one more to "put him
on an even keel so that he would mind his hellum and not miss stays and go about, every time
he came up in the wind."--And now, his state-room door swung open and the sun of his benignant
face beamed redly out upon men and women and children, and he roared his "Shipmets a'hoy!"
in a way that was calculated to wake the dead and precipitate the final resurrection; and forth
he strode, a picture to look at and a presence to enforce attention.  Stalwart and portly;
not a gray hair; broadbrimmed slouch hat; semi-sailor toggery of blue navy flannel--roomy and
ample; a stately expanse of shirt-front and a liberal amount of black silk neck-cloth tied
with a sailor knot; large chain and imposing seals impending from his fob; awe-inspiring feet,
and "a hand like the hand of Providence," as his whaling brethren expressed it; wrist-bands
and sleeves pushed back half way to the elbow, out of respect for the warm weather, and exposing
hairy arms, gaudy with red and blue anchors, ships, and goddesses of liberty tattooed in India
ink. But these details were only secondary matters--his face was the lodestone that chained
the eye.  It was a sultry disk, glowing determinedly out through a weather beaten mask of mahogany,
and studded with warts, seamed with scars, "blazed" all over with unfailing fresh slips of
the razor; and with cheery eyes, under shaggy brows, contemplating the world from over the
back of a gnarled crag of a nose that loomed vast and lonely out of the undulating immensity
that spread away from its foundations. At his heels frisked the darling of his bachelor estate,
his terrier "Fan," a creature no larger than a squirrel.  The main part of his daily life was
occupied in looking after "Fan," in a motherly way, and doctoring her for a hundred ailments
which existed only in his imagination.

The Admiral seldom read newspapers; and when he did he never believed anything they said. 
He read nothing, and believed in nothing, but "The Old Guard," a secession periodical published
in New York.  He carried a dozen copies of it with him, always, and referred to them for all
required information.  If it was not there, he supplied it himself, out of a bountiful fancy,
inventing history, names, dates, and every thing else necessary to make his point good in an
argument.  Consequently he was a formidable antagonist in a dispute.  Whenever he swung clear
of the record and began to create history, the enemy was helpless and had to surrender.  Indeed,
the enemy could not keep from betraying some little spark of indignation at his manufactured
history--and when it came to indignation, that was the Admiral's very "best hold."  He was
always ready for a political argument, and if nobody started one he would do it himself.  With
his third retort his temper would begin to rise, and within five minutes he would be blowing
a gale, and within fifteen his smoking-room audience would be utterly stormed away and the
old man left solitary and alone, banging the table with his fist, kicking the chairs, and roaring
a hurricane of profanity.  It got so, after a while, that whenever the Admiral approached,
with politics in his eye, the passengers would drop out with quiet accord, afraid to meet him;
and he would camp on a deserted field.

But he found his match at last, and before a full company.  At one time or another, everybody
had entered the lists against him and been routed, except the quiet passenger Williams.  He
had never been able to get an expression of opinion out of him on politics.  But now, just
as the Admiral drew near the door and the company were about to slip out, Williams said:

"Admiral, are you certain about that circumstance concerning the clergymen you mentioned the
other day?"--referring to a piece of the Admiral's manufactured history.

Every one was amazed at the man's rashness.  The idea of deliberately inviting annihilation
was a thing incomprehensible.  The retreat came to a halt; then everybody sat down again wondering,
to await the upshot of it.  The Admiral himself was as surprised as any one.  He paused in
the door, with his red handkerchief half raised to his sweating face, and contemplated the
daring reptile in the corner.

"Certain of it?  Am I certain of it?  Do you think I've been lying about it?  What do you take
me for?  Anybody that don't know that circumstance, don't know anything; a child ought to know
it.  Read up your history! Read it up-----, and don't come asking a man if he's certain about
a bit of ABC stuff that the very southern niggers know all about."

Here the Admiral's fires began to wax hot, the atmosphere thickened, the coming earthquake
rumbled, he began to thunder and lighten.  Within three minutes his volcano was in full irruption
and he was discharging flames and ashes of indignation, belching black volumes of foul history
aloft, and vomiting red-hot torrents of profanity from his crater.  Meantime Williams sat silent,
and apparently deeply and earnestly interested in what the old man was saying.  By and by,
when the lull came, he said in the most deferential way, and with the gratified air of a man
who has had a mystery cleared up which had been puzzling him uncomfortably:

"Now I understand it.  I always thought I knew that piece of history well enough, but was still
afraid to trust it, because there was not that convincing particularity about it that one likes
to have in history; but when you mentioned every name, the other day, and every date, and every
little circumstance, in their just order and sequence, I said to myself, this sounds something
like--this is history--this is putting it in a shape that gives a man confidence; and I said
to myself afterward, I will just ask the Admiral if he is perfectly certain about the details,
and if he is I will come out and thank him for clearing this matter up for me. And that is
what I want to do now--for until you set that matter right it was nothing but just a confusion
in my mind, without head or tail to it."

Nobody ever saw the Admiral look so mollified before, and so pleased. Nobody had ever received
his bogus history as gospel before; its genuineness had always been called in question either
by words or looks; but here was a man that not only swallowed it all down, but was grateful
for the dose.  He was taken a back; he hardly knew what to say; even his profanity failed him.
Now, Williams continued, modestly and earnestly:

"But Admiral, in saying that this was the first stone thrown, and that this precipitated the
war, you have overlooked a circumstance which you are perfectly familiar with, but which has
escaped your memory.  Now I grant you that what you have stated is correct in every detail--to
wit: that on the 16th of October, 1860, two Massachusetts clergymen, named Waite and Granger,
went in disguise to the house of John Moody, in Rockport, at dead of night, and dragged forth
two southern women and their two little children, and after tarring and feathering them conveyed
them to Boston and burned them alive in the State House square; and I also grant your proposition
that this deed is what led to the secession of South Carolina on the 20th of December following.
Very well."  [Here the company were pleasantly surprised to hear Williams proceed to come back
at the Admiral with his own invincible weapon--clean, pure, manufactured history, without a
word of truth in it.]  "Very well, I say. But Admiral, why overlook the Willis and Morgan case
in South Carolina? You are too well informed a man not to know all about that circumstance.
Your arguments and your conversations have shown you to be intimately conversant with every
detail of this national quarrel.  You develop matters of history every day that show plainly
that you are no smatterer in it, content to nibble about the surface, but a man who has searched
the depths and possessed yourself of everything that has a bearing upon the great question.
Therefore, let me just recall to your mind that Willis and Morgan case--though I see by your
face that the whole thing is already passing through your memory at this moment.  On the 12th
of August, 1860, two months before the Waite and Granger affair, two South Carolina clergymen,
named John H. Morgan and Winthrop L.  Willis, one a Methodist and the other an Old School Baptist,
disguised themselves, and went at midnight to the house of a planter named Thompson--Archibald
F. Thompson, Vice President under Thomas Jefferson,--and took thence, at midnight, his widowed
aunt, (a Northern woman,) and her adopted child, an orphan--named Mortimer Highie, afflicted
with epilepsy and suffering at the time from white swelling on one of his legs, and compelled
to walk on crutches in consequence; and the two ministers, in spite of the pleadings of the
victims, dragged them to the bush, tarred and feathered them, and afterward burned them at
the stake in the city of Charleston.  You remember perfectly well what a stir it made; you
remember perfectly well that even the Charleston Courier stigmatized the act as being unpleasant,
of questionable propriety, and scarcely justifiable, and likewise that it would not be matter
of surprise if retaliation ensued.  And you remember also, that this thing was the cause of
the Massachusetts outrage.  Who, indeed, were the two Massachusetts ministers?  and who were
the two Southern women they burned?  I do not need to remind you, Admiral, with your intimate
knowledge of history, that Waite was the nephew of the woman burned in Charleston; that Granger
was her cousin in the second degree, and that the woman they burned in Boston was the wife
of John H. Morgan, and the still loved but divorced wife of Winthrop L. Willis. Now, Admiral,
it is only fair that you should acknowledge that the first provocation came from the Southern
preachers and that the Northern ones were justified in retaliating.  In your arguments you
never yet have shown the least disposition to withhold a just verdict or be in anywise unfair,
when authoritative history condemned your position, and therefore I have no hesitation in asking
you to take the original blame from the Massachusetts ministers, in this matter, and transfer
it to the South Carolina clergymen where it justly belongs."

The Admiral was conquered.  This sweet spoken creature who swallowed his fraudulent history
as if it were the bread of life; basked in his furious blasphemy as if it were generous sunshine;
found only calm, even-handed justice in his rampart partisanship; and flooded him with invented
history so sugarcoated with flattery and deference that there was no rejecting it, was "too
many" for him.  He stammered some awkward, profane sentences about the-----Willis and Morgan
business having escaped his memory, but that he "remembered it now," and then, under pretence
of giving Fan some medicine for an imaginary cough, drew out of the battle and went away, a
vanquished man.  Then cheers and laughter went up, and Williams, the ship's benefactor was
a hero.  The news went about the vessel, champagne was ordered, and enthusiastic reception
instituted in the smoking room, and everybody flocked thither to shake hands with the conqueror.
The wheelman said afterward, that the Admiral stood up behind the pilot house and "ripped and
cursed all to himself" till he loosened the smokestack guys and becalmed the mainsail.

The Admiral's power was broken.  After that, if he began argument, somebody would bring Williams,
and the old man would grow weak and begin to quiet down at once.  And as soon as he was done,
Williams in his dulcet, insinuating way, would invent some history (referring for proof, to
the old man's own excellent memory and to copies of "The Old Guard" known not to be in his
possession) that would turn the tables completely and leave the Admiral all abroad and helpless.
By and by he came to so dread Williams and his gilded tongue that he would stop talking when
he saw him approach, and finally ceased to mention politics altogether, and from that time
forward there was entire peace and serenity in the ship.

CHAPTER LXIII.

On a certain bright morning the Islands hove in sight, lying low on the lonely sea, and everybody
climbed to the upper deck to look.  After two thousand miles of watery solitude the vision
was a welcome one.  As we approached, the imposing promontory of Diamond Head rose up out of
the ocean its rugged front softened by the hazy distance, and presently the details of the
land began to make themselves manifest: first the line of beach; then the plumed coacoanut
trees of the tropics; then cabins of the natives; then the white town of Honolulu, said to
contain between twelve and fifteen thousand inhabitants spread over a dead level; with streets
from twenty to thirty feet wide, solid and level as a floor, most of them straight as a line
and few as crooked as a corkscrew.

The further I traveled through the town the better I liked it. Every step revealed a new contrast--disclosed
something I was unaccustomed to. In place of the grand mud-colored brown fronts of San Francisco,
I saw dwellings built of straw, adobies, and cream-colored pebble-and-shell-conglomerated coral,
cut into oblong blocks and laid in cement; also a great number of neat white cottages, with
green window-shutters; in place of front yards like billiard-tables with iron fences around
them, I saw these homes surrounded by ample yards, thickly clad with green grass, and shaded
by tall trees, through whose dense foliage the sun could scarcely penetrate; in place of the
customary geranium, calla lily, etc., languishing in dust and general debility, I saw luxurious
banks and thickets of flowers, fresh as a meadow after a rain, and glowing with the richest
dyes; in place of the dingy horrors of San Francisco's pleasure grove, the "Willows," I saw
huge-bodied, wide-spreading forest trees, with strange names and stranger appearance --trees
that cast a shadow like a thunder-cloud, and were able to stand alone without being tied to
green poles; in place of gold fish, wiggling around in glass globes, assuming countless shades
and degrees of distortion through the magnifying and diminishing qualities of their transparent
prison houses, I saw cats--Tom-cats, Mary Ann cats, long-tailed cats, bob-tailed cats, blind
cats, one-eyed cats, wall-eyed cats, cross-eyed cats, gray cats, black cats, white cats, yellow
cats, striped cats, spotted cats, tame cats, wild cats, singed cats, individual cats, groups
of cats, platoons of cats, companies of cats, regiments of cats, armies of cats, multitudes
of cats, millions of cats, and all of them sleek, fat, lazy and sound asleep. I looked on a
multitude of people, some white, in white coats, vests, pantaloons, even white cloth shoes,
made snowy with chalk duly laid on every morning; but the majority of the people were almost
as dark as negroes--women with comely features, fine black eyes, rounded forms, inclining to
the voluptuous, clad in a single bright red or white garment that fell free and unconfined
from shoulder to heel, long black hair falling loose, gypsy hats, encircled with wreaths of
natural flowers of a brilliant carmine tint; plenty of dark men in various costumes, and some
with nothing on but a battered stove-pipe hat tilted on the nose, and a very scant breech-clout;
--certain smoke-dried children were clothed in nothing but sunshine --a very neat fitting and
picturesque apparel indeed.

In place of roughs and rowdies staring and blackguarding on the corners, I saw long-haired,
saddle-colored Sandwich Island maidens sitting on the ground in the shade of corner houses,
gazing indolently at whatever or whoever happened along; instead of wretched cobble-stone pavements,
I walked on a firm foundation of coral, built up from the bottom of the sea by the absurd but
persevering insect of that name, with a light layer of lava and cinders overlying the coral,
belched up out of fathomless perdition long ago through the seared and blackened crater that
stands dead and harmless in the distance now; instead of cramped and crowded street-cars, I
met dusky native women sweeping by, free as the wind, on fleet horses and astride, with gaudy
riding-sashes, streaming like banners behind them; instead of the combined stenches of Chinadom
and Brannan street slaughter-houses, I breathed the balmy fragrance of jessamine, oleander,
and the Pride of India; in place of the hurry and bustle and noisy confusion of San Francisco,
I moved in the midst of a Summer calm as tranquil as dawn in the Garden of Eden; in place of
the Golden City's skirting sand hills and the placid bay, I saw on the one side a frame-work
of tall, precipitous mountains close at hand, clad in refreshing green, and cleft by deep,
cool, chasm-like valleys--and in front the grand sweep of the ocean; a brilliant, transparent
green near the shore, bound and bordered by a long white line of foamy spray dashing against
the reef, and further out the dead blue water of the deep sea, flecked with "white caps," and
in the far horizon a single, lonely sail --a mere accent-mark to emphasize a slumberous calm
and a solitude that were without sound or limit.  When the sun sunk down--the one intruder
from other realms and persistent in suggestions of them--it was tranced luxury to sit in the
perfumed air and forget that there was any world but these enchanted islands.

It was such ecstacy to dream, and dream--till you got a bite.

A scorpion bite.  Then the first duty was to get up out of the grass and kill the scorpion;
and the next to bathe the bitten place with alcohol or brandy; and the next to resolve to keep
out of the grass in future.  Then came an adjournment to the bed-chamber and the pastime of
writing up the day's journal with one hand and the destruction of mosquitoes with the other--a
whole community of them at a slap.  Then, observing an enemy approaching,--a hairy tarantula
on stilts--why not set the spittoon on him?  It is done, and the projecting ends of his paws
give a luminous idea of the magnitude of his reach.  Then to bed and become a promenade for
a centipede with forty-two legs on a side and every foot hot enough to burn a hole through
a raw-hide.  More soaking with alcohol, and a resolution to examine the bed before entering
it, in future.  Then wait, and suffer, till all the mosquitoes in the neighborhood have crawled
in under the bar, then slip out quickly, shut them in and sleep peacefully on the floor till
morning.  Meantime it is comforting to curse the tropics in occasional wakeful intervals.

We had an abundance of fruit in Honolulu, of course.  Oranges, pine-apples, bananas, strawberries,
lemons, limes, mangoes, guavas, melons, and a rare and curious luxury called the chirimoya,
which is deliciousness itself.  Then there is the tamarind.  I thought tamarinds were made
to eat, but that was probably not the idea.  I ate several, and it seemed to me that they were
rather sour that year.  They pursed up my lips, till they resembled the stem-end of a tomato,
and I had to take my sustenance through a quill for twenty-four hours.

They sharpened my teeth till I could have shaved with them, and gave them a "wire edge" that
I was afraid would stay; but a citizen said "no, it will come off when the enamel does"--which
was comforting, at any rate. I found, afterward, that only strangers eat tamarinds--but they
only eat them once.

CHAPTER LXIV.

In my diary of our third day in Honolulu, I find this:

I am probably the most sensitive man in Hawaii to-night--especially about sitting down in the
presence of my betters.  I have ridden fifteen or twenty miles on horse-back since 5 P.M. 
and to tell the honest truth, I have a delicacy about sitting down at all.

An excursion to Diamond Head and the King's Coacoanut Grove was planned to-day--time, 4:30
P.M.--the party to consist of half a dozen gentlemen and three ladies.  They all started at
the appointed hour except myself. I was at the Government prison, (with Captain Fish and another
whaleship-skipper, Captain Phillips,) and got so interested in its examination that I did not
notice how quickly the time was passing. Somebody remarked that it was twenty minutes past
five o'clock, and that woke me up.  It was a fortunate circumstance that Captain Phillips was
along with his "turn out," as he calls a top-buggy that Captain Cook brought here in 1778,
and a horse that was here when Captain Cook came. Captain Phillips takes a just pride in his
driving and in the speed of his horse, and to his passion for displaying them I owe it that
we were only sixteen minutes coming from the prison to the American Hotel--a distance which
has been estimated to be over half a mile.  But it took some fearful driving.  The Captain's
whip came down fast, and the blows started so much dust out of the horse's hide that during
the last half of the journey we rode through an impenetrable fog, and ran by a pocket compass
in the hands of Captain Fish, a whaler of twenty-six years experience, who sat there through
the perilous voyage as self-possessed as if he had been on the euchre-deck of his own ship,
and calmly said, "Port your helm--port," from time to time, and "Hold her a little free --steady--so--so,"
and "Luff--hard down to starboard!" and never once lost his presence of mind or betrayed the
least anxiety by voice or manner. When we came to anchor at last, and Captain Phillips looked
at his watch and said, "Sixteen minutes--I told you it was in her!  that's over three miles
an hour!" I could see he felt entitled to a compliment, and so I said I had never seen lightning
go like that horse.  And I never had.

The landlord of the American said the party had been gone nearly an hour, but that he could
give me my choice of several horses that could overtake them.  I said, never mind--I preferred
a safe horse to a fast one--I would like to have an excessively gentle horse--a horse with
no spirit whatever--a lame one, if he had such a thing.  Inside of five minutes I was mounted,
and perfectly satisfied with my outfit.  I had no time to label him "This is a horse," and
so if the public took him for a sheep I cannot help it.  I was satisfied, and that was the
main thing.  I could see that he had as many fine points as any man's horse, and so I hung
my hat on one of them, behind the saddle, and swabbed the perspiration from my face and started.
I named him after this island, "Oahu" (pronounced O-waw-hee).  The first gate he came to he
started in; I had neither whip nor spur, and so I simply argued the case with him.  He resisted
argument, but ultimately yielded to insult and abuse.  He backed out of that gate and steered
for another one on the other side of the street. I triumphed by my former process.  Within
the next six hundred yards he crossed the street fourteen times and attempted thirteen gates,
and in the meantime the tropical sun was beating down and threatening to cave the top of my
head in, and I was literally dripping with perspiration. He abandoned the gate business after
that and went along peaceably enough, but absorbed in meditation.  I noticed this latter circumstance,
and it soon began to fill me with apprehension.  I said to my self, this creature is planning
some new outrage, some fresh deviltry or other--no horse ever thought over a subject so profoundly
as this one is doing just for nothing.  The more this thing preyed upon my mind the more uneasy
I became, until the suspense became almost unbearable and I dismounted to see if there was
anything wild in his eye--for I had heard that the eye of this noblest of our domestic animals
is very expressive.

I cannot describe what a load of anxiety was lifted from my mind when I found that he was only
asleep.  I woke him up and started him into a faster walk, and then the villainy of his nature
came out again.  He tried to climb over a stone wall, five or six feet high.  I saw that I
must apply force to this horse, and that I might as well begin first as last.  I plucked a
stout switch from a tamarind tree, and the moment he saw it, he surrendered.  He broke into
a convulsive sort of a canter, which had three short steps in it and one long one, and reminded
me alternately of the clattering shake of the great earthquake, and the sweeping plunging of
the Ajax in a storm.

And now there can be no fitter occasion than the present to pronounce a left-handed blessing
upon the man who invented the American saddle. There is no seat to speak of about it--one might
as well sit in a shovel --and the stirrups are nothing but an ornamental nuisance.  If I were
to write down here all the abuse I expended on those stirrups, it would make a large book,
even without pictures.  Sometimes I got one foot so far through, that the stirrup partook of
the nature of an anklet; sometimes both feet were through, and I was handcuffed by the legs;
and sometimes my feet got clear out and left the stirrups wildly dangling about my shins. 
Even when I was in proper position and carefully balanced upon the balls of my feet, there
was no comfort in it, on account of my nervous dread that they were going to slip one way or
the other in a moment.  But the subject is too exasperating to write about.

A mile and a half from town, I came to a grove of tall cocoanut trees, with clean, branchless
stems reaching straight up sixty or seventy feet and topped with a spray of green foliage sheltering
clusters of cocoa-nuts--not more picturesque than a forest of collossal ragged parasols, with
bunches of magnified grapes under them, would be.

I once heard a gouty northern invalid say that a cocoanut tree might be poetical, possibly
it was; but it looked like a feather-duster struck by lightning.  I think that describes it
better than a picture--and yet, without any question, there is something fascinating about
a cocoa-nut tree--and graceful, too.

About a dozen cottages, some frame and the others of native grass, nestled sleepily in the
shade here and there.  The grass cabins are of a grayish color, are shaped much like our own
cottages, only with higher and steeper roofs usually, and are made of some kind of weed strongly
bound together in bundles.  The roofs are very thick, and so are the walls; the latter have
square holes in them for windows.  At a little distance these cabins have a furry appearance,
as if they might be made of bear skins.  They are very cool and pleasant inside.  The King's
flag was flying from the roof of one of the cottages, and His Majesty was probably within.
He owns the whole concern thereabouts, and passes his time there frequently, on sultry days
"laying off."  The spot is called "The King's Grove."

Near by is an interesting ruin--the meagre remains of an ancient heathen temple--a place where
human sacrifices were offered up in those old bygone days when the simple child of nature,
yielding momentarily to sin when sorely tempted, acknowledged his error when calm reflection
had shown it him, and came forward with noble frankness and offered up his grandmother as an
atoning sacrifice--in those old days when the luckless sinner could keep on cleansing his conscience
and achieving periodical happiness as long as his relations held out; long, long before the
missionaries braved a thousand privations to come and make them permanently miserable by telling
them how beautiful and how blissful a place heaven is, and how nearly impossible it is to get
there; and showed the poor native how dreary a place perdition is and what unnecessarily liberal
facilities there are for going to it; showed him how, in his ignorance he had gone and fooled
away all his kinfolks to no purpose; showed him what rapture it is to work all day long for
fifty cents to buy food for next day with, as compared with fishing for pastime and lolling
in the shade through eternal Summer, and eating of the bounty that nobody labored to provide
but Nature.  How sad it is to think of the multitudes who have gone to their graves in this
beautiful island and never knew there was a hell!

This ancient temple was built of rough blocks of lava, and was simply a roofless inclosure
a hundred and thirty feet long and seventy wide --nothing but naked walls, very thick, but
not much higher than a man's head.  They will last for ages no doubt, if left unmolested. 
Its three altars and other sacred appurtenances have crumbled and passed away years ago.  It
is said that in the old times thousands of human beings were slaughtered here, in the presence
of naked and howling savages.  If these mute stones could speak, what tales they could tell,
what pictures they could describe, of fettered victims writhing under the knife; of massed
forms straining forward out of the gloom, with ferocious faces lit up by the sacrificial fires;
of the background of ghostly trees; of the dark pyramid of Diamond Head standing sentinel over
the uncanny scene, and the peaceful moon looking down upon it through rifts in the cloud-rack!

When Kamehameha (pronounced Ka-may-ha-may-ah) the Great--who was a sort of a Napoleon in military
genius and uniform success--invaded this island of Oahu three quarters of a century ago, and
exterminated the army sent to oppose him, and took full and final possession of the country,
he searched out the dead body of the King of Oahu, and those of the principal chiefs, and impaled
their heads on the walls of this temple.

Those were savage times when this old slaughter-house was in its prime. The King and the chiefs
ruled the common herd with a rod of iron; made them gather all the provisions the masters needed;
build all the houses and temples; stand all the expenses, of whatever kind; take kicks and
cuffs for thanks; drag out lives well flavored with misery, and then suffer death for trifling
offences or yield up their lives on the sacrificial altars to purchase favors from the gods
for their hard rulers.  The missionaries have clothed them, educated them, broken up the tyrannous
authority of their chiefs, and given them freedom and the right to enjoy whatever their hands
and brains produce with equal laws for all, and punishment for all alike who transgress them.
The contrast is so strong--the benefit conferred upon this people by the missionaries is so
prominent, so palpable and so unquestionable, that the frankest compliment I can pay them,
and the best, is simply to point to the condition of the Sandwich Islanders of Captain Cook's
time, and their condition to-day.

Their work speaks for itself.

CHAPTER LXV.

By and by, after a rugged climb, we halted on the summit of a hill which commanded a far-reaching
view.  The moon rose and flooded mountain and valley and ocean with a mellow radiance, and
out of the shadows of the foliage the distant lights of Honolulu glinted like an encampment
of fireflies.  The air was heavy with the fragrance of flowers.  The halt was brief.--Gayly
laughing and talking, the party galloped on, and I clung to the pommel and cantered after.
Presently we came to a place where no grass grew--a wide expanse of deep sand.  They said it
was an old battle ground.  All around everywhere, not three feet apart, the bleached bones
of men gleamed white in the moonlight.  We picked up a lot of them for mementoes.  I got quite
a number of arm bones and leg bones --of great chiefs, may be, who had fought savagely in that
fearful battle in the old days, when blood flowed like wine where we now stood--and wore the
choicest of them out on Oahu afterward, trying to make him go.  All sorts of bones could be
found except skulls; but a citizen said, irreverently, that there had been an unusual number
of "skull-hunters" there lately--a species of sportsmen I had never heard of before.

Nothing whatever is known about this place--its story is a secret that will never be revealed.
The oldest natives make no pretense of being possessed of its history.  They say these bones
were here when they were children.  They were here when their grandfathers were children--but
how they came here, they can only conjecture.  Many people believe this spot to be an ancient
battle-ground, and it is usual to call it so; and they believe that these skeletons have lain
for ages just where their proprietors fell in the great fight.  Other people believe that Kamehameha
I.  fought his first battle here.  On this point, I have heard a story, which may have been
taken from one of the numerous books which have been written concerning these islands--I do
not know where the narrator got it.  He said that when Kamehameha (who was at first merely
a subordinate chief on the island of Hawaii), landed here, he brought a large army with him,
and encamped at Waikiki.  The Oahuans marched against him, and so confident were they of success
that they readily acceded to a demand of their priests that they should draw a line where these
bones now lie, and take an oath that, if forced to retreat at all, they would never retreat
beyond this boundary.  The priests told them that death and everlasting punishment would overtake
any who violated the oath, and the march was resumed.  Kamehameha drove them back step by step;
the priests fought in the front rank and exhorted them both by voice and inspiriting example
to remember their oath--to die, if need be, but never cross the fatal line.  The struggle was
manfully maintained, but at last the chief priest fell, pierced to the heart with a spear,
and the unlucky omen fell like a blight upon the brave souls at his back; with a triumphant
shout the invaders pressed forward--the line was crossed--the offended gods deserted the despairing
army, and, accepting the doom their perjury had brought upon them, they broke and fled over
the plain where Honolulu stands now--up the beautiful Nuuanu Valley --paused a moment, hemmed
in by precipitous mountains on either hand and the frightful precipice of the Pari in front,
and then were driven over --a sheer plunge of six hundred feet!

The story is pretty enough, but Mr. Jarves' excellent history says the Oahuans were intrenched
in Nuuanu Valley; that Kamehameha ousted them, routed them, pursued them up the valley and
drove them over the precipice.  He makes no mention of our bone-yard at all in his book.

Impressed by the profound silence and repose that rested over the beautiful landscape, and
being, as usual, in the rear, I gave voice to my thoughts.  I said:

"What a picture is here slumbering in the solemn glory of the moon!  How strong the rugged
outlines of the dead volcano stand out against the clear sky!  What a snowy fringe marks the
bursting of the surf over the long, curved reef!  How calmly the dim city sleeps yonder in
the plain! How soft the shadows lie upon the stately mountains that border the dream-haunted
Mauoa Valley!  What a grand pyramid of billowy clouds towers above the storied Pari!  How the
grim warriors of the past seem flocking in ghostly squadrons to their ancient battlefield again--how
the wails of the dying well up from the--"

At this point the horse called Oahu sat down in the sand.  Sat down to listen, I suppose. 
Never mind what he heard, I stopped apostrophising and convinced him that I was not a man to
allow contempt of Court on the part of a horse.  I broke the back-bone of a Chief over his
rump and set out to join the cavalcade again.

Very considerably fagged out we arrived in town at 9 o'clock at night, myself in the lead--for
when my horse finally came to understand that he was homeward bound and hadn't far to go, he
turned his attention strictly to business.

This is a good time to drop in a paragraph of information.  There is no regular livery stable
in Honolulu, or, indeed, in any part of the Kingdom of Hawaii; therefore unless you are acquainted
with wealthy residents (who all have good horses), you must hire animals of the wretchedest
description from the Kanakas.  (i.e.  natives.) Any horse you hire, even though it be from
a white man, is not often of much account, because it will be brought in for you from some
ranch, and has necessarily been leading a hard life.  If the Kanakas who have been caring for
him (inveterate riders they are) have not ridden him half to death every day themselves, you
can depend upon it they have been doing the same thing by proxy, by clandestinely hiring him
out.  At least, so I am informed.  The result is, that no horse has a chance to eat, drink,
rest, recuperate, or look well or feel well, and so strangers go about the Islands mounted
as I was to-day.

In hiring a horse from a Kanaka, you must have all your eyes about you, because you can rest
satisfied that you are dealing with a shrewd unprincipled rascal.  You may leave your door
open and your trunk unlocked as long as you please, and he will not meddle with your property;
he has no important vices and no inclination to commit robbery on a large scale; but if he
can get ahead of you in the horse business, he will take a genuine delight in doing it.  This
traits is characteristic of horse jockeys, the world over, is it not?  He will overcharge you
if he can; he will hire you a fine-looking horse at night (anybody's--may be the King's, if
the royal steed be in convenient view), and bring you the mate to my Oahu in the morning, and
contend that it is the same animal.  If you make trouble, he will get out by saying it was
not himself who made the bargain with you, but his brother, "who went out in the country this
morning."  They have always got a "brother" to shift the responsibility upon.  A victim said
to one of these fellows one day:

"But I know I hired the horse of you, because I noticed that scar on your cheek."

The reply was not bad: "Oh, yes--yes--my brother all same--we twins!"

A friend of mine, J.  Smith, hired a horse yesterday, the Kanaka warranting him to be in excellent
condition.

Smith had a saddle and blanket of his own, and he ordered the Kanaka to put these on the horse.
The Kanaka protested that he was perfectly willing to trust the gentleman with the saddle that
was already on the animal, but Smith refused to use it.  The change was made; then Smith noticed
that the Kanaka had only changed the saddles, and had left the original blanket on the horse;
he said he forgot to change the blankets, and so, to cut the bother short, Smith mounted and
rode away.  The horse went lame a mile from town, and afterward got to cutting up some extraordinary
capers.  Smith got down and took off the saddle, but the blanket stuck fast to the horse--glued
to a procession of raw places. The Kanaka's mysterious conduct stood explained.

Another friend of mine bought a pretty good horse from a native, a day or two ago, after a
tolerably thorough examination of the animal.  He discovered today that the horse was as blind
as a bat, in one eye.  He meant to have examined that eye, and came home with a general notion
that he had done it; but he remembers now that every time he made the attempt his attention
was called to something else by his victimizer.

One more instance, and then I will pass to something else.  I am informed that when a certain
Mr. L., a visiting stranger, was here, he bought a pair of very respectable-looking match horses
from a native.  They were in a little stable with a partition through the middle of it--one
horse in each apartment.  Mr. L.  examined one of them critically through a window (the Kanaka's
"brother" having gone to the country with the key), and then went around the house and examined
the other through a window on the other side.  He said it was the neatest match he had ever
seen, and paid for the horses on the spot.  Whereupon the Kanaka departed to join his brother
in the country.  The fellow had shamefully swindled L.  There was only one "match" horse, and
he had examined his starboard side through one window and his port side through another!  I
decline to believe this story, but I give it because it is worth something as a fanciful illustration
of a fixed fact--namely, that the Kanaka horse-jockey is fertile in invention and elastic in
conscience.

You can buy a pretty good horse for forty or fifty dollars, and a good enough horse for all
practical purposes for two dollars and a half.  I estimate "Oahu" to be worth somewhere in
the neighborhood of thirty-five cents.  A good deal better animal than he is was sold here
day before yesterday for a dollar and seventy-five cents, and sold again to-day for two dollars
and twenty-five cents; Williams bought a handsome and lively little pony yesterday for ten
dollars; and about the best common horse on the island (and he is a really good one) sold yesterday,
with Mexican saddle and bridle, for seventy dollars--a horse which is well and widely known,
and greatly respected for his speed, good disposition and everlasting bottom.

You give your horse a little grain once a day; it comes from San Francisco, and is worth about
two cents a pound; and you give him as much hay as he wants; it is cut and brought to the market
by natives, and is not very good it is baled into long, round bundles, about the size of a
large man; one of them is stuck by the middle on each end of a six foot pole, and the Kanaka
shoulders the pole and walks about the streets between the upright bales in search of customers.
These hay bales, thus carried, have a general resemblance to a colossal capital 'H.'

The hay-bundles cost twenty-five cents apiece, and one will last a horse about a day.  You
can get a horse for a song, a week's hay for another song, and you can turn your animal loose
among the luxuriant grass in your neighbor's broad front yard without a song at all--you do
it at midnight, and stable the beast again before morning.  You have been at no expense thus
far, but when you come to buy a saddle and bridle they will cost you from twenty to thirty-five
dollars.  You can hire a horse, saddle and bridle at from seven to ten dollars a week, and
the owner will take care of them at his own expense.

It is time to close this day's record--bed time.  As I prepare for sleep, a rich voice rises
out of the still night, and, far as this ocean rock is toward the ends of the earth, I recognize
a familiar home air.  But the words seem somewhat out of joint:

"Waikiki lantoni oe Kaa hooly hooly wawhoo."

Translated, that means "When we were marching through Georgia."

CHAPTER LXVI.

Passing through the market place we saw that feature of Honolulu under its most favorable auspices--that
is, in the full glory of Saturday afternoon, which is a festive day with the natives.  The
native girls by twos and threes and parties of a dozen, and sometimes in whole platoons and
companies, went cantering up and down the neighboring streets astride of fleet but homely horses,
and with their gaudy riding habits streaming like banners behind them.  Such a troop of free
and easy riders, in their natural home, the saddle, makes a gay and graceful spectacle.  The
riding habit I speak of is simply a long, broad scarf, like a tavern table cloth brilliantly
colored, wrapped around the loins once, then apparently passed between the limbs and each end
thrown backward over the same, and floating and flapping behind on both sides beyond the horse's
tail like a couple of fancy flags; then, slipping the stirrup-irons between her toes, the girl
throws her chest for ward, sits up like a Major General and goes sweeping by like the wind.

The girls put on all the finery they can on Saturday afternoon--fine black silk robes; flowing
red ones that nearly put your eyes out; others as white as snow; still others that discount
the rainbow; and they wear their hair in nets, and trim their jaunty hats with fresh flowers,
and encircle their dusky throats with home-made necklaces of the brilliant vermillion-tinted
blossom of the ohia; and they fill the markets and the adjacent street with their bright presences,
and smell like a rag factory on fire with their offensive cocoanut oil.

Occasionally you see a heathen from the sunny isles away down in the South Seas, with his face
and neck tatooed till he looks like the customary mendicant from Washoe who has been blown
up in a mine.  Some are tattooed a dead blue color down to the upper lip--masked, as it were
--leaving the natural light yellow skin of Micronesia unstained from thence down; some with
broad marks drawn down from hair to neck, on both sides of the face, and a strip of the original
yellow skin, two inches wide, down the center--a gridiron with a spoke broken out; and some
with the entire face discolored with the popular mortification tint, relieved only by one or
two thin, wavy threads of natural yellow running across the face from ear to ear, and eyes
twinkling out of this darkness, from under shadowing hat-brims, like stars in the dark of the moon.

Moving among the stirring crowds, you come to the poi merchants, squatting in the shade on
their hams, in true native fashion, and surrounded by purchasers.  (The Sandwich Islanders
always squat on their hams, and who knows but they may be the old original "ham sandwiches?"
The thought is pregnant with interest.) The poi looks like common flour paste, and is kept
in large bowls formed of a species of gourd, and capable of holding from one to three or four
gallons.  Poi is the chief article of food among the natives, and is prepared from the taro plant.

The taro root looks like a thick, or, if you please, a corpulent sweet potato, in shape, but
is of a light purple color when boiled.  When boiled it answers as a passable substitute for
bread.  The buck Kanakas bake it under ground, then mash it up well with a heavy lava pestle,
mix water with it until it becomes a paste, set it aside and let if ferment, and then it is
poi--and an unseductive mixture it is, almost tasteless before it ferments and too sour for
a luxury afterward.  But nothing is more nutritious.  When solely used, however, it produces
acrid humors, a fact which sufficiently accounts for the humorous character of the Kanakas.
I think there must be as much of a knack in handling poi as there is in eating with chopsticks.
The forefinger is thrust into the mess and stirred quickly round several times and drawn as
quickly out, thickly coated, just as it it were poulticed; the head is thrown back, the finger
inserted in the mouth and the delicacy stripped off and swallowed--the eye closing gently,
meanwhile, in a languid sort of ecstasy.  Many a different finger goes into the same bowl and
many a different kind of dirt and shade and quality of flavor is added to the virtues of its
contents.

Around a small shanty was collected a crowd of natives buying the awa root.  It is said that
but for the use of this root the destruction of the people in former times by certain imported
diseases would have been far greater than it was, and by others it is said that this is merely
a fancy.  All agree that poi will rejuvenate a man who is used up and his vitality almost annihilated
by hard drinking, and that in some kinds of diseases it will restore health after all medicines
have failed; but all are not willing to allow to the awa the virtues claimed for it.  The natives
manufacture an intoxicating drink from it which is fearful in its effects when persistently
indulged in.  It covers the body with dry, white scales, inflames the eyes, and causes premature
decripitude. Although the man before whose establishment we stopped has to pay a Government
license of eight hundred dollars a year for the exclusive right to sell awa root, it is said
that he makes a small fortune every twelve-month; while saloon keepers, who pay a thousand
dollars a year for the privilege of retailing whiskey, etc., only make a bare living.

We found the fish market crowded; for the native is very fond of fish, and eats the article
raw and alive!  Let us change the subject.

In old times here Saturday was a grand gala day indeed.  All the native population of the town
forsook their labors, and those of the surrounding country journeyed to the city.  Then the
white folks had to stay indoors, for every street was so packed with charging cavaliers and
cavalieresses that it was next to impossible to thread one's way through the cavalcades without
getting crippled.

At night they feasted and the girls danced the lascivious hula hula--a dance that is said to
exhibit the very perfection of educated notion of limb and arm, hand, head and body, and the
exactest uniformity of movement and accuracy of "time."  It was performed by a circle of girls
with no raiment on them to speak of, who went through an infinite variety of motions and figures
without prompting, and yet so true was their "time," and in such perfect concert did they move
that when they were placed in a straight line, hands, arms, bodies, limbs and heads waved,
swayed, gesticulated, bowed, stooped, whirled, squirmed, twisted and undulated as if they were
part and parcel of a single individual; and it was difficult to believe they were not moved
in a body by some exquisite piece of mechanism.

Of late years, however, Saturday has lost most of its quondam gala features.  This weekly stampede
of the natives interfered too much with labor and the interests of the white folks, and by
sticking in a law here, and preaching a sermon there, and by various other means, they gradually
broke it up.  The demoralizing hula hula was forbidden to be performed, save at night, with
closed doors, in presence of few spectators, and only by permission duly procured from the
authorities and the payment of ten dollars for the same.  There are few girls now-a-days able
to dance this ancient national dance in the highest perfection of the art.

The missionaries have christianized and educated all the natives.  They all belong to the Church,
and there is not one of them, above the age of eight years, but can read and write with facility
in the native tongue. It is the most universally educated race of people outside of China.
They have any quantity of books, printed in the Kanaka language, and all the natives are fond
of reading.  They are inveterate church-goers --nothing can keep them away.  All this ameliorating
cultivation has at last built up in the native women a profound respect for chastity--in other
people.  Perhaps that is enough to say on that head.  The national sin will die out when the
race does, but perhaps not earlier.--But doubtless this purifying is not far off, when we reflect
that contact with civilization and the whites has reduced the native population from four hundred
thousand (Captain Cook's estimate,) to fifty-five thousand in something over eighty years!

Society is a queer medley in this notable missionary, whaling and governmental centre.  If
you get into conversation with a stranger and experience that natural desire to know what sort
of ground you are treading on by finding out what manner of man your stranger is, strike out
boldly and address him as "Captain."  Watch him narrowly, and if you see by his countenance
that you are on the wrong tack, ask him where he preaches.  It is a safe bet that he is either
a missionary or captain of a whaler.  I am now personally acquainted with seventy-two captains
and ninety-six missionaries.  The captains and ministers form one-half of the population; the
third fourth is composed of common Kanakas and mercantile foreigners and their families, and
the final fourth is made up of high officers of the Hawaiian Government.  And there are just
about cats enough for three apiece all around.

A solemn stranger met me in the suburbs the other day, and said:

"Good morning, your reverence.  Preach in the stone church yonder, no doubt?"

"No, I don't.  I'm not a preacher."

"Really, I beg your pardon, Captain.  I trust you had a good season.  How much oil"--

"Oil?  What do you take me for?  I'm not a whaler."

"Oh, I beg a thousand pardons, your Excellency.

"Major General in the household troops, no doubt?  Minister of the Interior, likely?  Secretary
of war?  First Gentleman of the Bed-chamber? Commissioner of the Royal"--

"Stuff!  I'm no official.  I'm not connected in any way with the Government."

"Bless my life!  Then, who the mischief are you?  what the mischief are you?  and how the mischief
did you get here, and where in thunder did you come from?"

"I'm only a private personage--an unassuming stranger--lately arrived from America."

"No?  Not a missionary!  Not a whaler!  not a member of his Majesty's Government!  not even
Secretary of the Navy!  Ah, Heaven!  it is too blissful to be true; alas, I do but dream. 
And yet that noble, honest countenance--those oblique, ingenuous eyes--that massive head, incapable
of--of--anything; your hand; give me your hand, bright waif.  Excuse these tears.  For sixteen
weary years I have yearned for a moment like this, and"--

Here his feelings were too much for him, and he swooned away.  I pitied this poor creature
from the bottom of my heart.  I was deeply moved.  I shed a few tears on him and kissed him
for his mother.  I then took what small change he had and "shoved".

CHAPTER LXVII.

I still quote from my journal:

I found the national Legislature to consist of half a dozen white men and some thirty or forty
natives.  It was a dark assemblage.  The nobles and Ministers (about a dozen of them altogether)
occupied the extreme left of the hall, with David Kalakaua (the King's Chamberlain) and Prince
William at the head.  The President of the Assembly, His Royal Highness M. Kekuanaoa, [Kekuanaoa
is not of the blood royal.  He derives his princely rank from his wife, who was a daughter
of Kamehameha the Great.  Under other monarchies the male line takes precedence of the female
in tracing genealogies, but here the opposite is the case--the female line takes precedence.
Their reason for this is exceedingly sensible, and I recommend it to the aristocracy of Europe:
They say it is easy to know who a man's mother was, but, etc., etc.] and the Vice President
(the latter a white man,) sat in the pulpit, if I may so term it. The President is the King's
father.  He is an erect, strongly built, massive featured, white-haired, tawny old gentleman
of eighty years of age or thereabouts.  He was simply but well dressed, in a blue cloth coat
and white vest, and white pantaloons, without spot, dust or blemish upon them.  He bears himself
with a calm, stately dignity, and is a man of noble presence.  He was a young man and a distinguished
warrior under that terrific fighter, Kamehameha I., more than half a century ago.  A knowledge
of his career suggested some such thought as this: "This man, naked as the day he was born,
and war-club and spear in hand, has charged at the head of a horde of savages against other
hordes of savages more than a generation and a half ago, and reveled in slaughter and carnage;
has worshipped wooden images on his devout knees; has seen hundreds of his race offered up
in heathen temples as sacrifices to wooden idols, at a time when no missionary's foot had ever
pressed this soil, and he had never heard of the white man's God; has believed his enemy could
secretly pray him to death; has seen the day, in his childhood, when it was a crime punishable
by death for a man to eat with his wife, or for a plebeian to let his shadow fall upon the
King--and now look at him; an educated Christian; neatly and handsomely dressed; a high-minded,
elegant gentleman; a traveler, in some degree, and one who has been the honored guest of royalty
in Europe; a man practiced in holding the reins of an enlightened government, and well versed
in the politics of his country and in general, practical information.  Look at him, sitting
there presiding over the deliberations of a legislative body, among whom are white men--a grave,
dignified, statesmanlike personage, and as seemingly natural and fitted to the place as if
he had been born in it and had never been out of it in his life time.  How the experiences
of this old man's eventful life shame the cheap inventions of romance!"

The christianizing of the natives has hardly even weakened some of their barbarian superstitions,
much less destroyed them.  I have just referred to one of these.  It is still a popular belief
that if your enemy can get hold of any article belonging to you he can get down on his knees
over it and pray you to death.  Therefore many a native gives up and dies merely because he
imagines that some enemy is putting him through a course of damaging prayer.  This praying
an individual to death seems absurd enough at a first glance, but then when we call to mind
some of the pulpit efforts of certain of our own ministers the thing looks plausible.

In former times, among the Islanders, not only a plurality of wives was customary, but a plurality
of husbands likewise.  Some native women of noble rank had as many as six husbands.  A woman
thus supplied did not reside with all her husbands at once, but lived several months with each
in turn.  An understood sign hung at her door during these months.  When the sign was taken
down, it meant "NEXT."

In those days woman was rigidly taught to "know her place."  Her place was to do all the work,
take all the cuffs, provide all the food, and content herself with what was left after her
lord had finished his dinner.  She was not only forbidden, by ancient law, and under penalty
of death, to eat with her husband or enter a canoe, but was debarred, under the same penalty,
from eating bananas, pine-apples, oranges and other choice fruits at any time or in any place.
She had to confine herself pretty strictly to "poi" and hard work.  These poor ignorant heathen
seem to have had a sort of groping idea of what came of woman eating fruit in the garden of
Eden, and they did not choose to take any more chances. But the missionaries broke up this
satisfactory arrangement of things. They liberated woman and made her the equal of man.

The natives had a romantic fashion of burying some of their children alive when the family
became larger than necessary.  The missionaries interfered in this matter too, and stopped it.

To this day the natives are able to lie down and die whenever they want to, whether there is
anything the matter with them or not.  If a Kanaka takes a notion to die, that is the end of
him; nobody can persuade him to hold on; all the doctors in the world could not save him.

A luxury which they enjoy more than anything else, is a large funeral. If a person wants to
get rid of a troublesome native, it is only necessary to promise him a fine funeral and name
the hour and he will be on hand to the minute--at least his remains will.

All the natives are Christians, now, but many of them still desert to the Great Shark God for
temporary succor in time of trouble.  An irruption of the great volcano of Kilauea, or an earthquake,
always brings a deal of latent loyalty to the Great Shark God to the surface.  It is common
report that the King, educated, cultivated and refined Christian gentleman as he undoubtedly
is, still turns to the idols of his fathers for help when disaster threatens.  A planter caught
a shark, and one of his christianized natives testified his emancipation from the thrall of
ancient superstition by assisting to dissect the shark after a fashion forbidden by his abandoned
creed.  But remorse shortly began to torture him.  He grew moody and sought solitude; brooded
over his sin, refused food, and finally said he must die and ought to die, for he had sinned
against the Great Shark God and could never know peace any more.  He was proof against persuasion
and ridicule, and in the course of a day or two took to his bed and died, although he showed
no symptom of disease. His young daughter followed his lead and suffered a like fate within
the week.  Superstition is ingrained in the native blood and bone and it is only natural that
it should crop out in time of distress.  Wherever one goes in the Islands, he will find small
piles of stones by the wayside, covered with leafy offerings, placed there by the natives to
appease evil spirits or honor local deities belonging to the mythology of former days.

In the rural districts of any of the Islands, the traveler hourly comes upon parties of dusky
maidens bathing in the streams or in the sea without any clothing on and exhibiting no very
intemperate zeal in the matter of hiding their nakedness.  When the missionaries first took
up their residence in Honolulu, the native women would pay their families frequent friendly
visits, day by day, not even clothed with a blush. It was found a hard matter to convince them
that this was rather indelicate.  Finally the missionaries provided them with long, loose calico
robes, and that ended the difficulty--for the women would troop through the town, stark naked,
with their robes folded under their arms, march to the missionary houses and then  proceed
to dress!--The natives soon manifested a strong proclivity for clothing, but it was shortly
apparent that they only wanted it for grandeur.  The missionaries imported a quantity of hats,
bonnets, and other male and female wearing apparel, instituted a general distribution, and
begged the people not to come to church naked, next Sunday, as usual.  And they did not; but
the national spirit of unselfishness led them to divide up with neighbors who were not at the
distribution, and next Sabbath the poor preachers could hardly keep countenance before their
vast congregations.  In the midst of the reading of a hymn a brown, stately dame would sweep
up the aisle with a world of airs, with nothing in the world on but a "stovepipe" hat and a
pair of cheap gloves; another dame would follow, tricked out in a man's shirt, and nothing
else; another one would enter with a flourish, with simply the sleeves of a bright calico dress
tied around her waist and the rest of the garment dragging behind like a peacock's tail off
duty; a stately "buck" Kanaka would stalk in with a woman's bonnet on, wrong side before--only
this, and nothing more; after him would stride his fellow, with the legs of a pair of pantaloons
tied around his neck, the rest of his person untrammeled; in his rear would come another gentleman
simply gotten up in a fiery neck-tie and a striped vest.

The poor creatures were beaming with complacency and wholly unconscious of any absurdity in
their appearance.  They gazed at each other with happy admiration, and it was plain to see
that the young girls were taking note of what each other had on, as naturally as if they had
always lived in a land of Bibles and knew what churches were made for; here was the evidence
of a dawning civilization.  The spectacle which the congregation presented was so extraordinary
and withal so moving, that the missionaries found it difficult to keep to the text and go on
with the services; and by and by when the simple children of the sun began a general swapping
of garments in open meeting and produced some irresistibly grotesque effects in the course
of re-dressing, there was nothing for it but to cut the thing short with the benediction and
dismiss the fantastic assemblage.

In our country, children play "keep house;" and in the same high-sounding but miniature way
the grown folk here, with the poor little material of slender territory and meagre population,
play "empire."  There is his royal Majesty the King, with a New York detective's income of
thirty or thirty-five thousand dollars a year from the "royal civil list" and the "royal domain."
He lives in a two-story frame "palace."

And there is the "royal family"--the customary hive of royal brothers, sisters, cousins and
other noble drones and vagrants usual to monarchy, --all with a spoon in the national pap-dish,
and all bearing such titles as his or her Royal Highness the Prince or Princess So-and-so.
Few of them can carry their royal splendors far enough to ride in carriages, however; they
sport the economical Kanaka horse or "hoof it" with the plebeians.

Then there is his Excellency the "royal Chamberlain"--a sinecure, for his majesty dresses himself
with his own hands, except when he is ruralizing at Waikiki and then he requires no dressing.

Next we have his Excellency the Commander-in-chief of the Household Troops, whose forces consist
of about the number of soldiers usually placed under a corporal in other lands.

Next comes the royal Steward and the Grand Equerry in Waiting--high dignitaries with modest
salaries and little to do.

Then we have his Excellency the First Gentleman of the Bed-chamber--an office as easy as it
is magnificent.

Next we come to his Excellency the Prime Minister, a renegade American from New Hampshire,
all jaw, vanity, bombast and ignorance, a lawyer of "shyster" calibre, a fraud by nature, a
humble worshipper of the sceptre above him, a reptile never tired of sneering at the land of
his birth or glorifying the ten-acre kingdom that has adopted him--salary, $4,000 a year, vast
consequence, and no perquisites.

Then we have his Excellency the Imperial Minister of Finance, who handles a million dollars
of public money a year, sends in his annual "budget" with great ceremony, talks prodigiously
of "finance," suggests imposing schemes for paying off the "national debt" (of $150,000,) and
does it all for $4,000 a year and unimaginable glory.

Next we have his Excellency the Minister of War, who holds sway over the royal armies--they
consist of two hundred and thirty uniformed Kanakas, mostly Brigadier Generals, and if the
country ever gets into trouble with a foreign power we shall probably hear from them.  I knew
an American whose copper-plate visiting card bore this impressive legend: "Lieutenant-Colonel
in the Royal Infantry."  To say that he was proud of this distinction is stating it but tamely.
The Minister of War has also in his charge some venerable swivels on Punch-Bowl Hill wherewith
royal salutes are fired when foreign vessels of war enter the port.

Next comes his Excellency the Minister of the Navy--a nabob who rules the "royal fleet," (a
steam-tug and a sixty-ton schooner.)

And next comes his Grace the Lord Bishop of Honolulu, the chief dignitary of the "Established
Church"--for when the American Presbyterian missionaries had completed the reduction of the
nation to a compact condition of Christianity, native royalty stepped in and erected the grand
dignity of an "Established (Episcopal) Church" over it, and imported a cheap ready-made Bishop
from England to take charge.  The chagrin of the missionaries has never been comprehensively
expressed, to this day, profanity not being admissible.

Next comes his Excellency the Minister of Public Instruction.

Next, their Excellencies the Governors of Oahu, Hawaii, etc., and after them a string of High
Sheriffs and other small fry too numerous for computation.

Then there are their Excellencies the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of his
Imperial Majesty the Emperor of the French; her British Majesty's Minister; the Minister Resident,
of the United States; and some six or eight representatives of other foreign nations, all with
sounding titles, imposing dignity and prodigious but economical state.

Imagine all this grandeur in a play-house "kingdom" whose population falls absolutely short
of sixty thousand souls!

The people are so accustomed to nine-jointed titles and colossal magnates that a foreign prince
makes very little more stir in Honolulu than a Western Congressman does in New York.

And let it be borne in mind that there is a strictly defined "court costume" of so "stunning"
a nature that it would make the clown in a circus look tame and commonplace by comparison;
and each Hawaiian official dignitary has a gorgeous vari-colored, gold-laced uniform peculiar
to his office--no two of them are alike, and it is hard to tell which one is the "loudest."
The King had a "drawing-room" at stated intervals, like other monarchs, and when these varied
uniforms congregate there--weak-eyed people have to contemplate the spectacle through smoked
glass.  Is there not a gratifying contrast between this latter-day exhibition and the one the
ancestors of some of these magnates afforded the missionaries the Sunday after the old-time
distribution of clothing? Behold what religion and civilization have wrought!

CHAPTER LXVIII.

While I was in Honolulu I witnessed the ceremonious funeral of the King's sister, her Royal
Highness the Princess Victoria.  According to the royal custom, the remains had lain in state
at the palace thirty days, watched day and night by a guard of honor.  And during all that
time a great multitude of natives from the several islands had kept the palace grounds well
crowded and had made the place a pandemonium every night with their howlings and wailings,
beating of tom-toms and dancing of the (at other times) forbidden "hula-hula" by half-clad
maidens to the music of songs of questionable decency chanted in honor of the deceased.  The
printed programme of the funeral procession interested me at the time; and after what I have
just said of Hawaiian grandiloquence in the matter of "playing empire," I am persuaded that
a perusal of it may interest the reader:

      After reading the long list of dignitaries, etc., and remembering
      the sparseness of the population, one is almost inclined to wonder
      where the material for that portion of the procession devoted to
      "Hawaiian Population Generally" is going to be procured:

Undertaker.
Royal School.  Kawaiahao School.  Roman Catholic School.  Maemae School.
Honolulu Fire Department.
Mechanics' Benefit Union.
Attending Physicians.
Knonohikis (Superintendents) of the Crown Lands, Konohikis of the Private
  Lands of His Majesty Konohikis of the Private Lands of Her late Royal
Highness.
Governor of Oahu and Staff.
Hulumanu (Military Company).
Household Troops.
The Prince of Hawaii's Own (Military Company).
The King's household servants.
Servants of Her late Royal Highness.
Protestant Clergy.  The Clergy of the Roman Catholic Church.
His Lordship Louis Maigret, The Right Rev. Bishop of Arathea,
  Vicar-Apostolic of the Hawaiian Islands.
The Clergy of the Hawaiian Reformed Catholic Church.
His Lordship the Right Rev.  Bishop of Honolulu.
Her Majesty Queen Emma's Carriage.
His Majesty's Staff.
Carriage of Her late Royal Highness.
Carriage of Her Majesty the Queen Dowager.
The King's Chancellor.
Cabinet Ministers.
His Excellency the Minister Resident of the United States.
H. B. M's Commissioner.
H. B. M's Acting Commissioner.
Judges of Supreme Court.
Privy Councillors.
Members of Legislative Assembly.
Consular Corps.
Circuit Judges.
Clerks of Government Departments.
Members of the Bar.
Collector General, Custom-house Officers and Officers of the Customs.
Marshal and Sheriffs of the different Islands.
King's Yeomanry.
Foreign Residents.
Ahahui Kaahumanu.
Hawaiian Population Generally.
Hawaiian Cavalry.
Police Force.

I resume my journal at the point where the procession arrived at the royal mausoleum:

      As the procession filed through the gate, the military deployed
      handsomely to the right and left and formed an avenue through which
      the long column of mourners passed to the tomb.  The coffin was
      borne through the door of the mausoleum, followed by the King and
      his chiefs, the great officers of the kingdom, foreign Consuls,
      Embassadors and distinguished guests (Burlingame and General Van
      Valkenburgh).  Several of the kahilis were then fastened to a
      frame-work in front of the tomb, there to remain until they decay
      and fall to pieces, or, forestalling this, until another scion of
      royalty dies.  At this point of the proceedings the multitude set
      up such a heart-broken wailing as I hope never to hear again.

The soldiers fired three volleys of musketry--the wailing being previously silenced to permit
of the guns being heard.  His Highness Prince William, in a showy military uniform (the "true
prince," this --scion of the house over-thrown by the present dynasty--he was formerly betrothed
to the Princess but was not allowed to marry her), stood guard and paced back and forth within
the door.  The privileged few who followed the coffin into the mausoleum remained sometime,
but the King soon came out and stood in the door and near one side of it.  A stranger could
have guessed his rank (although he was so simply and unpretentiously dressed) by the profound
deference paid him by all persons in his vicinity; by seeing his high officers receive his
quiet orders and suggestions with bowed and uncovered heads; and by observing how careful those
persons who came out of the mausoleum were to avoid "crowding" him (although there was room
enough in the doorway for a wagon to pass, for that matter); how respectfully they edged out
sideways, scraping their backs against the wall and always presenting a front view of their
persons to his Majesty, and never putting their hats on until they were well out of the royal
presence.

He was dressed entirely in black--dress-coat and silk hat--and looked rather democratic in
the midst of the showy uniforms about him.  On his breast he wore a large gold star, which
was half hidden by the lapel of his coat.  He remained at the door a half hour, and occasionally
gave an order to the men who were erecting the kahilis [Ranks of long-handled mops made of
gaudy feathers--sacred to royalty.  They are stuck in the ground around the tomb and left there.]
before the tomb.  He had the good taste to make one of them substitute black crape for the
ordinary hempen rope he was about to tie one of them to the frame-work with. Finally he entered
his carriage and drove away, and the populace shortly began to drop into his wake.  While he
was in view there was but one man who attracted more attention than himself, and that was Harris
(the Yankee Prime Minister).  This feeble personage had crape enough around his hat to express
the grief of an entire nation, and as usual he neglected no opportunity of making himself conspicuous
and exciting the admiration of the simple Kanakas.  Oh! noble ambition of this modern Richelieu!

It is interesting to contrast the funeral ceremonies of the Princess Victoria with those of
her noted ancestor Kamehameha the Conqueror, who died fifty years ago--in 1819, the year before
the first missionaries came.

      "On the 8th of May, 1819, at the age of sixty-six, he died, as he
      had lived, in the faith of his country.  It was his misfortune not
      to have come in contact with men who could have rightly influenced
      his religious aspirations.  Judged by his advantages and compared
      with the most eminent of his countrymen he may be justly styled not
      only great, but good.  To this day his memory warms the heart and
      elevates the national feelings of Hawaiians.  They are proud of
      their old warrior King; they love his name; his deeds form their
      historical age; and an enthusiasm everywhere prevails, shared even
      by foreigners who knew his worth, that constitutes the firmest
      pillar of the throne of his dynasty.

      "In lieu of human victims (the custom of that age), a sacrifice of
      three hundred dogs attended his obsequies--no mean holocaust when
      their national value and the estimation in which they were held are
      considered.  The bones of Kamehameha, after being kept for a while,
      were so carefully concealed that all knowledge of their final
      resting place is now lost.  There was a proverb current among the
      common people that the bones of a cruel King could not be hid; they
      made fish-hooks and arrows of them, upon which, in using them, they
      vented their abhorrence of his memory in bitter execrations."

The account of the circumstances of his death, as written by the native historians, is full
of minute detail, but there is scarcely a line of it which does not mention or illustrate some
by-gone custom of the country. In this respect it is the most comprehensive document I have
yet met with.  I will quote it entire:

      "When Kamehameha was dangerously sick, and the priests were unable
      to cure him, they said: 'Be of good courage and build a house for
      the god' (his own private god or idol), that thou mayest recover.'
      The chiefs corroborated this advice of the priests, and a place of
      worship was prepared for Kukailimoku, and consecrated in the
      evening.  They proposed also to the King, with a view to prolong his
      life, that human victims should be sacrificed to his deity; upon
      which the greater part of the people absconded through fear of
      death, and concealed themselves in hiding places till the tabu [Tabu
      (pronounced tah-boo,) means prohibition (we have borrowed it,) or
      sacred.  The tabu was sometimes permanent, sometimes temporary; and
      the person or thing placed under tabu was for the time being sacred
      to the purpose for which it was set apart.  In the above case the
      victims selected under the tabu would be sacred to the sacrifice]
      in which destruction impended, was past.  It is doubtful whether
      Kamehameha approved of the plan of the chiefs and priests to
      sacrifice men, as he was known to say, 'The men are sacred for the
      King;' meaning that they were for the service of his successor.
      This information was derived from Liholiho, his son.

      "After this, his sickness increased to such a degree that he had not
      strength to turn himself in his bed.  When another season,
      consecrated for worship at the new temple (heiau) arrived, he said
      to his son, Liholiho, 'Go thou and make supplication to thy god; I
      am not able to go, and will offer my prayers at home.'  When his
      devotions to his feathered god, Kukailimoku, were concluded, a
      certain religiously disposed individual, who had a bird god,
      suggested to the King that through its influence his sickness might
      be removed.  The name of this god was Pua; its body was made of a
      bird, now eaten by the Hawaiians, and called in their language alae.
      Kamehameha was willing that a trial should be made, and two houses
      were constructed to facilitate the experiment; but while dwelling in
      them he became so very weak as not to receive food.  After lying
      there three days, his wives, children and chiefs, perceiving that he
      was very low, returned him to his own house.  In the evening he was
      carried to the eating house,  where he took a little food in his
      mouth which he did not swallow; also a cup of water.  The chiefs
      requested him to give them his counsel; but he made no reply, and
      was carried back to the dwelling house; but when near midnight--ten
      o'clock, perhaps--he was carried again to the place to eat; but, as
      before, he merely tasted of what was presented to him.  Then
      Kaikioewa addressed him thus: 'Here we all are, your younger
      brethren, your son Liholiho and your foreigner; impart to us your
      dying charge, that Liholiho and Kaahumanu may hear.' Then Kamehameha
      inquired, 'What do you say?' Kaikioewa repeated, 'Your counsels for
      us.'

      "He then said, 'Move on in my good way and--.' He could proceed no
      further.  The foreigner, Mr. Young, embraced and kissed him.
      Hoapili also embraced him, whispering something in his ear, after
      which he was taken back to the house.  About twelve he was carried
      once more to the house for eating, into which his head entered,
      while his body was in the dwelling house immediately adjoining.  It
      should be remarked that this frequent carrying of a sick chief from
      one house to another resulted from the tabu system, then in force.
      There were at that time six houses (huts) connected with an
      establishment--one was for worship, one for the men to eat in, an
      eating house for the women, a house to sleep in, a house in which to
      manufacture kapa (native cloth) and one where, at certain intervals,
      the women might dwell in seclusion.

      "The sick was once more taken to his house, when he expired; this
      was at two o'clock, a circumstance from which Leleiohoku derived his
      name.  As he breathed his last, Kalaimoku came to the eating house
      to order those in it to go out.  There were two aged persons thus
      directed to depart; one went, the other remained on account of love
      to the King, by whom he had formerly been kindly sustained.  The
      children also were sent away.  Then Kalaimoku came to the house, and
      the chiefs had a consultation.  One of them spoke thus: 'This is my
      thought--we will eat him raw. [This sounds suspicious, in view of
      the fact that all Sandwich Island historians, white and black,
      protest that cannibalism never existed in the islands.  However,
      since they only proposed to "eat him raw" we "won't count that".
      But it would certainly have been cannibalism if they had cooked
      him.--M.  T.]  Kaahumanu (one of the dead King's widows) replied,
      'Perhaps his body is not at our disposal; that is more properly with
      his successor.  Our part in him--his breath--has departed; his
      remains will be disposed of by Liholiho.'

      "After this conversation the body was taken into the consecrated
      house for the performance of the proper rites by the priest and the
      new King.  The name of this ceremony is uko; and when the sacred hog
      was baked the priest offered it to the dead body, and it became a
      god, the King at the same time repeating the customary prayers.

      "Then the priest, addressing himself to the King and chiefs, said:
      'I will now make known to you the rules to be observed respecting
      persons to be sacrificed on the burial of this body.  If you obtain
      one man before the corpse is removed, one will be sufficient; but
      after it leaves this house four will be required.  If delayed until
      we carry the corpse to the grave there must be ten; but after it is
      deposited in the grave there must be fifteen.  To-morrow morning
      there will be a tabu, and, if the sacrifice be delayed until that
      time, forty men must die.'

      "Then the high priest, Hewahewa, inquired of the chiefs, 'Where
      shall be the residence of King Liholiho?'  They replied, 'Where,
      indeed?  You, of all men, ought to know.'  Then the priest observed,
      'There are two suitable places; one is Kau, the other is Kohala.'
      The chiefs preferred the latter, as it was more thickly inhabited.
      The priest added, 'These are proper places for the King's residence;
      but he must not remain in Kona, for it is polluted.'  This was
      agreed to.  It was now break of day.  As he was being carried to the
      place of burial the people perceived that their King was dead, and
      they wailed.  When the corpse was removed from the house to the
      tomb, a distance of one chain, the procession was met by a certain
      man who was ardently attached to the deceased.  He leaped upon the
      chiefs who were carrying the King's body; he desired to die with him
      on account of his love.  The chiefs drove him away.  He persisted in
      making numerous attempts, which were unavailing.  Kalaimoka also had
      it in his heart to die with him, but was prevented by Hookio.

      "The morning following Kamehameha's death, Liholiho and his train
      departed for Kohala, according to the suggestions of the priest, to
      avoid the defilement occasioned by the dead.  At this time if a
      chief died the land was polluted, and the heirs sought a residence
      in another part of the country until the corpse was dissected and
      the bones tied in a bundle, which being done, the season of
      defilement terminated.  If the deceased were not a chief, the house
      only was defiled which became pure again on the burial of the body.
      Such were the laws on this subject.

      "On the morning on which Liholiho sailed in his canoe for Kohala,
      the chiefs and people mourned after their manner on occasion of a
      chief's death, conducting themselves like madmen and like beasts.
      Their conduct was such as to forbid description; The priests, also,
      put into action the sorcery apparatus, that the person who had
      prayed the King to death might die; for it was not believed that
      Kamehameha's departure was the effect either of sickness or old age.
      When the sorcerers set up by their fire-places sticks with a strip
      of kapa flying at the top, the chief Keeaumoku, Kaahumaun's brother,
      came in a state of intoxication and broke the flag-staff of the
      sorcerers, from which it was inferred that Kaahumanu and her friends
      had been instrumental in the King's death.  On this account they
      were subjected to abuse."

You have the contrast, now, and a strange one it is.  This great Queen, Kaahumanu, who was
"subjected to abuse" during the frightful orgies that followed the King's death, in accordance
with ancient custom, afterward became a devout Christian and a steadfast and powerful friend
of the missionaries.

Dogs were, and still are, reared and fattened for food, by the natives --hence the reference
to their value in one of the above paragraphs.

Forty years ago it was the custom in the Islands to suspend all law for a certain number of
days after the death of a royal personage; and then a saturnalia ensued which one may picture
to himself after a fashion, but not in the full horror of the reality.  The people shaved their
heads, knocked out a tooth or two, plucked out an eye sometimes, cut, bruised, mutilated or
burned their flesh, got drunk, burned each other's huts, maimed or murdered one another according
to the caprice of the moment, and both sexes gave themselves up to brutal and unbridled licentiousness.

And after it all, came a torpor from which the nation slowly emerged bewildered and dazed,
as if from a hideous half-remembered nightmare. They were not the salt of the earth, those
"gentle children of the sun."

The natives still keep up an old custom of theirs which cannot be comforting to an invalid.
When they think a sick friend is going to die, a couple of dozen neighbors surround his hut
and keep up a deafening wailing night and day till he either dies or gets well.  No doubt this
arrangement has helped many a subject to a shroud before his appointed time.

They surround a hut and wail in the same heart-broken way when its occupant returns from a
journey.  This is their dismal idea of a welcome. A very little of it would go a great way
with most of us.

CHAPTER LXIX.

Bound for Hawaii (a hundred and fifty miles distant,) to visit the great volcano and behold
the other notable things which distinguish that island above the remainder of the group, we
sailed from Honolulu on a certain Saturday afternoon, in the good schooner Boomerang.

The Boomerang was about as long as two street cars, and about as wide as one.  She was so small
(though she was larger than the majority of the inter-island coasters) that when I stood on
her deck I felt but little smaller than the Colossus of Rhodes must have felt when he had a
man-of-war under him.  I could reach the water when she lay over under a strong breeze.  When
the Captain and my comrade (a Mr. Billings), myself and four other persons were all assembled
on the little after portion of the deck which is sacred to the cabin passengers, it was full--there
was not room for any more quality folks.  Another section of the deck, twice as large as ours,
was full of natives of both sexes, with their customary dogs, mats, blankets, pipes, calabashes
of poi, fleas, and other luxuries and baggage of minor importance.  As soon as we set sail
the natives all lay down on the deck as thick as negroes in a slave-pen, and smoked, conversed,
and spit on each other, and were truly sociable.

The little low-ceiled cabin below was rather larger than a hearse, and as dark as a vault.
It had two coffins on each side--I mean two bunks. A small table, capable of accommodating
three persons at dinner, stood against the forward bulkhead, and over it hung the dingiest
whale oil lantern that ever peopled the obscurity of a dungeon with ghostly shapes. The floor
room unoccupied was not extensive.  One might swing a cat in it, perhaps, but not a long cat.
The hold forward of the bulkhead had but little freight in it, and from morning till night
a portly old rooster, with a voice like Baalam's ass, and the same disposition to use it, strutted
up and down in that part of the vessel and crowed.  He usually took dinner at six o'clock,
and then, after an hour devoted to meditation, he mounted a barrel and crowed a good part of
the night. He got hoarser all the time, but he scorned to allow any personal consideration
to interfere with his duty, and kept up his labors in defiance of threatened diphtheria.

Sleeping was out of the question when he was on watch.  He was a source of genuine aggravation
and annoyance.  It was worse than useless to shout at him or apply offensive epithets to him--he
only took these things for applause, and strained himself to make more noise.  Occasionally,
during the day, I threw potatoes at him through an aperture in the bulkhead, but he only dodged
and went on crowing.

The first night, as I lay in my coffin, idly watching the dim lamp swinging to the rolling
of the ship, and snuffing the nauseous odors of bilge water, I felt something gallop over me.
I turned out promptly. However, I turned in again when I found it was only a rat.  Presently
something galloped over me once more.  I knew it was not a rat this time, and I thought it
might be a centipede, because the Captain had killed one on deck in the afternoon.  I turned
out.  The first glance at the pillow showed me repulsive sentinel perched upon each end of
it--cockroaches as large as peach leaves--fellows with long, quivering antennae and fiery,
malignant eyes.  They were grating their teeth like tobacco worms, and appeared to be dissatisfied
about something.  I had often heard that these reptiles were in the habit of eating off sleeping
sailors' toe nails down to the quick, and I would not get in the bunk any more.  I lay down
on the floor.  But a rat came and bothered me, and shortly afterward a procession of cockroaches
arrived and camped in my hair.  In a few moments the rooster was crowing with uncommon spirit
and a party of fleas were throwing double somersaults about my person in the wildest disorder,
and taking a bite every time they struck.  I was beginning to feel really annoyed.  I got up
and put my clothes on and went on deck.

The above is not overdrawn; it is a truthful sketch of inter-island schooner life.  There is
no such thing as keeping a vessel in elegant condition, when she carries molasses and Kanakas.

It was compensation for my sufferings to come unexpectedly upon so beautiful a scene as met
my eye--to step suddenly out of the sepulchral gloom of the cabin and stand under the strong
light of the moon--in the centre, as it were, of a glittering sea of liquid silver--to see
the broad sails straining in the gale, the ship heeled over on her side, the angry foam hissing
past her lee bulwarks, and sparkling sheets of spray dashing high over her bows and raining
upon her decks; to brace myself and hang fast to the first object that presented itself, with
hat jammed down and coat tails whipping in the breeze, and feel that exhilaration that thrills
in one's hair and quivers down his back bone when he knows that every inch of canvas is drawing
and the vessel cleaving through the waves at her utmost speed.  There was no darkness, no dimness,
no obscurity there.  All was brightness, every object was vividly defined. Every prostrate
Kanaka; every coil of rope; every calabash of poi; every puppy; every seam in the flooring;
every bolthead; every object; however minute, showed sharp and distinct in its every outline;
and the shadow of the broad mainsail lay black as a pall upon the deck, leaving Billings's
white upturned face glorified and his body in a total eclipse. Monday morning we were close
to the island of Hawaii.  Two of its high mountains were in view--Mauna Loa and Hualaiai.

The latter is an imposing peak, but being only ten thousand feet high is seldom mentioned or
heard of.  Mauna Loa is said to be sixteen thousand feet high.  The rays of glittering snow
and ice, that clasped its summit like a claw, looked refreshing when viewed from the blistering
climate we were in.  One could stand on that mountain (wrapped up in blankets and furs to keep
warm), and while he nibbled a snowball or an icicle to quench his thirst he could look down
the long sweep of its sides and see spots where plants are growing that grow only where the
bitter cold of Winter prevails; lower down he could see sections devoted to production that
thrive in the temperate zone alone; and at the bottom of the mountain he could see the home
of the tufted cocoa-palms and other species of vegetation that grow only in the sultry atmosphere
of eternal Summer.  He could see all the climes of the world at a single glance of the eye,
and that glance would only pass over a distance of four or five miles as the bird flies!

By and by we took boat and went ashore at Kailua, designing to ride horseback through the pleasant
orange and coffee region of Kona, and rejoin the vessel at a point some leagues distant.  This
journey is well worth taking.  The trail passes along on high ground--say a thousand feet above
sea level--and usually about a mile distant from the ocean, which is always in sight, save
that occasionally you find yourself buried in the forest in the midst of a rank tropical vegetation
and a dense growth of trees, whose great bows overarch the road and shut out sun and sea and
everything, and leave you in a dim, shady tunnel, haunted with invisible singing birds and
fragrant with the odor of flowers.  It was pleasant to ride occasionally in the warm sun, and
feast the eye upon the ever-changing panorama of the forest (beyond and below us), with its
many tints, its softened lights and shadows, its billowy undulations sweeping gently down from
the mountain to the sea.  It was pleasant also, at intervals, to leave the sultry sun and pass
into the cool, green depths of this forest and indulge in sentimental reflections under the
inspiration of its brooding twilight and its whispering foliage. We rode through one orange
grove that had ten thousand tree in it! They were all laden with fruit.

At one farmhouse we got some large peaches of excellent flavor. This fruit, as a general thing,
does not do well in the Sandwich Islands. It takes a sort of almond shape, and is small and
bitter.  It needs frost, they say, and perhaps it does; if this be so, it will have a good
opportunity to go on needing it, as it will not be likely to get it. The trees from which the
fine fruit I have spoken of, came, had been planted and replanted sixteen times, and to this
treatment the proprietor of the orchard attributed his-success.

We passed several sugar plantations--new ones and not very extensive. The crops were, in most
cases, third rattoons.  [NOTE.--The first crop is called "plant cane;" subsequent crops which
spring from the original roots, without replanting, are called "rattoons."] Almost everywhere
on the island of Hawaii sugar-cane matures in twelve months, both rattoons and plant, and although
it ought to be taken off as soon as it tassels, no doubt, it is not absolutely necessary to
do it until about four months afterward.  In Kona, the average yield of an acre of ground is
two tons of sugar, they say.  This is only a moderate yield for these islands, but would be
astounding for Louisiana and most other sugar growing countries. The plantations in Kona being
on pretty high ground--up among the light and frequent rains--no irrigation whatever is required.

CHAPTER LXX.

We stopped some time at one of the plantations, to rest ourselves and refresh the horses. 
We had a chatty conversation with several gentlemen present; but there was one person, a middle
aged man, with an absent look in his face, who simply glanced up, gave us good-day and lapsed
again into the meditations which our coming had interrupted.  The planters whispered us not
to mind him--crazy.  They said he was in the Islands for his health; was a preacher; his home,
Michigan.  They said that if he woke up presently and fell to talking about a correspondence
which he had some time held with Mr. Greeley about a trifle of some kind, we must humor him
and listen with interest; and we must humor his fancy that this correspondence was the talk
of the world.

It was easy to see that he was a gentle creature and that his madness had nothing vicious in
it.  He looked pale, and a little worn, as if with perplexing thought and anxiety of mind.
He sat a long time, looking at the floor, and at intervals muttering to himself and nodding
his head acquiescingly or shaking it in mild protest.  He was lost in his thought, or in his
memories.  We continued our talk with the planters, branching from subject to subject.  But
at last the word "circumstance," casually dropped, in the course of conversation, attracted
his attention and brought an eager look into his countenance.  He faced about in his chair
and said:

"Circumstance?  What circumstance?  Ah, I know--I know too well.  So you have heard of it too."
[With a sigh.] "Well, no matter--all the world has heard of it.  All the world.  The whole
world.  It is a large world, too, for a thing to travel so far in--now isn't it?  Yes, yes--the
Greeley correspondence with Erickson has created the saddest and bitterest controversy on both
sides of the ocean--and still they keep it up!  It makes us famous, but at what a sorrowful
sacrifice!  I was so sorry when I heard that it had caused that bloody and distressful war
over there in Italy.  It was little comfort to me, after so much bloodshed, to know that the
victors sided with me, and the vanquished with Greeley.--It is little comfort to know that
Horace Greeley is responsible for the battle of Sadowa, and not me.

"Queen Victoria wrote me that she felt just as I did about it--she said that as much as she
was opposed to Greeley and the spirit he showed in the correspondence with me, she would not
have had Sadowa happen for hundreds of dollars.  I can show you her letter, if you would like
to see it.  But gentlemen, much as you may think you know about that unhappy correspondence,
you cannot know the straight of it till you hear it from my lips.  It has always been garbled
in the journals, and even in history.  Yes, even in history--think of it!  Let me--please let
me, give you the matter, exactly as it occurred.  I truly will not abuse your confidence."

Then he leaned forward, all interest, all earnestness, and told his story--and told it appealingly,
too, and yet in the simplest and most unpretentious way; indeed, in such a way as to suggest
to one, all the time, that this was a faithful, honorable witness, giving evidence in the sacred
interest of justice, and under oath.  He said:

"Mrs. Beazeley--Mrs. Jackson Beazeley, widow, of the village of Campbellton, Kansas,--wrote
me about a matter which was near her heart --a matter which many might think trivial, but to
her it was a thing of deep concern.  I was living in Michigan, then--serving in the ministry.
She was, and is, an estimable woman--a woman to whom poverty and hardship have proven incentives
to industry, in place of discouragements. Her only treasure was her son William, a youth just
verging upon manhood; religious, amiable, and sincerely attached to agriculture.  He was the
widow's comfort and her pride.  And so, moved by her love for him, she wrote me about a matter,
as I have said before, which lay near her heart --because it lay near her boy's.  She desired
me to confer with Mr. Greeley about turnips.  Turnips were the dream of her child's young ambition.
While other youths were frittering away in frivolous amusements the precious years of budding
vigor which God had given them for useful preparation, this boy was patiently enriching his
mind with information concerning turnips.  The sentiment which he felt toward the turnip was
akin to adoration.  He could not think of the turnip without emotion; he could not speak of
it calmly; he could not contemplate it without exaltation.  He could not eat it without shedding
tears.  All the poetry in his sensitive nature was in sympathy with the gracious vegetable.
With the earliest pipe of dawn he sought his patch, and when the curtaining night drove him
from it he shut himself up with his books and garnered statistics till sleep overcame him.
On rainy days he sat and talked hours together with his mother about turnips.  When company
came, he made it his loving duty to put aside everything else and converse with them all the
day long of his great joy in the turnip.

"And yet, was this joy rounded and complete?  Was there no secret alloy of unhappiness in it?
Alas, there was.  There was a canker gnawing at his heart; the noblest inspiration of his soul
eluded his endeavor--viz: he could not make of the turnip a climbing vine.  Months went by;
the bloom forsook his cheek, the fire faded out of his eye; sighings and abstraction usurped
the place of smiles and cheerful converse.  But a watchful eye noted these things and in time
a motherly sympathy unsealed the secret.  Hence the letter to me.  She pleaded for attention--she
said her boy was dying by inches.

"I was a stranger to Mr. Greeley, but what of that?  The matter was urgent.  I wrote and begged
him to solve the difficult problem if possible and save the student's life.  My interest grew,
until it partook of the anxiety of the mother.  I waited in much suspense.--At last the answer
came.

"I found that I could not read it readily, the handwriting being unfamiliar and my emotions
somewhat wrought up.  It seemed to refer in part to the boy's case, but chiefly to other and
irrelevant matters--such as paving-stones, electricity, oysters, and something which I took
to be 'absolution' or 'agrarianism,' I could not be certain which; still, these appeared to
be simply casual mentions, nothing more; friendly in spirit, without doubt, but lacking the
connection or coherence necessary to make them useful.--I judged that my understanding was
affected by my feelings, and so laid the letter away till morning.

"In the morning I read it again, but with difficulty and uncertainty still, for I had lost
some little rest and my mental vision seemed clouded.  The note was more connected, now, but
did not meet the emergency it was expected to meet.  It was too discursive.  It appeared to
read as follows, though I was not certain of some of the words:

      "Polygamy dissembles majesty; extracts redeem polarity; causes
      hitherto exist.  Ovations pursue wisdom, or warts inherit and
      condemn.  Boston, botany, cakes, folony undertakes, but who shall
      allay?  We fear not.  Yrxwly,
                               HEVACE EVEELOJ.'

"But there did not seem to be a word about turnips.  There seemed to be no suggestion as to
how they might be made to grow like vines.  There was not even a reference to the Beazeleys.
I slept upon the matter; I ate no supper, neither any breakfast next morning.  So I resumed
my work with a brain refreshed, and was very hopeful.  Now the letter took a different aspect-all
save the signature, which latter I judged to be only a harmless affectation of Hebrew.  The
epistle was necessarily from Mr. Greeley, for it bore the printed heading of The Tribune, and
I had written to no one else there.  The letter, I say, had taken a different aspect, but still
its language was eccentric and avoided the issue.  It now appeared to say:

      "Bolivia extemporizes mackerel; borax esteems polygamy; sausages
      wither in the east.  Creation perdu, is done; for woes inherent one
      can damn.  Buttons, buttons, corks, geology underrates but we shall
      allay.  My beer's out.  Yrxwly,
                                         HEVACE EVEELOJ.'

"I was evidently overworked.  My comprehension was impaired.  Therefore I gave two days to
recreation, and then returned to my task greatly refreshed.  The letter now took this form:

      "Poultices do sometimes choke swine; tulips reduce posterity; causes
      leather to resist.  Our notions empower wisdom, her let's afford
      while we can.  Butter but any cakes, fill any undertaker, we'll wean
      him from his filly.  We feel hot.
                                    Yrxwly, HEVACE EVEELOJ.'

"I was still not satisfied.  These generalities did not meet the question.  They were crisp,
and vigorous, and delivered with a confidence that almost compelled conviction; but at such
a time as this, with a human life at stake, they seemed inappropriate, worldly, and in bad
taste.  At any other time I would have been not only glad, but proud, to receive from a man
like Mr. Greeley a letter of this kind, and would have studied it earnestly and tried to improve
myself all I could; but now, with that poor boy in his far home languishing for relief, I had
no heart for learning.

"Three days passed by, and I read the note again.  Again its tenor had changed.  It now appeared
to say:

      "Potations do sometimes wake wines; turnips restrain passion; causes
      necessary to state.  Infest the poor widow; her lord's effects will
      be void.  But dirt, bathing, etc., etc., followed unfairly, will
      worm him from his folly--so swear not.
                                              Yrxwly, HEVACE EVEELOJ.'

"This was more like it.  But I was unable to proceed.  I was too much worn.  The word 'turnips'
brought temporary joy and encouragement, but my strength was so much impaired, and the delay
might be so perilous for the boy, that I relinquished the idea of pursuing the translation
further, and resolved to do what I ought to have done at first.  I sat down and wrote Mr. Greeley
as follows:

      "DEAR SIR: I fear I do not entirely comprehend your kind note.  It
      cannot be possible, Sir, that 'turnips restrain passion'--at least
      the study or contemplation of turnips cannot--for it is this very
      employment that has scorched our poor friend's mind and sapped his
      bodily strength.--But if they do restrain it, will you bear with us
      a little further and explain how they should be prepared?  I observe
      that you say 'causes necessary to state,' but you have omitted to
      state them.

      "Under a misapprehension, you seem to attribute to me interested
      motives in this matter--to call it by no harsher term.  But I assure
      you, dear sir, that if I seem to be 'infesting the widow,' it is all
      seeming, and void of reality.  It is from no seeking of mine that I
      am in this position.  She asked me, herself, to write you.  I never
      have infested her--indeed I scarcely know her.  I do not infest
      anybody.  I try to go along, in my humble way, doing as near right
      as I can, never harming anybody, and never throwing out
      insinuations.  As for 'her lord and his effects,' they are of no
      interest to me.  I trust I have effects enough of my own--shall
      endeavor to get along with them, at any rate, and not go mousing
      around to get hold of somebody's that are 'void.'  But do you not
      see?--this woman is a widow--she has no 'lord.'  He is dead--or
      pretended to be, when they buried him.  Therefore, no amount of
      'dirt, bathing,' etc., etc., howsoever 'unfairly followed' will be
      likely to 'worm him from his folly'--if being dead and a ghost is
      'folly.'  Your closing remark is as unkind as it was uncalled for;
      and if report says true you might have applied it to yourself, sir,
      with more point and less impropriety.
                               Very Truly Yours, SIMON ERICKSON.

"In the course of a few days, Mr. Greely did what would have saved a world of trouble, and
much mental and bodily suffering and misunderstanding, if he had done it sooner.  To wit, he
sent an intelligible rescript or translation of his original note, made in a plain hand by
his clerk.  Then the mystery cleared, and I saw that his heart had been right, all the time.
I will recite the note in its clarified form:

      [Translation.]
      'Potatoes do sometimes make vines; turnips remain passive: cause
      unnecessary to state.  Inform the poor widow her lad's efforts will
      be vain.  But diet, bathing, etc.  etc., followed uniformly, will
      wean him from his folly--so fear not.
                                         Yours, HORACE GREELEY.'

"But alas, it was too late, gentlemen--too late.  The criminal delay had done its work--young
Beazely was no more.  His spirit had taken its flight to a land where all anxieties shall be
charmed away, all desires gratified, all ambitions realized.  Poor lad, they laid him to his
rest with a turnip in each hand."

So ended Erickson, and lapsed again into nodding, mumbling, and abstraction.  The company broke
up, and left him so....  But they did not say what drove him crazy.  In the momentary confusion,
I forgot to ask.

CHAPTER LXXI.

At four o'clock in the afternoon we were winding down a mountain of dreary and desolate lava
to the sea, and closing our pleasant land journey.  This lava is the accumulation of ages;
one torrent of fire after another has rolled down here in old times, and built up the island
structure higher and higher.  Underneath, it is honey-combed with caves; it would be of no
use to dig wells in such a place; they would not hold water--you would not find any for them
to hold, for that matter. Consequently, the planters depend upon cisterns.

The last lava flow occurred here so long ago that there are none now living who witnessed it.
In one place it enclosed and burned down a grove of cocoa-nut trees, and the holes in the lava
where the trunks stood are still visible; their sides retain the impression of the bark; the
trees fell upon the burning river, and becoming partly submerged, left in it the perfect counterpart
of every knot and branch and leaf, and even nut, for curiosity seekers of a long distant day
to gaze upon and wonder at.

There were doubtless plenty of Kanaka sentinels on guard hereabouts at that time, but they
did not leave casts of their figures in the lava as the Roman sentinels at Herculaneum and
Pompeii did.  It is a pity it is so, because such things are so interesting; but so it is.
They probably went away.  They went away early, perhaps.  However, they had their merits; the
Romans exhibited the higher pluck, but the Kanakas showed the sounder judgment.

Shortly we came in sight of that spot whose history is so familiar to every school-boy in the
wide world--Kealakekua Bay--the place where Captain Cook, the great circumnavigator, was killed
by the natives, nearly a hundred years ago.  The setting sun was flaming upon it, a Summer
shower was falling, and it was spanned by two magnificent rainbows.  Two men who were in advance
of us rode through one of these and for a moment their garments shone with a more than regal
splendor. Why did not Captain Cook have taste enough to call his great discovery the Rainbow
Islands?  These charming spectacles are present to you at every turn; they are common in all
the islands; they are visible every day, and frequently at night also--not the silvery bow
we see once in an age in the States, by moonlight, but barred with all bright and beautiful
colors, like the children of the sun and rain.  I saw one of them a few nights ago.  What the
sailors call "raindogs"--little patches of rainbow --are often seen drifting about the heavens
in these latitudes, like stained cathedral windows.

Kealakekua Bay is a little curve like the last kink of a snail-shell, winding deep into the
land, seemingly not more than a mile wide from shore to shore.  It is bounded on one side--where
the murder was done--by a little flat plain, on which stands a cocoanut grove and some ruined
houses; a steep wall of lava, a thousand feet high at the upper end and three or four hundred
at the lower, comes down from the mountain and bounds the inner extremity of it.  From this
wall the place takes its name, Kealakekua, which in the native tongue signifies "The Pathway
of the Gods."  They say, (and still believe, in spite of their liberal education in Christianity),
that the great god Lono, who used to live upon the hillside, always traveled that causeway
when urgent business connected with heavenly affairs called him down to the seashore in a hurry.

As the red sun looked across the placid ocean through the tall, clean stems of the cocoanut
trees, like a blooming whiskey bloat through the bars of a city prison, I went and stood in
the edge of the water on the flat rock pressed by Captain Cook's feet when the blow was dealt
which took away his life, and tried to picture in my mind the doomed man struggling in the
midst of the multitude of exasperated savages--the men in the ship crowding to the vessel's
side and gazing in anxious dismay toward the shore--the--but I discovered that I could not do it.

It was growing dark, the rain began to fall, we could see that the distant Boomerang was helplessly
becalmed at sea, and so I adjourned to the cheerless little box of a warehouse and sat down
to smoke and think, and wish the ship would make the land--for we had not eaten much for ten
hours and were viciously hungry.

Plain unvarnished history takes the romance out of Captain Cook's assassination, and renders
a deliberate verdict of justifiable homicide. Wherever he went among the islands, he was cordially
received and welcomed by the inhabitants, and his ships lavishly supplied with all manner of
food.  He returned these kindnesses with insult and ill-treatment.  Perceiving that the people
took him for the long vanished and lamented god Lono, he encouraged them in the delusion for
the sake of the limitless power it gave him; but during the famous disturbance at this spot,
and while he and his comrades were surrounded by fifteen thousand maddened savages, he received
a hurt and betrayed his earthly origin with a groan.  It was his death-warrant.  Instantly
a shout went up: "He groans!--he is not a god!" So they closed in upon him and dispatched him.

His flesh was stripped from the bones and burned (except nine pounds of it which were sent
on board the ships).  The heart was hung up in a native hut, where it was found and eaten by
three children, who mistook it for the heart of a dog.  One of these children grew to be a
very old man, and died in Honolulu a few years ago.  Some of Cook's bones were recovered and
consigned to the deep by the officers of the ships.

Small blame should attach to the natives for the killing of Cook. They treated him well.  In
return, he abused them.  He and his men inflicted bodily injury upon many of them at different
times, and killed at least three of them before they offered any proportionate retaliation.

Near the shore we found "Cook's Monument"--only a cocoanut stump, four feet high and about
a foot in diameter at the butt.  It had lava boulders piled around its base to hold it up and
keep it in its place, and it was entirely sheathed over, from top to bottom, with rough, discolored
sheets of copper, such as ships' bottoms are coppered with.  Each sheet had a rude inscription
scratched upon it--with a nail, apparently--and in every case the execution was wretched. 
Most of these merely recorded the visits of British naval commanders to the spot, but one of
them bore this legend:

     "Near this spot fell
      CAPTAIN JAMES COOK,
      The Distinguished Circumnavigator,
      Who Discovered these Islands
      A. D.  1778."

After Cook's murder, his second in command, on board the ship, opened fire upon the swarms
of natives on the beach, and one of his cannon balls cut this cocoanut tree short off and left
this monumental stump standing. It looked sad and lonely enough to us, out there in the rainy
twilight. But there is no other monument to Captain Cook.  True, up on the mountain side we
had passed by a large inclosure like an ample hog-pen, built of lava blocks, which marks the
spot where Cook's flesh was stripped from his bones and burned; but this is not properly a
monument since it was erected by the natives themselves, and less to do honor to the circumnavigator
than for the sake of convenience in roasting him. A thing like a guide-board was elevated above
this pen on a tall pole, and formerly there was an inscription upon it describing the memorable
occurrence that had there taken place; but the sun and the wind have long ago so defaced it
as to render it illegible.

Toward midnight a fine breeze sprang up and the schooner soon worked herself into the bay and
cast anchor.  The boat came ashore for us, and in a little while the clouds and the rain were
all gone.  The moon was beaming tranquilly down on land and sea, and we two were stretched
upon the deck sleeping the refreshing sleep and dreaming the happy dreams that are only vouchsafed
to the weary and the innocent.

CHAPTER LXXII.

In the breezy morning we went ashore and visited the ruined temple of the last god Lono.  The
high chief cook of this temple--the priest who presided over it and roasted the human sacrifices--was
uncle to Obookia, and at one time that youth was an apprentice-priest under him.  Obookia was
a young native of fine mind, who, together with three other native boys, was taken to New England
by the captain of a whaleship during the reign of Kamehameha I, and they were the means of
attracting the attention of the religious world to their country.  This resulted in the sending
of missionaries there.  And this Obookia was the very same sensitive savage who sat down on
the church steps and wept because his people did not have the Bible.  That incident has been
very elaborately painted in many a charming Sunday School book--aye, and told so plaintively
and so tenderly that I have cried over it in Sunday School myself, on general principles, although
at a time when I did not know much and could not understand why the people of the Sandwich
Islands needed to worry so much about it as long as they did not know there was a Bible at all.

Obookia was converted and educated, and was to have returned to his native land with the first
missionaries, had he lived.  The other native youths made the voyage, and two of them did good
service, but the third, William Kanui, fell from grace afterward, for a time, and when the
gold excitement broke out in California he journeyed thither and went to mining, although he
was fifty years old.  He succeeded pretty well, but the failure of Page, Bacon & Co. relieved
him of six thousand dollars, and then, to all intents and purposes, he was a bankrupt in his
old age and he resumed service in the pulpit again.  He died in Honolulu in 1864.

Quite a broad tract of land near the temple, extending from the sea to the mountain top, was
sacred to the god Lono in olden times--so sacred that if a common native set his sacrilegious
foot upon it it was judicious for him to make his will, because his time had come.  He might
go around it by water, but he could not cross it.  It was well sprinkled with pagan temples
and stocked with awkward, homely idols carved out of logs of wood.  There was a temple devoted
to prayers for rain--and with fine sagacity it was placed at a point so well up on the mountain
side that if you prayed there twenty-four times a day for rain you would be likely to get it
every time.  You would seldom get to your Amen before you would have to hoist your umbrella.

And there was a large temple near at hand which was built in a single night, in the midst of
storm and thunder and rain, by the ghastly hands of dead men!  Tradition says that by the weird
glare of the lightning a noiseless multitude of phantoms were seen at their strange labor far
up the mountain side at dead of night--flitting hither and thither and bearing great lava-blocks
clasped in their nerveless fingers--appearing and disappearing as the pallid lustre fell upon
their forms and faded away again.  Even to this day, it is said, the natives hold this dread
structure in awe and reverence, and will not pass by it in the night.

At noon I observed a bevy of nude native young ladies bathing in the sea, and went and sat
down on their clothes to keep them from being stolen. I begged them to come out, for the sea
was rising and I was satisfied that they were running some risk.  But they were not afraid,
and presently went on with their sport.  They were finished swimmers and divers, and enjoyed
themselves to the last degree.

They swam races, splashed and ducked and tumbled each other about, and filled the air with
their laughter.  It is said that the first thing an Islander learns is how to swim; learning
to walk being a matter of smaller consequence, comes afterward.  One hears tales of native
men and women swimming ashore from vessels many miles at sea--more miles, indeed, than I dare
vouch for or even mention.  And they tell of a native diver who went down in thirty or forty-foot
waters and brought up an anvil! I think he swallowed the anvil afterward, if my memory serves
me. However I will not urge this point.

I have spoken, several times, of the god Lono--I may as well furnish two or three sentences
concerning him.

The idol the natives worshipped for him was a slender, unornamented staff twelve feet long.
Tradition says he was a favorite god on the Island of Hawaii--a great king who had been deified
for meritorious services--just our own fashion of rewarding heroes, with the difference that
we would have made him a Postmaster instead of a god, no doubt.  In an angry moment he slew
his wife, a goddess named Kaikilani Aiii.  Remorse of conscience drove him mad, and tradition
presents us the singular spectacle of a god traveling "on the shoulder;" for in his gnawing
grief he wandered about from place to place boxing and wrestling with all whom he met.  Of
course this pastime soon lost its novelty, inasmuch as it must necessarily have been the case
that when so powerful a deity sent a frail human opponent "to grass" he never came back any
more.  Therefore, he instituted games called makahiki, and ordered that they should be held
in his honor, and then sailed for foreign lands on a three-cornered raft, stating that he would
return some day--and that was the last of Lono. He was never seen any more; his raft got swamped,
perhaps.  But the people always expected his return, and thus they were easily led to accept
Captain Cook as the restored god.

Some of the old natives believed Cook was Lono to the day of their death; but many did not,
for they could not understand how he could die if he was a god.

Only a mile or so from Kealakekua Bay is a spot of historic interest--the place where the last
battle was fought for idolatry.  Of course we visited it, and came away as wise as most people
do who go and gaze upon such mementoes of the past when in an unreflective mood.

While the first missionaries were on their way around the Horn, the idolatrous customs which
had obtained in the island, as far back as tradition reached were suddenly broken up.  Old
Kamehameha I., was dead, and his son, Liholiho, the new King was a free liver, a roystering,
dissolute fellow, and hated the restraints of the ancient tabu.  His assistant in the Government,
Kaahumanu, the Queen dowager, was proud and high-spirited, and hated the tabu because it restricted
the privileges of her sex and degraded all women very nearly to the level of brutes. So the
case stood.  Liholiho had half a mind to put his foot down, Kaahumahu had a whole mind to badger
him into doing it, and whiskey did the rest.  It was probably the rest.  It was probably the
first time whiskey ever prominently figured as an aid to civilization.  Liholiho came up to
Kailua as drunk as a piper, and attended a great feast; the determined Queen spurred his drunken
courage up to a reckless pitch, and then, while all the multitude stared in blank dismay, he
moved deliberately forward and sat down with the women!

They saw him eat from the same vessel with them, and were appalled! Terrible moments drifted
slowly by, and still the King ate, still he lived, still the lightnings of the insulted gods
were withheld! Then conviction came like a revelation--the superstitions of a hundred generations
passed from before the people like a cloud, and a shout went up, "the tabu is broken!  the
tabu is broken!"

Thus did King Liholiho and his dreadful whiskey preach the first sermon and prepare the way
for the new gospel that was speeding southward over the waves of the Atlantic.

The tabu broken and destruction failing to follow the awful sacrilege, the people, with that
childlike precipitancy which has always characterized them, jumped to the conclusion that their
gods were a weak and wretched swindle, just as they formerly jumped to the conclusion that
Captain Cook was no god, merely because he groaned, and promptly killed him without stopping
to inquire whether a god might not groan as well as a man if it suited his convenience to do
it; and satisfied that the idols were powerless to protect themselves they went to work at
once and pulled them down--hacked them to pieces--applied the torch--annihilated them!

The pagan priests were furious.  And well they might be; they had held the fattest offices
in the land, and now they were beggared; they had been great--they had stood above the chiefs--and
now they were vagabonds. They raised a revolt; they scared a number of people into joining
their standard, and Bekuokalani, an ambitious offshoot of royalty, was easily persuaded to
become their leader.

In the first skirmish the idolaters triumphed over the royal army sent against them, and full
of confidence they resolved to march upon Kailua. The King sent an envoy to try and conciliate
them, and came very near being an envoy short by the operation; the savages not only refused
to listen to him, but wanted to kill him.  So the King sent his men forth under Major General
Kalaimoku and the two host met a Kuamoo.  The battle was long and fierce--men and women fighting
side by side, as was the custom--and when the day was done the rebels were flying in every
direction in hopeless panic, and idolatry and the tabu were dead in the land!

The royalists marched gayly home to Kailua glorifying the new dispensation.  "There is no power
in the gods," said they; "they are a vanity and a lie.  The army with idols was weak; the army
without idols was strong and victorious!"

The nation was without a religion.

The missionary ship arrived in safety shortly afterward, timed by providential exactness to
meet the emergency, and the Gospel was planted as in a virgin soil.

CHAPTER LXXIII.

At noon, we hired a Kanaka to take us down to the ancient ruins at Honaunan in his canoe--price
two dollars--reasonable enough, for a sea voyage of eight miles, counting both ways.

The native canoe is an irresponsible looking contrivance.  I cannot think of anything to liken
it to but a boy's sled runner hollowed out, and that does not quite convey the correct idea.
It is about fifteen feet long, high and pointed at both ends, is a foot and a half or two feet
deep, and so narrow that if you wedged a fat man into it you might not get him out again. 
It sits on top of the water like a duck, but it has an outrigger and does not upset easily,
if you keep still.  This outrigger is formed of two long bent sticks like plow handles, which
project from one side, and to their outer ends is bound a curved beam composed of an extremely
light wood, which skims along the surface of the water and thus saves you from an upset on
that side, while the outrigger's weight is not so easily lifted as to make an upset on the
other side a thing to be greatly feared.  Still, until one gets used to sitting perched upon
this knifeblade, he is apt to reason within himself that it would be more comfortable if there
were just an outrigger or so on the other side also. I had the bow seat, and Billings sat amidships
and faced the Kanaka, who occupied the stern of the craft and did the paddling.  With the first
stroke the trim shell of a thing shot out from the shore like an arrow. There was not much
to see.  While we were on the shallow water of the reef, it was pastime to look down into the
limpid depths at the large bunches of branching coral--the unique shrubbery of the sea.  We
lost that, though, when we got out into the dead blue water of the deep. But we had the picture
of the surf, then, dashing angrily against the crag-bound shore and sending a foaming spray
high into the air.

There was interest in this beetling border, too, for it was honey-combed with quaint caves
and arches and tunnels, and had a rude semblance of the dilapidated architecture of ruined
keeps and castles rising out of the restless sea.  When this novelty ceased to be a novelty,
we turned our eyes shoreward and gazed at the long mountain with its rich green forests stretching
up into the curtaining clouds, and at the specks of houses in the rearward distance and the
diminished schooner riding sleepily at anchor.  And when these grew tiresome we dashed boldly
into the midst of a school of huge, beastly porpoises engaged at their eternal game of arching
over a wave and disappearing, and then doing it over again and keeping it up--always circling
over, in that way, like so many well-submerged wheels.  But the porpoises wheeled themselves
away, and then we were thrown upon our own resources.  It did not take many minutes to discover
that the sun was blazing like a bonfire, and that the weather was of a melting temperature.
It had a drowsing effect, too. In one place we came upon a large company of naked natives,
of both sexes and all ages, amusing themselves with the national pastime of surf-bathing. Each
heathen would paddle three or four hundred yards out to sea, (taking a short board with him),
then face the shore and wait for a particularly prodigious billow to come along; at the right
moment he would fling his board upon its foamy crest and himself upon the board, and here he
would come whizzing by like a bombshell!  It did not seem that a lightning express train could
shoot along at a more hair-lifting speed.  I tried surf-bathing once, subsequently, but made
a failure of it.  I got the board placed right, and at the right moment, too; but missed the
connection myself.--The board struck the shore in three quarters of a second, without any cargo,
and I struck the bottom about the same time, with a couple of barrels of water in me.  None
but natives ever master the art of surf-bathing thoroughly.

At the end of an hour, we had made the four miles, and landed on a level point of land, upon
which was a wide extent of old ruins, with many a tall cocoanut tree growing among them.  Here
was the ancient City of Refuge--a vast inclosure, whose stone walls were twenty feet thick
at the base, and fifteen feet high; an oblong square, a thousand and forty feet one way and
a fraction under seven hundred the other.  Within this inclosure, in early times, has been
three rude temples; each two hundred and ten feet long by one hundred wide, and thirteen high.

In those days, if a man killed another anywhere on the island the relatives were privileged
to take the murderer's life; and then a chase for life and liberty began--the outlawed criminal
flying through pathless forests and over mountain and plain, with his hopes fixed upon the
protecting walls of the City of Refuge, and the avenger of blood following hotly after him!

Sometimes the race was kept up to the very gates of the temple, and the panting pair sped through
long files of excited natives, who watched the contest with flashing eye and dilated nostril,
encouraging the hunted refugee with sharp, inspiriting ejaculations, and sending up a ringing
shout of exultation when the saving gates closed upon him and the cheated pursuer sank exhausted
at the threshold.  But sometimes the flying criminal fell under the hand of the avenger at
the very door, when one more brave stride, one more brief second of time would have brought
his feet upon the sacred ground and barred him against all harm.  Where did these isolated
pagans get this idea of a City of Refuge--this ancient Oriental custom?

This old sanctuary was sacred to all--even to rebels in arms and invading armies.  Once within
its walls, and confession made to the priest and absolution obtained, the wretch with a price
upon his head could go forth without fear and without danger--he was tabu, and to harm him
was death. The routed rebels in the lost battle for idolatry fled to this place to claim sanctuary,
and many were thus saved.

Close to the corner of the great inclosure is a round structure of stone, some six or eight
feet high, with a level top about ten or twelve in diameter.  This was the place of execution.
A high palisade of cocoanut piles shut out the cruel scenes from the vulgar multitude.  Here
criminals were killed, the flesh stripped from the bones and burned, and the bones secreted
in holes in the body of the structure.  If the man had been guilty of a high crime, the entire
corpse was burned.

The walls of the temple are a study.  The same food for speculation that is offered the visitor
to the Pyramids of Egypt he will find here--the mystery of how they were constructed by a people
unacquainted with science and mechanics.  The natives have no invention of their own for hoisting
heavy weights, they had no beasts of burden, and they have never even shown any knowledge of
the properties of the lever.  Yet some of the lava blocks quarried out, brought over rough,
broken ground, and built into this wall, six or seven feet from the ground, are of prodigious
size and would weigh tons.  How did they transport and how raise them?

Both the inner and outer surfaces of the walls present a smooth front and are very creditable
specimens of masonry.  The blocks are of all manner of shapes and sizes, but yet are fitted
together with the neatest exactness.  The gradual narrowing of the wall from the base upward
is accurately preserved.

No cement was used, but the edifice is firm and compact and is capable of resisting storm and
decay for centuries.  Who built this temple, and how was it built, and when, are mysteries
that may never be unraveled. Outside of these ancient walls lies a sort of coffin-shaped stone
eleven feet four inches long and three feet square at the small end (it would weigh a few thousand
pounds), which the high chief who held sway over this district many centuries ago brought thither
on his shoulder one day to use as a lounge!  This circumstance is established by the most reliable
traditions.  He used to lie down on it, in his indolent way, and keep an eye on his subjects
at work for him and see that there was no "soldiering" done.  And no doubt there was not any
done to speak of, because he was a man of that sort of build that incites to attention to business
on the part of an employee.

He was fourteen or fifteen feet high.  When he stretched himself at full length on his lounge,
his legs hung down over the end, and when he snored he woke the dead.  These facts are all
attested by irrefragable tradition.

On the other side of the temple is a monstrous seven-ton rock, eleven feet long, seven feet
wide and three feet thick.  It is raised a foot or a foot and a half above the ground, and
rests upon half a dozen little stony pedestals.  The same old fourteen-footer brought it down
from the mountain, merely for fun (he had his own notions about fun), and propped it up as
we find it now and as others may find it a century hence, for it would take a score of horses
to budge it from its position.  They say that fifty or sixty years ago the proud Queen Kaahumanu
used to fly to this rock for safety, whenever she had been making trouble with her fierce husband,
and hide under it until his wrath was appeased.  But these Kanakas will lie, and this statement
is one of their ablest efforts--for Kaahumanu was six feet high--she was bulky--she was built
like an ox--and she could no more have squeezed herself under that rock than she could have
passed between the cylinders of a sugar mill.  What could she gain by it, even if she succeeded?
To be chased and abused by a savage husband could not be otherwise than humiliating to her
high spirit, yet it could never make her feel so flat as an hour's repose under that rock would.

We walked a mile over a raised macadamized road of uniform width; a road paved with flat stones
and exhibiting in its every detail a considerable degree of engineering skill.  Some say that
that wise old pagan, Kamehameha I planned and built it, but others say it was built so long
before his time that the knowledge of who constructed it has passed out of the traditions.
In either case, however, as the handiwork of an untaught and degraded race it is a thing of
pleasing interest.  The stones are worn and smooth, and pushed apart in places, so that the
road has the exact appearance of those ancient paved highways leading out of Rome which one
sees in pictures.

The object of our tramp was to visit a great natural curiosity at the base of the foothills--a
congealed cascade of lava.  Some old forgotten volcanic eruption sent its broad river of fire
down the mountain side here, and it poured down in a great torrent from an overhanging bluff
some fifty feet high to the ground below.  The flaming torrent cooled in the winds from the
sea, and remains there to-day, all seamed, and frothed and rippled a petrified Niagara.  It
is very picturesque, and withal so natural that one might almost imagine it still flowed. 
A smaller stream trickled over the cliff and built up an isolated pyramid about thirty feet
high, which has the semblance of a mass of large gnarled and knotted vines and roots and stems
intricately twisted and woven together.

We passed in behind the cascade and the pyramid, and found the bluff pierced by several cavernous
tunnels, whose crooked courses we followed a long distance.

Two of these winding tunnels stand as proof of Nature's mining abilities. Their floors are
level, they are seven feet wide, and their roofs are gently arched.  Their height is not uniform,
however.  We passed through one a hundred feet long, which leads through a spur of the hill
and opens out well up in the sheer wall of a precipice whose foot rests in the waves of the
sea.  It is a commodious tunnel, except that there are occasional places in it where one must
stoop to pass under.  The roof is lava, of course, and is thickly studded with little lava-pointed
icicles an inch long, which hardened as they dripped.  They project as closely together as
the iron teeth of a corn-sheller, and if one will stand up straight and walk any distance there,
he can get his hair combed free of charge.

CHAPTER LXXIV.

We got back to the schooner in good time, and then sailed down to Kau, where we disembarked
and took final leave of the vessel.  Next day we bought horses and bent our way over the summer-clad
mountain-terraces, toward the great volcano of Kilauea (Ke-low-way-ah).  We made nearly a two
days' journey of it, but that was on account of laziness.  Toward sunset on the second day,
we reached an elevation of some four thousand feet above sea level, and as we picked our careful
way through billowy wastes of lava long generations ago stricken dead and cold in the climax
of its tossing fury, we began to come upon signs of the near presence of the volcano--signs
in the nature of ragged fissures that discharged jets of sulphurous vapor into the air, hot
from the molten ocean down in the bowels of the mountain.

Shortly the crater came into view.  I have seen Vesuvius since, but it was a mere toy, a child's
volcano, a soup-kettle, compared to this. Mount Vesuvius is a shapely cone thirty-six hundred
feet high; its crater an inverted cone only three hundred feet deep, and not more than a thousand
feet in diameter, if as much as that; its fires meagre, modest, and docile.--But here was a
vast, perpendicular, walled cellar, nine hundred feet deep in some places, thirteen hundred
in others, level-floored, and ten miles in circumference!  Here was a yawning pit upon whose
floor the armies of Russia could camp, and have room to spare.

Perched upon the edge of the crater, at the opposite end from where we stood, was a small look-out
house--say three miles away.  It assisted us, by comparison, to comprehend and appreciate the
great depth of the basin --it looked like a tiny martin-box clinging at the eaves of a cathedral.
After some little time spent in resting and looking and ciphering, we hurried on to the hotel.

By the path it is half a mile from the Volcano House to the lookout-house.  After a hearty
supper we waited until it was thoroughly dark and then started to the crater.  The first glance
in that direction revealed a scene of wild beauty.  There was a heavy fog over the crater and
it was splendidly illuminated by the glare from the fires below.  The illumination was two
miles wide and a mile high, perhaps; and if you ever, on a dark night and at a distance beheld
the light from thirty or forty blocks of distant buildings all on fire at once, reflected strongly
against over-hanging clouds, you can form a fair idea of what this looked like.

A colossal column of cloud towered to a great height in the air immediately above the crater,
and the outer swell of every one of its vast folds was dyed with a rich crimson luster, which
was subdued to a pale rose tint in the depressions between.  It glowed like a muffled torch
and stretched upward to a dizzy height toward the zenith.  I thought it just possible that
its like had not been seen since the children of Israel wandered on their long march through
the desert so many centuries ago over a path illuminated by the mysterious "pillar of fire."
And I was sure that I now had a vivid conception of what the majestic "pillar of fire" was
like, which almost amounted to a revelation.

Arrived at the little thatched lookout house, we rested our elbows on the railing in front
and looked abroad over the wide crater and down over the sheer precipice at the seething fires
beneath us.  The view was a startling improvement on my daylight experience.  I turned to see
the effect on the balance of the company and found the reddest-faced set of men I almost ever
saw.  In the strong light every countenance glowed like red-hot iron, every shoulder was suffused
with crimson and shaded rearward into dingy, shapeless obscurity!  The place below looked like
the infernal regions and these men like half-cooled devils just come up on a furlough.

I turned my eyes upon the volcano again.  The "cellar" was tolerably well lighted up.  For
a mile and a half in front of us and half a mile on either side, the floor of the abyss was
magnificently illuminated; beyond these limits the mists hung down their gauzy curtains and
cast a deceptive gloom over all that made the twinkling fires in the remote corners of the
crater seem countless leagues removed--made them seem like the camp-fires of a great army far
away.  Here was room for the imagination to work!  You could imagine those lights the width
of a continent away--and that hidden under the intervening darkness were hills, and winding
rivers, and weary wastes of plain and desert--and even then the tremendous vista stretched
on, and on, and on!--to the fires and far beyond!  You could not compass it--it was the idea
of eternity made tangible--and the longest end of it made visible to the naked eye!

The greater part of the vast floor of the desert under us was as black as ink, and apparently
smooth and level; but over a mile square of it was ringed and streaked and striped with a thousand
branching streams of liquid and gorgeously brilliant fire!  It looked like a colossal railroad
map of the State of Massachusetts done in chain lightning on a midnight sky.  Imagine it--imagine
a coal-black sky shivered into a tangled net-work of angry fire!

Here and there were gleaming holes a hundred feet in diameter, broken in the dark crust, and
in them the melted lava--the color a dazzling white just tinged with yellow--was boiling and
surging furiously; and from these holes branched numberless bright torrents in many directions,
like the spokes of a wheel, and kept a tolerably straight course for a while and then swept
round in huge rainbow curves, or made a long succession of sharp worm-fence angles, which looked
precisely like the fiercest jagged lightning.  These streams met other streams, and they mingled
with and crossed and recrossed each other in every conceivable direction, like skate tracks
on a popular skating ground.  Sometimes streams twenty or thirty feet wide flowed from the
holes to some distance without dividing --and through the opera-glasses we could see that they
ran down small, steep hills and were genuine cataracts of fire, white at their source, but
soon cooling and turning to the richest red, grained with alternate lines of black and gold.
Every now and then masses of the dark crust broke away and floated slowly down these streams
like rafts down a river. Occasionally the molten lava flowing under the superincumbent crust
broke through--split a dazzling streak, from five hundred to a thousand feet long, like a sudden
flash of lightning, and then acre after acre of the cold lava parted into fragments, turned
up edgewise like cakes of ice when a great river breaks up, plunged downward and were swallowed
in the crimson cauldron.  Then the wide expanse of the "thaw" maintained a ruddy glow for a
while, but shortly cooled and became black and level again. During a "thaw," every dismembered
cake was marked by a glittering white border which was superbly shaded inward by aurora borealis
rays, which were a flaming yellow where they joined the white border, and from thence toward
their points tapered into glowing crimson, then into a rich, pale carmine, and finally into
a faint blush that held its own a moment and then dimmed and turned black.  Some of the streams
preferred to mingle together in a tangle of fantastic circles, and then they looked something
like the confusion of ropes one sees on a ship's deck when she has just taken in sail and dropped
anchor--provided one can imagine those ropes on fire.

Through the glasses, the little fountains scattered about looked very beautiful.  They boiled,
and coughed, and spluttered, and discharged sprays of stringy red fire--of about the consistency
of mush, for instance--from ten to fifteen feet into the air, along with a shower of brilliant
white sparks--a quaint and unnatural mingling of gouts of blood and snow-flakes!

We had circles and serpents and streaks of lightning all twined and wreathed and tied together,
without a break throughout an area more than a mile square (that amount of ground was covered,
though it was not strictly "square"), and it was with a feeling of placid exultation that we
reflected that many years had elapsed since any visitor had seen such a splendid display--since
any visitor had seen anything more than the now snubbed and insignificant "North" and "South"
lakes in action.  We had been reading old files of Hawaiian newspapers and the "Record Book"
at the Volcano House, and were posted.

I could see the North Lake lying out on the black floor away off in the outer edge of our panorama,
and knitted to it by a web-work of lava streams.  In its individual capacity it looked very
little more respectable than a schoolhouse on fire.  True, it was about nine hundred feet long
and two or three hundred wide, but then, under the present circumstances, it necessarily appeared
rather insignificant, and besides it was so distant from us.

I forgot to say that the noise made by the bubbling lava is not great, heard as we heard it
from our lofty perch.  It makes three distinct sounds--a rushing, a hissing, and a coughing
or puffing sound; and if you stand on the brink and close your eyes it is no trick at all to
imagine that you are sweeping down a river on a large low-pressure steamer, and that you hear
the hissing of the steam about her boilers, the puffing from her escape-pipes and the churning
rush of the water abaft her wheels.  The smell of sulphur is strong, but not unpleasant to
a sinner.

We left the lookout house at ten o'clock in a half cooked condition, because of the heat from
Pele's furnaces, and wrapping up in blankets, for the night was cold, we returned to our Hotel.

CHAPTER LXXV.

The next night was appointed for a visit to the bottom of the crater, for we desired to traverse
its floor and see the "North Lake" (of fire) which lay two miles away, toward the further wall.
After dark half a dozen of us set out, with lanterns and native guides, and climbed down a
crazy, thousand-foot pathway in a crevice fractured in the crater wall, and reached the bottom
in safety.

The irruption of the previous evening had spent its force and the floor looked black and cold;
but when we ran out upon it we found it hot yet, to the feet, and it was likewise riven with
crevices which revealed the underlying fires gleaming vindictively.  A neighboring cauldron
was threatening to overflow, and this added to the dubiousness of the situation.  So the native
guides refused to continue the venture, and then every body deserted except a stranger named
Marlette.  He said he had been in the crater a dozen times in daylight and believed he could
find his way through it at night.  He thought that a run of three hundred yards would carry
us over the hottest part of the floor and leave us our shoe-soles.  His pluck gave me back-bone.
We took one lantern and instructed the guides to hang the other to the roof of the look-out
house to serve as a beacon for us in case we got lost, and then the party started back up the
precipice and Marlette and I made our run. We skipped over the hot floor and over the red crevices
with brisk dispatch and reached the cold lava safe but with pretty warm feet.  Then we took
things leisurely and comfortably, jumping tolerably wide and probably bottomless chasms, and
threading our way through picturesque lava upheavals with considerable confidence.  When we
got fairly away from the cauldrons of boiling fire, we seemed to be in a gloomy desert, and
a suffocatingly dark one, surrounded by dim walls that seemed to tower to the sky.  The only
cheerful objects were the glinting stars high overhead.

By and by Marlette shouted "Stop!" I never stopped quicker in my life. I asked what the matter
was.  He said we were out of the path.  He said we must not try to go on till we found it again,
for we were surrounded with beds of rotten lava through which we could easily break and plunge
down a thousand feet.  I thought eight hundred would answer for me, and was about to say so
when Marlette partly proved his statement by accidentally crushing through and disappearing
to his arm-pits.

He got out and we hunted for the path with the lantern.  He said there was only one path and
that it was but vaguely defined.  We could not find it.  The lava surface was all alike in
the lantern light.  But he was an ingenious man.  He said it was not the lantern that had informed
him that we were out of the path, but his feet.  He had noticed a crisp grinding of fine lava-needles
under his feet, and some instinct reminded him that in the path these were all worn away. 
So he put the lantern behind him, and began to search with his boots instead of his eyes. 
It was good sagacity.  The first time his foot touched a surface that did not grind under it
he announced that the trail was found again; and after that we kept up a sharp listening for
the rasping sound and it always warned us in time.

It was a long tramp, but an exciting one.  We reached the North Lake between ten and eleven
o'clock, and sat down on a huge overhanging lava-shelf, tired but satisfied.  The spectacle
presented was worth coming double the distance to see.  Under us, and stretching away before
us, was a heaving sea of molten fire of seemingly limitless extent.  The glare from it was
so blinding that it was some time before we could bear to look upon it steadily.

It was like gazing at the sun at noon-day, except that the glare was not quite so white.  At
unequal distances all around the shores of the lake were nearly white-hot chimneys or hollow
drums of lava, four or five feet high, and up through them were bursting gorgeous sprays of
lava-gouts and gem spangles, some white, some red and some golden--a ceaseless bombardment,
and one that fascinated the eye with its unapproachable splendor.  The mere distant jets, sparkling
up through an intervening gossamer veil of vapor, seemed miles away; and the further the curving
ranks of fiery fountains receded, the more fairy-like and beautiful they appeared.

Now and then the surging bosom of the lake under our noses would calm down ominously and seem
to be gathering strength for an enterprise; and then all of a sudden a red dome of lava of
the bulk of an ordinary dwelling would heave itself aloft like an escaping balloon, then burst
asunder, and out of its heart would flit a pale-green film of vapor, and float upward and vanish
in the darkness--a released soul soaring homeward from captivity with the damned, no doubt.
The crashing plunge of the ruined dome into the lake again would send a world of seething billows
lashing against the shores and shaking the foundations of our perch.  By and by, a loosened
mass of the hanging shelf we sat on tumbled into the lake, jarring the surroundings like an
earthquake and delivering a suggestion that may have been intended for a hint, and may not.
We did not wait to see.

We got lost again on our way back, and were more than an hour hunting for the path.  We were
where we could see the beacon lantern at the look-out house at the time, but thought it was
a star and paid no attention to it. We reached the hotel at two o'clock in the morning pretty
well fagged out.

Kilauea never overflows its vast crater, but bursts a passage for its lava through the mountain
side when relief is necessary, and then the destruction is fearful.  About 1840 it rent its
overburdened stomach and sent a broad river of fire careering down to the sea, which swept
away forests, huts, plantations and every thing else that lay in its path. The stream was five
miles broad, in places, and two hundred feet deep, and the distance it traveled was forty miles.
It tore up and bore away acre-patches of land on its bosom like rafts--rocks, trees and all
intact.  At night the red glare was visible a hundred miles at sea; and at a distance of forty
miles fine print could be read at midnight.  The atmosphere was poisoned with sulphurous vapors
and choked with falling ashes, pumice stones and cinders; countless columns of smoke rose up
and blended together in a tumbled canopy that hid the heavens and glowed with a ruddy flush
reflected from the fires below; here and there jets of lava sprung hundreds of feet into the
air and burst into rocket-sprays that returned to earth in a crimson rain; and all the while
the laboring mountain shook with Nature's great palsy and voiced its distress in moanings and
the muffled booming of subterranean thunders.

Fishes were killed for twenty miles along the shore, where the lava entered the sea.  The earthquakes
caused some loss of human life, and a prodigious tidal wave swept inland, carrying every thing
before it and drowning a number of natives.  The devastation consummated along the route traversed
by the river of lava was complete and incalculable.  Only a Pompeii and a Herculaneum were
needed at the foot of Kilauea to make the story of the irruption immortal.

CHAPTER LXXVI.

We rode horseback all around the island of Hawaii (the crooked road making the distance two
hundred miles), and enjoyed the journey very much.  We were more than a week making the trip,
because our Kanaka horses would not go by a house or a hut without stopping--whip and spur
could not alter their minds about it, and so we finally found that it economized time to let
them have their way.  Upon inquiry the mystery was explained: the natives are such thorough-going
gossips that they never pass a house without stopping to swap news, and consequently their
horses learn to regard that sort of thing as an essential part of the whole duty of man, and
his salvation not to be compassed without it.  However, at a former crisis of my life I had
once taken an aristocratic young lady out driving, behind a horse that had just retired from
a long and honorable career as the moving impulse of a milk wagon, and so this present experience
awoke a reminiscent sadness in me in place of the exasperation more natural to the occasion.
I remembered how helpless I was that day, and how humiliated; how ashamed I was of having intimated
to the girl that I had always owned the horse and was accustomed to grandeur; how hard I tried
to appear easy, and even vivacious, under suffering that was consuming my vitals; how placidly
and maliciously the girl smiled, and kept on smiling, while my hot blushes baked themselves
into a permanent blood-pudding in my face; how the horse ambled from one side of the street
to the other and waited complacently before every third house two minutes and a quarter while
I belabored his back and reviled him in my heart; how I tried to keep him from turning corners
and failed; how I moved heaven and earth to get him out of town, and did not succeed; how he
traversed the entire settlement and delivered imaginary milk at a hundred and sixty-two different
domiciles, and how he finally brought up at a dairy depot and refused to budge further, thus
rounding and completing the revealment of what the plebeian service of his life had been; how,
in eloquent silence, I walked the girl home, and how, when I took leave of her, her parting
remark scorched my soul and appeared to blister me all over: she said that my horse was a fine,
capable animal, and I must have taken great comfort in him in my time--but that if I would
take along some milk-tickets next time, and appear to deliver them at the various halting places,
it might expedite his movements a little. There was a coolness between us after that.

In one place in the island of Hawaii, we saw a laced and ruffled cataract of limpid water leaping
from a sheer precipice fifteen hundred feet high; but that sort of scenery finds its stanchest
ally in the arithmetic rather than in spectacular effect.  If one desires to be so stirred
by a poem of Nature wrought in the happily commingled graces of picturesque rocks, glimpsed
distances, foliage, color, shifting lights and shadows, and failing water, that the tears almost
come into his eyes so potent is the charm exerted, he need not go away from America to enjoy
such an experience.  The Rainbow Fall, in Watkins Glen (N.Y.), on the Erie railway, is an example.
It would recede into pitiable insignificance if the callous tourist drew on arithmetic on it;
but left to compete for the honors simply on scenic grace and beauty--the grand, the august
and the sublime being barred the contest--it could challenge the old world and the new to produce
its peer.

In one locality, on our journey, we saw some horses that had been born and reared on top of
the mountains, above the range of running water, and consequently they had never drank that
fluid in their lives, but had been always accustomed to quenching their thirst by eating dew-laden
or shower-wetted leaves.  And now it was destructively funny to see them sniff suspiciously
at a pail of water, and then put in their noses and try to take a bite out of the fluid, as
if it were a solid.  Finding it liquid, they would snatch away their heads and fall to trembling,
snorting and showing other evidences of fright.  When they became convinced at last that the
water was friendly and harmless, they thrust in their noses up to their eyes, brought out a
mouthful of water, and proceeded to chew it complacently.  We saw a man coax, kick and spur
one of them five or ten minutes before he could make it cross a running stream.  It spread
its nostrils, distended its eyes and trembled all over, just as horses customarily do in the
presence of a serpent--and for aught I know it thought the crawling stream was a serpent.

In due course of time our journey came to an end at Kawaehae (usually pronounced To-a-hi--and
before we find fault with this elaborate orthographical method of arriving at such an unostentatious
result, let us lop off the ugh from our word "though").  I made this horseback trip on a mule.
I paid ten dollars for him at Kau (Kah-oo), added four to get him shod, rode him two hundred
miles, and then sold him for fifteen dollars.  I mark the circumstance with a white stone (in
the absence of chalk--for I never saw a white stone that a body could mark anything with, though
out of respect for the ancients I have tried it often enough); for up to that day and date
it was the first strictly commercial transaction I had ever entered into, and come out winner.
We returned to Honolulu, and from thence sailed to the island of Maui, and spent several weeks
there very pleasantly.  I still remember, with a sense of indolent luxury, a picnicing excursion
up a romantic gorge there, called the Iao Valley.  The trail lay along the edge of a brawling
stream in the bottom of the gorge--a shady route, for it was well roofed with the verdant domes
of forest trees.  Through openings in the foliage we glimpsed picturesque scenery that revealed
ceaseless changes and new charms with every step of our progress.  Perpendicular walls from
one to three thousand feet high guarded the way, and were sumptuously plumed with varied foliage,
in places, and in places swathed in waving ferns. Passing shreds of cloud trailed their shadows
across these shining fronts, mottling them with blots; billowy masses of white vapor hid the
turreted summits, and far above the vapor swelled a background of gleaming green crags and
cones that came and went, through the veiling mists, like islands drifting in a fog; sometimes
the cloudy curtain descended till half the canon wall was hidden, then shredded gradually away
till only airy glimpses of the ferny front appeared through it--then swept aloft and left it
glorified in the sun again.  Now and then, as our position changed, rocky bastions swung out
from the wall, a mimic ruin of castellated ramparts and crumbling towers clothed with mosses
and hung with garlands of swaying vines, and as we moved on they swung back again and hid themselves
once more in the foliage.  Presently a verdure-clad needle of stone, a thousand feet high,
stepped out from behind a corner, and mounted guard over the mysteries of the valley.  It seemed
to me that if Captain Cook needed a monument, here was one ready made--therefore, why not put
up his sign here, and sell out the venerable cocoanut stump?

But the chief pride of Maui is her dead volcano of Haleakala--which means, translated, "the
house of the sun."  We climbed a thousand feet up the side of this isolated colossus one afternoon;
then camped, and next day climbed the remaining nine thousand feet, and anchored on the summit,
where we built a fire and froze and roasted by turns, all night.  With the first pallor of
dawn we got up and saw things that were new to us. Mounted on a commanding pinnacle, we watched
Nature work her silent wonders.  The sea was spread abroad on every hand, its tumbled surface
seeming only wrinkled and dimpled in the distance.  A broad valley below appeared like an ample
checker-board, its velvety green sugar plantations alternating with dun squares of barrenness
and groves of trees diminished to mossy tufts.  Beyond the valley were mountains picturesquely
grouped together; but bear in mind, we fancied that we were looking up at these things--not
down.  We seemed to sit in the bottom of a symmetrical bowl ten thousand feet deep, with the
valley and the skirting sea lifted away into the sky above us!  It was curious; and not only
curious, but aggravating; for it was having our trouble all for nothing, to climb ten thousand
feet toward heaven and then have to look up at our scenery. However, we had to be content with
it and make the best of it; for, all we could do we could not coax our landscape down out of
the clouds. Formerly, when I had read an article in which Poe treated of this singular fraud
perpetrated upon the eye by isolated great altitudes, I had looked upon the matter as an invention
of his own fancy.

I have spoken of the outside view--but we had an inside one, too.  That was the yawning dead
crater, into which we now and then tumbled rocks, half as large as a barrel, from our perch,
and saw them go careering down the almost perpendicular sides, bounding three hundred feet
at a jump; kicking up cast-clouds wherever they struck; diminishing to our view as they sped
farther into distance; growing invisible, finally, and only betraying their course by faint
little puffs of dust; and coming to a halt at last in the bottom of the abyss, two thousand
five hundred feet down from where they started!  It was magnificent sport.  We wore ourselves
out at it.

The crater of Vesuvius, as I have before remarked, is a modest pit about a thousand feet deep
and three thousand in circumference; that of Kilauea is somewhat deeper, and ten miles in circumference.
But what are either of them compared to the vacant stomach of Haleakala?  I will not offer
any figures of my own, but give official ones--those of Commander Wilkes, U.S.N., who surveyed
it and testifies that it is twenty-seven miles in circumference!  If it had a level bottom
it would make a fine site for a city like London.  It must have afforded a spectacle worth
contemplating in the old days when its furnaces gave full rein to their anger.

Presently vagrant white clouds came drifting along, high over the sea and the valley; then
they came in couples and groups; then in imposing squadrons; gradually joining their forces,
they banked themselves solidly together, a thousand feet under us, and totally shut out land
and ocean --not a vestige of anything was left in view but just a little of the rim of the
crater, circling away from the pinnacle whereon we sat (for a ghostly procession of wanderers
from the filmy hosts without had drifted through a chasm in the crater wall and filed round
and round, and gathered and sunk and blended together till the abyss was stored to the brim
with a fleecy fog).  Thus banked, motion ceased, and silence reigned.  Clear to the horizon,
league on league, the snowy floor stretched without a break--not level, but in rounded folds,
with shallow creases between, and with here and there stately piles of vapory architecture
lifting themselves aloft out of the common plain--some near at hand, some in the middle distances,
and others relieving the monotony of the remote solitudes.  There was little conversation,
for the impressive scene overawed speech.  I felt like the Last Man, neglected of the judgment,
and left pinnacled in mid-heaven, a forgotten relic of a vanished world.

While the hush yet brooded, the messengers of the coming resurrection appeared in the East.
A growing warmth suffused the horizon, and soon the sun emerged and looked out over the cloud-waste,
flinging bars of ruddy light across it, staining its folds and billow-caps with blushes, purpling
the shaded troughs between, and glorifying the massy vapor-palaces and cathedrals with a wasteful
splendor of all blendings and combinations of rich coloring.

It was the sublimest spectacle I ever witnessed, and I think the memory of it will remain with
me always.

CHAPTER LXXVII.

I stumbled upon one curious character in the Island of Mani.  He became a sore annoyance to
me in the course of time.  My first glimpse of him was in a sort of public room in the town
of Lahaina.  He occupied a chair at the opposite side of the apartment, and sat eyeing our
party with interest for some minutes, and listening as critically to what we were saying as
if he fancied we were talking to him and expecting him to reply.  I thought it very sociable
in a stranger.  Presently, in the course of conversation, I made a statement bearing upon the
subject under discussion--and I made it with due modesty, for there was nothing extraordinary
about it, and it was only put forth in illustration of a point at issue.  I had barely finished
when this person spoke out with rapid utterance and feverish anxiety:

"Oh, that was certainly remarkable, after a fashion, but you ought to have seen my chimney--you
ought to have seen my chimney, sir!  Smoke! I wish I may hang if--Mr. Jones, you remember that
chimney--you must remember that chimney!  No, no--I recollect, now, you warn't living on this
side of the island then.  But I am telling you nothing but the truth, and I wish I may never
draw another breath if that chimney didn't smoke so that the smoke actually got caked in it
and I had to dig it out with a pickaxe!  You may smile, gentlemen, but the High Sheriff's got
a hunk of it which I dug out before his eyes, and so it's perfectly easy for you to go and
examine for yourselves."

The interruption broke up the conversation, which had already begun to lag, and we presently
hired some natives and an out-rigger canoe or two, and went out to overlook a grand surf-bathing
contest.

Two weeks after this, while talking in a company, I looked up and detected this same man boring
through and through me with his intense eye, and noted again his twitching muscles and his
feverish anxiety to speak.  The moment I paused, he said:

"Beg your pardon, sir, beg your pardon, but it can only be considered remarkable when brought
into strong outline by isolation.  Sir, contrasted with a circumstance which occurred in my
own experience, it instantly becomes commonplace.  No, not that--for I will not speak so discourteously
of any experience in the career of a stranger and a gentleman--but I am obliged to say that
you could not, and you would not ever again refer to this tree as a large one, if you could
behold, as I have, the great Yakmatack tree, in the island of Ounaska, sea of Kamtchatka--a
tree, sir, not one inch less than four hundred and fifteen feet in solid diameter!--and I wish
I may die in a minute if it isn't so! Oh, you needn't look so questioning, gentlemen; here's
old Cap Saltmarsh can say whether I know what I'm talking about or not.  I showed him the tree."

Captain Saltmarsh--"Come, now, cat your anchor, lad--you're heaving too taut.  You promised
to show me that stunner, and I walked more than eleven mile with you through the cussedest
jungle I ever see, a hunting for it; but the tree you showed me finally warn't as big around
as a beer cask, and you know that your own self, Markiss."

"Hear the man talk!  Of course the tree was reduced that way, but didn't I explain it?  Answer
me, didn't I?  Didn't I say I wished you could have seen it when I first saw it?  When you
got up on your ear and called me names, and said I had brought you eleven miles to look at
a sapling, didn't I explain to you that all the whale-ships in the North Seas had been wooding
off of it for more than twenty-seven years?  And did you s'pose the tree could last for-ever,
con-found it?  I don't see why you want to keep back things that way, and try to injure a person
that's never done you any harm."

Somehow this man's presence made me uncomfortable, and I was glad when a native arrived at
that moment to say that Muckawow, the most companionable and luxurious among the rude war-chiefs
of the Islands, desired us to come over and help him enjoy a missionary whom he had found trespassing
on his grounds.

I think it was about ten days afterward that, as I finished a statement I was making for the
instruction of a group of friends and acquaintances, and which made no pretence of being extraordinary,
a familiar voice chimed instantly in on the heels of my last word, and said:

"But, my dear sir, there was nothing remarkable about that horse, or the circumstance either--nothing
in the world!  I mean no sort of offence when I say it, sir, but you really do not know anything
whatever about speed.  Bless your heart, if you could only have seen my mare Margaretta; there
was a beast!--there was lightning for you!  Trot!  Trot is no name for it--she flew!  How she
could whirl a buggy along!  I started her out once, sir--Colonel Bilgewater, you recollect
that animal perfectly well --I started her out about thirty or thirty-five yards ahead of the
awfullest storm I ever saw in my life, and it chased us upwards of eighteen miles!  It did,
by the everlasting hills!  And I'm telling you nothing but the unvarnished truth when I say
that not one single drop of rain fell on me--not a single drop, sir!  And I swear to it!  But
my dog was a-swimming behind the wagon all the way!"

For a week or two I stayed mostly within doors, for I seemed to meet this person everywhere,
and he had become utterly hateful to me.  But one evening I dropped in on Captain Perkins and
his friends, and we had a sociable time.  About ten o'clock I chanced to be talking about a
merchant friend of mine, and without really intending it, the remark slipped out that he was
a little mean and parsimonious about paying his workmen.  Instantly, through the steam of a
hot whiskey punch on the opposite side of the room, a remembered voice shot--and for a moment
I trembled on the imminent verge of profanity:

"Oh, my dear sir, really you expose yourself when you parade that as a surprising circumstance.
Bless your heart and hide, you are ignorant of the very A B C of meanness! ignorant as the
unborn babe! ignorant as unborn twins!  You don't know anything about it!  It is pitiable to
see you, sir, a well-spoken and prepossessing stranger, making such an enormous pow-wow here
about a subject concerning which your ignorance is perfectly humiliating!  Look me in the eye,
if you please; look me in the eye.  John James Godfrey was the son of poor but honest parents
in the State of Mississippi--boyhood friend of mine--bosom comrade in later years.  Heaven
rest his noble spirit, he is gone from us now.  John James Godfrey was hired by the Hayblossom
Mining Company in California to do some blasting for them--the "Incorporated Company of Mean
Men," the boys used to call it.

"Well, one day he drilled a hole about four feet deep and put in an awful blast of powder,
and was standing over it ramming it down with an iron crowbar about nine foot long, when the
cussed thing struck a spark and fired the powder, and scat! away John Godfrey whizzed like
a skyrocket, him and his crowbar!  Well, sir, he kept on going up in the air higher and higher,
till he didn't look any bigger than a boy--and he kept going on up higher and higher, till
he didn't look any bigger than a doll--and he kept on going up higher and higher, till he didn't
look any bigger than a little small bee--and then he went out of sight!  Presently he came
in sight again, looking like a little small bee--and he came along down further and further,
till he looked as big as a doll again--and down further and further, till he was as big as
a boy again--and further and further, till he was a full-sized man once more; and then him
and his crowbar came a wh-izzing down and lit right exactly in the same old tracks and went
to r-ramming down, and r-ramming down, and r-ramming down again, just the same as if nothing
had happened!  Now do you know, that poor cuss warn't gone only sixteen minutes, and yet that
Incorporated Company of Mean Men DOCKED HIM FOR THE LOST TIME!"

I said I had the headache, and so excused myself and went home.  And on my diary I entered
"another night spoiled" by this offensive loafer. And a fervent curse was set down with it
to keep the item company.  And the very next day I packed up, out of all patience, and left
the Island.

Almost from the very beginning, I regarded that man as a liar.

The line of points represents an interval of years.  At the end of which time the opinion hazarded
in that last sentence came to be gratifyingly and remarkably endorsed, and by wholly disinterested
persons.  The man Markiss was found one morning hanging to a beam of his own bedroom (the doors
and windows securely fastened on the inside), dead; and on his breast was pinned a paper in
his own handwriting begging his friends to suspect no innocent person of having any thing to
do with his death, for that it was the work of his own hands entirely.  Yet the jury brought
in the astounding verdict that deceased came to his death "by the hands of some person or persons
unknown!"  They explained that the perfectly undeviating consistency of Markiss's character
for thirty years towered aloft as colossal and indestructible testimony, that whatever statement
he chose to make was entitled to instant and unquestioning acceptance as a lie.  And they furthermore
stated their belief that he was not dead, and instanced the strong circumstantial evidence
of his own word that he was dead--and beseeched the coroner to delay the funeral as long as
possible, which was done.  And so in the tropical climate of Lahaina the coffin stood open
for seven days, and then even the loyal jury gave him up.  But they sat on him again, and changed
their verdict to "suicide induced by mental aberration"--because, said they, with penetration,
"he said he was dead, and he was dead; and would he have told the truth if he had been in his
right mind?  No, sir."

CHAPTER LXXVIII.

After half a year's luxurious vagrancy in the islands, I took shipping in a sailing vessel,
and regretfully returned to San Francisco--a voyage in every way delightful, but without an
incident: unless lying two long weeks in a dead calm, eighteen hundred miles from the nearest
land, may rank as an incident.  Schools of whales grew so tame that day after day they played
about the ship among the porpoises and the sharks without the least apparent fear of us, and
we pelted them with empty bottles for lack of better sport.  Twenty-four hours afterward these
bottles would be still lying on the glassy water under our noses, showing that the ship had
not moved out of her place in all that time.  The calm was absolutely breathless, and the surface
of the sea absolutely without a wrinkle. For a whole day and part of a night we lay so close
to another ship that had drifted to our vicinity, that we carried on conversations with her
passengers, introduced each other by name, and became pretty intimately acquainted with people
we had never heard of before, and have never heard of since.  This was the only vessel we saw
during the whole lonely voyage.  We had fifteen passengers, and to show how hard pressed they
were at last for occupation and amusement, I will mention that the gentlemen gave a good part
of their time every day, during the calm, to trying to sit on an empty champagne bottle (lying
on its side), and thread a needle without touching their heels to the deck, or falling over;
and the ladies sat in the shade of the mainsail, and watched the enterprise with absorbing
interest.  We were at sea five Sundays; and yet, but for the almanac, we never would have known
but that all the other days were Sundays too.

I was home again, in San Francisco, without means and without employment. I tortured my brain
for a saving scheme of some kind, and at last a public lecture occurred to me!  I sat down
and wrote one, in a fever of hopeful anticipation.  I showed it to several friends, but they
all shook their heads.  They said nobody would come to hear me, and I would make a humiliating
failure of it.

They said that as I had never spoken in public, I would break down in the delivery, anyhow.
I was disconsolate now.  But at last an editor slapped me on the back and told me to "go ahead."
He said, "Take the largest house in town, and charge a dollar a ticket."  The audacity of the
proposition was charming; it seemed fraught with practical worldly wisdom, however.  The proprietor
of the several theatres endorsed the advice, and said I might have his handsome new opera-house
at half price --fifty dollars.  In sheer desperation I took it--on credit, for sufficient reasons.
In three days I did a hundred and fifty dollars' worth of printing and advertising, and was
the most distressed and frightened creature on the Pacific coast.  I could not sleep--who could,
under such circumstances?  For other people there was facetiousness in the last line of my
posters, but to me it was plaintive with a pang when I wrote it:

           "Doors open at 7 1/2.  The trouble will begin at 8."

That line has done good service since.  Showmen have borrowed it frequently.  I have even seen
it appended to a newspaper advertisement reminding school pupils in vacation what time next
term would begin.  As those three days of suspense dragged by, I grew more and more unhappy.
I had sold two hundred tickets among my personal friends, but I feared they might not come.
My lecture, which had seemed "humorous" to me, at first, grew steadily more and more dreary,
till not a vestige of fun seemed left, and I grieved that I could not bring a coffin on the
stage and turn the thing into a funeral.  I was so panic-stricken, at last, that I went to
three old friends, giants in stature, cordial by nature, and stormy-voiced, and said:

"This thing is going to be a failure; the jokes in it are so dim that nobody will ever see
them; I would like to have you sit in the parquette, and help me through."

They said they would.  Then I went to the wife of a popular citizen, and said that if she was
willing to do me a very great kindness, I would be glad if she and her husband would sit prominently
in the left-hand stage-box, where the whole house could see them.  I explained that I should
need help, and would turn toward her and smile, as a signal, when I had been delivered of an
obscure joke--"and then," I added, "don't wait to investigate, but respond!"

She promised.  Down the street I met a man I never had seen before.  He had been drinking,
and was beaming with smiles and good nature.  He said:

"My name's Sawyer.  You don't know me, but that don't matter.  I haven't got a cent, but if
you knew how bad I wanted to laugh, you'd give me a ticket.  Come, now, what do you say?"

"Is your laugh hung on a hair-trigger?--that is, is it critical, or can you get it off easy?"

My drawling infirmity of speech so affected him that he laughed a specimen or two that struck
me as being about the article I wanted, and I gave him a ticket, and appointed him to sit in
the second circle, in the centre, and be responsible for that division of the house.  I gave
him minute instructions about how to detect indistinct jokes, and then went away, and left
him chuckling placidly over the novelty of the idea.

I ate nothing on the last of the three eventful days--I only suffered. I had advertised that
on this third day the box-office would be opened for the sale of reserved seats.  I crept down
to the theater at four in the afternoon to see if any sales had been made.  The ticket seller
was gone, the box-office was locked up.  I had to swallow suddenly, or my heart would have
got out.  "No sales," I said to myself; "I might have known it."  I thought of suicide, pretended
illness, flight.  I thought of these things in earnest, for I was very miserable and scared.
But of course I had to drive them away, and prepare to meet my fate.  I could not wait for
half-past seven--I wanted to face the horror, and end it --the feeling of many a man doomed
to hang, no doubt.  I went down back streets at six o'clock, and entered the theatre by the
back door. I stumbled my way in the dark among the ranks of canvas scenery, and stood on the
stage.  The house was gloomy and silent, and its emptiness depressing.  I went into the dark
among the scenes again, and for an hour and a half gave myself up to the horrors, wholly unconscious
of everything else.  Then I heard a murmur; it rose higher and higher, and ended in a crash,
mingled with cheers.  It made my hair raise, it was so close to me, and so loud.

There was a pause, and then another; presently came a third, and before I well knew what I
was about, I was in the middle of the stage, staring at a sea of faces, bewildered by the fierce
glare of the lights, and quaking in every limb with a terror that seemed like to take my life
away.  The house was full, aisles and all!

The tumult in my heart and brain and legs continued a full minute before I could gain any command
over myself.  Then I recognized the charity and the friendliness in the faces before me, and
little by little my fright melted away, and I began to talk Within three or four minutes I
was comfortable, and even content.  My three chief allies, with three auxiliaries, were on
hand, in the parquette, all sitting together, all armed with bludgeons, and all ready to make
an onslaught upon the feeblest joke that might show its head.  And whenever a joke did fall,
their bludgeons came down and their faces seemed to split from ear to ear.

Sawyer, whose hearty countenance was seen looming redly in the centre of the second circle,
took it up, and the house was carried handsomely. Inferior jokes never fared so royally before.
Presently I delivered a bit of serious matter with impressive unction (it was my pet), and
the audience listened with an absorbed hush that gratified me more than any applause; and as
I dropped the last word of the clause, I happened to turn and catch Mrs.--'s intent and waiting
eye; my conversation with her flashed upon me, and in spite of all I could do I smiled.  She
took it for the signal, and promptly delivered a mellow laugh that touched off the whole audience;
and the explosion that followed was the triumph of the evening.  I thought that that honest
man Sawyer would choke himself; and as for the bludgeons, they performed like pile-drivers.
But my poor little morsel of pathos was ruined.  It was taken in good faith as an intentional
joke, and the prize one of the entertainment, and I wisely let it go at that.

All the papers were kind in the morning; my appetite returned; I had a abundance of money.
All's well that ends well.

CHAPTER LXXIX.

I launched out as a lecturer, now, with great boldness.  I had the field all to myself, for
public lectures were almost an unknown commodity in the Pacific market.  They are not so rare,
now, I suppose.  I took an old personal friend along to play agent for me, and for two or three
weeks we roamed through Nevada and California and had a very cheerful time of it. Two days
before I lectured in Virginia City, two stagecoaches were robbed within two miles of the town.
The daring act was committed just at dawn, by six masked men, who sprang up alongside the coaches,
presented revolvers at the heads of the drivers and passengers, and commanded a general dismount.
Everybody climbed down, and the robbers took their watches and every cent they had.  Then they
took gunpowder and blew up the express specie boxes and got their contents.  The leader of
the robbers was a small, quick-spoken man, and the fame of his vigorous manner and his intrepidity
was in everybody's mouth when we arrived.

The night after instructing Virginia, I walked over the desolate "divide" and down to Gold
Hill, and lectured there.  The lecture done, I stopped to talk with a friend, and did not start
back till eleven.  The "divide" was high, unoccupied ground, between the towns, the scene of
twenty midnight murders and a hundred robberies.  As we climbed up and stepped out on this
eminence, the Gold Hill lights dropped out of sight at our backs, and the night closed down
gloomy and dismal.  A sharp wind swept the place, too, and chilled our perspiring bodies through.

"I tell you I don't like this place at night," said Mike the agent.

"Well, don't speak so loud," I said.  "You needn't remind anybody that we are here."

Just then a dim figure approached me from the direction of Virginia--a man, evidently.  He
came straight at me, and I stepped aside to let him pass; he stepped in the way and confronted
me again.  Then I saw that he had a mask on and was holding something in my face--I heard a
click-click and recognized a revolver in dim outline.  I pushed the barrel aside with my hand
and said:

"Don't!"

He ejaculated sharply:

"Your watch!  Your money!"

I said:

"You can have them with pleasure--but take the pistol away from my face, please.  It makes
me shiver."

"No remarks!  Hand out your money!"

"Certainly--I--"

"Put up your hands!  Don't you go for a weapon!  Put 'em up!  Higher!"

I held them above my head.

A pause.  Then:

"Are you going to hand out your money or not?"

I dropped my hands to my pockets and said:

"Certainly!  I--"

"Put up your hands!  Do you want your head blown off?  Higher!"

I put them above my head again.

Another pause.

"Are you going to hand out your money or not?  Ah-ah--again?  Put up your hands!  By George,
you want the head shot off you awful bad!"

"Well, friend, I'm trying my best to please you.  You tell me to give up my money, and when
I reach for it you tell me to put up my hands.  If you would only--.  Oh, now--don't!  All
six of you at me!  That other man will get away while.--Now please take some of those revolvers
out of my face--do, if you please!  Every time one of them clicks, my liver comes up into my
throat!  If you have a mother--any of you--or if any of you have ever had a mother--or a--grandmother--or
a--"

"Cheese it!  Will you give up your money, or have we got to--.  There --there--none of that!
Put up your hands!"

"Gentlemen--I know you are gentlemen by your--"

"Silence!  If you want to be facetious, young man, there are times and places more fitting.
This is a serious business."

"You prick the marrow of my opinion.  The funerals I have attended in my time were comedies
compared to it.  Now I think--"

"Curse your palaver!  Your money!--your money!--your money!  Hold!--put up your hands!"

"Gentlemen, listen to reason.  You see how I am situated--now don't put those pistols so close--I
smell the powder.

"You see how I am situated.  If I had four hands--so that I could hold up two and--"

"Throttle him!  Gag him!  Kill him!"

"Gentlemen, don't!  Nobody's watching the other fellow.  Why don't some of you--.  Ouch!  Take
it away, please!

"Gentlemen, you see that I've got to hold up my hands; and so I can't take out my money--but
if you'll be so kind as to take it out for me, I will do as much for you some--"

"Search him Beauregard--and stop his jaw with a bullet, quick, if he wags it again.  Help Beauregard,
Stonewall."

Then three of them, with the small, spry leader, adjourned to Mike and fell to searching him.
I was so excited that my lawless fancy tortured me to ask my two men all manner of facetious
questions about their rebel brother-generals of the South, but, considering the order they
had received, it was but common prudence to keep still.  When everything had been taken from
me,--watch, money, and a multitude of trifles of small value,--I supposed I was free, and forthwith
put my cold hands into my empty pockets and began an inoffensive jig to warm my feet and stir
up some latent courage--but instantly all pistols were at my head, and the order came again:

They stood Mike up alongside of me, with strict orders to keep his hands above his head, too,
and then the chief highwayman said:

"Beauregard, hide behind that boulder; Phil Sheridan, you hide behind that other one; Stonewall
Jackson, put yourself behind that sage-bush there.  Keep your pistols bearing on these fellows,
and if they take down their hands within ten minutes, or move a single peg, let them have it!"

Then three disappeared in the gloom toward the several ambushes, and the other three disappeared
down the road toward Virginia.

It was depressingly still, and miserably cold.  Now this whole thing was a practical joke,
and the robbers were personal friends of ours in disguise, and twenty more lay hidden within
ten feet of us during the whole operation, listening.  Mike knew all this, and was in the joke,
but I suspected nothing of it.  To me it was most uncomfortably genuine. When we had stood
there in the middle of the road five minutes, like a couple of idiots, with our hands aloft,
freezing to death by inches, Mike's interest in the joke began to wane.  He said:

"The time's up, now, aint it?"

"No, you keep still.  Do you want to take any chances with these bloody savages?"

Presently Mike said:

"Now the time's up, anyway.  I'm freezing."

"Well freeze.  Better freeze than carry your brains home in a basket. Maybe the time is up,
but how do we know?--got no watch to tell by. I mean to give them good measure.  I calculate
to stand here fifteen minutes or die.  Don't you move."

So, without knowing it, I was making one joker very sick of his contract. When we took our
arms down at last, they were aching with cold and fatigue, and when we went sneaking off, the
dread I was in that the time might not yet be up and that we would feel bullets in a moment,
was not sufficient to draw all my attention from the misery that racked my stiffened body.

The joke of these highwayman friends of ours was mainly a joke upon themselves; for they had
waited for me on the cold hill-top two full hours before I came, and there was very little
fun in that; they were so chilled that it took them a couple of weeks to get warm again.  Moreover,
I never had a thought that they would kill me to get money which it was so perfectly easy to
get without any such folly, and so they did not really frighten me bad enough to make their
enjoyment worth the trouble they had taken.  I was only afraid that their weapons would go
off accidentally.  Their very numbers inspired me with confidence that no blood would be intentionally
spilled.  They were not smart; they ought to have sent only one highwayman, with a double-barrelled
shot gun, if they desired to see the author of this volume climb a tree.

However, I suppose that in the long run I got the largest share of the joke at last; and in
a shape not foreseen by the highwaymen; for the chilly exposure on the "divide" while I was
in a perspiration gave me a cold which developed itself into a troublesome disease and kept
my hands idle some three months, besides costing me quite a sum in doctor's bills. Since then
I play no practical jokes on people and generally lose my temper when one is played upon me.

When I returned to San Francisco I projected a pleasure journey to Japan and thence westward
around the world; but a desire to see home again changed my mind, and I took a berth in the
steamship, bade good-bye to the friendliest land and livest, heartiest community on our continent,
and came by the way of the Isthmus to New York--a trip that was not much of a pic-nic excursion,
for the cholera broke out among us on the passage and we buried two or three bodies at sea
every day.  I found home a dreary place after my long absence; for half the children I had
known were now wearing whiskers or waterfalls, and few of the grown people I had been acquainted
with remained at their hearthstones prosperous and happy--some of them had wandered to other
scenes, some were in jail, and the rest had been hanged.  These changes touched me deeply,
and I went away and joined the famous Quaker City European Excursion and carried my tears to
foreign lands.

Thus, after seven years of vicissitudes, ended a "pleasure trip" to the silver mines of Nevada
which had originally been intended to occupy only three months.  However, I usually miss my
calculations further than that.

MORAL.

If the reader thinks he is done, now, and that this book has no moral to it, he is in error.
The moral of it is this: If you are of any account, stay at home and make your way by faithful
diligence; but if you are "no account," go away from home, and then you will have to work,
whether you want to or not.  Thus you become a blessing to your friends by ceasing to be a
nuisance to them--if the people you go among suffer by the operation.

APPENDIX. A.

BRIEF SKETCH OF MORMON HISTORY.

Mormonism is only about forty years old, but its career has been full of stir and adventure
from the beginning, and is likely to remain so to the end.  Its adherents have been hunted
and hounded from one end of the country to the other, and the result is that for years they
have hated all "Gentiles" indiscriminately and with all their might.  Joseph Smith, the finder
of the Book of Mormon and founder of the religion, was driven from State to State with his
mysterious copperplates and the miraculous stones he read their inscriptions with.  Finally
he instituted his "church" in Ohio and Brigham Young joined it.  The neighbors began to persecute,
and apostasy commenced.  Brigham held to the faith and worked hard.  He arrested desertion.
He did more--he added converts in the midst of the trouble.  He rose in favor and importance
with the brethren. He was made one of the Twelve Apostles of the Church.  He shortly fought
his way to a higher post and a more powerful--President of the Twelve. The neighbors rose up
and drove the Mormons out of Ohio, and they settled in Missouri.  Brigham went with them. 
The Missourians drove them out and they retreated to Nauvoo, Illinois.  They prospered there,
and built a temple which made some pretensions to architectural grace and achieved some celebrity
in a section of country where a brick court-house with a tin dome and a cupola on it was contemplated
with reverential awe. But the Mormons were badgered and harried again by their neighbors. All
the proclamations Joseph Smith could issue denouncing polygamy and repudiating it as utterly
anti-Mormon were of no avail; the people of the neighborhood, on both sides of the Mississippi,
claimed that polygamy was practised by the Mormons, and not only polygamy but a little of everything
that was bad.  Brigham returned from a mission to England, where he had established a Mormon
newspaper, and he brought back with him several hundred converts to his preaching.  His influence
among the brethren augmented with every move he made.  Finally Nauvoo was invaded by the Missouri
and Illinois Gentiles, and Joseph Smith killed.  A Mormon named Rigdon assumed the Presidency
of the Mormon church and government, in Smith's place, and even tried his hand at a prophecy
or two.  But a greater than he was at hand.  Brigham seized the advantage of the hour and without
other authority than superior brain and nerve and will, hurled Rigdon from his high place and
occupied it himself.  He did more. He launched an elaborate curse at Rigdon and his disciples;
and he pronounced Rigdon's "prophecies" emanations from the devil, and ended by "handing the
false prophet over to the buffetings of Satan for a thousand years"--probably the longest term
ever inflicted in Illinois.  The people recognized their master.  They straightway elected
Brigham Young President, by a prodigious majority, and have never faltered in their devotion
to him from that day to this.  Brigham had forecast--a quality which no other prominent Mormon
has probably ever possessed. He recognized that it was better to move to the wilderness than
be moved. By his command the people gathered together their meagre effects, turned their backs
upon their homes, and their faces toward the wilderness, and on a bitter night in February
filed in sorrowful procession across the frozen Mississippi, lighted on their way by the glare
from their burning temple, whose sacred furniture their own hands had fired!  They camped,
several days afterward, on the western verge of Iowa, and poverty, want, hunger, cold, sickness,
grief and persecution did their work, and many succumbed and died--martyrs, fair and true,
whatever else they might have been.  Two years the remnant remained there, while Brigham and
a small party crossed the country and founded Great Salt Lake City, purposely choosing a land
which was outside the ownership and jurisdiction of the hated American nation.  Note that.
This was in 1847.  Brigham moved his people there and got them settled just in time to see
disaster fall again.  For the war closed and Mexico ceded Brigham's refuge to the enemy--the
United States!  In 1849 the Mormons organized a "free and independent" government and erected
the "State of Deseret," with Brigham Young as its head.  But the very next year Congress deliberately
snubbed it and created the "Territory of Utah" out of the same accumulation of mountains, sage-brush,
alkali and general desolation,--but made Brigham Governor of it.  Then for years the enormous
migration across the plains to California poured through the land of the Mormons and yet the
church remained staunch and true to its lord and master.  Neither hunger, thirst, poverty,
grief, hatred, contempt, nor persecution could drive the Mormons from their faith or their
allegiance; and even the thirst for gold, which gleaned the flower of the youth and strength
of many nations was not able to entice them!  That was the final test.  An experiment that
could survive that was an experiment with some substance to it somewhere.

Great Salt Lake City throve finely, and so did Utah.  One of the last things which Brigham
Young had done before leaving Iowa, was to appear in the pulpit dressed to personate the worshipped
and lamented prophet Smith, and confer the prophetic succession, with all its dignities, emoluments
and authorities, upon "President Brigham Young!"  The people accepted the pious fraud with
the maddest enthusiasm, and Brigham's power was sealed and secured for all time.  Within five
years afterward he openly added polygamy to the tenets of the church by authority of a "revelation"
which he pretended had been received nine years before by Joseph Smith, albeit Joseph is amply
on record as denouncing polygamy to the day of his death.

Now was Brigham become a second Andrew Johnson in the small beginning and steady progress of
his official grandeur.  He had served successively as a disciple in the ranks; home missionary;
foreign missionary; editor and publisher; Apostle; President of the Board of Apostles; President
of all Mormondom, civil and ecclesiastical; successor to the great Joseph by the will of heaven;
"prophet," "seer," "revelator."  There was but one dignity higher which he could aspire to,
and he reached out modestly and took that--he proclaimed himself a God!

He claims that he is to have a heaven of his own hereafter, and that he will be its God, and
his wives and children its goddesses, princes and princesses.  Into it all faithful Mormons
will be admitted, with their families, and will take rank and consequence according to the
number of their wives and children.  If a disciple dies before he has had time to accumulate
enough wives and children to enable him to be respectable in the next world any friend can
marry a few wives and raise a few children for him after he is dead, and they are duly credited
to his account and his heavenly status advanced accordingly.

Let it be borne in mind that the majority of the Mormons have always been ignorant, simple,
of an inferior order of intellect, unacquainted with the world and its ways; and let it be
borne in mind that the wives of these Mormons are necessarily after the same pattern and their
children likely to be fit representatives of such a conjunction; and then let it be remembered
that for forty years these creatures have been driven, driven, driven, relentlessly!  and mobbed,
beaten, and shot down; cursed, despised, expatriated; banished to a remote desert, whither
they journeyed gaunt with famine and disease, disturbing the ancient solitudes with their lamentations
and marking the long way with graves of their dead--and all because they were simply trying
to live and worship God in the way which they believed with all their hearts and souls to be
the true one.  Let all these things be borne in mind, and then it will not be hard to account
for the deathless hatred which the Mormons bear our people and our government.

That hatred has "fed fat its ancient grudge" ever since Mormon Utah developed into a self-supporting
realm and the church waxed rich and strong.  Brigham as Territorial Governor made it plain
that Mormondom was for the Mormons.  The United States tried to rectify all that by appointing
territorial officers from New England and other anti-Mormon localities, but Brigham prepared
to make their entrance into his dominions difficult.  Three thousand United States troops had
to go across the plains and put these gentlemen in office.  And after they were in office they
were as helpless as so many stone images.  They made laws which nobody minded and which could
not be executed.  The federal judges opened court in a land filled with crime and violence
and sat as holiday spectacles for insolent crowds to gape at--for there was nothing to try,
nothing to do nothing on the dockets!  And if a Gentile brought a suit, the Mormon jury would
do just as it pleased about bringing in a verdict, and when the judgment of the court was rendered
no Mormon cared for it and no officer could execute it.  Our Presidents shipped one cargo of
officials after another to Utah, but the result was always the same--they sat in a blight for
awhile they fairly feasted on scowls and insults day by day, they saw every attempt to do their
official duties find its reward in darker and darker looks, and in secret threats and warnings
of a more and more dismal nature--and at last they either succumbed and became despised tools
and toys of the Mormons, or got scared and discomforted beyond all endurance and left the Territory.
If a brave officer kept on courageously till his pluck was proven, some pliant Buchanan or
Pierce would remove him and appoint a stick in his place. In 1857 General Harney came very
near being appointed Governor of Utah. And so it came very near being Harney governor and Cradlebaugh
judge! --two men who never had any idea of fear further than the sort of murky comprehension
of it which they were enabled to gather from the dictionary.  Simply (if for nothing else)
for the variety they would have made in a rather monotonous history of Federal servility and
helplessness, it is a pity they were not fated to hold office together in Utah.

Up to the date of our visit to Utah, such had been the Territorial record.  The Territorial
government established there had been a hopeless failure, and Brigham Young was the only real
power in the land.  He was an absolute monarch--a monarch who defied our President--a monarch
who laughed at our armies when they camped about his capital--a monarch who received without
emotion the news that the august Congress of the United States had enacted a solemn law against
polygamy, and then went forth calmly and married twenty-five or thirty more wives.

B. THE MOUNTAIN MEADOWS MASSACRE.

The persecutions which the Mormons suffered so long--and which they consider they still suffer
in not being allowed to govern themselves --they have endeavored and are still endeavoring
to repay.  The now almost forgotten "Mountain Meadows massacre" was their work.  It was very
famous in its day.  The whole United States rang with its horrors.  A few items will refresh
the reader's memory.  A great emigrant train from Missouri and Arkansas passed through Salt
Lake City and a few disaffected Mormons joined it for the sake of the strong protection it
afforded for their escape.  In that matter lay sufficient cause for hot retaliation by the
Mormon chiefs.  Besides, these one hundred and forty-five or one hundred and fifty unsuspecting
emigrants being in part from Arkansas, where a noted Mormon missionary had lately been killed,
and in part from Missouri, a State remembered with execrations as a bitter persecutor of the
saints when they were few and poor and friendless, here were substantial additional grounds
for lack of love for these wayfarers. And finally, this train was rich, very rich in cattle,
horses, mules and other property--and how could the Mormons consistently keep up their coveted
resemblance to the Israelitish tribes and not seize the "spoil" of an enemy when the Lord had
so manifestly "delivered it into their hand?"

Wherefore, according to Mrs. C. V. Waite's entertaining book, "The Mormon Prophet," it transpired
that--

"A 'revelation' from Brigham Young, as Great Grand Archee or God, was dispatched to President
J. C. Haight, Bishop Higbee and J. D. Lee (adopted son of Brigham), commanding them to raise
all the forces they could muster and trust, follow those cursed Gentiles (so read the revelation),
attack them disguised as Indians, and with the arrows of the Almighty make a clean sweep of
them, and leave none to tell the tale; and if they needed any assistance they were commanded
to hire the Indians as their allies, promising them a share of the booty.  They were to be
neither slothful nor negligent in their duty, and to be punctual in sending the teams back
to him before winter set in, for this was the mandate of Almighty God."

The command of the "revelation" was faithfully obeyed.  A large party of Mormons, painted and
tricked out as Indians, overtook the train of emigrant wagons some three hundred miles south
of Salt Lake City, and made an attack.  But the emigrants threw up earthworks, made fortresses
of their wagons and defended themselves gallantly and successfully for five days!  Your Missouri
or Arkansas gentleman is not much afraid of the sort of scurvy apologies for "Indians" which
the southern part of Utah affords.  He would stand up and fight five hundred of them.

At the end of the five days the Mormons tried military strategy.  They retired to the upper
end of the "Meadows," resumed civilized apparel, washed off their paint, and then, heavily
armed, drove down in wagons to the beleaguered emigrants, bearing a flag of truce!  When the
emigrants saw white men coming they threw down their guns and welcomed them with cheer after
cheer!  And, all unconscious of the poetry of it, no doubt, they lifted a little child aloft,
dressed in white, in answer to the flag of truce!

The leaders of the timely white "deliverers" were President Haight and Bishop John D. Lee,
of the Mormon Church.  Mr. Cradlebaugh, who served a term as a Federal Judge in Utah and afterward
was sent to Congress from Nevada, tells in a speech delivered in Congress how these leaders
next proceeded:

"They professed to be on good terms with the Indians, and represented them as being very mad.
They also proposed to intercede and settle the matter with the Indians.  After several hours
parley they, having (apparently) visited the Indians, gave the ultimatum of the savages; which
was, that the emigrants should march out of their camp, leaving everything behind them, even
their guns.  It was promised by the Mormon bishops that they would bring a force and guard
the emigrants back to the settlements.  The terms were agreed to, the emigrants being desirous
of saving the lives of their families.  The Mormons retired, and subsequently appeared with
thirty or forty armed men.  The emigrants were marched out, the women and children in front
and the men behind, the Mormon guard being in the rear.  When they had marched in this way
about a mile, at a given signal the slaughter commenced.  The men were almost all shot down
at the first fire from the guard.  Two only escaped, who fled to the desert, and were followed
one hundred and fifty miles before they were overtaken and slaughtered.  The women and children
ran on, two or three hundred yards further, when they were overtaken and with the aid of the
Indians they were slaughtered.  Seventeen individuals only, of all the emigrant party, were
spared, and they were little children, the eldest of them being only seven years old.  Thus,
on the 10th day of September, 1857, was consummated one of the most cruel, cowardly and bloody
murders known in our history."

The number of persons butchered by the Mormons on this occasion was one hundred and twenty.

With unheard-of temerity Judge Cradlebaugh opened his court and proceeded to make Mormondom
answer for the massacre.  And what a spectacle it must have been to see this grim veteran,
solitary and alone in his pride and his pluck, glowering down on his Mormon jury and Mormon
auditory, deriding them by turns, and by turns "breathing threatenings and slaughter!"

An editorial in the Territorial Enterprise of that day says of him and of the occasion:

"He spoke and acted with the fearlessness and resolution of a Jackson; but the jury failed
to indict, or even report on the charges, while threats of violence were heard in every quarter,
and an attack on the U.S. troops intimated, if he persisted in his course.

"Finding that nothing could be done with the juries, they were discharged with a scathing rebuke
from the judge.  And then, sitting as a committing magistrate, he commenced his task alone.
He examined witnesses, made arrests in every quarter, and created a consternation in the camps
of the saints greater than any they had ever witnessed before, since Mormondom was born.  At
last accounts terrified elders and bishops were decamping to save their necks; and developments
of the most starling character were being made, implicating the highest Church dignitaries
in the many murders and robberies committed upon the Gentiles during the past eight years."

Had Harney been Governor, Cradlebaugh would have been supported in his work, and the absolute
proofs adduced by him of Mormon guilt in this massacre and in a number of previous murders,
would have conferred gratuitous coffins upon certain citizens, together with occasion to use
them.  But Cumming was the Federal Governor, and he, under a curious pretense of impartiality,
sought to screen the Mormons from the demands of justice.  On one occasion he even went so
far as to publish his protest against the use of the U.S. troops in aid of Cradlebaugh's proceedings.

Mrs. C. V. Waite closes her interesting detail of the great massacre with the following remark
and accompanying summary of the testimony--and the summary is concise, accurate and reliable:

"For the benefit of those who may still be disposed to doubt the guilt of Young and his Mormons
in this transaction, the testimony is here collated and circumstances given which go not merely
to implicate but to fasten conviction upon them by 'confirmations strong as proofs of Holy Writ:'

"1.  The evidence of Mormons themselves, engaged in the affair, as shown by the statements
of Judge Cradlebaugh and Deputy U.S.  Marshall Rodgers.

"2.  The failure of Brigham Young to embody any account of it in his Report as Superintendent
of Indian Affairs.  Also his failure to make any allusion to it whatever from the pulpit, until
several years after the occurrence.

"3.  The flight to the mountains of men high in authority in the Mormon Church and State, when
this affair was brought to the ordeal of a judicial investigation.

"4.  The failure of the Deseret News, the Church organ, and the only paper then published in
the Territory, to notice the massacre until several months afterward, and then only to deny
that Mormons were engaged in it.

"5.  The testimony of the children saved from the massacre.

"6.  The children and the property of the emigrants found in possession of the Mormons, and
that possession traced back to the very day after the massacre.

"7.  The statements of Indians in the neighborhood of the scene of the massacre: these statements
are shown, not only by Cradlebaugh and Rodgers, but by a number of military officers, and by
J. Forney, who was, in 1859, Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Territory.  To all these
were such statements freely and frequently made by the Indians.

"8.  The testimony of R. P. Campbell, Capt.  2d Dragoons, who was sent in the Spring of 1859
to Santa Clara, to protect travelers on the road to California and to inquire into Indian depredations."

C. CONCERNING A FRIGHTFUL ASSASSINATION THAT WAS NEVER CONSUMMATED

If ever there was a harmless man, it is Conrad Wiegand, of Gold Hill, Nevada.  If ever there
was a gentle spirit that thought itself unfired gunpowder and latent ruin, it is Conrad Wiegand.
If ever there was an oyster that fancied itself a whale; or a jack-o'lantern, confined to a
swamp, that fancied itself a planet with a billion-mile orbit; or a summer zephyr that deemed
itself a hurricane, it is Conrad Wiegand. Therefore, what wonder is it that when he says a
thing, he thinks the world listens; that when he does a thing the world stands still to look;
and that when he suffers, there is a convulsion of nature?  When I met Conrad, he was "Superintendent
of the Gold Hill Assay Office"--and he was not only its Superintendent, but its entire force.
And he was a street preacher, too, with a mongrel religion of his own invention, whereby he
expected to regenerate the universe.  This was years ago.  Here latterly he has entered journalism;
and his journalism is what it might be expected to be: colossal to ear, but pigmy to the eye.
It is extravagant grandiloquence confined to a newspaper about the size of a double letter
sheet.  He doubtless edits, sets the type, and prints his paper, all alone; but he delights
to speak of the concern as if it occupies a block and employs a thousand men.

[Something less than two years ago, Conrad assailed several people mercilessly in his little
"People's Tribune," and got himself into trouble.  Straightway he airs the affair in the "Territorial
Enterprise," in a communication over his own signature, and I propose to reproduce it here,
in all its native simplicity and more than human candor.  Long as it is, it is well worth reading,
for it is the richest specimen of journalistic literature the history of America can furnish,
perhaps:]

From the Territorial Enterprise, Jan. 20, 1870.

SEEMING PLOT FOR ASSASSINATION MISCARRIED.

TO THE EDITOR OF THE ENTERPRISE: Months ago, when Mr. Sutro incidentally exposed mining management
on the Comstock, and among others roused me to protest against its continuance, in great kindness
you warned me that any attempt by publications, by public meetings and by legislative action,
aimed at the correction of chronic mining evils in Storey County, must entail upon me (a) business
ruin, (b) the burden of all its costs, (c) personal violence, and if my purpose were persisted
in, then (d) assassination, and after all nothing would be effected.

YOUR PROPHECY FULFILLING. In large part at least your prophecies have been fulfilled, for (a)
assaying, which was well attended to in the Gold Hill Assay Office (of which I am superintendent),
in consequence of my publications, has been taken elsewhere, so the President of one of the
companies assures me. With no reason assigned, other work has been taken away.  With but one
or two important exceptions, our assay business now consists simply of the gleanings of the
vicinity.  (b) Though my own personal donations to the People's Tribune Association have already
exceeded $1,500, outside of our own numbers we have received (in money) less than $300 as contributions
and subscriptions for the journal.  (c) On Thursday last, on the main street in Gold Hill,
near noon, with neither warning nor cause assigned, by a powerful blow I was felled to the
ground, and while down I was kicked by a man who it would seem had been led to believe that
I had spoken derogatorily of him.  By whom he was so induced to believe I am as yet unable
to say.  On Saturday last I was again assailed and beaten by a man who first informed me why
he did so, and who persisted in making his assault even after the erroneous impression under
which he also was at first laboring had been clearly and repeatedly pointed out.  This same
man, after failing through intimidation to elicit from me the names of our editorial contributors,
against giving which he knew me to be pledged, beat himself weary upon me with a raw hide,
I not resisting, and then pantingly threatened me with permanent disfiguring mayhem, if ever
again I should introduce his name into print, and who but a few minutes before his attack upon
me assured me that the only reason I was "permitted" to reach home alive on Wednesday evening
last (at which time the PEOPLE'S TRIBUNE was issued) was, that he deems me only half-witted,
and be it remembered the very next morning I was knocked down and kicked by a man who seemed
to be prepared for flight.

[He sees doom impending:]

WHEN WILL THE CIRCLE JOIN? How long before the whole of your prophecy will be fulfilled I cannot
say, but under the shadow of so much fulfillment in so short a time, and with such threats
from a man who is one of the most prominent exponents of the San Francisco mining-ring staring
me and this whole community defiantly in the face and pointing to a completion of your augury,
do you blame me for feeling that this communication is the last I shall ever write for the
Press, especially when a sense alike of personal self-respect, of duty to this money-oppressed
and fear-ridden community, and of American fealty to the spirit of true Liberty all command
me, and each more loudly than love of life itself, to declare the name of that prominent man
to be JOHN B. WINTERS, President of the Yellow Jacket Company, a political aspirant and a military
General?  The name of his partially duped accomplice and abettor in this last marvelous assault,
is no other than PHILIP LYNCH, Editor and Proprietor of the Gold Hill News.

Despite the insult and wrong heaped upon me by John B. Winters, on Saturday afternoon, only
a glimpse of which I shall be able to afford your readers, so much do I deplore clinching (by
publicity) a serious mistake of any one, man or woman, committed under natural and not self-wrought
passion, in view of his great apparent excitement at the time and in view of the almost perfect
privacy of the assault, I am far from sure that I should not have given him space for repentance
before exposing him, were it not that he himself has so far exposed the matter as to make it
the common talk of the town that he has horsewhipped me. That fact having been made public,
all the facts in connection need to be also, or silence on my part would seem more than singular,
and with many would be proof either that I was conscious of some unworthy aim in publishing
the article, or else that my "non-combatant" principles are but a convenient cloak alike of
physical and moral cowardice.  I therefore shall try to present a graphic but truthful picture
of this whole affair, but shall forbear all comments, presuming that the editors of our own
journal, if others do not, will speak freely and fittingly upon this subject in our next number,
whether I shall then be dead or living, for my death will not stop, though it may suspend,
the publication of the PEOPLE'S TRIBUNE. [The "non-combatant" sticks to principle, but takes
along a friend or two of a conveniently different stripe:]

THE TRAP SET. On Saturday morning John B. Winters sent verbal word to the Gold Hill Assay Office
that he desired to see me at the Yellow Jacket office. Though such a request struck me as decidedly
cool in view of his own recent discourtesies to me there alike as a publisher and as a stockholder
in the Yellow Jacket mine, and though it seemed to me more like a summons than the courteous
request by one gentleman to another for a favor, hoping that some conference with Sharon looking
to the betterment of mining matters in Nevada might arise from it, I felt strongly inclined
to overlook what possibly was simply an oversight in courtesy.  But as then it had only been
two days since I had been bruised and beaten under a hasty and false apprehension of facts,
my caution was somewhat aroused.  Moreover I remembered sensitively his contemptuousness of
manner to me at my last interview in his office.  I therefore felt it needful, if I went at
all, to go accompanied by a friend whom he would not dare to treat with incivility, and whose
presence with me might secure exemption from insult.  Accordingly I asked a neighbor to accompany
me.

THE TRAP ALMOST DETECTED. Although I was not then aware of this fact, it would seem that previous
to my request this same neighbor had heard Dr. Zabriskie state publicly in a saloon, that Mr.
Winters had told him he had decided either to kill or to horsewhip me, but had not finally
decided on which.  My neighbor, therefore, felt unwilling to go down with me until he had first
called on Mr. Winters alone.  He therefore paid him a visit.  From that interview he assured
me that he gathered the impression that he did not believe I would have any difficulty with
Mr. Winters, and that he (Winters) would call on me at four o'clock in my own office.

MY OWN PRECAUTIONS. As Sheriff Cummings was in Gold Hill that afternoon, and as I desired to
converse with him about the previous assault, I invited him to my office, and he came.  Although
a half hour had passed beyond four o'clock, Mr. Winters had not called, and we both of us began
preparing to go home. Just then, Philip Lynch, Publisher of the Gold Hill News, came in and
said, blandly and cheerily, as if bringing good news:

"Hello, John B. Winters wants to see you."

I replied, "Indeed!  Why he sent me word that he would call on me here this afternoon at four
o'clock!"

"O, well, it don't do to be too ceremonious just now, he's in my office, and that will do as
well--come on in, Winters wants to consult with you alone.  He's got something to say to you."

Though slightly uneasy at this change of programme, yet believing that in an editor's house
I ought to be safe, and anyhow that I would be within hail of the street, I hurriedly, and
but partially whispered my dim apprehensions to Mr. Cummings, and asked him if he would not
keep near enough to hear my voice in case I should call.  He consented to do so while waiting
for some other parties, and to come in if he heard my voice or thought I had need of protection.

On reaching the editorial part of the News office, which viewed from the street is dark, I
did not see Mr. Winters, and again my misgivings arose. Had I paused long enough to consider
the case, I should have invited Sheriff Cummings in, but as Lynch went down stairs, he said:
"This way, Wiegand--it's best to be private," or some such remark.

[I do not desire to strain the reader's fancy, hurtfully, and yet it would be a favor to me
if he would try to fancy this lamb in battle, or the duelling ground or at the head of a vigilance
committee--M.  T.:]

I followed, and without Mr. Cummings, and without arms, which I never do or will carry, unless
as a soldier in war, or unless I should yet come to feel I must fight a duel, or to join and
aid in the ranks of a necessary Vigilance Committee.  But by following I made a fatal mistake.
Following was entering a trap, and whatever animal suffers itself to be caught should expect
the common fate of a caged rat, as I fear events to come will prove.

Traps commonly are not set for benevolence. [His body-guard is shut out:]

THE TRAP INSIDE. I followed Lynch down stairs.  At their foot a door to the left opened into
a small room.  From that room another door opened into yet another room, and once entered I
found myself inveigled into what many will ever henceforth regard as a private subterranean
Gold Hill den, admirably adapted in proper hands to the purposes of murder, raw or disguised,
for from it, with both or even one door closed, when too late, I saw that I could not be heard
by Sheriff Cummings, and from it, BY VIOLENCE AND BY FORCE, I was prevented from making a peaceable
exit, when I thought I saw the studious object of this "consultation" was no other than to
compass my killing, in the presence of Philip Lynch as a witness, as soon as by insult a proverbially
excitable man should be exasperated to the point of assailing Mr. Winters, so that Mr. Lynch,
by his conscience and by his well known tenderness of heart toward the rich and potent would
be compelled to testify that he saw Gen. John B. Winters kill Conrad Wiegand in "self-defence."
But I am going too fast.

OUR HOST. Mr. Lynch was present during the most of the time (say a little short of an hour),
but three times he left the room.  His testimony, therefore, would be available only as to
the bulk of what transpired.  On entering this carpeted den I was invited to a seat near one
corner of the room. Mr. Lynch took a seat near the window.  J. B. Winters sat (at first) near
the door, and began his remarks essentially as follows:

"I have come here to exact of you a retraction, in black and white, of those damnably false
charges which you have preferred against me in that---infamous lying sheet of yours, and you
must declare yourself their author, that you published them knowing them to be false, and that
your motives were malicious."

"Hold, Mr. Winters.  Your language is insulting and your demand an enormity.  I trust I was
not invited here either to be insulted or coerced.  I supposed myself here by invitation of
Mr. Lynch, at your request."

"Nor did I come here to insult you.  I have already told you that I am here for a very different
purpose."

"Yet your language has been offensive, and even now shows strong excitement.  If insult is
repeated I shall either leave the room or call in Sheriff Cummings, whom I just left standing
and waiting for me outside the door."

"No, you won't, sir.  You may just as well understand it at once as not. Here you are my man,
and I'll tell you why!  Months ago you put your property out of your hands, boasting that you
did so to escape losing it on prosecution for libel."

"It is true that I did convert all my immovable property into personal property, such as I
could trust safely to others, and chiefly to escape ruin through possible libel suits."

"Very good, sir.  Having placed yourself beyond the pale of the law, may God help your soul
if you DON'T make precisely such a retraction as I have demanded.  I've got you now, and by--before
you can get out of this room you've got to both write and sign precisely the retraction I have
demanded, and before you go, anyhow--you---low-lived--lying---, I'll teach you what personal
responsibility is outside of the law; and, by--, Sheriff Cummings and all the friends you've
got in the world besides, can't save you, you---, etc.!  No, sir.  I'm alone now, and I'm prepared
to be shot down just here and now rather than be villified by you as I have been, and suffer
you to escape me after publishing those charges, not only here where I am known and universally
respected, but where I am not personally known and may be injured."

I confess this speech, with its terrible and but too plainly implied threat of killing me if
I did not sign the paper he demanded, terrified me, especially as I saw he was working himself
up to the highest possible pitch of passion, and instinct told me that any reply other than
one of seeming concession to his demands would only be fuel to a raging fire, so I replied:

"Well, if I've got to sign--," and then I paused some time.  Resuming, I said, "But, Mr. Winters,
you are greatly excited.  Besides, I see you are laboring under a total misapprehension.  It
is your duty not to inflame but to calm yourself.  I am prepared to show you, if you will only
point out the article that you allude to, that you regard as 'charges' what no calm and logical
mind has any right to regard as such. Show me the charges, and I will try, at all events; and
if it becomes plain that no charges have been preferred, then plainly there can be nothing
to retract, and no one could rightly urge you to demand a retraction.  You should beware of
making so serious a mistake, for however honest a man may be, every one is liable to misapprehend.
Besides you assume that I am the author of some certain article which you have not pointed
out.  It is hasty to do so."

He then pointed to some numbered paragraphs in a TRIBUNE article, headed "What's the Matter
with Yellow Jacket?" saying "That's what I refer to."

To gain time for general reflection and resolution, I took up the paper and looked it over
for awhile, he remaining silent, and as I hoped, cooling.  I then resumed saying, "As I supposed.
I do not admit having written that article, nor have you any right to assume so important a
point, and then base important action upon your assumption.  You might deeply regret it afterwards.
In my published Address to the People, I notified the world that no information as to the authorship
of any article would be given without the consent of the writer.  I therefore cannot honorably
tell you who wrote that article, nor can you exact it."

"If you are not the author, then I do demand to know who is?"

"I must decline to say."

"Then, by--, I brand you as its author, and shall treat you accordingly."

"Passing that point, the most important misapprehension which I notice is, that you regard
them as 'charges' at all, when their context, both at their beginning and end, show they are
not.  These words introduce them: 'Such an investigation [just before indicated], we think
MIGHT result in showing some of the following points.' Then follow eleven specifications, and
the succeeding paragraph shows that the suggested investigation 'might EXONERATE those who
are generally believed guilty.' You see, therefore, the context proves they are not preferred
as charges, and this you seem to have overlooked."

While making those comments, Mr. Winters frequently interrupted me in such a way as to convince
me that he was resolved not to consider candidly the thoughts contained in my words.  He insisted
upon it that they were charges, and "By--," he would make me take them back as charges, and
he referred the question to Philip Lynch, to whom I then appealed as a literary man, as a logician,
and as an editor, calling his attention especially to the introductory paragraph just before
quoted. He replied, "if they are not charges, they certainly are insinuations," whereupon Mr.
Winters renewed his demands for retraction precisely such as he had before named, except that
he would allow me to state who did write the article if I did not myself, and this time shaking
his fist in my face with more cursings and epithets.

When he threatened me with his clenched fist, instinctively I tried to rise from my chair,
but Winters then forcibly thrust me down, as he did every other time (at least seven or eight),
when under similar imminent danger of bruising by his fist (or for aught I could know worse
than that after the first stunning blow), which he could easily and safely to himself have
dealt me so long as he kept me down and stood over me.

This fact it was, which more than anything else, convinced me that by plan and plot I was purposely
made powerless in Mr. Winters' hands, and that he did not mean to allow me that advantage of
being afoot, which he possessed.  Moreover, I then became convinced, that Philip Lynch (and
for what reason I wondered) would do absolutely nothing to protect me in his own house.  I
realized then the situation thoroughly.  I had found it equally vain to protest or argue, and
I would make no unmanly appeal for pity, still less apologize.  Yet my life had been by the
plainest possible implication threatened.  I was a weak man.  I was unarmed.  I was helplessly
down, and Winters was afoot and probably armed.  Lynch was the only "witness."  The statements
demanded, if given and not explained, would utterly sink me in my own self-respect, in my family's
eyes, and in the eyes of the community.  On the other hand, should I give the author's name
how could I ever expect that confidence of the People which I should no longer deserve, and
how much dearer to me and to my family was my life than the life of the real author to his
friends.  Yet life seemed dear and each minute that remained seemed precious if not solemn.
I sincerely trust that neither you nor any of your readers, and especially none with families,
may ever be placed in such seeming direct proximity to death while obliged to decide the one
question I was compelled to, viz.: What should I do--I, a man of family, and not as Mr. Winters
is, "alone." [The reader is requested not to skip the following.--M.  T.:]

STRATEGY AND MESMERISM. To gain time for further reflection, and hoping that by a seeming acquiescence
I might regain my personal liberty, at least till I could give an alarm, or take advantage
of some momentary inadvertence of Winters, and then without a cowardly flight escape, I resolved
to write a certain kind of retraction, but previously had inwardly decided:

First.--That I would studiously avoid every action which might be construed into the drawing
of a weapon, even by a self-infuriated man, no matter what amount of insult might be heaped
upon me, for it seemed to me that this great excess of compound profanity, foulness and epithet
must be more than a mere indulgence, and therefore must have some object. "Surely in vain the
net is spread in the sight of any bird."  Therefore, as before without thought, I thereafter
by intent kept my hands away from my pockets, and generally in sight and spread upon my knees.

Second.--I resolved to make no motion with my arms or hands which could possibly be construed
into aggression.

Third.--I resolved completely to govern my outward manner and suppress indignation.  To do
this, I must govern my spirit.  To do that, by force of imagination I was obliged like actors
on the boards to resolve myself into an unnatural mental state and see all things through the
eyes of an assumed character.

Fourth.--I resolved to try on Winters, silently, and unconsciously to himself a mesmeric power
which I possess over certain kinds of people, and which at times I have found to work even
in the dark over the lower animals.

Does any one smile at these last counts?  God save you from ever being obliged to beat in a
game of chess, whose stake is your life, you having but four poor pawns and pieces and your
adversary with his full force unshorn.  But if you are, provided you have any strength with
breadth of will, do not despair.  Though mesmeric power may not save you, it may help you;
try it at all events.  In this instance I was conscious of power coming into me, and by a law
of nature, I know Winters was correspondingly weakened.  If I could have gained more time I
am sure he would not even have struck me.

It takes time both to form such resolutions and to recite them.  That time, however, I gained
while thinking of my retraction, which I first wrote in pencil, altering it from time to time
till I got it to suit me, my aim being to make it look like a concession to demands, while
in fact it should tersely speak the truth into Mr. Winters' mind.  When it was finished, I
copied it in ink, and if correctly copied from my first draft it should read as follows.  In
copying I do not think I made any material change.

COPY. To Philip Lynch, Editor of the Gold Hill News: I learn that Gen. John B. Winters believes
the following (pasted on) clipping from the PEOPLE'S TRIBUNE of January to contain distinct
charges of mine against him personally, and that as such he desires me to retract them unqualifiedly.

In compliance with his request, permit me to say that, although Mr.
Winters and I see this matter differently, in view of his strong feelings
in the premises, I hereby declare that I do not know those "charges" (if
such they are) to be true, and I hope that a critical examination would
altogether disprove them.
                              CONRAD WIEGAND.
                         Gold Hill, January 15, 1870.

I then read what I had written and handed it to Mr. Lynch, whereupon Mr. Winters said:

"That's not satisfactory, and it won't do;" and then addressing himself to Mr. Lynch, he further
said: "How does it strike you?"

"Well, I confess I don't see that it retracts anything."

"Nor do I," said Winters; "in fact, I regard it as adding insult to injury.  Mr. Wiegand you've
got to do better than that.  You are not the man who can pull wool over my eyes."

"That, sir, is the only retraction I can write."

"No it isn't, sir, and if you so much as say so again you do it at your peril, for I'll thrash
you to within an inch of your life, and, by--, sir, I don't pledge myself to spare you even
that inch either.  I want you to understand I have asked you for a very different paper, and
that paper you've got to sign."

"Mr. Winters, I assure you that I do not wish to irritate you, but, at the same time, it is
utterly impossible for me to write any other paper than that which I have written.  If you
are resolved to compel me to sign something, Philip Lynch's hand must write at your dictation,
and if, when written, I can sign it I will do so, but such a document as you say you must have
from me, I never can sign.  I mean what I say."

"Well, sir, what's to be done must be done quickly, for I've been here long enough already.
I'll put the thing in another shape (and then pointing to the paper); don't you know those
charges to be false?"

"I do not."

"Do you know them to be true?"

"Of my own personal knowledge I do not."

"Why then did you print them?"

"Because rightly considered in their connection they are not charges, but pertinent and useful
suggestions in answer to the queries of a correspondent who stated facts which are inexplicable."

"Don't you know that I know they are false?"

"If you do, the proper course is simply to deny them and court an investigation."

"And do YOU claim the right to make ME come out and deny anything you may choose to write and
print?"

To that question I think I made no reply, and he then further said:

"Come, now, we've talked about the matter long enough.  I want your final answer--did you write
that article or not?"

"I cannot in honor tell you who wrote it."

"Did you not see it before it was printed?"

"Most certainly, sir."

"And did you deem it a fit thing to publish?"

"Most assuredly, sir, or I would never have consented to its appearance. Of its authorship
I can say nothing whatever, but for its publication I assume full, sole and personal responsibility."

"And do you then retract it or not?"

"Mr. Winters, if my refusal to sign such a paper as you have demanded must entail upon me all
that your language in this room fairly implies, then I ask a few minutes for prayer."

"Prayer!---you, this is not your hour for prayer--your time to pray was when you were writing
those--lying charges.  Will you sign or not?"

"You already have my answer."

"What!  do you still refuse?"

"I do, sir."

"Take that, then," and to my amazement and inexpressible relief he drew only a rawhide instead
of what I expected--a bludgeon or pistol.  With it, as he spoke, he struck at my left ear downwards,
as if to tear it off, and afterwards on the side of the head.  As he moved away to get a better
chance for a more effective shot, for the first time I gained a chance under peril to rise,
and I did so pitying him from the very bottom of my soul, to think that one so naturally capable
of true dignity, power and nobility could, by the temptations of this State, and by unfortunate
associations and aspirations, be so deeply debased as to find in such brutality anything which
he could call satisfaction--but the great hope for us all is in progress and growth, and John
B.  Winters, I trust, will yet be able to comprehend my feelings.

He continued to beat me with all his great force, until absolutely weary, exhausted and panting
for breath.  I still adhered to my purpose of non-aggressive defence, and made no other use
of my arms than to defend my head and face from further disfigurement.  The mere pain arising
from the blows he inflicted upon my person was of course transient, and my clothing to some
extent deadened its severity, as it now hides all remaining traces.

