Mr. Brooke describes the situation of the city as "singular and even romantic. Built on seven
small rocky islands, it in this respect resembles Venice. A great part of the city, however,
stands upon the steep declivity of a very high hill; houses rising over houses, so that, to
the eye, they seem supported by one another. Below, commerce almost covers the clear waters
of the Baltic with a tall forest of masts; while far above, and crowning the whole, stands
the commanding church of St. Catherine. From the top of this the eye is at first lost in the
boundless prospect of forest, lake, and sea, spreading all around: it then looks down upon
Stockholm, intersected in all directions by water; the royal palace; and lastly, ranges over
the forests of pines extending themselves almost down to the gates of the city, spotted with
villas, and skirted in the most picturesque manner by the numerous beautiful lakes, which so
pleasingly relieve the beauties of the country. The other objects, which will repay the curiosity
of the stranger in inspecting them, are, the royal palace; the military academy at Cartberg;
the arsenal; the senate house; the _Ridderholm_, where the kings of Sweden are interred; the
cabinet of natural history; the annual exhibition of paintings; the fine collection of statue
in the palace."

       *       *       *       *       *

CROSS FELL, WESTMORELAND.

(_For the Mirror._)

This mountain is situate near the end of a ridge of mountains, leading from Stainmore or Stonemore,
about sixteen miles in length. It descends gradually from Brough to the Grained Tree, the former
boundary mark dividing Yorkshire from Westmoreland. Passing over several mountains, we arrive
at Dufton Fell, of the same ridge.

At the foot of this fell there is a curious little petrifying spring, which turns moss, or
any other porous matter which may fall within its vortex, or the steams and vapours arising
therefrom, into hard stone, insomuch that upon the mouth of it there is a considerable hill
of such petrifaction.

Cross Fell is the highest mountain of the whole ridge, and is bounded by a small rivulet stocked
with trouts. This was formerly called Fiends' Fell, from evil spirits, which are said to have
haunted its summit, "and to have continued their haunts and nocturnal vagaries upon it, until
Saint Austin erected a _cross_ and _altar_, whereon he offered the _holy eucharist_, by which
he countercharmed those hellish fiends, and broke their haunts."--_Robinson's History of Cumberland
and Westmoreland_, 1709.

Since the saint expelled the fiends, the mountain (it appears) has taken the name of Cross
Fell, in commemoration of the event.

There are now existent seven stones lying in a careless condition on the top of this mountain,
as if destroyed by the hand of time. The stones, it is supposed, are the remains of the cross
and altar. One stone is considerably higher than the rest, and they are overgrown with moss.

I have heard many of the traditions which are very current, but all such hyperboles, that were
I to give one, the reader would be convulsed with laughter. I trust, sir, if you have any travellers
among your numerous readers, they will give this a further investigation, and I (as well as
yourself, doubtless) shall be happy to learn the result.

Your's. &c.

W.H.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

SALMON KIPPERING, IN DUMBARTONSHIRE.

(_For the Mirror_.)

Salmon are caught in less or greater abundance in all the rivers of this county. The salmon-fisheries
of Lochlomond and the Leven are of considerable value. In several parts of the county salmon
are cured in a peculiar manner, called kippering; and throughout Scotland kippered salmon is
a favourite dish. It is practised here in the following manner:--All the blood is taken from
the fish immediately after it is killed; this is done by cutting the gills. It is then cut
up the back on each side the bone, or chine, as it is commonly called. The bone is taken out,
but the tail, with two or three inches of the bone, is left; the head is cut off; all the entrails
are taken out, but the skin of the belly is left uncut; the fish is then laid, with the skin
undermost, on a board, and is well rubbed and covered over with a mixture of equal quantities
of common salt and Jamaica pepper. Some of this mixture is carefully spread under the fins
to prevent them from corrupting, which they sometimes do, especially if the weather is warm.
A board with a large stone is sometimes laid upon the fish, with a view to make the salt penetrate
more effectually. In some places, as Dumbarton, instead of a flat board, a shallow wooden trough
is used, by which means the brine is kept about the fish; sometimes two or three salmon are
kippered together in the same vessel, one being laid upon the other. The fish, with the board
or trough, is set in a cool place for two or three days; it is then removed from the board,
and again rubbed with salt and pepper; after which it is hung up by the tail, and exposed to
the rays of the sun or the heat of the fire. Care is previously taken to stretch out the fish
by means of small sticks or hoops placed across it from side to side. After it has remained
in the heat a few days, it is hung up in a dry place till used. Some people, in order to give
the kipper a peculiar taste, highly relished by not a few, carefully smoke it with peat reek,
or the reek of juniper bushes. This is commonly done by hanging it up so near a chimney in
which peats or juniper bushes are burnt, as to receive the smoke; there it remains two or three
weeks, by which time it generally acquires the required flavour.

T.S.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEBTOR AND CREDITOR.

(_Concluded from page 227._)

Debt is obligation, and "obligation," says Hobbes, "is thraldom." This will be evident if we
once consider to what a variety of mean shifts the state of being in debt exposes us. It sits
like fetters of iron on conscience; but as old offenders often whistle to the clanking of their
chains, so rogues lighten their hearts by increasing their debts. It destroys freedom as much
as a debtor is his creditor's slave; and, under certain circumstances, his range may be reduced
to a few square feet, and his view prescribed by a few cubits of brick walls; and, humiliating
as this may appear, it sits lightly on the majority, since, even the brawlers for liberty,
forgetting "the air they breathe," are often to be found within its pale; but in this case
they also forget, that being in legal debt is less venial than many other sins, since it cannot
be cleared by any appeals to argument, or settled by shades of opinion. Subterfuge, lying,
and loss of liberty, are not all the miseries of a conscious debtor: in the world he resembles
a prisoner at large; he walks many circuitous miles to avoid being dunned, and would sooner
meet a mad dog than an angry creditor. He lives in a sort of _abeyance_, and sinks under shame
when caught enjoying an undue luxury. In short, he is cramped in all his enjoyments, and considers
his fellow, out of debt, as great as the emperor of the celestial empire, after whose repast
other kings may dine. Hence ensue repining and envy: he fancies himself slighted by the world,
and, in return, he cares not for the opinion of the world; his energies waste, and he falls.

These sufferings, however, appertain but to one class of debtors. There are others who scorn
such compunctious visitations, and set all laws of conscience at defiance. They press into
their service all the aids of cunning, and travel on byroads of the world till they are bronzed
enough for its highway. Their memories are like mirrors, and their debts like breathings on
them, which vanish the same moment they are produced. They look on mankind as a large family,
and the world as a large storehouse, or open house, where they have a claim proportioned to
their wants. They clear their consciences by maintaining, that what is parted with is not lost,
and foster their hopes with the idea of its reversion. They think those who _can_ ride ought
not to walk; and, therefore, that all men have the option of such chances of good-fortune.
With this laxity of principle they quarter themselves on the credulity of extortionate tradesmen,
and the good-natured simplicity of friends or associates. If, perchance, they possess any excellence
above their society, they consider it as a redeeming grace for their importunities, and, calculating
on the vulgarism _ad captandum_, that what is dearest bought is most prized, they make their
friends pay freely for their admiration. Nor are such admirers willing to break the spell by
which they are bound, since, by their unqualified approval they sanction, and flatter _the
man_ of their party, to their mutual ruin; for, as Selden observes, "he who will keep a monkey
should surely pay for the glasses he breaks."

Prone as men are to the crooked path, and still more apt as the weak and ignorant are to indulge
them in such a course, perhaps the love of principle is as strong in men's hearts as it ever
will be. Of times gone by, we must not here speak; because the _amor patriæ_ its has long since
shifted to _amor nummi_, and naked honesty has learned the decency of dress. There have been
profligates in all ages; but the world, though sometimes a severe master, ruins as many by
its deceitful indulgence, as by its ill-timed severity. Good fellows are usually the worst
treated by the world allowing them to go beyond their tether, and then cutting them off out
of harm's way. Nothing but an earlier discipline can improve us; for so habitual is debt, that
the boy who forestals his pocket-money uses it as a step-ladder to mortgaging his estate. The
sufferers, in such cases, are generally shut up in prisons or poor-houses, to afflict or console
each other as their sensibilities may direct; and thus the salutary lessons, which their condition
might afford, is lost to the world. Neither are such scenes of real misery courted by mankind;
the nearest semblances which they can bear being in the sentimentalities of the stage, encumbered
as they often are by overstrained fiction and caricature. On the contrary, a walk through those
receptacles of human woe, and the little histories of their inmates, will often furnish as
many lessons of morality and world-knowledge as will suffice us for life. We may there see
the rapacious creditor at the same goal with the unfortunate debtor, whom he has hunted through
life, supplicating mercy which he never exercised, and vainly attempting to recant a course
of cruelty and persecution, by mixing up his merited sufferings with the distresses of his
abused companions.

Goldsmith has said, that "every man is the architect of his own fortune;" and perhaps there
are few men, who, in the moments of their deepest suffering, have not felt the force of this
assertion. In high life, embarrassments are generally to be attributed to the love of gambling,
prodigality, or some such sweeping vice, which no station can control. Bankruptcies, or failures
in trade, being common occurrences, are seldom traced to their origin, too often found to be
in expensive habits, and overreaching or misguided speculations, and sometimes in the treachery
and villany of partners; and, amidst this bad system, so nicely is credit balanced, that a
run of ill luck, or a mere idle whisper, is often known to destroy commercial character of
a century's growth. But in these cases it should be recollected, that the reputation of the
parties has probably been already endangered by some great stretch of enterprize, calculated
to excite envy or suspicion.

Debts of fashion, or those contracted in high life, are usually the most unjust, probably the
result of honesty being more a virtue of necessity than of choice, and of the disgraceful system
of imposing on the extravagant and wealthy. Experience, it is granted, is a treasure which
fools must purchase at a high price; but however largely we may hold possession of that commodity,
it will not excuse that scheme of bare-weight honesty, which some are apt to make the standard
of their dealings with the rich. A man of family, partly from indiscretion, and from various
other causes, becomes embarrassed; the clamours of his creditors soon magnify his luxuries,
but not a word is said about their innumerable extortions, in the shape of commissions, percentages,
and other licensed modifications of cheatery, nor are they reckoned to the advantage of the
debtor. These may be practices of experience, custom, and money-getting, but they are not rules
of conscience. In truth, there is not a more painful scene than the ruin of a young man of
family. There is so much vice and unprincipled waste opposed to indignant and rapacious clamour,
often accompanied with idle jests. Here again is food for the vitiated appetites of scandalmongers,
and that miserable but numerous portion of mankind, who rejoice at the fall of a superior.
The name of _debtor_ is an odium which a proud spirit can but ill support; cunning and avarice
come in a thousand shapes, not to retrieve lost credit, but to swell the list of embarrassments;--friends
have fled at the approach of the crisis, and associates appear but to pluck the poor victim
of the wrecks of his fortune! Absenteeism, the curse of England, is the only alternative of
wretched and humiliating imprisonment. An entire change of habit ensues: ease and elegance
of manners dwindle into coldness and neglect, liberality to meanness, and good-natured simplicity
to chicanery and cunning. In society, too, how changed; once the gay table companion, full
of gallantry and wit, now solitary and dejected, with the weeds of discomfort and despair rankling
around his heart. If fortune ever enable him to regenerate from such obscurity, perhaps custom
may have habituated him to privation till the return of comfort serves little more than to
awaken recollections of past error or obligation, and to embitter future enjoyment. Such a
change may, however, empower him to adjust his conscience with men, of all satisfaction the
most valuable; notwithstanding that the world is readier to exaggerate error, than recognise
such sterling principle. It is alike obvious, that men who are under the stigma of debt, do
not enjoy that ease which they are commonly thought to possess. The horrors of dependance,
in all its afflicting shapes, are known to visit them hourly, although in some instances, buoyancy
of spirits, and affected gaiety may enable them to appear happy; and ofttimes would they be
awakened to a sense of these fallacies, and thus become reformed, were it not for the rigour
of persecution, which renders them reckless of all that may ensue, and callous to the honourable
distinctions of man. This of a truth, is tampering with human weakness, and is too often known
to prove the upshot of industry, by sacrificing principle to vindictive passion.

That a system of debt is identified with the existence and framework of all commercial republics,
is well known; else, genius would cease to be fostered, enterprise would be cramped, and industry
wither on her own soil. Nevertheless, the system may be so extended, as to beget indifference
for the future and neglect of our present concerns, which leads to gradual ruin. Time "travels
at divers paces," but with none more quickly than the unprepared debtor; and he who allows
his debts to get the start of his fortune, lives upon other men's estates, and must accordingly
become the slave of their passions and prejudices: in truth, he may be thus said to be parting
with his existence by piece-meal. Hence, he becomes a kind of _convict_ in society--his debts
resembling a log of wood chained to his body, and a brand-mark on his conscience. Thus pent
up with fear and disquietude, his imprisonment is twofold, and being an enemy to his own peace,
he is apt to imagine all men to be leagued against him. If his debts are those of youth, his
old age will probably resemble the sequel to revelry, when appetite is fled to make way for
disgust and spleen: and he dies--in debt. Mark the lamentable scenes that follow, when the
pride of inheritance sinks before the unsparing hand of the usurer, or extortionate mortgagee.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIR LUMLEY SKEFFINGTON.

Sir Lumley St. George Skeffington was the dandy of the olden time, and a kinder, better-hearted
man, never existed. He is a person of some taste in literature, and of polished manners, nor
has his long intercourse with fashionable society at all affected that simplicity of character
for which he has been remarkable. He was a true dandy: and much more than, that, he was a perfect
gentleman. I remember, long long since, entering Covent Garden Theatre, when I observed a person
holding the door to let me pass; deeming him to be one of the box-keepers, I was about to nod
my thanks: when I found, to my surprise, that it was Skeffington, who had thus goodnaturedly
honoured a stranger by his attention. We with some difficulty obtained seats in a box, and
I was indebted to accident for one of the most agreeable evenings I remember to have passed.

I remember visiting the Opera, when late dinners were the rage, and the hour of refection was
carried far into the night. I was again placed near the fugleman of fashion (for to his movements
were all eyes directed: and his sanction determined the accuracy of all conduct). He bowed
from box to box, until recognising one of his friends in the lower tier, "Temple," he exclaimed,
drawling out his weary words, "at--what--hour--do--you--dine--to-day?" It had gone half-past
eleven when he spoke!

I saw him once enter St. James's Church, having at the door taken a ponderous red-morocco prayer-book
from his servant; but, although prominently placed in the centre aisle, the pew-opener never
offered him a seat; and, stranger still, none of his many friends beckoned him to a place.
Others, in his rank of life, might have been disconcerted at the position in which he was placed:
but Skeffington was too much of a gentleman to be in any way disturbed; so he seated himself
upon the bench between two aged female paupers, and most reverently did he go through the service,
sharing with the ladies his book, the print of which was more favourable to their devotions
than their own diminutive Liturgies.

_New Monthly Magazine._

       *        *        *        *        *

MARQUESS OF CLEVELAND.

In the Gazette of September 17, 1827, is registered the grant of the title of _Marquess of
Cleveland_ to the Earl of Darlington.

The noble Earl probably selected the title of "Cleveland" in consequence of his representing
the extinct Dukes of Cleveland. King Charles the Second, on the 3rd of August, 1670, created
his mistress, Barbara Villiers, the daughter and heiress of William, second Viscount Grandison
in Ireland, and wife of Roger Palmer, Earl of Castlemaine, Baroness Nonsuch, in the county
of Surrey, Countess of Southampton, and _Duchess of Cleveland_, with remainder to two of her
natural sons by the King, Charles Fitz Roy, and George Fitz Roy, who was created Duke of Northumberland
in 1674, but died S.P., and to the heirs male of their bodies lawfully begotten respectively.
The Duchess died in 1709, and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles, who had been before
created Duke of Southampton. He had issue, three sons: William, his successor in his honours;
Charles, and Henry, who both died S.P.; and three daughters, Barbara, who died unmarried; Grace;
and Ann; who was the wife of Francis Paddy, Esquire, and had issue.

Grace, the Duke's second daughter, married Henry, first Earl of Darlington; and on the death
of her brother William, second and last Duke of Cleveland, S.P., in 1774, her son, Henry, second
Earl of Darlington, the father of the present Marquess of Cleveland, became one of the representatives
of that family. It is an extraordinary fact, that the attainder of the celebrated Sir Henry
Vane should never have been reversed, though his son was created a Baron, his great-grandson
a Viscount and Earl, and his great-great-great-grandson a Marquess. The only individual on
whom the title of Cleveland has been conferred, besides Barbara Villiers and her descendants,
was Thomas, fourth Lord Wentworth, who was created Earl of Cleveland in February, 1626; but
it became extinct on his death, S.P.M., in 1667.

_Retrospective Review._

       *       *       *       *       *

DIRTY PEOPLE.

A dirty dog is a nuisance not to be borne. But here the question arises,--who--what--is a dirty
dog? Now there are men (no women) naturally--necessarily--dirty. They are not dirty by chance
or accident--say twice or thrice per diem--but they are always dirty--at all times and in all
places--and never and nowhere more disgustingly so than when figged out for going to church.
It is in the skin--in the blood--in the flesh--and in the bone--that with such the disease
of dirt more especially lies. We beg pardon, no less in the hair. Now such persons do not know
that they are dirty--that they are unclean beasts. On the contrary, they often think themselves
pinks of purity--incarnations of carnations--impersonations of moss-roses--the spiritual essences
of lilies, "imparadised in form of that sweet flesh." Now, were such persons to change their
linen every half hour night and day, that is, were they to put on forty-eight clean shirts
in the twenty-four hours,--and it would not be reasonable, perhaps, to demand more of them,--yet
though we cheerfully grant that one and all of the shirts would be dirty, we as sulkily deny
that at any given moment from sunrise to sunset, and over again, the wearer would be clean.
He would be just every whit and bit as dirty as if he had known but one single shirt all his
life--and firmly believed his to be the only shirt in the universe.

Men, again, on the other hand, there are--and, thank God, in great numbers--who are naturally
so clean, that we defy you to make them _bonâ fide_ dirty. You may as well drive down a duck
into a dirty puddle, and expect lasting stains on its pretty plumage. Pope says the same thing
of swans--that is, poets--when speaking of Aaron Hill diving into the ditch--

  "He bears no tokens of the sabler streams,
  But soars far off among the swans of Thames."

Pleasant people of this kind of constitution you see going about of a morning rather in dishabille--hair
uncombed haply--face and hands even unwashed--and shirt with a somewhat day-before-yesterdayish
hue. Yet are they, so far from being dirty, at once felt, seen, and smelt, to be among the
very cleanest of his majesty's subjects. The moment you shake hands with them, you feel in
the firm flesh of palm and finger that their heart's blood circulates purely and freely from
the point of the highest hair on the apex of the pericranium, to the edge of the nail on the
large toe of the right foot. Their eyes are as clean as unclouded skies--the apples on their
cheeks are like those on the tree--what need, in either case, of rubbing off dust or dew with
a towel? What though, from sleeping without a night-cap, their hair may be a little toosey?
It is not dim--dull--oily--like half-withered sea-weeds! It will soon comb itself with the
fingers of the west wind--that tent-like tree its toilette--its mirror that pool of the clear-flowing
Tweed.

Irishmen are generally sweet--at least in their own green isle.--So are Scotchmen. Whereas,
blindfolded, take a cockney's hand, immediately after it has been washed and scented, and put
it to your nose--and you will begin to be apprehensive that some practical wit has substituted
in lieu of the sonnet-scribbling bunch of little fetid fives, the body of some chicken-butcher
of a weasel, that died of the plague. We have seen as much of what is most ignorantly and malignantly
denominated dirt--one week's earth--washed off the feet of a pretty young girl on a Saturday
night, at a single sitting, in the little rivulet that runs almost round about her father's
hut, as would have served a cockney to raise his mignionette in, or his crop of cresses. How
beautifully glowed the crimson-snow of the singing creature's new-washed feet!

It will be seen, from these hurried remarks, that there is more truth than Dr. Kitchiner was
aware of in his apophthegm--that a clean skin may be regarded as next in efficacy to a clear
conscience. But the doctor had but a very imperfect notion of the meaning of the words--clean
skin--his observation being not even skin-deep. A wash-hand basin--a bit of soap--and a coarse
towel--he thought would give a cockney on Ludgate-hill a clean skin--just as many good people
think that a Bible, a prayer-book, and a long sermon can give a clear conscience to a criminal
in Newgate. The cause of the evil, in both cases, lies too deep for tears. Millions of men
and women pass through nature to eternity clean-skinned and pious--with slight expense either
in soap or sermons; while millions more, with much week-day bodily scrubbing, and much Sabbath
spiritual sanctification, are held in bad odour here, while they live, by those who happen
to sit near them, and finally go out like the snuff of a candle.--_Blackwoods Magazine_.

       *        *        *        *        *

QUACKERY.

A short time since a soi-disant doctor sold water of the pool of Bethesda, which was to cure
all complaints, if taken at the time when the angel visited the parent spring, on which occasion
the doctor's bottled water manifested, he said, its sympathy with its fount by its perturbation.
Hundreds purchased the Bethesda-water, and watched for the commotion and the consequence, with
the result to be expected. At last one, less patient than the rest, went to the doctor, and
complained that though he had kept his eye constantly on the water for a whole year, he had
never yet discovered anything like the signs of an angel in his bottle.

"That's extremely strange," exclaimed the doctor. "What sized bottle did you buy, sir?"

Patient.--"A half-guinea-one, doctor."

Doctor.--"Oh, that accounts for it. The half-guinea bottles contain so small a quantity of
the invaluable Bethesda-water, that the agitation is scarcely perceptible; but if you buy a
five-guinea bottle, and watch it well, you will in due season see the commotion quite plain,
sympathizing with that of the pool when visited by the angel."

The patient bought the five guinea bottle as advised, and kept a sharp look out for the angel
till the day of his death.

_London Magazine._

       *        *        *        *        *

HANGING BY DESIRE.

Some few years ago, two fellows were observed by a patrol sitting on a lamp-post in the New
Road, and on closely watching them, he discovered that one was tying up the other (who offered
no resistance) by the neck. The patrol interfered, to prevent such a strange kind of murder,
and was assailed by both, and pretty considerably beaten for his good offices. The watchmen,
however, poured in, and the parties were secured. On examination the next morning, it appeared
that the men had been gambling; that one had lost all his money to the other, and had at last
proposed to stake his clothes. The winner demurred; observing, that he could not strip his
adversary naked, in the event of his losing. "Oh," replied the other, "do not give yourself
any uneasiness about that. If I lose, I shall be unable to live, and you shall hang me, and
take my clothes after I am dead; as I shall then, you know, have no occasion for them." The
proposed arrangement was assented to; and the fellow, having lost, was quietly submitting to
the terms of the treaty, when he was interrupted by the patrol, whose impertinent interference
he so angrily resented.--_Ibid._

       *        *        *        *        *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRIAL OF CHARLES I.

On the morning of Jan. 20th, 1648, towards noon, the High Court, having first held its secret
sitting in the Painted Chamber, prepared to enter upon the final details of its mission. Prayers
were scarcely over, before it was announced that the king, borne in a close sedan between two
rows of soldiers, was on the point of making his appearance. Cromwell ran to the windows, and
as suddenly hastened back, pale yet highly excited--"He is here, he is here, sirs; the hour
for this grand affair draws nigh. Decide promptly, I beseech you, what you intend to reply;
for he will instantly inquire in whose name and by what authority you presume to try him."
No one making any reply, Henry Martin at length observed--"In the name of the Commons assembled
in Parliament, and of all the good people of England." To this no objection was made. The court
proceeded in solemn procession towards Westminster Hall, the President Bradshaw at its head;
before him were borne the mace and sword; and sixteen officers armed with partisans, preceded
the court. The President took his place in an arm-chair adorned with crimson velvet; at his
feet sat the clerk, near a table covered with a rich Turkey carpet, and upon which were placed
the mace and sword. On the right and left appeared the members of the court upon seats of scarlet
cloth; while at the two ends of the hall stood the guards, all armed, a little in advance of
the tribunal. The court being installed, all the doors were thrown open; the crowd rushed into
the hall. Silence being restored, the act of the Commons appointing the court was read, the
names were called over, and sixty-nine members were found to be present. "Sergeant," said Bradshaw,
"let the prisoner be brought forward!"

The king appeared under guard of Colonel Hacker and thirty-two officers. An arm-chair, adorned
with crimson velvet, was in readiness for him at the bar. He came forward; fixed a long and
severe look upon the court, and seated himself without taking off his hat. Suddenly he rose,
looked round at the guard upon the left, and at the spectators upon the right of the hall;
again fixed his eyes upon his judges, and then sat down, amidst the general silence of the court.

Bradshaw rose instantly:--"Charles Stuart, King of England, the English Commons assembled in
Parliament, deeply penetrated with a sense of the evils that have fallen upon this nation,
and of which you are considered the chief author, are resolved to inquire into this sanguinary
crime. With this view they have instituted this High Court of Justice, before which you are
summoned this day. You will now hear the charges to be preferred against you."

The Attorney General Coke now rose. "Silence!" exclaimed the king, at the same time touching
him on the shoulder with his cane. Coke, surprised and irritated, turned round; the handle
of the king's cane fell off, and for a few moments he appeared deeply affected. None of his
attendants were at hand to take it up; he stooped and picked it up himself, and then resumed
his seat. Coke proceeded to read the act imputing to the king all the evils arising first out
of his tyranny, subsequently from the war; and requiring that he should be bound to reply to
the charges, and that judgment should be pronounced against him as a tyrant, a traitor, and
a murderer.

During this time, the king continued seated, directing his eyes towards his judges, or towards
the spectators, without betraying any emotion. Once he rose; turned his back upon the court
to see what was passing behind him, and again sat down with an expression at once of inquisitiveness
and indifference in his manner. Upon hearing the words: "Charles Stuart, a tyrant, traitor,
and murderer," he laughed, though he still remained silent.

The act being read, "Sir," said Bradshaw, "you have now heard the act of accusation against
you: the court expects you to reply."

_The King_. "First, I wish to know by what authority I am summoned here. A short time since,
I was in the Isle of Wight engaged in negociations with both houses of parliament, under guarantee
of the public faith. We were upon the point of concluding a treaty. I would be informed by
what authority--I say legitimate authority--for of illegitimate authorities there are, I know,
many, like that of robbers on the highway;--I would be informed, I repeat, by what authority
I have been dragged from place to place, I know not with what views. When I am made acquainted
with this legitimate authority, I will reply."

_Bradshaw_. "If you had attended to what was addressed to you by the court upon your arrival,
you would know in what this authority consisted. It calls upon you, in the name of the people
of England, of whom you were elected king, to make a reply."

_The King_. "No sir, I deny this."

_Bradshaw_. "If you refuse to acknowledge the authority of the court, it will proceed against you."

_The King_. "I maintain that England never was an elective kingdom; for nearly the space of
a thousand years it has been altogether an hereditary one. Let me know, then, by what authority
I am summoned here. Inquire from Colonel Cobbett, who is here at hand, if I were not brought
by force from the Isle of Wight. I will yield to none in maintaining the just privileges of
the House of Commons in this place. But where are the Lords? I see no Lords here necessary
to constitute a parliament. A king, moreover, is essential to it. Now is this what is meant
by bringing the king to meet his parliament?"

_Bradshaw._ "Sir, the court awaits a definitive answer from you. If what we have stated respecting
our authority does not satisfy you, it is sufficient for us, we know that it is founded upon
the authority of God and of the country."

_The King._ "It is neither my opinion nor yours which should decide."

_Bradshaw._ "The court has heard you; you will be disposed of according to its orders. Let
the prisoner be removed. The court adjourns until Monday."

The court then withdrew; and the king retired under the same escort that had accompanied him.
Upon rising he perceived the sword placed upon the table, "I have no fear of that," he observed,
pointing towards it with his cane. As he descended the staircase, several voices called out
"Justice! justice!" but far the greater number were heard to exclaim, "God save the king! God
save your majesty."

On the morrow at the opening of the sitting, sixty-two members being present, the court ordered
strict silence to be observed under pain of imprisonment. On his arrival, however, the king
was not the less received with marked applause. The same sort of discussion commenced, and
with equal obstinacy on both sides. "Sir," at length, exclaimed Bradshaw, "neither you, nor
any other person shall be permitted to question the jurisdiction of this court. It sits by
authority of the Commons of England--an authority to which both you and your predecessors are
to be held responsible."

_The King._ "I deny that. Show me a single precedent." Bradshaw rose up in a passion: "Sir,
we do not sit here to reply to your questions. Plead to the accusation, _guilty_ or not _guilty_."

_The King._ "You have not yet heard my reasons."

_Bradshaw._ "Sir, no reason can be advanced against the highest of all jurisdictions."

_The King._ "Point out to me this jurisdiction; or you refuse to hear reason."

_Bradshaw._ "Sir, we show it to you here. Here are the Commons of England. Sergeant, remove
the prisoner."

The king on this turned suddenly round towards the people. "Bear in mind," he said, "that the
king of England has been condemned without being permitted to state his reasons in support
of the people's liberty." These words were followed by an almost general cry of God save the
king. * * *

On the 27th at noon, after two hours conference in the painted chamber, the court opened, as
usual, by calling a list of the names. At the name of Fairfax, a woman's voice from the bottom
of the gallery was heard to exclaim: "He has too much sense to be here." After some moments'
surprise and hesitation, the names were called over, and sixty-seven members were present.
When the king entered the hall, there was a violent outcry: "Execution! justice! execution!"
The soldiers became very insolent; some officers, in particular Axtell, commander of the guards,
excited them to this uproar; and groups spread about through the hall, as busily seconded them.
The people, struck with consternation, were silent. "Sir!" said the king, addressing Bradshaw
before he sat down, "I demand to speak a word; I hope that I shall give you no cause to interrupt
me."

_Bradshaw._ "You will be heard in your turn. Listen first to the court."

_The King._ "Sir, if you please, I wish to be heard. It is only a word. An immediate decision."

_Bradshaw._ "Sir, you shall be heard at the proper time:--first, you must listen to the court."

_The King._ "Sir, I desire,--what I have to say applies to what the court is, I believe, about
to pronounce; and it is difficult, sir, to recall a precipitate verdict."

_Bradshaw._ "We shall hear you, sir, before judgment is pronounced. Until then you ought to
abstain from speaking."

Upon this assurance the king became more calm; he sat down, and Bradshaw proceeded:

"Gentlemen--it is well known that the prisoner at your bar has now been many times brought
before this court to reply to a charge of treason, and other high crimes, exhibited against
him in the name of the English people"----

"Not half the people," exclaimed the same voice that had spoken on hearing the name of Fairfax,
"where is the people?--where is its consent?--Oliver Cromwell is a traitor."

The whole assembly seemed electrified!--all eyes turned towards the gallery: "Down with the
w----s," cried Axtell; "soldiers fire upon them!"--It was lady Fairfax. A general confusion
now arose; the soldiers, though everywhere fierce and active, could with difficulty repress
it. Order being at length a little restored, Bradshaw again insisted upon the king's obstinate
refusal to reply to the charge; upon the notoriety of the crimes imputed to him, and declared
that the court, though unanimous in its sentence, had nevertheless consented to hear the prisoner's
defence, provided that he would cease to question its jurisdiction.

"I demand," said the king, "to be heard in the painted chamber, by both Lords and Commons,
upon a proposition which concerns the peace of the kingdom and the liberty of my subjects much
more nearly than my own preservation."

