Observe, my dear boys, if you once get me hang'd,
      'Tis fifty to one if you'll e'er be harangued.
      Farewell to the pleasure of paying the "Rint"--
      Farewell to all earth's vilest nonsense in print--
      Farewell to the feast of your gall and your guile--
      All's over at once with the grand Emerald Isle.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FIREMAN'S SONG.

      "Ho, comrade, up! awake, arise! look forth into the night:
      Say, is yon gleam the morning-beam, yon broad and bloody light?
      Say, does it tell--yon clanging bell--of mass or matin song?
      Yon drum-roll--calls it to parade the soldier's armèd throng?"

      "No, brother, no! no morning-beam is yonder crimson glare!
      Yon deep bell tolls no matin--'tis the tocsin's hurried blare!
      Yon sullen drum-roll mutters out no summons to parade:
      To fight the flame it summons us--the valiant Fire-Brigade!"

      Then fast the Fireman rose, and waked his mate that lay beside;
      And each man gripp'd his trusty axe, and donn'd his coat of hide--
      There bounds beneath that leather coat a heart as strange to fear
      As ever swell'd beneath the steel of gilded cuirassier.

      And from beneath the leather casque that guards the Fireman's brow,
      A bolder, sterner glance shines out than plumy crest can show;
      And oft shall ply the Fireman's axe, though rude and rough it be,
      Where sabre, lance, and bayonet, right soon would turn and flee!

      Off dash the thundering engines, like goblin jäger-chase--
      The sleeper shudders as they pass, and pallid grows his face:
      Away, away! though close and bright yon ruddy glow appear,
      Far, far we have to gallop yet, or e'er our work we near!

      A plain of upturn'd faces--pale brows and quivering lips,
      All flickering like the tropic sea in the green light of eclipse;
      And the multitude waves to and fro, as in the tropic sea,
      After a tempest, heaves and falls the ground-swell sleeplessly.

      Now, by my faith! goodly sight you mansion fast asleep--
      Those winking lamps beside the gate a dull watch seem to keep--
      But a gay awaking waits them, when the crash of blazing beam,
      And the Fireman's stern réveille, shall mingle with their dream!

      And sound as sleeps that mansion, ye may mark in every chink
      A gleam, as in the lava-cracks by the volcano's brink;
      Through key-hole and through window-slit, a white and sullen glow--
      And all above is rolling smoke, and all is dark below.

      Hark! hear ye not that murmur, that hush and hollow roar,
      As when to the south-wester bow the pines upon the shore;
      And that low crackling intermix'd, like wither'd twig that breaks,
      When in the midnight greenwood the startled squirrel wakes!

      Lo, how the fire comes roaring on, like a host in war array!
      Nor lacks it gallant music to cheer it on its way,
      Nor flap of flame-tongued banner, like the Oriflamme of old,
      Its vanward cohorts heralding, in crimson, green, and gold.

      The engines now are ranged a-row--hark, how they sob and pant!
      How gallantly the water-jets curve soaringly aslant!
      Up spins the stream--it meets the flame--it bursts in fleecy rain,
      Like the last spout of the dying whale, when the lance is in
          his brain.

      Ha, ha! from yon high window thrill'd the wild shriek of despair,
      And gibbering phantoms seem to dance within the ruddy glare;
      And as a valiant captain leads his boarders to the fray,
      "Up, up, my sons!" our foreman shouts--"up firemen, and away!"

      Their arms are strong and sinewy--see how the splinters fly--
      Their axes they are sharp and good--"Back, comrades! or ye die--
      Look to the walls!"--a rending crash--they topple--down they come--
      A cloud of sparks--a feeble cheer--again!--and all is dumb.

      A pause--as on that battle-day, 'twixt France and England's might,
      When huge L'Orient blew up at once, in the hottest of the fight:
      There was not one, they say, but wink'd, and held his breath
          the while,
      Though brave were they that fought that day with Nelson at the Nile.

      And by to-morrow's sunrise, amid the steaming stones,
      A chain of gold half-melted, and a few small white bones,
      And a few rags of roasted flesh, alone shall show where died--
      The noble and the beautiful, the baby and the bride!

      O fire, he is a noble thing!--the sot's pipe gives him birth;
      Or from the livid thunder-cloud he leaps alive on earth;
      Or in the western wilderness devouring silently;
      Or on the lava rocking in the womb of Stromboli.

      Right well in Hamburg revell'd he--though Elbe ran rolling by--
      He could have drain'd--so fierce his thirst--the mighty river dry!
      With silk, and gold, and diamond, he cramm'd his hungry maw;
      And he tamed the wild republicans, who knew nor lord nor law!

      He feasted well in Moscow--in the city of the Tsar--
      When 'fore the northern streamers paled Napoleon's lurid star:
      Around the hoary Kremlin, where Moscow once had stood,
      He pass'd, and left a heap behind, of ashes slaked in blood!

      He feasted once in London--he feasted best of all--
      When through the close-packed city, he swept from wall to wall:
      Even as of old the wrath of God came down in fiery rain,
      On Sodom and Gomorrha, on the Cities of the Plain!

       *       *       *       *       *

POSITION AND PROSPECTS OF THE GOVERNMENT.

A recruited revenue; reviving trade and commerce; reduction in the price of provisions; the
triumphant termination of hostilities in all parts of the world, with its great immediate prospective
advantages: a general feeling of confidence, arising from the steady administration of public
affairs, in spite of persevering and atrocious efforts to excite dissatisfaction and alarm;
nay, even the stern repose prevailing in Ireland, preserved though it be, for a while, under
cover of artillery, and at the bayonet's point, but affording a precious respite from agitation,
and a foretaste of the blessings that may be expected from its permanent suppression: all these
circumstances unequivocally attest the existence of a powerful Government acting upon a comprehensive
and enduring policy, which is becoming daily better appreciated by the strong good sense which
ever distinguishes the British character, when a fair opportunity is afforded for its exercise.

Upwards of two years have now elapsed since the accession of the present Government to power,
at a period of universally admitted difficulty and danger. We have been, during this critical
interval, dispassionate and independent observers of Ministers, and their conduct of public
affairs, anxious to see whether they were really equal to the occasion, and worthy of the confidence
of the Sovereign and the country. We are ourselves satisfied, and undertake to demonstrate
to our readers, that this question must be answered in the affirmative. We say all this advisedly,
and with no disposition to deny the existence of difficulties, which, if serious to the present,
would be absolutely insuperable to any other Government. During the interval in question, Ministers
have triumphed over more formidable difficulties than any which they have at present to encounter.
_That_, also, we say advisedly--cheerfully, confidently--with Ireland before our eyes, and
the din of the audacious and virulent Anti-corn-law League in our ears.

Passing these topics for the present, let us proceed to examine carefully the real position
of Sir Robert Peel and his Government, with a view to ascertaining its prospects of a continuance
in power. This enquiry cannot be successfully conducted, without referring for a moment to
the immense changes in principles and parties effected by the Reform Bill in 1832--a period
of quite as great a revolution as that of 1688. The Tory party it nearly annihilated!--The
first Reform Parliament consisting of only 187 Tories to 471 Whigs and Radicals--the former
being thus in the fearful minority of 284. We recollect sharing in the despondency, and even
despair, which paralysed our party. There was, however, one signal exception in the person
of Sir Robert Peel, whose conduct on that occasion entitles him to the eternal gratitude of
every man pretending to the character of a Conservative, nay, of every true lover of his country
and its institutions. With surprising energy, calmness, and foresight, he instantly addressed
himself to the formation, even under those inauspicious and disheartening circumstances, of
that _great_ CONSERVATIVE _party_ of which he is now the acknowledged head. In 1841, just _before_
the general election, he thus _reminded that party_, and apprized the country at large of the
principle on which he had acted in 1832. We beg our readers to ponder his words, and the period
when he uttered them.

    "I then foresaw the good that might result from laying the
    foundation of a great Conservative party in the state,
    attached to the fundamental institutions of the country--not
    opposed to any rational change in it which the lapse of years,
    or the altered circumstances of society might require, but
    determined to maintain, on their ancient footing and
    foundation, our great institutions in church and state. In
    order to form that party, however, it was necessary, in the
    first instance, to widen the foundation on which it should
    stand: to call into our connexion men from whom we had been
    separated in consequence of differences which no longer
    existed. My grand object was to build up that great party
    which has been gradually acquiring strength in this
    country--which has been gradually widening the foundation on
    which it stands, and which has drawn, from time to time, its
    support from its opponents."[11]

    [11] Speech to the Tamworth Electors on 28th June 1841,
    (Painter, Strand.)

The shortest and best evidence of the success which has attended the unwearied exertions of
Sir Robert Peel during the ensuing then years, is afforded by the following summary of the
results of the four general elections since the passing of the Reform Bill; three of them under
the auspices and with the unscrupulously exercised patronage of the Reform Government. Observe
the ascending and descending scales:--

           C.   L.
          187  471  (1832)
          275  383  (1835)
          314  344  (1837)
          373  283  (1841)

Who was it but its founder, that led the Conservative party through these successive stages
of triumph? Who did so much as he to effect that gradual but decisive change in public opinion
which, in 1841, routed the Liberal Ministry in spite of their extraordinary exertions and advantages,
and placed a Conservative Government at the head of affairs? To enable us to appreciate the
importance of that great victory, and also the decision of character evinced on that occasion
by Sir Robert Peel, let us for a moment advert to the calm self-reliance with which, amidst
the breathless apprehensions and misgivings of his whole party, he gave battle to the enemy--proposed
the memorable vote of want of confidence, and carried it by a majority of one.[12] A more critical
move never was followed by more signal success; every ensuing event serving to show, that so
far from his movements having been impelled by rash and desperate party speculations, they
had been based upon a profound and accurate knowledge of his resources, and of the state of
feeling and opinion in the country. "I gave the Government every advantage," said he, "to make
their appeal to the country. They boast of the confidence of the crown--they have every means
at their disposal which official influence can command to exert in their own behalf. An appeal
has been made by them from the House of Commons to you, and it is for the country to decide
the question at issue. They have made an appeal to public feeling on account of cheap sugar
and cheap bread. My firm belief is, that the people of this country have not at all responded
to that cry." How well-founded was that "firm belief," was proved by the glorious result:--the
"people of this country did" _not_ "respond to that cry"--they rejected--they repudiated it,
and they would do so again if another such appeal were made to them to-morrow.

    [12] Ayes, 312; Noes, 311--4th June 1841.

Let us now proceed to show what pretence there is for the injurious insinuations and assertions
of Sir Robert Peel's traducers--whether treacherous friends or open enemies--that, in order
to obtain power, he hung out false colours to the nation; that his declarations before the
general election have been disregarded and falsified by his acts on attaining office. We will
for ever demolish all such calumnies and false pretences by going, step by step, through a
document which we made a point of procuring at the time, and preserving hitherto, and to which
we have since frequently referred, on hearing uttered the slanderous charges to which we allude.
That document is a copy of the speech which Sir Robert Peel, on the 28th June 1841, addressed
formally to his constituents, but virtually, of course, to the whole nation.

One of his earliest declarations was the following:--"Gentlemen, _I have ever professed moderate
opinions on politics_. The principles I professed, and adhered to, I shall adhere to during
my public life, whether in opposition or in power, are, I believe, in perfect conformity with
the prevailing good sense, the moderation, and the intelligence of the great body of the people
of England." This was a sufficiently distinct notice to all men, especially to those of extreme
opinions, whether Tory, Liberal, or Radical, of the course of action which was to be looked
for from the expectant Prime Minister.

Then, first, he proceeded to admit the existence of manufacturing distress.

"I admit and deplore it, but I do not despair. I have seen distress in manufactures and in
commerce before now. I think the causes of the present distress are but temporary--that the
cloud will soon blow over--and that the great foundations of manufacturing prosperity are not
affected; and I hope I shall very shortly see the day when our manufactures will once more
revive, and when we shall again fill the place we have always occupied--that of producers for
the markets of the world."

Now for its _cause_.

"Now let us consider the important question, as to how far the distress in the manufactures
and commerce of the country is fairly attributable to the corn-laws." He proceeded to show,
from Lord Palmerston's official statement in Parliament on the 22d July 1840, that, between
the years 1830 and 1839, the _exports_ had risen from the value of L.38,000,000 to L.53,000,000,
and the _imports_ from L.46,000,000 to L.62,000,000, "a clear proof that, notwithstanding the
local and temporary checks which our commerce had experienced, on the whole it had gone on
steadily improving, and that between the two periods it had increased not much less than from
two to three."

He then took the _shipping_ and _navigation_ of the country for the preceding three years;
and in looking at them, I cannot help thinking that, if there was any thing like an absolute
decrease in trade and commerce, there would also be a decrease in the shipping of the country.
"Well," said Sir Robert Peel, "What do I find?" The returns "showed an increase, presented
within the last three years, from 4,000,000 tons to 4,780,000 tons." Now mark--"during the
whole of this period the corn-laws were in operation; how then can they be fairly or honestly
assigned as the cause of the present manufacturing and commercial distress?"

But if the corn-laws were _not_, what _was_ the cause?

"I see causes enough in the world, as well as in this country, why there should be manufacturing
and commercial distress at the present moment, irrespective and totally independent of the
corn-laws."

These were--

1st, "_I do fear that, in the north of England, an undue stimulus has been given to manufacturing
industry by the accommodation system pursued by the joint-stock banks. I think the connexion
of the manufacturer with the joint-stock banks gave an undue and an improper impulse to trade
in that quarter of the county; and I think that, in consequence of this, there have been more
manufactures produced within the last two years than were necessary to supply the demand for
them._"

2ndly, "Look to the state of some of the foreign countries, which took, at one time, the greatest
quantity of our manufactures;" South America, its ports strictly blockaded by France; the United
States of North America, "in a state of nascent hostility," and also labouring under "a distress
similar to our own, and arising from similar causes. The facility of accommodation afforded
by certain banks there gave an undue stimulus to industry; this produced extravagant speculations;
many persons failed in consequence, and trade necessarily then came to a stand-still." Canada--the
peninsula, France, the great Kingdoms of the middle and north of Europe--Syria, Egypt, China,
had been, and were, in such a state, as occasioned all interruption of our trade thither; "a
stoppage in the demand for manufactured goods, and a correspondent depression in commerce."
"When you put all these things together, all causes, mind you, affecting the market for your
goods, and then combine them with the two or three defective harvests we have had of late,
I ask you to answer me the question, Whether or not they have been sufficient to account for
the depression of manufacturing industry."

Then came Sir Robert Peel to the two grand and suddenly discovered panaceas of the late Government,
for recruiting the exhausted revenue, and relieving the general distress--viz. "cheap sugar,"
and "cheap bread."

1st, As to foreign sugar:--

"I clearly and freely admit that those restrictions which cannot be justified should be removed,
and that the commerce of the country should be perfectly free, whenever it can possibly be
so; but I consider the article of sugar to be wholly exempt from the principle of free trade."
* * * "The question now is this--whether, after the sacrifices which this country has made
for the suppression of the slave trade and the abolition of slavery, and the glorious results
that have ensued, and are likely to ensue, from these sacrifices--whether we shall run the
risk of losing the benefit of those sacrifices, and tarnishing for ever that glory, by admitting
to the British market sugar the produce of foreign slavery." * * * "If you admit it, it will
come from Brazil and Cuba. In Brazil, the slave-trade exists in full force; in Cuba, it is
unmitigated in its extent and horrors. The sugar of Cuba is the finest in the world; but in
Cuba, slavery is unparalleled in its horrors. I do not at all overstate the fact, when I say,
that 50,000 slaves are annually landed in Cuba. That is the yearly importation into the island;
but, when you take into consideration the vast numbers that perish before they leave their
own coasts, the still greater number that die amidst the horrors of the middle passage, and
the number that are lost at sea, you will come to the inevitable conclusion, that the number
landed in Cuba--50,000 annually--is but a slight indication of the number shipped in Africa,
or of the miseries and destruction that have taken place among them during their transport
thither. If you open the markets of England to the sugar of Cuba, you may depend on it that
you give a great stimulus to slavery, and the slave-trade." Sir Robert Peel then pointed out
peculiar and decisive distinctions between the case of sugar, and that of cotton, tobacco,
and coffee; that, though all of them were the produce of slave labour--First, we cannot now
reject the _cotton_ of the United States, without endangering to the last degree the manufacturing
prosperity of the kingdom. Secondly, of all the descriptions of slave produce, sugar is the
most cruelly destructive of human life--the proportion of deaths in a sugar plantation being
infinitely greater than on those of cotton or coffee. Thirdly, slave grown sugar has _never_
been admitted to consumption in this country.[13] He also assigned two great co-operating reasons
for rejecting slave-grown sugar:--"That the people of England required the great experiment
of emancipation to be fairly tried; and they would _not_ think it fairly tried, if, at this
moment, when the colonies were struggling with such difficulties, we were to open the floodgates
of a foreign supply, and inundate the British market with sugar, the produce of slave-labour;"
adopting the very words of the Whig Vice-President of the Board of Trade, Mr Labouchere, on
the 25th June 1840. The other reason was, "that our immense possessions in the East Indies
give us the means, and afford us every facility, for acquiring sugar, the produce of free labour,
to an illimitable extent."

    [13] The following striking passage from the writings of the
    celebrated Dr Channing of America, was quoted by Sir Robert
    Peel in the speech under consideration. "Great Britain, loaded
    with an unprecedented debt, and with a grinding taxation,
    contracted a new debt of a hundred millions of dollars, to
    give freedom, not to Englishmen, but to the degraded African.
    I know not that history records an act so disinterested, so
    sublime. In the progress of ages, England's naval triumphs
    will shrink into a more and more narrow space in the records
    of our race--this moral triumph will fill a broader--brighter
    page." "Take care!" emphatically added Sir Robert Peel, "that
    this brighter page be not sullied by the admission of slave
    sugar into the consumption of this country--by our
    encouragement--and, too, our unnecessary encouragement of
    slavery and the slave-trade!"--Noble sentiments!

So much for foreign sugar. Now for--

II. FOREIGN CORN; and we beg the special attention of all parties to this portion of the manifesto
of Sir Robert Peel:--

"Look at the capital invested in land and agriculture in this country--look at the interests
involved in it--look at the arrangement that has been come to for the commutation of tithes--look
at your importation of corn diminishing for the last ten years--consider the burdens on the
land peculiar to this country[14]--take all these circumstances into consideration, and then
you will agree with Mr McCulloch, the great advocate of a change in the Corn-law, that 'considering
the vast importance of agriculture, _nearly half the population of the empire are directly
or indirectly dependent on it for employment and the means of subsistence_; a prudent statesman
would pause before he gave his sanction to any measure however sound in principle, or beneficial
to the mercantile and manufacturing classes, that might endanger the prosperity of agriculture,
or check the rapid spread of improvement.'"[15]

    [14] "We believe," says _Mr McCulloch_ himself in another part
    of the pamphlet, (Longman & Co., 1841, p. 23--6th Edit.) from
    which Sir Robert Peel is quoting, "that land is more heavily
    taxed than any other species of property in the country--and
    that its owners are clearly entitled to insist that a duty
    should be laid on foreign corn when imported, sufficient fully
    to countervail the excess of burdens laid upon the land."

    [15] Speech, pp. 9, 10.

Now for the "_Sliding Scale_."

"I just here repeat the opinion which I have declared here before, and also in the House of
Commons, that I cannot consent to substitute a fixed duty of 8s. a-quarter on foreign corn,
for the present ascending and descending scale of duties. I prefer the principle of the ascending
and descending scale, to such an amount of fixed duty. And when I look at the burdens to which
the land of this country is subject, I do not consider the fixed duty of 8s. a-quarter on corn
from Poland, and Prussia, and Russia, where no such burdens exist, a sufficient protection
for it."[16]

    [16] Do. p. 8.

Again--

"If you disturb agriculture, and divert the employment of capital from the land, you may not
increase your foreign trade--for that is a thing to dwell under existing circumstances--_but
will assuredly reduce the home trade, by reducing the means to meet the demand_, and thus permanently
injure yourselves also."[17]

    [17] Do. p. 13.

Again--

"I have come to the conclusion, that the existing system of an ascending and descending scale
of duties, should not be altered: and that, moreover, we should as much as possible make ourselves
independent of a foreign supply--and not disturb the principle of the existing corn-laws--of
these corn-laws, which, when you have an abundance of your own, exclude altogether the foreign
supply--and when the price rises in this country, freely admits it."[18]

    [18] Speech, p. 15.

Again--he quoted the following remarkable language of Lord Melbourne on the 11th June 1840--

"_Whether the object be to have a fixed duty, or an alteration as to the ascending and descending
scale, I see clearly and distinctly, that that object will not be carried without a most violent
struggle--without causing much ill-blood, and a deep sense of grievance--without stirring society
to its foundations, and leaving behind every sort of bitterness and animosity. I do not think
the advantages to be gained by the change are worth the evils of the struggle_."[19]

    [19] Do. p. 18.

And Sir Robert Peel concluded the foregoing summary of his views, on the great questions then
proposed to the country for its decision, in the following words:--

"I ask your free suffrages, with this frank and explicit declaration of my opinions."[20]

    [20] Do. p. 18.

On this, there occur to us three questions--

(1st.) Was this, or was it not, a frank and explicit declaration of his opinions? And, (2d.)
Did it, or did it not, as tested by the result of the general election, completely satisfy
the country? (3d.) In what respect has the subsequent conduct of Sir Robert Peel been inconsistent
with these declarations? And we echo the stern enquiry of the Duke of Wellington, for "the
_when_, the _where_, and the _how_," "of Sir Robert Peel's deceiving his supporters or the
country"--and "pause for a reply." Failing to receive any--for none can be given, except in
the negative--we shall proceed to condense the substance of this memorable manifesto into a
few words; offer some general observations designed to assist in forming a correct judgment
upon the topics discussed in the ensuing pages; and then give as fair an outline as we know
how to present, of the "DOINGS" of Sir Robert Peel and his Government, by way of comment upon,
and illustration of his previous and preparatory "SAYINGS."

What, then, was the substance of Sir Robert Peel's declaration, on presenting himself before
the country as a candidate for the office which he fills? He avowed himself a man of moderate
political opinions; recognized the existence of manufacturing and commercial distress, but
referred it to causes of only a temporary nature, unconnected with the corn-laws; repudiated
the empirical expedients proposed by the late ministry; and pledged himself to maintain the
principle of protection to our agricultural interests; declaring his deliberate preference
of a sliding scale of duties, to a fixed duty, upon foreign corn.

The first of the observations to which we beg the reader's earnest attention, is--that Sir
Robert Peel has _to govern by means of a Reformed House of Commons_. It is for want of well
considering this circumstance, that one or two respectable sections of the Conservative party
have conceived some dissatisfaction at the line of policy adopted by Sir Robert Peel. They
forget that, as we have already stated, the _Tory_ party was nearly destroyed by the passing
of the Reform Bill; that from its ashes rose the CONSERVATIVE party, adapted to the totally
new political exigencies of the times; its grand object being, as it were, out of the elements
of democracy to arrest the progress of democracy. The bond of its union was correctly described
by its founder, as consisting in attachment to the fundamental institutions of the country--non-opposition
to rational changes rendered requisite by the altered circumstances of the times--but determination
to maintain, on their ancient footing and foundation, our great institutions in Church and
State. Keeping these grand objects ever in view, the true policy to be adopted was to widen
the foundations on which should stand "that new party _which was to draw, from time to time,
its strength from its opponents_." None saw this more clearly than Sir Robert Peel--and hence
the "_moderation_," indispensable and all-powerful, which he prescribed to himself, and recommended
to all those who chose to act with him, and the steady acting upon which has at length conducted
them to their present splendid position of power and responsibility. Could the government of
the country be now carried on upon principles that were all-powerful twenty--or even fewer--years
ago? No more than Queen Victoria could govern on the principles of Queen Elizabeth! We must
look at things, not as they were, or as we would wish them to be--but as they are and are likely
to be. He is unable to take a just and comprehensive view of political affairs in this country--of
the position of parties, and the tendency of the principles respectively advocated by them,
who does not see that the great and only contest now going on, is between _conservative_ and
_destructive_. We say boldly--and we are satisfied that we say it in conformity with the opinions
of the immense majority of persons of intelligence and property--that the forces which would
drive Sir Robert Peel's Government from office would immediately and inevitably supply their
places by a Government which must act upon destructive principles. This will not be believed
by many of those who, moving in the circumscribed sphere of intense party feeling, can contemplate
only one object, namely--a return to power, and disregard the intentions of the fierce auxiliaries
of whose services they would avail themselves. To the country at large, however, who breathe
a freer air, the true nature of the struggle is plain as the sun at noonday. The number of
those who only nominally belong to parties, but have a very deep stake in the preservation
of our national institutions, and see distinctly the advantages of a Minister acting _firmly_
on moderate principles, and who will consequently give him a _silent_ but steady support in
moments of danger, is infinitely larger than is supposed by the opponents of the Conservative
party. Such a Minister, however, must make up his account with receiving often only a cold
and jealous support from those of his adherents who incline to extreme opinions; while his
opponents will increase their zeal and animosity in proportion to their perception of the unobjectionableness
of his measures, the practical _working_ of his moderation, viz.--his continuance in power,
and their own exclusion from it. Such a Minister must possess a large share of fortitude, careless
of its exhibition, and often exposing him to the charge of insensibility, as he moves steadily
on amongst disaffected supporters and desperate opponents, mindless equally of taunts, threats,
reproaches, and misrepresentations. He must resolve to _bide his time_, while his well-matured
measures are slowly developing themselves, relying on the conscious purity of his motives.
Such a man as this the country will prize and support, and such a man we sincerely believe
that the country possesses in the present Prime Minister. He may view, therefore, with perfect
equanimity, a degree of methodized clamour and violence, which would overthrow a Minister of
a different stamp. Such are the inconveniences--such the consolations and advantages--attending
that course of _moderation_ which alone can be adopted with permanent success, by a Conservative
Minister governing with a reformed House of Commons.

Another observation we would offer, has for its object to abate the pique and vexation under
which the ablest volunteer advisers of the Minister are apt to suffer, on his disregard of
their counsels, and sometimes to revenge themselves by bitter and indiscriminate censure of
his general policy. They should remember, that while they are irresponsible volunteers, he
acts under a tremendous responsibility; to sustain which, however, he has advantages which
none but those in his situation can possibly possess--the co-operation of able brother Ministers,
with all those sources and means of universal information which the constitution has placed
at his disposal. The superior knowledge of the circumstances of the country thus acquired,
enable him to see insuperable objections to schemes and suggestions, which their proposers
reasonably deem to be palpably just and feasible. We have often thought that if Sir Robert
Peel, or any other Prime Minister, were to take one of these eager and confident advisers into
his cabinet, and calmly exhibit to him the actual impossibility--the imminent danger--of adopting
the course of procedure which that adviser has been strenuously recommending, he would go away
with slightly increased distrust of himself, and consideration for the Minister. Neither Sir
Robert Peel, nor any other Minister, would be so arrogantly stupid as to disregard free information
and advice, _merely_ because it came from such persons, who, if they have no right to expect
their advice to be followed, have yet a clear right to offer it, and urge it with all their force.

Again--The present Ministers had the disadvantage (in some respects) of succeeding to those,
who, if they could _do_ nothing, made up for it by _promising_ every thing. Sir Robert Peel
and his friends, on the contrary, made no promises whatever, beyond what would indeed be implied
by acceptance of office--namely, honestly to endeavour to govern the country, for the permanent
good of the country. While admitting the existence of great distress, they expressly admitted
also, that they saw no mode of sudden relief for that distress, but would trust to the energies
of the country gradually recovering themselves, under steady and cautious management. Sir Robert
Peel frankly stated in the House of Commons, just previously to the dissolution in 1841, that
he had no hope of an immediate return of prosperity; and that such had become the state of
our domestic and foreign embarrassments, that "we must for years expect to struggle with difficulty."
This was their language on the eve of the general election, yet the country placed confidence
in their honour and capacity, heartily sickened of the prodigal _promises_ of their opponents.
The extravagant visionary hopes which they held forth at the eleventh hour, in their frenzied
eagerness to obtain a majority at the last election, are still gleaming brightly before the
eyes of numbers of their deluded supporters; imposing on the present Government the painful
and ungracious duty of proving to them that such hopes and expectations cannot be realized,
even for a brief space, without breaking up the foundations of our national existence and greatness.

Lastly. Can the Conservatives be expected in TWO years' time to repair all the evils resulting
from a TEN years' gross mismanagement of the national affairs by their predecessors? "The evil
that they did, _lives after them_." But for the fortunate strength of the Conservative party,
moreover, in opposition, and the patriotism and wisdom of the house of Lords, the late Ministers
would, by the time of their expulsion from office, have rendered the condition of the country
_utterly_ desperate--for very nearly desperate it assuredly was. Their vacillating, inconsistent,
wild, and extravagant conduct during these ten years, had generated an universal sense of insecurity
and want of confidence among all the great interests of the country, which locked up capital--palsied
enterprise. Trade and commerce drooped daily, and the revenue melted away rapidly every year.
Great things were justly expected from the practical skill and experience possessed by the
new Government; but _time_ is requisite for the development of a policy which had, and still
has, to contend against such numerous and formidable obstacles. Confidence, especially mercantile
confidence, is a delicate flower, of slow growth, and very difficult to rear. A breath may
blight it. It will bloom only in a tranquil and temperate air. If ever there was a man entitled
to speak, however, with authority upon this subject, it was Mr Baring, the late candidate,
and unquestionably the future member, for the city of London--a man constantly engaged in vast
mercantile transactions in all parts of the globe, and whose ability equals his experience.
In the presence of a great number of gentlemen, representing two-thirds of the wealth and intelligence
of the city of London, thus spoke Mr Baring, on the 6th October 1843:--"I rejoice that Sir
Robert Peel did not hold out to the country the fallacious hope, that, by any particular measure,
he could restore prosperity, or cure sufferings which were beyond the reach of legislation,
and that he patiently relied upon the resources and energies of the country to set trade and
commerce right. That expectation is already beginning to be realized. That calm reliance is
already justified. I am speaking in the presence of those who are as much as, if not more conversant
with business than, myself, and they will contradict me if I am not right when I say, that
great symptoms of improvement in the trade and industry of the country have manifested themselves;
which symptoms are of such a nature, that they do not appear to be the result of momentary
excitement produced by some fallacious experiment, but of the paramount re-establishment of
commerce, and of a fresh era in the prosperity of the empire. I am asked what have the Government
done? Why, they have _restored_ CONFIDENCE to the country! They have terminated wars, they
have restored confidence at home, and commanded respect abroad."

Now, however, for the DOINGS of the Government; and of those we shall take no more detailed
or extended notice than is requisite, in our opinion, to exhibit the general system and _plan_
of their procedure, and show its complete consistency with the declaration of opinions made
by Sir Robert Peel previous to the general election of 1841.

It will be borne in mind, that the then existing distress in our commercial and manufacturing
interests he referred to three _temporary_ causes:--the undue stimulus which had been given
to industry in the manufacturing districts--by the accommodation system pursued in the joint-stock
banks, the troubled and hostile condition of almost all those foreign countries which used
to be the best customers for our manufactures, and the two or three preceding defective harvests.
The first of these was not of a nature to call for, or perhaps admit of, direct and specific
legislative interference. It originated in a vicious system of contagious private speculation,
which has involved many thousands of those engaged in it in irredeemable, shall we add _deserved_,
disgrace and ruin--and which had better, perhaps, be left to work its own cure. The last of
the three causes was one to which all mankind is every where subject, and which is in a great
measure beyond the reach of effective human interference. Before proceeding to explain the
steps taken to remedy the second, viz., our distracted foreign relations, let us premise briefly
for the present, that the very earliest acts of Ministers showed how profoundly sensible they
were of the necessity of doing _something_, and that promptly, to relieve the grievous distress
under which the lower orders were suffering, and at the same time afford a safe, effective,
and permanent stimulus to trade and commerce. A comprehensive survey of the state, not only
of our own but foreign commercial countries, satisfied them, as practical men, of the serious
difficulties to be here contended with. The steps they took, after due deliberation--viz.,
the proposing the new tariff and the new corn-law--we shall presently refer to. Let us now
point out _the income-tax_ as a measure reflecting infinite credit upon those who had the sagacity
and resolution to propose it. We shall not dwell upon this great _temporary_ measure, which
in one year has poured upwards of _five millions_ into the exhausted exchequer, further than
to say, that as soon as ever it was known among the monied classes, that the Minister, environed
as he was with financial difficulties, would risk any amount of popular odium rather than add
to the permanent burdens of the country, or permit the ruinous continuance of an excess of
expenditure over revenue. As soon as this was evident, we say, the great monied interests of
the kingdom recognized in Sir Robert Peel an honest minister, and gave him forthwith its complete
confidence, which has never since been for an instant withdrawn from him. And how great are
the obligations of that vast portion of the most suffering classes of the community, whom he
exempted from this extraordinary contribution to the burdens of the state!

But now for _foreign affairs_. May not the present Ministers look with just pride towards every
quarter of the globe, and exclaim, _Quæ regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?_ In truth
their success here has been sufficient to set up half a dozen Ministers--as is known to no
man better than Lord Palmerston. The Duke of Wellington and Lord Aberdeen have restored peace
to the whole world, re-establishing it on a footing of dignified security and equality. By
the persevering energy, the calm determination, and inexhaustible resources of Lord Aberdeen,
"the winter of our discontent," has been "made glorious summer," with all the great powers
of the world. Look at our glorious but irritable neighbour--France: is there any language too
strong to express the delight which we feel at the renovated sympathy and affection which exist
between us?

We cannot answer for France to the extent which we can for England; but we know, that through
the length and breadth of _this_ land--our beloved Queen's familiar visit to the King of the
French, their affectionate greeting, and her Majesty's enthusiastic reception by the people,
diffused a feeling of joy and affection towards France, which will not soon--nay, should it
ever?--subside. But would that visit have taken place, if Lord Palmerston, and not Lord Aberdeen,
had presided over the foreign councils of this country? 'Tis a disagreeable question, and we
pass on. Then as to America, thanks to the mission of Lord Ashburton, peace has been secured
between us, on terms equally honourable to both. We are now at peace with the United States--a
peace not to be disturbed by the (to Whiggish eyes) _promising_ (!!) aspect of the Oregon difficulties--which
we tell our aforesaid friends will end in--_nothing at all_--[It is not, by the way, _the fault
of our Government_, that this disputed matter was not embraced by the Washington Treaty.]--While
Lord Palmerston and his doleful ally, the _Morning Chronicle_, were daily stigmatizing the
treaty of Washington, as highly dishonourable and disadvantageous to this country, it may interest
our readers to see what one of the disaffected _American_ senators had to say on the subject.
Thus spoke, in the senate, Mr Benton, a well-known member of congress:--

    "The concessions of Great Britain to the United States are
    small. The territory granted to the United States, is of such
    a nature, that it will never be of importance to hold it,
    while the possessions given up by the United States are
    important and valuable to them, and have the effect of
    admitting a foreign power within a territory which was granted
    to the United States, by the treaty of 1783. * * When I see
    the Government giving up more than Great Britain demanded, I
    cannot conceal my amazement and mortification!"

Glancing, however, from the West to the East--what do we see? Wars in India and China, brought
gloriously to an advantageous termination.--"Wars," to adopt the language of one of the greatest
mercantile authorities living, "which have been deranging our money transactions, and making
our trade a trade of hazard and speculation, most injurious to the commerce of the empire at
large."

While, on the one hand, we are relieved from the ruinous drain upon our resources, occasioned
by our protracted warlike operations in India and China, on the other, a prospect is opened
to us, by the immensely important treaty into which the Emperor of China has entered with this
country, of very great and permanent commercial advantages, which are already being realized.
Let our manufacturers, however, beware of the danger of forfeiting these advantages, by excessive
eagerness to avail themselves of these newly acquired markets. Twelve-months ago, we earnestly
warned them on this score,[21] and we now as earnestly repeat that warning; "Notwithstanding,"
observed an able French journalist, a few weeks ago, upon this subject, "the opening of five
ports to European commerce, China will for many years preserve her internal laws, her eccentric
tastes, her inveterate habits. China is the country of routine and immovability. The treaty
with Great Britain cannot modify the nature of China in a few months. _If the English are not
prudent in their exports, if they overload the newly opened ports with foreign produce, they
will injure themselves more than they were injured by the war just concluded._" In every word
of this we concur: but alas! what weight will such considerations have with the agitating manufacturers
in the north of England? Their fierce but short-sighted anxiety to make rapid fortunes, will
make most of them, in a very few years, melancholy evidences of the justness of our observations!
We cannot pass from the East without noticing the sound statesmanship which is regulating all
Lord Ellenborough's leading movements in India--a matter now universally admitted. How unspeakably
contemptible and ridiculous has the lapse of a few months rendered the petty clamours against
him, with which the ex-ministerial party commenced their last year's campaign! Without, however,
travelling round the entire circle of our foreign connexions and operations--there are one
or two points to which we will briefly refer, as striking instances of the vigilant and indefatigable
energy, and the powerful diplomatic influence of Lord Aberdeen, especially with reference to
the securing commercial advantages to this country--and which has extorted the following testimony,
during the present month (December,) from another French journal, by no means favourably disposed
to this country:--"The English Government is incontestably the best served of all Governments
in the means of obtaining new, and extending old markets, and in the rapid and complete knowledge
of the course to be adopted to ensure the sale of the immense products of Great Britain in
different parts of the globe." Take for instance the case of Russia. We have actually succeeded
in wringing from the tenacious and inflexible Cabinet of St Petersburg an important commercial
advantage! On Lord Aberdeen's accession to office, he found Russia in the act of aiming a fatal
blow at a very important branch of our shipping trade, by levying a differential duty on all
British vessels conveying to Russian ports any goods which were not the produce of the British
dominions. After, however, a skilful and very arduous negotiation, our foreign secretary has
succeeded in averting that blow--and we retain the great advantages of which we were about
to be deprived. Nor has this signal advantage been purchased by any sacrifice on the part of
Great Britain, but only by a permission, founded on most equitable principles, for Russian
vessels arriving here from Russian ports with the produce of Russian Poland, to possess the
same privileges as if they had come direct from Russian ports: Russian Poland being able to
communicate effectively with the sea, only through the Prussian territory. Look again at Brazil--which
has also been recently the object of persevering and energetic negotiation on the part of Lord
Aberdeen. It is true that, at present, his exertions have been attended with no direct success;
but we have doubts whether the importance of the proposed Brazilian treaty has not, after all,
been greatly exaggerated. However this may be, Lord Aberdeen is, at this moment, as strenuously
at work with the young emperor, as could be desired by the most eager advocate of a commercial
treaty with Brazil. But, suppose the emperor's advisers should be disposed to continue their
obstinate and unreasonable opposition, observe the gentle pressure upon them, to be felt by
and by, which Lord Aberdeen has contrived to effect by the commercial treaty which he has concluded
with the contiguous republic of Monte Video, and other states on the right bank of the river
Plata, for the admission (on most favourable terms) of British imports into these states. One
of them is the Uruguay republic, which borders through a great extent of country on Brazil,
the Government of which is utterly unable to prevent the transfer of merchandise across the
border; whereby the exclusion of British goods from the Brazilian territory is rendered a matter
of physical impossibility.

    [21] Great Britain at the commencement of the 19th
    Century--January 1843--No. CCC.

It is true, that our efforts to enter into commercial treaties with

France and Portugal have not, as yet, been successful; but, formidable as are the obstacles
at present in existence, we do not despair. Those least wonder at the present position of affairs
who are best acquainted with the artificial and complicated positions of the respective countries,
and their relations, and consequent policy, towards each other. Whatever can be done by man,
is at this moment being done by Lord Aberdeen; and sooner than we have at present a right to
expect, his indefatigable exertions may be crowned with success--not only in these, but in
other quarters. All foreign Governments must be strongly influenced in such matters, by contemplating
a steady and strong Government established in this country; and that object they see more nearly
and distinctly every day. Such (without entering into details which would be inconsistent with
either our space or our present object) is the general result--namely, the rapidly returning
tide of prosperous commercial intercourse of the foreign policy of Conservative Government,
which has raised Great Britain, within the short space of two years, to even a higher elevation
among the nations of the world, than she had occupied before a "Liberal Ministry undertook
the government of the country"--"a policy," to adopt the equally strong and just language of
an able writer, "replete with auspicious evidences of the efficacy of intellect, combined with
firmness, activity, and integrity, in restoring to wholesome and honourable order a chaotic
jumble of anomalies--of humiliations and dangers--of fears, hatred, and confusion thrice trebly
confounded."[22]

    [22] Thoughts on Tenets of Ministerial Policy. By a Very Quiet
    Looker-on.--P. 22. Aylott, London, 1843.

While thus successfully active abroad, have Ministers been either idle or unsuccessful at home?
Let us look at their two main measures--the _new tariff_ and the _new corn-law_.

The object of the first of these great measures was twofold--to give a healthy and speedy but
permanent stimulus to trade and commerce; and, at the same time, to effect such a reduction
of price in the leading articles of consumption as should greatly reduce the cost of living--a
boon, of course, inexpressibly precious to the poorer classes. Mark the moment at which this
bold and critical line of policy was conceived and carried into execution--namely, a moment
when the nation was plunged into such a depth of gloom and distress as had very nearly induced
utter despair! when there was a deficiency of _five millions sterling in_ the revenue of the
two preceding years, and a certainty of greatly augmented expenditure for the future, owing
to our wars in the East and elsewhere. We say--_mark this_, in order to appreciate a display
of the true genius of statesmanship. Foreseeing one effect of such a measure, namely, a serious
reduction in the revenue derived from the customs, and which would commence with the bare _announcement_
of such a measure, the Government had to consider whether it would prove a permanent or only
a temporary reduction, and to act accordingly. After profound consideration, they satisfied
themselves (whether justly or not remains to be seen) that the diminution of revenue would
prove only temporary; and to secure the _immediate_ benefits of the measure, they imposed a
temporary income-tax, the onerous pressure of which was to cease as soon as matters should
have come round again. That period they fixed at the expiration of three years. After an interval
of two years, do their calculations appear to have been well or ill founded? Let us see. Early
in March 1842 they announced the proposed new tariff, (instantly producing the effect on the
customs duties which had been anticipated;) and succeeded in bringing it into operation on
the 9th of the ensuing July. The deficiency of revenue which ensued was so very serious that
it would have alarmed the whole country, but for their confidence in the firmness and sagacity
of Ministers, particularly as evidenced by their announced measures. We have not at the present
moment before us the earliest _quarterly_ revenue returns of the period referred to; but it
will suffice to state, that such had been the extent of the reductions effected, that the deficiency
on the _year_ ending on the 5th October 1843, amounted to no less a sum than L.1,136,000; the
decrease on the _quarter_ ending on that day being L.414,000. Still, however, each succeeding
quarter--or at least the latter quarters--gave more satisfactory indications of a rallying
revenue; and we are enabled to announce the highly gratifying fact that, up to the 8th of the
present month (December,) the customs duties returns _are of the most decisively improving
character_. The receipts of duties for the port of London alone, during that period, exceeds
the receipt on the corresponding period of last year by L.206,000; while the returns from all
the outports, especially from Liverpool, are of the same cheering character, and warrant us
in predicting that the returns to be presented on the 5th of the ensuing month will afford
a most triumphant proof of the accuracy of the Minister's calculations and the success of his
policy; for be it borne in mind, moreover, that his income-tax realized, in the year ending
on the 5th October last, the immense sum of L.5,052,000. As far, therefore, as concerns the
direct _financial_ effects of the new tariff and its counterbalancing income-tax, the results
of Sir Robert Peel's policy are such as may stagger and confound the boldest of his opponents.

Now, however, for the two great objects of the new tariff, which were declared by Sir Robert
Peel[23] to be "the revival of commerce, and such an improvement in the manufacturing interest,
as would react on every other interest in the country; and diminishing the prices of the articles
of consumption and the cost of living."

    [23] Hansard, Vol. lxi. Col. 439.

With respect to the first of these objects, we had prepared a copious explanation of the highly
satisfactory working of one great portion of the machine of the new tariff, viz. _the relaxation
of the taxes on the raw materials of manufacture_; but it has occurred to us, that the necessity
of our doing so has been entirely superseded by the following very remarkable admission, contained
in a number of the _Morning Chronicle_ newspaper, published towards the close of September
last; an invaluable admission, tending to prove, out of the mouth of the bitterest opponent
of the present Ministry, the general success of their domestic policy:--"Notwithstanding insurrection
in Wales and agitation in Ireland, there are various circumstances in the present aspect of
our national affairs of an encouraging and cheering nature. The first and most prominent thing
which strikes an observer, is, the undoubted general revival of trade and commerce. Every thing
seems to indicate that the morning is breaking; that the dreary night of disaster and suffering,
through which all our material interests have been passing since 1836, is now well-nigh over.
The hum of busy industry is once more heard throughout our manufacturing districts; our seaports
begin once more to stir with business; merchants on 'Change have smiling faces; and the labouring
population are once more finding employment easier of access; and wages are gently, slowly
rising. This has not come upon us suddenly; it has been in operation since the end of last
year; but so terrible was the depression, so gradual the improvement, that the effects of the
revival could not be perceptible till within a recent period. Our exports of cotton and wool,
during the present year, very considerably exceed those of a similar period in the preceding;
and though there might be increase of export without increase of profit, the simple fact that
the districts of our great manufacturing staples are now more active and busy than they have
been for a very considerable period, coupled with the apparently well-founded belief that this
increased activity is produced, not by speculative but genuine demand, are indications of the
most pleasing and gratifying kind to all who are in the least concerned about the prosperity
of the country. In addition to the improvement manifested in our staple articles of industry,
other important interests are showing symptoms of decided improvement; even the iron-trade
has got over its 'crisis;' and though we are very far indeed from having attained to a condition
of prosperity, the steady, though slow, revival of every branch of industry, is a proof that
the cause of the improvement must be a general one, operating universally." May we venture
to suggest, that the worthy editor of the _Morning Chronicle_ need not go about with a lantern
to discover this _cause_?--that it is every where before his very eyes, under his very nose,
in the form of the bold, but sagacious and consistent, policy pursued by the present Government?

With respect to the second great object of the new tariff, viz., the "Diminishing of the prices
of the articles of consumption and the cost of living."

Has _this_ great object, or has it not, been attained? Why, the reduced price of provisions
is a matter of universal notoriety, and past all question. Unable to contest the existence
of this most consolatory fact, the Opposition papers endeavoured to get up a diversion by frightening
the farmers, whom they assured, that the admission of foreign live-stock would lead to a fearful
depreciation in the value of British agricultural produce. The graziers and cattle-dealers
were forthwith to find "their occupations gone." British pasture farming was to be annihilated,
and an immense stimulus given to that of our continental rivals. Hereat the farmers pricked
up their ears, and began to consider for a moment whether they should not join in the outcry
against the new tariff. But the poor beasts that have come, doubtless much to their own surprise,
across the water to us, looked heartily ashamed of themselves, on catching a glimpse of their
plump, sleek brother beasts in England--and the farmers burst out a-laughing at sight of _the
lean kine that were to eat up the fat ones_! The practical result has been, that between the
9th of July 1842, and the present time, there have not come over foreign cattle enough to make
one week's show at Smithfield. But mark, _the power_ of admitting foreign cattle and poultry,
(on payment, however, of a considerable duty,[24]) conferred by the new tariff, is one that
must be attended with infinite permanent benefits to the public, in its _moderating influence
upon the prices of animal food_. Its working is in beautiful harmony with that of the newly
modeled corn-laws, as we shall presently explain. In years of abundance, when plenty of meat
is produced at home, the new tariff will be inoperative, as far as regards the actual importations
of foreign cattle; but in years of scarcity at home, the expectation of a good price will induce
the foreigner to send us a sufficient supply; for he will then be, and then only, able to repay
himself the duty, and the heavy cost of sea-carriage. As prices fall, the inducement to import
also declines. In short, "the inducement to importation falls with the fall, and rises with
the rise of price. The painful contingency of continued bad seasons has thus, in some measure,
been provided against. The new tariff is so adjusted, that when prices threaten to mount to
an unfair and extravagant height, unjust to consumers, and dangerous to producers, in such
contingencies a mediating power steps in, and brings things to an equilibrium."[25] These great
and obvious advantages of the new tariff, the opponents of Ministers, and especially their
reckless and discreditable allies called the "Anti-corn-law League," see as plainly as we do;
but their anxious aim is to conceal these advantages as much as possible from public view;
and for this purpose they never willingly make _any allusion_ to the tariff, or if forced to
do so, underrate its value, or grossly misrepresent its operation. But we are convinced that
_this will not do_. Proofs of their humbug and falsehood are, as it were, daily forcing themselves
into the very stomachs_ of those whom once, when an incompetent Ministry was in power, these
heartless impostors were able to delude. "A single shove of the bayonet," said Corporal Trim
to Doctor Slop, "is worth all your fine discourses about the art of war;" and so the English
operative may reply to the hireling "Leaguers," "This good piece of cheap beef and mutton,
now smoking daintily before me, is worth all your palaver."

    [24] Poultry £5 for every £100 value; oxen and bulls, £1 each;
    cows, 15s.; calves, 10s.; horses, mares, foals, colts, and
    geldings, £1 each; sheep, 3s. each; lambs, 2s. each; swine and
    hogs, 5s. each--(Stat. 5 and 6 Vict. c. 47, Table A.)

    [25] Thoughts, &c., by a Quiet Looker-on, pp. 16, 17.

Before passing from the subject of the new tariff, let us observe, that the suddenness and
vastness of its changes (some of which we consider to be of questionable propriety) for a time
unavoidably deranged mercantile operations; and in doing so, as necessarily produced many cases
of individual dissatisfaction and distress. Some of the persons thus situated angrily quitted
the Conservative ranks for those of the Opposition; others, for a position of mortified neutrality:
but we believe that many more, notwithstanding this sharp trial of their constancy, remained
true to their principles, faithful to their party, and are now rewarded by seeing things coming
rapidly round again, while unvarying and complete success has attended every other branch of
the policy of Ministers. We know a good deal of the real state of opinion among the mercantile
classes of the City of London; and believe we correctly represent it averse to further changes
in our tariff-system, and coincident with the views expressed by Mr Baring in his address to
the electors, when he deprecated "a constant change, unsettling men's minds, baffling all combinations,
destroying all calculations, paralysing trade, and continuing the stagnation from which we
are recovering;" and declared his belief "that the minister who applies the principles of free-trade
with the most caution, deliberation, and judgment, is the statesman who merits the confidence
of the commercial world." We now, however, quit the subject--interesting, indeed, and all-important--of
the tariff, with the deliberate expression of our opinion, that it is, taken as a whole, a
very bold, masterly, and successful stroke of policy. Now for the NEW CORN-LAW.

But how shall we deal with a topic with which the public has been so utterly sickened by the
people calling themselves "The Anti-corn-law League?" We do not, nevertheless, despair of securing
the attention of our readers to the few observations which we have to offer upon a subject
which, however hackneyed, is one of paramount importance. We are satisfied that nine out of
every ten even of newspaper readers turn with disgust from the columns headed "Anti-corn-law
League," "Doings of the League," "Great Meeting of the Anti-corn-law League," and so forth;
and, (making every allowance for the exigencies occasioned by the dearth of topics while Parliament
is not sitting,) we are exceedingly surprised, that the great London newspapers should inflict
upon their readers so much of the slang and drivel of the gentry in question. In the due prosecution
of our subject, we cannot avoid the topic of the new corn-law, even were we so disposed; and
we shall at once proceed to our task, with two objects in view--to vindicate the course pursued
by Sir Robert Peel, and set forth, briefly and distinctly, those truly admirable qualities
of the existing Corn-laws, which are either most imprudently misrepresented, or artfully kept
out of view, by those who are now making such desperate efforts to overthrow it. "Mark how
a plain tale shall set them down!"

Whether foreign corn should be admitted into this country on payment of _fluctuating_ duties,
or a _fixed_ duty, or free of all duties, are obviously questions of the highest importance,
involving extensive and complicated considerations. Sir Robert Peel, Lord John Russell, and
the persons banded together under the name of "The Anti-corn-law League," may be taken as representing
the classes of opinion which would respectively answer these three questions in the affirmative.
All of them appealed to the nation at large on the last general election. The _form_ in which
the question was proposed to the country, it fell to the lot of the advocates of a fixed duty
to prescribe, and they shaped it thus in the Queen's speech:--

    "It will be for you to determine whether the corn-laws do not
    aggravate the natural fluctuations of supply; whether they do
    not embarrass trade, derange currency, and, by their
    operation, diminish the comforts and increase the privations
    of the great body of the community."

To this question the country returned a deliberate and peremptory answer in the NEGATIVE; expressing
thereby its will, that the existing system, which admits foreign corn on payment of _fluctuating_
duties, should continue. The country thus adopted the opinions of Sir Robert Peel, rejected
those of Lord John Russell, and utterly scouted those of the "Anti-corn-law League," in spite
of all their frantic exertions.

We believe that this deliberate decision of the nation, is that to which it will come whenever
again appealed to; and is supported by reasons of cogency. The nation is thoroughly aware of
the immense importance of upholding and protecting the agriculture of the country, and that
to secure this grand object, it is necessary to admit foreign corn into the country, only when
our deficiencies absolutely require it. That _in_ the operation of the "_sliding-scale_ of
duties," and the exact distinction between its effect and that of the proposed _fixed_ duty,
is demonstrably this: that the former would admit foreign corn in dear years, excluding it
in seasons of abundance; while the latter would admit foreign corn in seasons of abundance,
and exclude it in dear years. Our _present_ concern, however, is with the course taken by the
present Government. Have they hitherto yielded to the clamour with which they have been assailed,
and departed from the principle of affording efficient protection to the agriculture of the
country? Not a hair's breadth; _nor will they_. We have seen that Sir Robert Peel, previously
to the general election, declared his determination to adhere to the existing system of corn-laws,
regulating the admission of foreign corn by the power of the sliding-scale of duties; but both
he and the leading members of his party, had distinctly stated in Parliament, just before its
dissolution, that while resolved to adhere to the _principle_ of a sliding-scale, they would
not pledge themselves to adhere to all the _details_ of that scale. And they said well and
wisely, for there were grave objections to some of those details. These objections they have
removed, and infinitely added to the efficiency of the sliding-scale; but in removing the principal
objections, they stirred a hornet's nest--they rendered furious a host of sleek gamblers in
grain, who found their "occupation gone" suddenly! On the other hand, the Government conferred
a great substantial benefit upon the country, by securing a just balance between protection
to the British corn consumer and producer; removing, at the same time, from the latter, a long-existing
source of jealousy and prejudice. A few words will suffice to explain the general scope of
those alterations. Under they system established by statute 9 Geo. IV. c. 60, in the year 1828,
the duty on foreign corn, up to the price of 68s. per quarter, was so high, and declined so
very slowly, (L.1, 5s. 8d., L.1. 4s. 8d., L.1, 3s. 8d., L.1, 2s. 8d., L.1, 1s. 8d., L.1, 0s.
8d., 18s. 8d.,) as to amount to a virtual prohibition against importation. But when the price
mounted from 68s. to 72s. per quarter, the duty declined with such great rapidity. (16s 8d.,
13s. 8d., 10s. 8d., 6s. 8d., 2s. 8d.,) as to occasion the alarming and frequently recurring
evils of glut and panic. Now the following was the mode in which these serious defects in the
law of 1828 were taken advantage of by the aforesaid desperate and greedy "rogues in grain,"
who are utterly prostrated by the new system; they entered into a combination, for the purpose
of raising the apparent average price of corn, and forcing it up to the point at which they
could import vast quantities of foreign corn at little or no duty. Thus the price of corn was
rising in England--the people were starving--and turned with execration against those into
whose pockets the high prices were supposed to go, viz., the poor farmers; whereas those high
prices really were all the while flowing silently but rapidly into the pockets of the aforesaid
"rogues in grain"--the gamblers of the Corn Exchange!--Ministers effected their salutary alterations,
by statute 5 and 6 Vict. c. 14, in the following manner:--They substituted for the former duties
of 10s. 8d. per quarter, when the price of corn was 70s. per quarter, and 1s. when the price
was 73s.; a duty of 4s. when the price of corn is 70s. per quarter, and made the duty fall
gradually, shilling by shilling, with the rise of price, to 3s., 2s., and 1s. Thus are at one
blow destroyed all the inducements formerly existing for corn-dealers to "hold" their foreign
corn, in the hopes of forcing up the price of corn to starvation-point, viz., the low duty,
every inducement being now given them to _sell_, and none to speculate. Another important provision
for preventing fraudulent combinations to raise the price of corn, was that of greatly extending
the averages, and placing them under regulations of salutary stringency.

So far, then, from evincing a disposition to trifle with, or surrender, the principle of the
sliding-scale, the Government have, with infinite pains and skill, applied themselves to effect
such improvements in it as will secure its permanency, and a better appreciation of its value
by the country at large, with every additional year's experience of its admirable qualities.
There is a perfect identity of principle, both working to the same good end, between the existing
corn-law and the new tariff. Their combined effect is to oppose every barrier that human wisdom
and foresight can devise, against dearth and famine in England: securing an abundant supply
of corn and meat from abroad, whenever our own supply is deficient; but up to that point protecting
our home producers, whose direct interest it will henceforth be to supply us at fair and moderate
prices. It is the cunning policy of the heterogeneous opponents of the existing corn-laws,
to speak of them as "doomed" by a sort of universal tacit consent; to familiarise the public
with the notion that the recent remodeling of the system is to be regarded as constituting
it into nothing more than a sort of transition-measure--a stepping-stone towards a great fundamental
change, by the adoption of "a fixed duty," some say--"a total repeal," say the Anti-corn-law
League. But those who think thus, must be shallow and short-sighted indeed, and have paid very
little real attention to the subject, if they have failed to perceive in the existing system
itself all the marks of completeness, solidity, and permanence; and, in the successful pains
that have been taken to bring it to a higher degree of perfection than before, a determination
to uphold it--a conviction that it will long continue the law of the land, and approved of
as such by the vast majority of those who represent the wealth and intellect of the kingdom,
and have the deepest stake in its well-being.

As for a total repeal of the corn-laws, no thinking man believes that there is the remotest
prospect of such a thing; but many imagine that a fixed duty would be a great change for the
better, and a safe sort of compromise between the two extreme parties. Can any thing be more
fallacious? We hesitate not to express our opinion, that the idea of maintaining a fixed duty
on corn is an utter absurdity, and that Lord John Russell and his friends know it to be so,
and are guilty of political dishonesty in making such a proposal. They affect to be friends
of the agricultural interest, and satisfied of the necessity for protection to that body; and
yet they acknowledge that their "_fixity_" of duty is of precisely the same nature as the "finality"
of the Reform bill, viz.--to last only till the first pressure shall call for an order in council.
Does any one in his senses believe that any Minister could abide by a fixed duty with corn
at the price of 70s., with a starving, and therefore an agitating and rebellious population?
A fixed duty, under all times and circumstances, is a glaring impossibility; and, besides,
is it not certain that the period for the issue of an order in council will be a grand object
of speculation to the corn importer; and that he will hoard, and create distress, merely to
force out that order? And the issuing of that order would depend entirely on the strength or
the necessity of the Minister: on his "Squeezableness"--his anxiety for popularity. Does the
experience of the last ten years justify the country in placing confidence, on such a point,
in a _Whig_ Ministry? In every point of view, the project of a fixed duty is exposed to insuperable
objections. It is plain that on the very first instant of there being a pressure upon the "fixed
duty," it must give way, and for ever. Once off, it is gone for ever; it can never be re-imposed.
Again, what is to govern the _amount_ at which it is to be fixed? Must it be the additional
burden on land? or the price at which foreign countries, with their increased facilities of
transport, and improved cultivation of their soil, would be able to deliver it in the British
markets? What _data_ have we, in either case, on which to decide? Let it, however, always be
borne in mind, by those who are apt too easily to entertain the question as to either a fixed
duty, or a total repeal of duty, that the advantages predicted by the respective advocates
of those measures are _mere assumptions_. We have no experience by which to try the question.
The doctrines of free trade are of very recent growth; the _data_ on which its laws are founded
are few, and also uncertain. And does any one out of Bedlam imagine, that any Minister of this
country would consent to run such tremendous risks--to try such experiments upon an article
of such immense importance to its well-being? Let us never lose sight of Lord Melbourne's memorable
words:--"Whether the object be to have a fixed duty, or an alteration as to the ascending and
descending scale, I see clearly and distinctly, that the object will not be carried without
a most violent struggle--without causing much ill-blood, and a deep sense of grievance--without
stirring society to its foundation, and leaving every sort of bitterness and animosity. I do
not think the advantages to be gained by the change are worth the evils of the struggle."[26]

    [26] Debates, 11th June 1840.

To return, however. Under the joint operation of the three great measures of the Government--the
income-tax, the new tariff, and the new corn-law, our domestic affairs exhibit, at this moment,
such an aspect of steadily returning prosperity, as not the most sanguine person living could
have imagined possible two years ago. For the first time after a miserable interval, we behold
our revenue exceeding our expenditure; while every one feels satisfied of the fact, that our
finances are now placed upon a sound and solid basis, and daily improving. Provisions are of
unexampled cheapness, and the means of obtaining them are--thank Almighty God!--gradually increasing
among the poorer classes. Trade and commerce are now, and have for the last six months been
steadily improving; and we perceive that a new era of prosperity is beginning to dawn upon
us. We have a strong and united Government, evidently as firmly fixed in the confidence of
the Queen as in that of the country, and supported by a powerful majority in the House of Commons--an
annihilating one in the House of Lords. The reign of order and tranquillity has been restored
in Wales, and let us also add, in Ireland, after an unexampled display of mingled determination
and forbearance on the part of the Government. Chartism is defunct, notwithstanding the efforts
made by its dishonoured and discomfited leaders to revive it. When, in short, has Great Britain
enjoyed a state of more complete internal calm and repose than that which at present exists,
notwithstanding the systematic attempts made to diffuse alarm and agitation? Do the public
funds exhibit the slightest symptoms of uneasiness or excitement? On the contrary, ever since
the accession of the present Government, there has been scarce any variation in them, even
when the disturbances in the manufacturing districts in the north of England, and in Wales,
and in Ireland, were respectively at their height. Her Majesty moves calmly to and fro--even
quitting England--her Ministers enjoy their usual intervals of relaxation and absence from
town--all the movements of Government go on like clockwork--no symptoms visible any where of
feverish uneasiness. But what say you, enquires a timid friend, or a bitter opponent, to the
Repeal agitation in Ireland, and the Anti-corn-law agitation in England? Why, we say this--that
we sincerely regret the mischief which the one has done, and is doing, in Ireland, and the
other in England, among their ignorant and unthinking dupes; but with no degree of alarm for
the stability of the Government, or the maintenance of public tranquillity and order. Ministers
are perfectly competent to deal with both the one and the other of these two conspiracies,
as the chief actors in the one have found already, and those in the other will find, perhaps,
by and by; if, indeed, they should ever become important or successful enough to challenge
the notice and interference of the Government. A word, however, about each, in its turn.

The Anti-corn-law League has in view a two-fold object--the overthrow of the present Ministry
whom they abhor for their steadfast and powerful support of the agricultural interest;--and
the depression of the wages of labour, to enable our manufacturers (of whom the league almost
exclusively consists) to compete with the manufacturers on the Continent. Their engine for
effecting their purposes, is the Repeal of the corn-laws; and they are working it with such
a desperate energy, as satisfies any disinterested observer, that they themselves perceive
the task to be all but utterly hopeless. They were confounded by the result of the general
election, and dismayed at the accession to power of men whom they knew to be thoroughly acquainted
with their true objects and intentions, and resolved to frustrate them, and able to carry their
resolutions into effect. The ominous words of Sir Robert Peel--"I think that the connexion
of the manufacturers in the north of England with the joint-stock banks, gave an undue and
improper impulse to trade in that quarter of the country"--rang in their ears as a knell; and
told them that they were _found out_ by a firm and sagacious Minister, whom, therefore, their
sole object thenceforth must be to overthrow _per fas aut nefas_. For this purpose they adopted
such an atrocious course of action, as instantly deprived them of the countenance of all their
own moderate and reasoning friends, and earned for themselves the execration of the bulk of
the community:--they resolved to inflame the starving thousands in the manufacturing districts
into acts of outrage and rebellion. They felt it necessary, in the language of Mr Grey, one
of their own principal men, in order "_to raise the stubborn enthusiasm of the people_," (!)
to resort to some desperate expedient--which was--immediately on Sir Robert Peel's announcing
his determination, early in 1842, to preserve, but improve, the existing system of the corn-laws--to
reduce the wages of all their work-people to the amount of from ten to twenty per cent. This
move originated with the _Stockport_ manufacturers. We have little doubt but it was the suggestion
of Mr Cobden; and are quite prepared for a similar move during the ensuing session of Parliament.
But was not--is not--this a species of moral arson? The Government calmly carried their measure:
the outbreak (which we firmly believe to have been concerted by the Anti-corn-law League) in
Lancashire arrived, and was promptly and resolutely, but mercifully repressed; and thus was
extinguished the guilty hopes and expectations of its contrivers; and Ministers were left stronger
at the close of the session than they had been at its commencement. They resolved to open a
new campaign against Ministers and the Corn-laws--greatly to augment their numbers and pecuniary
resources--to redouble their exertions, and immensely to extend the sphere of their operations.
They _did_ augment their pecuniary resources, by large forced contributions among the few persons
most deeply interested in the success of their schemes; namely, the Lancashire manufacturers--they
_did_ redouble their exertions--they _did_ extend the sphere of their operations, spreading
themselves over the whole length and breadth of the land, even as did the plague of lice over
Egypt. But did they augment the number of their friends? Not a person of the least political
or personal importance could be prevailed upon to join their discreditable ranks; it remained
as before:--Cobden and Bright--Bright and Cobden--Wilson, Bright, and Cobden--Milner Gibson,
Fox, Bright and Cobden--_ad nauseam usque_; but, like a band of travelling incendiaries, they
presented themselves with indefatigable energy in places which had never known their presence
before. And how comes it to pass that they have not long since kindled at least the manufacturing
population into a blaze? Is it any fault of the aforesaid incendiaries? No--but because there
is too much intelligence abroad, they could not do what they would--"_raise the stubborn enthusiasm_"
of the people. In one quarter they were suspected--in another despised--in another hated; and
it became a very general impression that they were, in fact, a knot of double dealers, who
certainly contrived to make a great noise, and keep themselves perpetually before the public;
but as for getting the steam "up," in the nation at large, they found it impossible. In truth,
the "Anti-corn-law League" would have long ago been dissolved amidst the indifference or contempt
of the public, but for the countenance they received, from time to time, and on which they
naturally calculated, from the party of the late Ministers, whose miserable object was to secure
their own return to power by means of any agency that they could press into their service.
But, to return to our sketch of the progress of the "League." Admitting that, by dint of very
great and incessant exertion, they kept their ground, they made little or no progress among
the mercantile part of the community; and they resolved to try their fortune with the agricultural
constituencies--to sow dissension between the landlords and the tenants, the farmers and their
labourers, and combine as many of the disaffected as they could, in support of the clamour
for free trade. This was distinctly avowed by Cobden, at a meeting of the Anti-corn-law deputies,
in the following very significant terms: "_We can never carry the measure ourselves_: WE MUST
HAVE THE AGRICULTURAL LABOURERS WITH US!!"[27]

    [27] League Circular, No. xxx. p. 3.

They therefore proceeded to commence operations upon the agricultural constituencies. They
knew they could always reckon upon a share of support wherever they went--it being hard to
find any country without its cluster of bitter and reckless opponents of a Conservative government,
who would willingly aid in any demonstration against it. With such aid, and indefatigable efforts
to collect a crowd of noisy non-electors: with a judicious choice of localities, and profuse
bribery of the local Radical newspapers, in order to procure copious accounts of their proceedings--they
commenced their "grand series of country triumphs!" Their own organs, from time to time, gave
out that in each and every county visited by the League, the _farmers_ attended their meetings,
and joined in a vote condemnatory of the corn-laws, and pledged themselves to vote thereafter
for none but the candidates of the Anti-corn-law League!

The following are specimens of the flattering appellations which had till now been bestowed,
by their new friends, upon these selfsame farmers--"_Bull-frogs!"_ "_chaw-bacons!" _"_clod-poles!_"
"_hair-bucks!_" "_deluded slaves!_" "_brute drudges!_"[28] Now, however, they and their labourers
were addressed in terms of respectful sympathy and flattery, as the victims of the rapacity
of their landlords--on whom were poured the full phials of Anti-corn-law wrath. The following
are some of the scalding drops let fall upon their devoted heads--_"Monster of impiety!" "inhuman
fiend!" "heartless brutes!" "rapacious harpies!" "relentless demons!" "plunderers of the people!"
"merciless footpads!" "murderers!" "swindlers!" "insatiable!" "insolent!" "flesh-mongering!"
"scoundrel!" "law-making landlords!" "a bread-taxing oligarchy!"_[29] Need we say that the
authors of these very choice and elegant expressions were treated with utter contempt by both
landlords and tenants--always making the few allowances above referred to? Was it very likely
that the landlord or the farmer should quit their honourable and important avocations at the
bidding of such creatures as had thus intruded themselves into their counties? should consent
to be yoked to the car, or to follow in the train of these enlightened, disinterested, and
philanthropic cotton-spinners and calico-printers? Absurd! It became, in fact, daily more obvious
to even the most unreflecting, that these worthies were not likely to be engaged in their "labours
of _love_;" were not _exactly_ the kind of persons to desert their own businesses, to attend
out of pure benevolence that of others--to let succumb their own interest to promote those
of others; to subscribe out of the gains which they had wrung from their unhappy factory slaves,
their L.10, L.20, L.30, L.50, L.100, out of mere public spirit and philanthropy.

    [28] League Circular, No. 10.

    [29] Ibid. Nos. 26, 29, 44, 50, 71, 83, 94, 99, 100.

Still, we say, the whole thing was really a failure--the "steam," even yet, could not be "got
up," in spite of all their multiplied agencies and machinery, incessantly at work--the unprecedented
personal exertions of the members of the league--the large pecuniary sacrifices of the Lancashire
subscribers to its funds. One more desperate exertion was therefore felt necessary--and they
resolved to attempt getting up a _sensation_, by the sudden subscription of splendid sums of
money, by way of starting a vast fund, with which to operate directly upon the entire electoral
body--in what way, it is not very difficult to guess. Accordingly, they began--but where? At
the old place--Manchester!--Manchester!--_Manchester!_ Many thousands were subscribed at an
hour's notice by a mere handful of manufacturers; the news came up to London--and the editor
of the _Times_, in a transient fit of excitement, pronounced "the existence of the League"
to be a GREAT FACT. Upon this phrase they have lived ever since--till somewhat roughly reminded
the other day, by Mr Baring, that "great _facts_" are very "_great follies!_" Now let us once
more ask the question--would all these desperate and long-continued exertions and sacrifices--(all
proceeding, be it ever observed, from _one_ quarter, and from the same class of people--nay,
the same individuals of that class)--be requisite, were there any _real movement of the public
mind and feeling_ against the Corn-laws? Are they not requisite solely because of the _absence_
of any such movement? Nay, are they not evidence that the public feeling and opinion are against
them? And that, perhaps, they will by and by succeed in rousing the "stubborn enthusiasm of
the people" against themselves? Where has there been called one single spontaneous public meeting
of any importance, and where exhibited a spark of enthusiasm, for the total repeal of the Corn-laws?
Surely the _topic_ is capable of being handled in a sufficiently exciting manner! But no; wherever
a "meeting," or "demonstration," is heard of--there, also, are the eternal Cobden, Bright and
Wilson, and their miserable fellow-agitators, who alone have got up--who alone harangue the
meetings. Was it so with Catholic Emancipation?--with the abolition of Negro Slavery?--with
the Reform Bill? Right or wrong, the public feeling was then roused, and exhibited itself unequivocally,
powerfully, and spontaneously; but _here_--bah! common sense revolts at the absurd supposition
that even hundreds of thousands of pounds can of themselves get up a real demonstration of
public feeling in favour of the object, for which so much Manchester money has been already
subscribed.

      "'Tis not in _thousands_ to command success."

If the public opinion of this great country--this great enlightened nation--were _really_ roused
against the Corn-laws, they would disappear like snow under sunshine. But, as the matter _now_
stands, if their dreary drivellers Cobden, Bright, Wilson, Acland, W.J. Fox, were withdrawn
from the public scene in which they are so anxious to figure, and sent to enjoy the healthy
exercise of the tread-mill for one single three months, would this eternal "_brutum fulmen_"
about the repeal of the Corn-laws be heard of any more? We verily believe not. "But look at
our triumphs!"--quoth Cobden--"Look at our glorious victories at Durham, London, and Kendal!--our
virtual victory at Salisbury!" Moonshine, gentlemen, and you know it;--and that you have spent
your money in vain. Let us see how the matter stands.

I. _Durham_. True, Mr Bright was returned; but to what is the House of Commons indebted for
the acquisition of that distinguished senator, except the personal pique and caprice of that
eccentric Tory peer, Lord Londonderry? This is notorious, and admitted by all parties; and
these causes will not be in operation at another election.

II. _London_. And do you really call this a "great triumph?" Undoubtedly Mr Pattison was returned;
but is it a matter of congratulation that this notorious political nonentity, who openly, we
understand, entertains and will support _Chartist_ opinions, is returned instead of such a
man as Mr Baring? What was the majority of Mr Pattison? One hundred and sixty-five, out of
twelve thousand eight hundred and eighty-nine who actually voted. And how was even that majority
secured? By the notorious absence from London--as is always the case at that period of the
year (21st October 1843)--of vast numbers of the stanchest Conservative electors. There is
no doubt whatever, that had the election happened one fortnight later than it did, Mr Baring
would have been returned by a large majority, in spite of the desperate exertions of the Anti-corn-law
League and Mr Rothschild and the Jews. As it was, Mr Baring polled more (6367) than had ever
been polled by a Conservative candidate for London before; and had an immense majority over
his competitor, among the superior classes of the constituency.[30] At another election, we
can confidently predict that Mr Baring will be returned, and by a large majority, unless, indeed,
the Charter should be the law of the land; in which case Mr Pattison will probably enjoy another
ovation.

    [30] Among the _Livery_, the numbers were--Baring, 3196;
    Pattison, 2367;--majority for Baring, 889!

    Among the _Templars_--Baring, 258; Pattison, 78!!--majority
    for Baring, 180!

III. _Kendal_. Is this, too, a victory? "Another such, and you are undone." Why? Till Mr Bentinck
presented himself before that enlightened little constituency, no Conservative dared even to
offer himself; 'twas a snug little stronghold of the Anti-corn-law League interest, and yet
the gallant Conservative gave battle against the whole force of the League; and after a mortal
struggle of some fourteen days, was defeated by a far smaller majority than either friends
or enemies had expected, and has pledged himself to fight the battle again. Here, then, the
League and their stanch friends have sustained an unexpected and serious shock.

IV. _Salisbury_.--We have not the least desire to magnify this into a mighty victory for the
Conservative party; but the interference of the Anti-corn-law League certainly made the struggle
a very critical and important one. We expected to succeed, but not by a large majority; for
ever since 1832, the representation had (till within the last year) been divided between a
Conservative and a Liberal. However, the Anti-corn-law League, flushed with their "triumphs"
at London and Kendal, flung all their forces ostentatiously into the borough, and exhibited
a disgusting and alarming specimen of the sort of interference which it seems we are to expect
in all future elections, in all counties and boroughs. It was, however, in vain; the ambitious
young gentleman who had the benefit of their services, and who is a law-student in London,
but the son of the great Earl of Radnor, lost his election by a large majority, and the discomfited
League retired ridiculously to Manchester. When we heard of their meditated descent upon Salisbury,
we fancied we saw Cobden and his companions waddling back, geese-like, and exclaimed--

      "Geese! if we had you but on Sarum plain,
      We'd drive you cackling back to Camelot!"

So much for the boasted electoral triumphs of the Anti-corn-law League--we repeat, that they
are all mere moonshine, and challenge them to disprove our assertion.

They are now making another desperate effort to raise a further sum of a hundred thousand pounds;
and beginning, as usual, at Manchester, have raised there alone, within a few days' time, upwards
of L.20,000! The fact (if _true_) is at once ludicrous and disgusting: ludicrous for its transparency
of humbug--disgusting for its palpable selfishness. Will these proverbially hard-hearted men
put down their L.100, L.200, L.300, L.400, L.500, for nothing? Alas, the great sums they have
expended in this crusade against the Corn-laws, will have to be wrung out of their wretched
and exhausted factory slaves! For how otherwise but by diminishing wages can they repay themselves
for lost time, for trouble, and for expense?

Looked at in its proper light, the Corn-law League is nothing but _an abominable conspiracy
against labour_. Cheap _bread_ means cheap _labour_; those who cannot see this, must be blind
indeed! The melancholy fact of the continually-decreasing price of labour in this country,
rests on undisputable authority--on, amongst others, that of Mr Fielding. In 1825, the price
of labour was 51 per cent less than in 1815; in 1830 it was 65 per cent less than in 1815,
though the consumption of cotton had increased from 80,000,000 lbs. to 240,000,000 lbs.! In
1835 it was 318,000,000 lbs., but the operative received 70 per cent less than in 1815. In
1840 the consumption of cotton was 415,000,000 lbs., and the unhappy operative received 75
per cent less than in 1815!

If proofs be required to show that in reality the deadly snake, _cheap labour_, lurks among
the flourishing grass, _cheap bread_, we will select one or two out of very many now lying
before us, and prepared to be presented to the reader.

"If grain be high," said Mr Ricardo, in the House of Commons,[31] "the price of labour would
necessarily be a deduction from the _profits of stock_." "The Corn-laws raise the price of
sustenance--that has _raised the price of labour_; which, of course, diminishes the profit
in capital."[32]

    [31] Debates, May 30, 1820.

    [32] Ib. Dec. 24, 1819.

"Until the price of food in this country," said Mr Hume, in the House of Commons on the 12th
of May last, in the presence of all the leading free-trade members, "is placed on a level with
that on the Continent, it will be impossible for us to compete with the growing manufactures
of Belgium, Germany, France, and America!!"

Hear a member of the League, and of the Manchester Chamber of Commerce, Mr G. Sandars:--

    "If three loaves instead of two could be got for 2s., in
    consequence of a repeal of the Corn-laws, another consequence
    would be, that the workman's 2s. would be reduced to 1s. 4d.,
    which would leave matters, as far as he was concerned, just
    as they were!!"[33]

    [33] Authentic Discussions on the Corn-law, (Ridgway, 1839,)
    p. 86.

Hear a straightforward manufacturer--Mr Muntz, M.P.--in the debate on the 17th May last:--

    "If the Corn-laws were repealed, the benefit which the
    manufacturer expected was, that he could produce at a lower
    price; and this he could do only by reducing wages to the
    continental level!!"

If the above fail to open the eyes of the duped workmen of this country, what will succeed
in doing so? Let us conclude this portion of our subject--disgusting enough, but necessary
to expose imposture--with the following tabular view, &c., of the gross contradiction of the
men, whom we wish to hold up to universal and deserved contempt, on even the most vital points
of the controversy in which they are engaged; and then let our readers say whether any thing
proceeding from such a quarter is worthy of notice:--

       *       *       *       *       *

The _League Oracle_ says--

1. "If we have free trade, the landlords' rents will fall 100 per cent."--(_League Circular_,
No. 15. p. 3.)

2. "Provisions will fall one-third."--(Ib. No. 34, p. 4.)

"The Corn-laws makes the labourer pay double the price for his food."--(Ib. No. 15.)

3. "The Corn-law compels us to pay _three times the value for a loaf of bread_."--(Ib. No. 13.)

"If the Corn-laws were abolished, the working man WOULD SAVE 31/2d. UPON EVERY LOAF OF BREAD."--(Ib.
No. 75.)

"As a consequence of the repeal of the Corn-laws, _we promise cheaper food_, and our hand-loom
weavers would get _double_ the rate of wages!"--(Ib. No. 7.)

"We shall have _cheap bread_, and its price will be reduced 33 per cent."--(Ib. No. 34.)

4. Messrs Villiers, Muntz, Hume, Roche, Thornton, Rawson, Sandars, (all Leaguers,) say, and
the oracle of the _League_ itself has said, that "We want free trade, to enable us to _reduce
wages_, that we may compete with foreigners."--(_Post_, pp. 13-16.)

5. The _League Oracle_ admits that "a repeal would _injure_ the farmer, but not so much as
he fears."--(_League Circular_, No. 58.)

Mr Cobden says--

1. "If we have free trade, the landlords will have as good rents as now."--(Speech in the House
of Commons, 15th May last.)

2. "Provisions will be no cheaper."--(Speech at Bedford, _Hertford Reformer_, 10th June last.)

3. "THE ARGUMENT FOR CHEAP BREAD WAS NEVER MINE."--(_Morning Chronicle_, 30th June 1843, Speech
on Penenden Heath.)

"THE IDEA OF LOW-PRICED FOREIGN CORN IS ALL A DELUSION."--SPEECH AT Winchester, _Salisbury
Herald_, July 29, 1843, p. 3.

4. Messrs Cobden, Bright, and Moore, now affirm--"It is a base falsehood to say we want free
trade, to enable us to reduce the rate of wages."--(Mr Cobden on Penenden Heath. Messrs Bright
and Moore at Huntingdon.)

5. Cobden, Moore, and Bright, say, that it is to the _interest_ of the farmer to have a total
and _immediate_ repeal.--(Uxbridge, Bedford, Huntingdon.[34])

    [34] Extracted from a very admirable speech by Mr Day of
    Huntingdon, (Ollivier, 1843,) and which we earnestly recommend
    for perusal.

       *       *       *       *       *

The disgusting selfishness and hypocrisy of such men as Cobden and his companions, in veiling
their real objects under a pretended enmity to "Monopoly" and "Class Legislation"--and disinterested
anxiety to procure for the poor the blessings of "cheap bread"--fills us with a just indignation;
and we never see an account of their hebdomadal proceedings, but we exclaim, in the language
of our immortal bard--

      "Oh, Heaven! that such impostors thoud'st unfold,
      And put in every honest hand a whip,
      To lash the rascals naked through the land!"

While we repeat our deliberate opinion, that the Anti-corn-law League, as a body, is, in respect
of actual present influence, infinitely less formidable than the vanity and selfish purposes
of its members would lead them to wish the country to believe--we must add, that it is quite
another question how long it will continue so. It may soon be converted--if indeed it has not
already been secretly converted, into an engine of tremendous mischief, for other purposes
than any ever contemplated by its originators. Suppose, in the next session of parliament,
Ministers were to offer a law-fixed duty on corn: would that concession dissolve the League?
Absurd--they have long ago scouted the idea of so ridiculous a compromise. Suppose they effected
their avowed object of a total repeal of the Corn-laws--is any one weak enough to imagine that
they would _then_ dissolve? No--nor do they _now_ dream of such a thing; but are at the present
moment, as we are informed, "_fraternizing_" with other political societies of a very dangerous
character, and on the eve of originating serious and revolutionary movements. Their present
organization is precisely that of the French Jacobins; their plan of operation the same. Let
any one turn to _The League Circular_ of the 18th November, and he will see announced a plan
of action on the part of this Association, precisely analagous, in all its leading features,
to that of the French Jacobins: and we would call the attention of the legislature to the question,
whether the Anti-corn-law League, in its most recent form of organization and plan of action,
be not clearly within the provisions of statutes 57 Geo. III., c. 19, § 25 and 39; Geo. III.,
c. 79? What steps, if any, the legislature may take, is one thing; it is quite another, what
course shall be adopted by the friends of the Conservative cause--the supporters of the British
constitution. It is impossible to assign limits to the mischief which may be effected by the
indefatigable and systematic exertions of the League to diffuse pernicious misrepresentations,
and artful and popular fallacies, among all classes of society. That they entertain a fearfully
envenomed hatred of the agricultural interest, is clear; and their evident object is to render
the landed proprietors of this country objects of fierce hatred to the inferior orders of the
community. "If a man tells me his story every morning of my life, by the year's end he will
be my master," said Burke, "and I shall believe him, however untrue and improbable his story
may be;" and if, whilst the Anti-corn-law League can display such perseverance, determination,
and system, its opponents obstinately remain supine and silent, can any one wonder if such
progress be not made by the League, in their demoralizing and revolutionary enterprize, that
it will soon be too late to attempt even to arrest?

If this Journal has earned, during a quarter of a century's career of unwavering consistency
and independence, any title to the respect of the Conservative party, we desire now to rely
upon that title for the purpose of adding weight to our solemn protest against the want of
union and energy--against the apathy, from whatever cause arising--now but too visible. In
vain do we and others exert ourselves to the uttermost to diffuse sound political principles
by means of the press; in vain do the distinguished leaders of our party fight the battles
of the constitution with consummate skill and energy in parliament--if their exertions be not
supported by corresponding energy and activity on the part of the Conservative constituencies,
and those persons of talent and influence professing the same principles, by whom they can,
and ought to be, easily set in motion. It is true that persons of liberal education, of a high
and generous tone of feeling, of intellectual refinement, are entitled to treat such men as
Cobden, Bright, and Acland, with profound contempt, and dislike the notion of personal contact
or collision with them, as representatives of the foulest state of ill feeling that can be
generated in the worst manufacturing regions--of sordid avarice, selfishness, envy, and malignity;
but they are active--ever up and doing, and steadily applying themselves, with palatable topics,
to the corruption of the hearts of the working classes. So, unless the persons to whom we allude
choose to cast aside their morbid aversions--to be "UP AND AT them," in the language of the
Duke of Waterloo--why then will be verified the observation of Burke--that "if, when bad men
combine, the good do not associate, they will fall, one by one--an unpitied sacrifice in a
contemptible struggle." Vast as are our forces, they can effect comparatively nothing without
union, energy, and system: _with_ these, their power is tremendous and irresistible. What we
would say, therefore, is--ORGANIZE! ORGANIZE! ORGANIZE! Let every existing Conservative club
or association be stirred up into increased action, and _put into real working trim_ forthwith;
and where none such clubs or associations exist, let them be immediately formed, and set into
cheerful and spirited motion. Let them all be placed under the vigilant superintendence of
one or two _real men of business_--of local knowledge, of ability, and influence. We would
point out Conservative solicitors as auxiliaries of infinite value to those engaged in the
good cause; men of high character, of business habits, extensive acquaintance with the character
and circumstances of the electors--and capable of bringing legitimate influence to bear upon
them in a far more direct and effective manner than any other class of persons. One such gentleman--say
a young and active solicitor, with a moderate salary, as permanent secretary in order to secure
and, in some measure, requite his services throughout the year--would be worth fifty _dilletante_
"friends of the good cause dropping in every now and then," but whose "friendship" evaporates
in mere _talk_. Let every local Conservative newspaper receive constant and substantial patronage;
for they are worthy of the very highest consideration, on account of the ability with which
they are generally conducted, and their great influence upon local society. Many of them, to
our own knowledge, display a degree of talent and knowledge which would do honour to the very
highest metropolitan journals. Let them, then, be vigorously supported, their circulation extended
through the influence of the resident nobility and gentry, and the clergy of every particular
district throughout the kingdom. Let no opportunity be missed of exposing the true character
of the vile and selfish agitators of the Anti-corn-law league. Let not the league have all
the "publishing" to themselves; but let their impudent fallacies and falsehoods be _instantly_
encountered and exposed on the spot, by means of small and cheap tracts and pamphlets, which
shall bring plain, wholesome, and important truths home to the businesses and bosoms of the
very humblest in the land. Again, let the resident gentry seek frequent opportunities of mingling
with their humbler neighbours, friends, and dependents, by way of keeping up a cordial and
hearty good understanding with them, so as to rely upon their effective co-operation whenever
occasions may arise for political action.

Let all this be done, and we may defy a hundred Anti-corn-law Leagues. Let these objects be
kept constantly in view, and the Anti-corn-law League will be utterly palsied, had it a hundred
times its present funds--a thousand times its present members!

Let us now, however, turn for a brief space to Ireland; the present condition of which we contemplate
with profound concern and anxiety, but with neither surprise nor dismay. As far as regards
the Government, the state of affairs in Ireland bears at this moment unquestionable testimony
to the stability and strength of the Government; and no one know this better than the gigantic
impostor, to whom so much of the misery of that afflicted portion of the empire is owing. He
perceives, with inexpressible mortification, that neither he nor his present position awake
any sympathy or excitement whatever in the kingdom at large, where the enormity of his misconduct
is fully appreciated, and every movement of the Government against him sanctioned by public
opinion. The general feeling is one of profound disgust towards him, sympathy and commiseration
for his long-plundered dupes and of perfect confidence that the Government will deal firmly
and wisely with both. As for a _Repeal of the Union_! Pshaw! Every child knows that it is a
notion too absurd to be seriously dealt with; that Great Britain would rather plunge _instanter_
into the bloodiest civil war that ever desolated a country, than submit to the dismemberment
of the empire by repealing the union between Great Britain and Ireland. This opinion has had,
from time to time, every possible mode of authentic and solemn expression that can be given
to the national will; in speeches from the Throne; in Parliamentary declarations by the leaders
of both the Whig and Conservative Governments; the members of both Houses of Parliament are
(with not a single exception worth noticing) unanimous upon the subject; the press, whether
quarterly, monthly, weekly, or daily, of all classes and shades of political opinions, is unanimous
upon the subject; in society, whether high or low, the subject is never broached, except to
enquire whether any one can, for one moment, seriously believe the Repeal of the Union to be
possible. In Ireland itself, the vast majority of the intellect, wealth, and respectability
of the island, without distinction of religion or politics, entertains the same opinion and
determination which prevail in Great Britain. Is Mr O'Connell ignorant of all this? He knows
it as certainly as he knows that Queen Victoria occupies the throne of these realms; and yet,
down to his very last appearance in public, he has solemnly and perseveringly asseverated that
the Repeal of the Union is an absolutely certain and inevitable event, and one that will happen
within a few months! _Is he in his senses?_ If so, he is speaking from his knowledge of some
vast and dreadful conspiracy, which he has organized himself, which has hitherto escaped detection.
The idea is too monstrous to be entertained for a moment. What, then, can Mr O'Connell be about?
Our opinion is, that his sole object in setting on foot the Repeal agitation, was to increase
his pecuniary resources, and at the same time overthrow Sir Robert Peel's Government, by showing
the Queen and the nation that his admitted "_chief_ difficulty"--Ireland--was one _insuperable_;
and that he must consequently retire. We believe, moreover, that he is, to a certain extent,
acting upon a secret understanding with the party of the late Government, who, however, never
contemplated matters being carried to their present pitch; but that the Ministry would long
ago have retired, terrified before the tremendous "demonstration" in Ireland. We feel as certain
as if it were a past event, that, had the desperate experiment succeeded so far as to replace
the present by the late Government, Mr O'Connell's intention was to have announced his determination
to "_give England_ ONE MORE trial"--to place Repeal once more in abeyance--in order to see
whether England would really, at length, do "_justice_ to _Ireland_;" in other words, restore
the halcyon days of Lord Normanby's nominal, and Mr O'Connell's real, rule in Ireland, and
enable him, by these means, to provide for himself, his family, and dependents; for old age
is creeping rapidly upon him--his physical powers are no longer equal to the task of vigorous
agitation--and he is known to be in utterly desperate circumstances. The reckless character
of his proceedings during the last fifteen months, is, in our opinion, fully accounted for,
by his unexpected discovery, that the ministry were strong enough to defy any thing that he
could do, and to continue calmly in their course of administering, not _pseudo_, but real "justice
to Ireland," supported in that course by the manifest favour and countenance of the Crown,
overwhelming majorities in Parliament, and the decided and unequivocal expression of public
opinion. His personal position was, in truth, inexpressibly galling and most critical, and
he must have agitated, or sunk at once into ignominious obscurity and submission to a Government
whom, individually and collectively, he loathed and abhorred. Vain were the hopes which, doubtless,
he had entertained, that, as his agitation assumed a bolder form, it would provoke formidable
demonstrations in England against Ministers and their policy; not a meeting could be got up
to petition her Majesty for the dismissal of her Ministers! But it is quite conceivable that
Mr O'Connell, in the course he was pursuing, forgot to consider the possibility of developing
a power which might be too great for him, which would not be wielded by him, but carry _him_
along with _it_. The following remarkable expressions fell from the perplexed and terrified
agitator, at a great dinner at Lismore in the county of Waterford, in the month of September
last:--"Like the heavy school-boy on the ice, _my pupils are overtaking me_. It is now my duty
to regulate the vigour and temper the energy of the people--to compress, as it were, the exuberance
of both."

We said that Mr O'Connell revived the Repeal agitation; and the fact was so. He first raised
it in 1829--having, however, at various previous periods of his life, professed a desire to
struggle for Repeal; but Mr Shiel, in his examination before the House of Commons in 1825,
characterized such allusions as mere "rhetorical artifices." "What were his real motives,"
observes the able and impartial author of _Ireland and its Rulers_[35], "when he announced
his new agitation in 1829, can be left only to him to determine." It is probable that they
were of so mixed a nature, that he himself could not accurately define them.... It is, however,
quite possible, that, after having so long tasted of the luxuries of popularity, he could not
consent that the chalice should pass from his lips. Agitation had, perhaps, begun to be necessary
to his existence: a tranquil life would have been a hell to him." It would seem that Mr O'Connell's
earliest recorded manifesto on Repeal was on the 3d June 1829, previous to the Clare election,
on which occasion he said--"We want political excitement, in order that we may insist on our
rights as Irishmen, but not as Catholics;" and on the 20th of the same month in the same year,
1829, he predicted--listen to this, ye his infatuated dupes!--"_that_ BEFORE THREE YEARS THERE
WOULD BE A PARLIAMENT IN DUBLIN!!!" In the general elections of 1832, it was proclaimed by
Mr O'Connell, that no member should be returned unless he solemnly pledged himself to vote
for the Repeal of the Union; but it was at the same time hinted, that _if they would only enter
the House as professed Repealers, they would never be required to_ VOTE _for Repeal_. On the
hustings at the county of Waterford election, one of these gentry, Sir Richard Keave, on being
closely questioned concerning the real nature of his opinion on Repeal, let out the whole truth:--"_I
will hold it as an imposing weapon to get justice to Ireland_." This has held true ever since,
and completely exemplifies all the intervening operations of Mr O'Connell. It has been his
practice ever since "to connect every grievance with the subject of Repeal--to convert every
wrongful act of any Government into an argument for the necessity of an Irish Legislature."
Can it be wondered at that the present Government, thoroughly aware of the true state of the
case--_knowing their man_--should regard the cry for Repeal simply as an imposture, its utterers
as impostors? They did and do so regard it and its utterers--never allowing either the one
or the other to disturb their administration of affairs with impartiality and firmness; but,
nevertheless, keeping a most watchful eye upon all their movements.

    [35] pp. 43, 50.

At length, whether emboldened by a conviction that the non-interference of the Government was
occasioned solely by their incapacity to grapple with an agitation becoming hourly more formidable,
and that thus his schemes were succeeding--or impelled onwards by those whom he had roused
into action, but could no longer restrain--his movements became daily characterized by more
astounding audacity--more vivid the glare of sedition, and even treason, which surrounded them:
still the Government interfered not. Their apparent inaction most wondered, very many murmured,
some were alarmed, and Mr O'Connell laughed at. Sir Robert Peel, on one occasion, when his
attention was challenged to the subject in the House of Commons, replied, that "he was not
in the least degree moved or disturbed by what was passing in Ireland." This perfect calmness
of the Government served to check the rising of any alarm in the country; which felt a confidence
of the Ministry's being equal to any exigency that could be contemplated. Thus stood matters
till the 11th July last, when, at the close of the debate on the state of Ireland, Sir Robert
Peel delivered a very remarkable speech. It consisted of a calm demonstration of the falsehood
of all the charges brought by the Repealers against the imperial Parliament; of the impolicy
and the impracticability of the various schemes for the relief of Ireland proposed by the Opposition;
of the absolute impossibility of Parliament entertaining the question of a Repeal of the Union;
and a distinct answer to the question--"What course do you intend to pursue?" That answer is
worthy of being distinctly brought under the notice of the reader. "I am prepared to administer
the law in Ireland upon principles of justice and impartiality. I am prepared to recognise
the principle established by law--that there shall be equality in civil privileges. I am prepared
to respect the franchise, to give substantially, although not nominally, equality. In respect
to the social condition of Ireland--_as to the relation of landlord and tenant_[36]--I am prepared
to give the most deliberate consideration to the important matters involved in those questions.
With respect to the Established Church, I have already stated that we are not prepared to make
an alteration in the law by which that Church is maintained."

    [36] In conformity with this declaration, has been issued the
    recent commission, for "enquiring into the state of the law
    and practice in respect to the occupation of land in Ireland,
    and in respect also to the burdens of county cess and other
    charges, which fall respectively on the landlord and occupying
    tenant, and for reporting as to the amendments, if any, of the
    existing laws, which, having due regard to the just rights of
    property, may be calculated to encourage the cultivation of
    the soil, to extend a better system of agriculture, and to
    improve the relation between landlord and tenant, in that part
    of the United Kingdom."

We recollect being greatly struck with the ominous calmness perceptible in the tone of this
speech. It seemed characterised by a solemn declaration to place the agitation of Ireland for
ever in the _wrong_--to deprive them of all pretence for accusing England of having misgoverned
Ireland since the Union. It appeared to us as if that speech had been designed to lay the basis
of a contemplated movement against the agitation of the most decisive kind. The Government
acted up to the spirit of the declaration, on that occasion, of Sir Robert Peel, with perfect
dignity and resolution, unmoved by the taunts, the threats, the expostulations, or fears of
either enemies or friends. Mr O'Connell's tone increased in audacity; but we greatly doubt
whether in his heart he had not frequent misgivings as to the real nature of the "_frightful
silence_"--"_cette affreuse silence_"--of a Government in whose councils the Duke of Wellington
took a decided part, and which was actually at that moment taking complete military occupation
of Ireland. On what information they were acting, no one knew; but their preparations were
_for the worst_. During all this time nothing could exceed the tranquillity which prevailed
in England. None of these threatening appearances, these tremendous preparations, caused the
least excitement or alarm; the funds did not vary a farthing per cent in consequence of them;
and to what could all this be ascribed but to the strength of public confidence in the Government?
At length the harvest in Ireland had been got in; ships of war surrounded the coast; thirty
thousand picked and chosen troops, ready for instant action, were disposed in the most masterly
manner all over Ireland. With an almost insane audacity, Mr O'Connell appointed his crowning
monster meeting to take place at Clontarf, in the immediate vicinity of the residence and presence
of the Queen's representative, and of such a military force as rendered the bare possibility
of encountering it appalling. The critical moment, however, for the interference of Government
had at length arrived, and it spoke out in a voice of thunder, prohibiting the monster meeting.
The rest is matter of history. The monster demagogue fell prostrate and confounded among his
panic-stricken confederates; and, in an agony of consternation, declared their implicit obedience
to the proclamation, and set about dispersing the myriad dupes, as fast as they arrived to
attend the prohibited meeting. Thus was the Queen's peace preserved, her crown and dignity
vindicated, without one sword being drawn or one shot being fired. Mr O'Connell had repeatedly
"defied the Government to go to law with him." They _have_ gone to law with him; and by this
time we suspect that he finds himself in an infinitely more serious position than he has ever
been in, during the whole of a long and prosperous career of agitation. Here, however, we leave
him and his fellow defendants.

We may, however, take this opportunity of expressing our opinion, that there is not a shadow
of foundation for the charges of blundering and incompetency which have been so liberally brought
against the Irish Attorney-General. He certainly appears, in the earlier stages of the proceedings,
to have evinced some little irritability--but, only consider, under what unprecedented provocation!
His conduct has since, however, been characterised by calmness and dignity; and as for his
legal capabilities, all competent judges who have attended to the case, will pronounce them
to be first-rate; and we feel perfectly confident that his future conduct of the proceedings
will convince the public of the justness of our eulogium.

The selection by the Government of the moment for interference with Mr O'Connell's proceedings,
was unquestionably characterised by consummate prudence. When the meetings commenced in March
or April, this year, they had nothing of outward character which could well be noticed. They
professed to be meetings to petition Parliament for Repeal; and, undoubtedly, no lawyer could
say that such a meeting would _per se_ be illegal, any more than a meeting to complain of Catholic
relief, or to pray for its repeal--or for any other matter which is considered a settled part
of the established constitution. The mere numbers were certainly alarming, but the meetings
quietly dispersed without any breach of the peace: and after two or three such meetings, without
any disturbance attending them, no one could with truth swear that he expected a breach of
the peace as a _direct_ consequence of such a meeting, though many thought they saw a civil
war as a _remote_ consequence. The meetings went on: some ten, twelve, fifteen occurred,--still
no breach of the peace, no disturbance. The language, indeed, became gradually more seditious--more
daring and ferocious: but, as an attempt to put down the first meeting by _force_ would have
been considered a wanton act of oppression, and a direct interference with the subject's right
to petition, it became a very difficult _practical_ question, at what moment any _legal_ notice
could be taken by prosecution, or _executive_ notice by proclamation, to put down such meetings.
Notwithstanding several confident opinions to the contrary advanced by the newspaper press
at the time, a greater mistake--indeed a grosser blunder--could not have been made, than to
have prosecuted those who attended the early meetings, or to have sent the police or the military
to put those meetings down. An acquittal in the one case, or a conflict in the other, would
have been attended with most mischievous consequences; and, as to the latter, it is clear that
the executive never ought to interfere unless with a _force which renders all resistance useless_.
It appears perfectly clear to us, _even now_, that a prosecution for the earlier meetings must
have failed; for there existed then none of that evidence which would prove the object and
the nature of the association: and to proclaim a meeting, without using force to prevent or
disperse it if it defied the proclamation; and to use force without being certain that the
extent of the illegality would carry public opinion along with the use of force; further, to
begin to use force without being sure that you have enough to use--would be acts of madness,
and, at least, of great and criminal disregard of consequences. Now, when meeting after meeting
had taken place, and the general design, and its mischief, were unfolded, it became necessary
that _some new feature should occur_ to justify the interference of Government; and that occurred
at the Clontarf meeting. No meeting had, before that, ventured to call itself "_Repeal infantry_;"
and to Clontarf _horsemen_ also were summoned, and were designated "_Repeal cavalry_;" and,
in the orders for their assembling, marching, and conducting themselves, _military directions
were given_; and the meeting, had it been permitted to assemble, would have been a parade of
cavalry, ready for civil war. It would have been a sort of review--in the face of the city
of Dublin, in open defiance of all order and government. Let us add, that, just at that time,
Mr O'Connell had published his "Address to all her Majesty's subjects, in all parts of her
dominions," (a most libellous and treasonable publication;) and the arrangements to secure
the peace were more complete, and could be brought to bear more easily, on the Clontarf than
on any of the preceding meetings. The occasion presented itself, and as soon as possible the
Irish authorities assembled at Dublin; the proclamation appeared; the ground was pre-occupied,
and a force that was irresistible went out to keep the peace, and prevent the meeting. The
result showed the perfect success of the Government's enterprise.

As the foregoing topics will doubtless occupy much of the attention of parliament during the
ensuing session, we were anxious to place on record our own opinions, as the result of much
reflection, during a period when events were transpiring which threw upon the Government an
awful responsibility, and rendered their course one of almost unprecedented difficulty. Modern
times, we are convinced, have witnessed but few instances of such a masterly policy, combined
with signal self-reliance.

One or two general topics connected with Ireland, we have time only to glance at. First.--From
the faint reluctant disavowal and discouragement of Mr O'Connell and his Repeal agitation,
by the leading ex-Ministers during the last session, when emphatically challenged by Sir Robert
Peel to join him in denouncing the attempted dismemberment of the empire, irrespective and
independent of all party consideration, we are prepared to expect that in the ensuing session,
the Opposition will, to a great extent, make common cause with Mr O'Connell, out of mingled
fear, and gratitude, and hope towards their late friend and patron. Such a course will immensely
strengthen the hands of the Queen's Government.

Secondly.--To any thoughtful and independent politician, the present Sovereign state of Ireland
demonstrates the utter impossibility of governing it upon the principle of breaking down or
disparaging the Protestant interest. Such a course would tend only to bloody and interminable
anarchy.

Thirdly.--Ireland's misery springs from social more than political evils; and the greatest
boon that Providence could give her, would be a powerful government inflexibly resolved to
_put down agitation_.

Lastly.--Can we wonder at the exasperation of the peasantry, who have for so many years had
their money extorted from them, without ever having had, up to this moment, the shadow of an
equivalent? And how long is this disgraceful pillage to go on? But we must conclude. The ensuing
session of parliament may, and probably will, be a stormy one, and harassing to the Government;
but they may prepare to encounter it with cheerful confidence. Their measures, during their
brief tenure of office, have been attended with extraordinary success--and of that both the
sovereign and the country are thoroughly aware, and we entertain high hopes concerning the
future. We expect to see their strong majority in the House of Commons rather augmented than
diminished by reason of the events which have happened during the recess. If the Ministers
remain firm in their determination--and who doubts it?--to support the agricultural interests
of the country, and persevere in their present vigorous policy towards Ireland, the Government
is impregnable, and the surges of Repeal agitation in Ireland, and Anti-corn-law agitation
in England, will dash against it in vain. So long as they pursue this course, they will be
cheered by augmented indications of the national good-will, and of that implicit and affectionate
confidence in their councils, which, we rejoice to know, is vouchsafed to her Ministers by
our gracious Sovereign.

