The man who suffered most by all this was Lord Milner. When he asked for military preparations,
he was told that he could not have them. When he asked for the removal of a military adviser
with whom he was supremely dissatisfied, he was told that he must put up with General Butler
for a little longer. He put up with him for two months. His Colonial ministers, whose advice
on many points he was bound to accept so long as he did not dismiss them, were men placed in
office by the Dutch subjects of the Crown for the very purpose of frustrating, by constitutional
means, the successful intervention in the Transvaal, by which alone, in his opinion, British
supremacy could be made a reality.

Indeed, the odds were heavily against Lord Milner in his task of saving England, in spite of
herself and in spite of the enemies of whose power she was wholly ignorant, and to whose very
existence she remained contemptuously indifferent. To the great mass of the British population
in South Africa, he stood for England and English justice. To them he seemed the representative
man, for whom they had waited many a long year. They felt that he was fighting their battle
and doing their work; and, making allowance for local jealousies and accidental partialities,
they never ceased to regard him thus. This was his one and only source of assured support.
But he was far removed from the active British centres: from the group of towns formed by the
Albany settlers and their descendants in the Eastern Province, and from Kimberley, Durban and
Maritzburg, and Johannesburg. In the Cape peninsula, of course, there was a considerable British
population of professional and commercial men; but this population had been so closely related
by business and social ties with the preponderant Dutch population of the Western Province
that many among them hesitated to declare themselves openly against the Dutch party. All who
were members of the Progressive party, from the time of the Graaf Reinet speech, had given
unswerving support to Lord Milner's policy; but the strength of the influence created by years
of alternate political co-operation with the Bond leaders may be gathered from the fact that
even so staunch a supporter of the British connection as Sir James (then Mr.) Rose Innes did
not publicly declare his adhesion to the intervention policy until after the failure of the
Bloemfontein Conference. Moreover, the increasing political solidarity of the British population
in the Cape Colony augmented the bitterness with which the few English politicians, who had
remained in alliance with the Dutch party, regarded the man whose resolution and insight had
penetrated and exposed the designs of the Bond.

[Sidenote: Intrigues and disaffection.]

It is difficult to convey any adequate impression of the atmosphere of suspicion and intrigue
by which Lord Milner was surrounded. The Dutch party was in the ascendant in the Colony. The
Cape Civil Service was tainted throughout with disaffection. Even the _personnel_ of the Government
offices at Capetown, although it contained many excellent and loyal men, included also many
who were disaffected or lukewarm. It is characteristic of the situation that during the most
critical period of the negotiations with the Transvaal, the ministerial organ, _The South African
News_, permitted itself to indulge, where Lord Milner, was concerned, not only in the bitterest
criticisms but in outspoken personal abuse. To have abused the representative of the Sovereign
in a British colony of which one-half of the population was seething with sedition, while a
part had been actually armed for rebellion by the secret emissaries of a state with which Great
Britain was on the verge of war, is an act which admits of only one interpretation. Lord Milner
was to be got rid of at all costs; for the policy which _The South African News_ was intended
to promote was that not of Great Britain, but of the Transvaal. The paper was directly inspired--it
is indeed not unlikely that the articles themselves were written--by some of the members of
the Ministry, Lord Milner's "constitutional advisers," whom throughout he himself treated with
the respect to which their position entitled them.

But nothing, perhaps, shows more vividly how extraordinary was the position in which Lord Milner
found himself than the fact, which we have already noted, that the passage of the large consignment
of 500 Mauser rifles and 1,000,000 cartridges for the Free State, to which the Prime Minister's
attention was "drawn specially, because it was large," on July 15th, was not made known to
him, the Governor of the Cape Colony, until August 9th, and then only by accident.[157] There
is only one explanation of this remarkable incident: the interests of the Dutch party were
different from those of the British Government. The Cape Colony was only in name a British
colony. Under the guise of constitutional forms it had attained independence--virtual, though
not nominal. If Lord Milner had contracted the habit of Biblical quotation from the Afrikander
leaders, he might well have quoted the words of the psalmist: "Many bulls have compassed me;
strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round."[158] Even the approaches to Government House were
watched by spies in President Krüger's pay, who carefully noted all who came and went. Members
of the Uitlander community were the special subjects of this system of espionage.

         [Footnote 157: See letters between Lord Milner and Mr.
         Schreiner in Cd. 43, p. 13.]

         [Footnote 158: Psalm xxii. 12.]

[Sidenote: Spies round Government House.]

     "When on a visit to Capetown," writes Sir Percy FitzPatrick, "I
     called several times upon the High Commissioner, and learning, by
     private advice, that my movements were being reported in detail
     through the Secret Service Department, I informed Sir Alfred
     Milner of the fact. Sir Alfred admitted that the idea of secret
     agents in British territory and spies round or in Government
     House was not pleasant, but expressed the hope that those things
     should not deter those who wished to call on him, as he was there
     as the representative of Her Majesty for the benefit of British
     subjects, and very desirous of ascertaining for himself the facts
     of the case."[159]

         [Footnote 159: _The Transvaal from Within_, p. 287.]

The Afrikander leaders in the Cape never identified themselves with the British cause. To them
the Salisbury Cabinet was a "team most unjustly disposed towards us"; a team, moreover, which
they earnestly, and not without reason, hoped might be replaced by a Liberal Government that
would allow them undisturbed to carry forward their plans to full fruition. The motive of their
"mediation," such as it was, was political expediency. It was not from any belief in the justice
of the British claims that they endeavoured to persuade the republican nationalists to give
way; still less from any feeling that England's cause was their cause. When, at length, they
became really earnest in pressing President Krüger to grant a "colourable" measure of franchise
reform--to use Mr. Merriman's adjective--it was for their own sake, and not for England's,
that they worked. This motive runs through the whole of their correspondence; but it emerges
more frankly in the urgent messages sent during the three days (September 12th to 15th) in
which the Transvaal reply to the British despatch of September 8th was being prepared. "Mind,"
telegraphs Mr. Hofmeyr to Mr. Fischer on September 13th, "war will probably have a fatal effect
on the Transvaal, the Free State, and the Cape Afrikander party." And when, from Mr. Fischer's
reply, war was seen to have come in spite of all his counsels of prudence, the racial tie asserted
itself, and he found consolation for his impotence in an expression of his hatred against England.
On September 14th Mr. Hofmeyr telegraphed to President Steyn:

     "I suppose you have seen our wires to Fischer and his replies,
     which latter I deeply regret. The 'to be or not to be' of the
     Transvaal, Free State, and our party at the Cape, depends upon
     this decision. The trial is a severe one, but hardly so severe as
     the outrageous despatches received by Brand from [Sir Philip]
     Wodehouse and [Sir Henry] Barkly. The enemy then hoped that Brand
     would refuse, as the Transvaal's enemy now hopes Krüger will do;
     but Brand conceded, and saved the State. Follow Brand's example.
     Future generations of your and my people will praise you."

[Sidenote: Hofmeyr's "bitter feelings".]

And on the 15th:

     "You have no conception of my bitter feelings, which can hardly
     be surpassed by that of our and your people, but the stronger my
     feelings the more I am determined to repress them, when
     considering questions of policy affecting the future weal or woe
     of our people. May the Supreme Being help you, me, and them. Have
     not seen the High Commissioner for weeks."

The reply of the republican nationalists, addressed to Mr. Hofmeyr and forwarded through President
Steyn, contains a characteristically distorted version of the course of the negotiations. They
have made concession after concession, but all in vain. "However much we recognise and value
your kind intentions," they write, "we regret that it is no longer possible for us to comply
with the extravagant and brutal requests of the British Government." Thus the Pretoria Executive
declared themselves on September 15th, 1899, to the Master of the Bond, when they were in the
act of refusing Mr. Chamberlain's offer to accept a five years' franchise bill, provided it
was shown by due inquiry to be a genuine measure of reform. Very different was the account
of the same transaction given by Mr. Smuts, when, in urging the remnant of the burghers of
both Republics to surrender, he said, on May 30th, 1902, at Vereeniging, "I am one of those
who, as members of the Government of the South African Republic, _provoked the war with England_".
But the passage in this document which is most useful to the historian is that in which the
republican nationalists remind the Afrikander leaders at the Cape of the insincerity of their
original "mediation." In dialectics Mr. Fischer, Mr. Smuts, and Mr. Reitz are quite able to
hold their own with Mr. Hofmeyr, Dr. Te Water, and Mr. Schreiner. They have not forgotten the
Cape Prime Minister's precipitate benediction alike of President Krüger's Bloemfontein scheme
and of the seven years' franchise of the Volksraad proposals. They remember also how the "Hofmeyr
compromise" was proclaimed in the Bond and the ministerial press as affording conclusive evidence
of the "sweet reasonableness" of President Krüger and his Executive. And so they remark, "We
are sorry not to be able to follow your advice; but we point out that you yourself let it be
known that we had your whole approval, if we gave the present franchise as we were doing."[160]
Here we have the kernel of the whole matter. A nine years', seven years', or a five years'
franchise was all one to the Cape Nationalists, provided only that England was kept a little
longer from claiming her position as paramount Power in South Africa. For these men knew, or
thought they knew, that for England "a little longer" would be "too late."

         [Footnote 160: This document was among those secured by the
         Intelligence Department, and published in _The Times History
         of the War_.]

[Sidenote: Lord Milner and Mr. Schreiner.]

It was a greater achievement to have frustrated so subtle a combination, directed by the astute
mind of Mr. Hofmeyr--the man who refused to allow his passions to interfere with his policy--than
to have prevented the British Government from falling a victim to the coarse duplicity of President
Krüger. Tireless effort and consummate statesmanship alone would not have accomplished this
purpose. To these qualities Lord Milner added a personal charm, elusive, and yet irresistible;
and it was this "union of intellect with fascination," of which Lord Rosebery had spoken,[161]
that enabled him to transcend the infinite difficulty of his official relationship to Mr. Schreiner.
Even so that relationship must have broken down under the strain of the negotiations and the
war, had not Mr. Schreiner's complex political creed included the saving clause of allegiance
to his sovereign. When once the British troops had begun to land Mr. Schreiner accepted the
new situation. No longer merely the parliamentary head of the Dutch party and the agent of
the Bond, he realised also his responsibility as a minister of the Crown. None the less there
were matters of the gravest concern in which, both before and after the ultimatum, the Prime
Minister used all the constitutional means at his disposal to oppose Lord Milner. When, upon
the arrival (August 5th) of the small additions to the Cape garrison ordered out in June, Lord
Milner determined to draw the attention of the Ministry to the exposed condition of the Colony,
he found that the Prime Minister's views differed completely from his own. A few days later
he addressed a minute to his ministers on the subject of the defence of Kimberley and other
military questions. From this time onwards, in almost daily battles, Mr. Schreiner resisted
the plans of local military preparation which Lord Milner deemed necessary for the protection
of the Colony. His object, as he said, was to keep the Cape Colony out of the struggle.[162]
On Friday, September 8th, when in London the Cabinet Council was held at which it was decided
to send out the 10,000 troops to reinforce the South African garrison, at Capetown Lord Milner
was engaged in a long endeavour to persuade his Prime Minister that it was necessary to do
something for the defence of Kimberley.[163] Up to the very day on which the Free State commandos
crossed the border, Mr. Schreiner relied upon the definite pledge given him by President Steyn
that the territory of the Cape Colony would not be invaded; and not until that day was he undeceived.

         [Footnote 161: See p. 77.]

         [Footnote 162: In the House of Assembly, August 28th.]

         [Footnote 163: One of the earliest measures of precaution
         which Lord Milner desired was a plan for the defence of
         Kimberley. But when, on June 12th, the people of Kimberley
         requested the Government of the Colony to take steps for the
         protection of their town, the reply which they received,
         through the Civil Commissioner, was this: "There is no reason
         whatever for apprehending that Kimberley is, or in any
         contemplated event will be, in danger of attack, and Mr.
         Schreiner is of opinion that your fears are groundless and
         your anticipations without foundation."]

[Sidenote: Schreiner and Steyn.]

     "I said to the President," he declared in the Cape Parliament a
     year later,[164] "that I would not believe he would invade south
     of the Orange River.[165] President Steyn's reply was, 'Can you
     give me a guarantee that no troops will come to the border?' Of
     course, I could give no such guarantee, and I did not then
     believe that, although such a guarantee could not be given, the
     Free State would invade British territory with the object of
     endeavouring to promote the establishment of one Republic in
     South Africa, as the Prime Minister[166] has said."

         [Footnote 164: September 24th, 1900.]

         [Footnote 165: This was on October 11th, 1899--the day on
         which the ultimatum expired.]

         [Footnote 166: Sir Gordon Sprigg--Mr. Schreiner's Ministry
         was replaced by a Progressive Ministry in June, 1900.]

As the Boer invasion spread further into the Colony Mr. Schreiner receded proportionately from
his original standpoint of neutrality. Indeed, three distinct phases in the Prime Minister's
progress can be distinguished. In the first stage, which lasted until the actual invasion of
the Colony by the Boer commandos, he used all his constitutional power to prevent the people
of the Colony, British and Dutch alike, from being involved in the war: and it was only after
a severe struggle that Lord Milner prevailed upon him even to call out the Kimberley Volunteers
on October 2nd, _i.e._, a week before the Ultimatum. This, "the neutrality" stage, lasted up
to the invasion. After the invasion came the second stage, in which Mr. Schreiner seems to
have argued to himself in this manner: "As the Boers have invaded this colony, I, as Prime
Minister, cannot refuse that the local forces should be called out to protect its territory."
And so on October 16th, after Vryburg had gone over to the Boers, after Kimberley had been
cut off, and the whole country from Kimberley to Orange River was in the hands of the enemy,
he consented to the issue of a proclamation calling out 2,000 volunteers for garrison duty
within the Colony.[167] But in making this tardy concession he was careful to point out to
Lord Milner that the British cause would lose more than it would gain. "I warn you," he said
in effect, "that it is not to your advantage; because you are the weaker party. In the Cape
Colony more men will fight for the Boers than will fight for you." The third stage in Mr. Schreiner's
conversion was reached when, in November, 1899, the invading Boers had advanced to the Tembuland
border, in the extreme east of the Colony. Then Mr. Schreiner allowed the natives to be called
out for the defence of their own territory. In making this final concession the Prime Minister
yielded to the logic of facts in a matter concerning which he had previously offered a most
stubborn resistance to the Governor's arguments.

         [Footnote 167: With this may be compared the fact that in
         Natal the whole of the local forces were mobilised on
         September 29th for active service. The dates upon which
         further units of the Cape local forces were called out are as
         follows: Uitenhage Rifles and Komgha Mounted Rifles, November
         10th; Cape Medical Staff Corps, November 16th; and Frontier
         Mounted Rifles, November 24th.]

[Sidenote: Schreiner and local forces.]

For in the discussion of the measures urged by Lord Milner as necessary for the protection
of the Colony, the question of arming the natives and coloured people had necessarily arisen.
The Bastards in the west and the Tembus in the east were known to be eager to defend the Queen's
country against invasion. Mr. Schreiner declared that to arm the natives was to do violence
to the central principle upon which the maintenance of civilisation in South Africa was based--the
principle that the black man must never be used to fight against the white. Lord Milner did
not question the validity of this principle; but he maintained--and rightly, as Mr. Schreiner
admitted subsequently by his action in the case of the Tembu frontier--that it could not be
applied to the case in question. "If white men," he said, "will go and invade the territory
of the blacks, then the blacks must be armed to repel the invasion."

The change which came over Mr. Schreiner's attitude, due, no doubt, partly to his gradual enlightenment
as to the real aims of the republican nationalists, but also to the skilful use which Lord
Milner made of that enlightenment, may be traced in the following contrasts. Before the Boer
invasion he refused to call out the local forces of the Colony even for purposes of defence;[168]
afterwards he not only sanctioned the employment of these forces in the Colony, but allowed
them to take part in Lord Roberts' advance upon Bloemfontein and Pretoria. Before the invading
Boers, having already possessed themselves of the north-eastern districts of Cape Colony, began
to threaten the purely native territories to the south, he would not hear of the natives being
armed for their own protection. But when the Boers had actually reached the borders of Tembuland
he consented. In his advice to the Cape Government, no less than in that which he gave to the
Home Government, Lord Milner was shown to be in the right. In both cases he urged an effective
preparation for war. In both the measures which he advised were ultimately taken; but taken
only when they had lost all their power as a means of promoting peace, and half of their efficacy
as a contribution to the rapid and successful prosecution of the war. In both cases Lord Milner
was able, in the face of unparalleled obstacles, to secure just the minimum preparation for
war which stood between the British Empire and overwhelming military disaster.

[Footnote 168: The Kimberley and Mafeking Volunteers were called out at the last moment, but
actually before the war broke out; but the safety of both these places was imperilled by the
refusal, or delay, of the colonial Government to supply them with guns.]

We have observed the position in Great Britain, and found that the root cause of the impotence
of the Home Government was the nation's ignorance of South Africa. In the Cape Colony the evil
was of a different order. Lord Milner, although High Commissioner for South Africa, had within
the Colony only the strictly limited powers of a constitutional governor. The British population
were keenly alive to the necessity for active preparations for the defence of their country;
were, indeed, indignant at the refusal of the Schreiner Cabinet to allow the local forces to
be called out: but the Dutch party was in office, the Bond was "loyal," Mr. Schreiner was a
minister of the Crown, and the most that the Governor could do was to urge upon his ministers
the measures upon the execution of which he had no power to insist.

[Sidenote: Seven years after.]

The best comment upon this strange situation is that which is afforded by a passage in Lord
Milner's speech in the House of Lords on February 26th, 1906. Seven years have gone by, and
the great proconsul has returned to England. He is drawn from his much-needed rest by a sudden
danger to the country which he has kept a part of the Empire. The Unionist Government has fallen,
and a Liberal Government has been placed in power. He is warning this Government of the danger
of a premature grant of responsible government to the Orange River Colony.

     "What is going to happen under responsible government? It is more
     than probable, it is, humanly speaking, certain, that the persons
     to whom I have referred will form a large majority, if not almost
     the whole, of that first elected Parliament of the Orange River
     Colony to which, from the first hour of its existence, the whole
     legislative and executive power in that colony is to be
     entrusted. I do not suggest that they will begin by doing
     anything sinister. All forms will be duly observed; as why should
     they not be? It will be perfectly possible for them, with the
     most complete constitutional propriety, little by little to
     reverse all that has been done, and gradually to get rid of the
     British officials, the British teachers, the bulk of the British
     settlers, and any offensive British taint which may cling to the
     statute-book or the administration. I can quite understand that,
     from the point of view of what are known as the pro-Boers, such a
     result is eminently desirable. They thought the war was a crime,
     the annexation a blunder, and they think to-day that the sooner
     you can get back to the old state of things the better. I say I
     quite understand that view, though I do not suppose it is shared
     by His Majesty's ministers, or, at any rate, by all of them. What
     I cannot understand is how any human being, not being a pro-Boer,
     can regard with equanimity the prospect that the very hand which
     drafted the ultimatum of October, 1899,[169] may within a year be
     drafting 'Ministers' Minutes' for submission to a British
     Governor who will have virtually no option but to obey them. What
     will be the contents of those minutes, I wonder? As time goes on
     it may be a proposal for dispensing with English as an official
     language, or a proposal for the distribution to every country
     farmer of a military rifle and so many hundred cartridges, in
     view of threatened danger from the Basutos."

         [Footnote 169: Mr. Fischer. See forward, p. 291.]

[Sidenote: "Just reminiscences".]

So far Lord Milner had dealt with the Orange River Colony. Then he let his thoughts range back
to these months of his great ordeal.

     "I think I can see the Governor just hesitating a little to put
     his hand to such a document. In that case I think I can hear the
     instant low growl of menace from Press and platform and pulpit,
     the hints of the necessity of his recall, and the answering
     scream from the pro-Boer Press of Britain against the ruthless
     satrap, ignorant of constitutional usage and wholly
     misunderstanding his own position, who dared to trample upon the
     rights of a free people. I may be told, I know I shall be told,
     that such notions are the wild imaginings of a disordered brain,
     that these are theoretical possibilities having no relation to
     fact or to probability. _My Lords, they are not imaginings. They
     are just reminiscences._

     "I know what it is to be Governor of a self-governing colony,
     with the disaffected element in the ascendant. I was bitterly
     attacked for not being sufficiently submissive under the
     circumstances. Yet, even with the least submissive Governor, the
     position is so weak that strange things happen. It was under
     responsible government, and in the normal working of responsible
     government, that 1,000,000 cartridges were passed through Cape
     Colony, on the eve of the war, to arm the people who were just
     going to attack us, and that some necessary cannon were stopped
     from being sent to a defenceless border town,[170] which directly
     afterwards was besieged, and which, from want of these cannon,
     was nearly taken."[171]

         [Footnote 170: Kimberley.]

         [Footnote 171: _The Times_, February 27th, 1906.]

Thus, six and a half years later, Lord Milner spoke of these months of _Sturm und Drang_ in
the calm and passionless atmosphere of the House of Lords.

From Bloemfontein to the ultimatum, the British flag in South Africa was stayed upon the "inflexible
resolution" of one man. Two months later, when the army corps was all but landed, the English
at the Cape gave speech. Then Sir David Gill's words at the St. Andrew's Day celebration of
November 30th, 1890 came as a fresh breeze dispersing the miasmic humours of some low-lying,
ill-drained plain.

[Sidenote: What the loyalists thought.]

     "In the history of the British colonies," he said, "no Governor
     has ever been placed in greater difficulties. In spite of a
     support of the most shamelessly feeble character, and in spite of
     a want of understanding at home, His Excellency has not only had
     to originate and carry out a policy, but he has had to instruct
     the whole nation in the dangers which threatened; and the means
     which were necessary to remove that danger.

     "When His Excellency came to this colony he found it honeycombed
     with sedition. He found a canting loyalty, which aimed at the
     overthrow of British supremacy in this colony, and not only in
     this colony, but in South Africa as well.... There have been a
     mighty lot of misunderstandings in this country, a mighty lot of
     mealy-mouthed loyalty, that did not mean loyalty at all, and a
     mighty working to overthrow the power of Englishmen (and
     Scotchmen) in this country--first of all to bring them into
     contempt with the native population; secondly, to deprive them of
     all political power; and thirdly, to deprive them of all material
     power.... We have a minister who has gone to the front,[172] but
     it is a remarkable fact that since that minister has gone to the
     front the accessions of colonists to the ranks of the rebels have
     been tenfold greater than they were before he went. It is in the
     face of these innumerable difficulties that Sir Alfred Milner has
     carried out his work."

         [Footnote 172: Mr. J. W. Sauer. The reference is (in Lord
         Milner's words) to Mr. Sauer's "well-meant but unsuccessful
         mission to Dordrecht, which was immediately followed by
         rebellion in that district." The facts, as fully disclosed a
         year later, are these. On November 23rd, 1899, Mr. Sauer held
         a meeting at Dordrecht to dissuade the Dutch subjects of the
         Crown in the Wodehouse Division of the Colony from joining in
         the rebellion. As the result of this meeting a deputation was
         sent to the Commandant of the Boer invading-force, Olivier,
         who was at Barkly East, desiring him not to come to
         Dordrecht. On November 27th another meeting was held (also
         addressed by Mr. Sauer) and a second deputation of the
         inhabitants waited upon Olivier. The sequel is revealed in
         the telegram despatched the following day (November 28th) by
         the Boer Commandant to the Secretary, the War Commission,
         Bloemfontein: "... To-day already I received the second
         deputation from Dordrecht not to come to Dordrecht. This is
         asked officially, but privately they say that this is also a
         blind, and that we must come at once...." On December 2nd
         Olivier was received with open arms at Dordrecht. It was in a
         district where, in the Boer Commandant's words, "the
         Afrikanders were rejoicing, and joining the commandos was
         universal."--Cd. 420, p. 108 and p. 96; Cd. 43, p. 221; and
         Cd. 261, p. 126.]

This is how it struck a distinguished man of science, and one who was qualified, moreover,
by a residence at the Cape which dated back to the days of the Zulu War, to understand the
full significance of what was going on around him.

In July and August, President Krüger was winning all along the line. The Home Government was
kept harmless and inactive by the Franchise Bill; the Cape Government tied the hands of the
High Commissioner; supplies of arms and ammunition were pouring in, the temper of the burghers
in both republics was rising, foreign military officers and M. Léon of the Creuzot Works had
arrived; in short, the military preparations of four years were consummated without let or
hindrance. September was less exclusively favourable to the republican cause. On September
8th, as we have seen, the Salisbury Cabinet determined to send out the defensive forces for
which Lord Milner had asked three months before. Sir William Butler had been recalled; and
General Forestier-Walker did all in his power to carry out the measures urged, and in most
cases actually devised, by Lord Milner for the effective employment of the few thousand Imperial
troops at his disposal. On the 18th and 19th the Lancashire regiment was sent up-country from
Capetown--half to garrison Kimberley, and half to hold the bridge that carried the main trunk
line over the Orange River on its way northwards to Kimberley and then past the Transvaal border
to Rhodesia. In doing this, however, Lord Milner was careful to point out to President Steyn
that no menace was intended to the Free State, which, "in case of war with the Transvaal Her
Majesty's Government hoped would remain neutral, and the neutrality of which would be most
strictly respected." Such excellent use was made by Lord Milner of the six weeks which elapsed
between the recall of General Butler and the ultimatum (October 9th-11th), that the handful
of regulars dotted down before the Free State border of the colony, and skilfully distributed
at strategic points upon the railways, sufficed to keep President Steyn's commandos from penetrating
south of the Orange River, until the army corps had begun to disembark at the Cape ports. On
this, as on another occasion to be subsequently noted, it is difficult to withhold a tribute
of admiration to the gifted personality of the man who, himself a civilian, could thus readily
apply his unique knowledge of South African conditions to the uses of the art of war. At the
same time, the promptitude and efficiency displayed by the Indian military authorities provided
Natal, by October 8th, with a force that proved just--and only just--sufficient to prevent
the Boer commandos from sweeping right through that colony down to Durban.

[Sidenote: The negotiations closed.]

In the meantime the negotiations, having served their purpose, were being brought rapidly to
a conclusion by the Pretoria Executive. On September 15th, as we have seen, the Republic notified
its refusal to accept the terms offered in the British despatch of the 8th; and before that
date, as we have also noted, some of the Transvaal commandos had been ordered to take up their
positions on the Natal border. On the 22nd a meeting of the Cabinet was held in London, at
which it was decided to mobilise the army corps--a measure advised by Lord Wolseley in June.
At the same time Lord Milner was instructed by telegraph to communicate to the South African
Republic a despatch[173] in which the British Government "absolutely denied and repudiated"
the claim of the South African Republic to be a "sovereign international state," and informed
the Pretoria Executive that its refusal to entertain the offer made on September 8th--

         [Footnote 173: C. 9,530.]

     "coming as it did at the end of nearly four months of protracted
     negotiations, themselves the climax of an agitation extending
     over a period of more than five years, made it useless to further
     pursue a discussion on the lines hitherto followed, and that Her
     Majesty's Government were now compelled to consider the situation
     afresh, and to formulate their own proposals for a final
     settlement"

of the questions at issue. The result of these deliberations was to be communicated to Lord
Milner in a later despatch.

[Sidenote: The Burghers mobilised.]

This note of September 22nd, together with a second communication of the same date, in which
Mr. Chamberlain warmly repudiated the charges of bad faith brought against Sir William Greene,
reached the Pretoria Executive on the 25th, and on the same day it was known that a British
force had entrained at Ladysmith for Glencoe. On the 26th intelligence of so serious a nature
reached Lord Milner, that he telegraphed to warn the Home Government that the Transvaal and
Free State were likely to take the initiative. According to Mr. Amery,[174] an ultimatum had
been drafted upon receipt of the British note, and telegraphed on the following day to President
Steyn for his approval. At Bloemfontein, however, the document was entirely recast by Mr. Fischer.
Even so, in its amended form, it was ready on the 27th. On that day the Free State Raad, after
six days of secret session, determined to join the sister Republic in declaring war upon Great
Britain, and on the 28th the Transvaal commandos were mobilised. The ultimatum, according to
the same authority, would have been delivered to Sir William Greene on Monday, October 2nd,
had not deficiencies in the Boer transport and commissariat arrangements made it impossible
for the burgher forces to advance immediately upon the British troops in Natal. At the last
moment, also, President Steyn seems to have had some misgivings. On September 26th, together
with the draft ultimatum from Pretoria, a suggestive telegram from Capetown, signed "Micaiah,"
and bidding him "Read chapter xxii. 1st Book of Kings, and accept warning," had reached him;[175]
and a few days later he received, through Mr. Fischer, a powerful appeal for peace from Sir
Henry de Villiers.

         [Footnote 174: _Times_ correspondent and editor of _The Times
         History of the War_. Mr. Amery arrived at the Cape in the
         second week of September, and was at Pretoria from September
         24th to October 13th.]

         [Footnote 175: Secured by Intelligence Department.]

However this may be, the few administrative acts that remained to be taken were quickly accomplished
in both Republics. In the Transvaal the remnant of the British population was already in flight;
the law courts were suspended; the control of the railways was assumed by the Government and,
in order to protect colonial recruits from the legal penalties attached to rebellion, on September
29th the Executive was empowered by the Volksraad to confer citizen rights on all aliens serving
in the forces of the Republic. Not content with their barbarous expulsion of the British population,
the Governments of both Republics for a week before the expiry of the ultimatum treated those
of them who still remained as though a state of war had already been in existence. During these
last days telegrams and letters praying for protection against some act of violence or spoliation
were constantly arriving at Government House. But what could the High Commissioner do? The
Army Corps was 6,000 miles away; the 10,000 defensive troops were most of them still on the
water. The Free State, in Mr. Fischer's words, "did not recognise international law, and claimed
to commandeer all persons whatsoever" under its own. In the Transvaal, Mr. Reitz (after consultation
with Mr. Smuts) was coolly replying to the British Agent's protest against the seizure of the
property of British subjects, including £150,000 worth of bar gold, that "the property of private
individuals of whatever nationality could be, and was being, commandeered to the value of £15
a head."[176] On October 2nd the Transvaal Raads adjourned, and on the same day President Steyn
informed the High Commissioner that the Free State burghers had been summoned for commando
service. An interchange of telegrams then ensued, of which one, despatched on October 6th,
is important as showing how earnestly Lord Milner seconded Mr. Chamberlain's endeavour to keep
the door open for a peaceful settlement up to the last moment.

         [Footnote 176: C. 9,530.]

[Sidenote: Last words.]

     "I have the honour," he said, "to acknowledge Your Honour's long
     telegram of yesterday afternoon [the 5th], the substance of which
     I have communicated to Her Majesty's Government. There is, I
     think, a conclusive reply to Your Honour's accusation against the
     policy of Her Majesty's Government, but no good purpose would be
     served by recrimination. The present position is that burgher
     forces are assembled in very large numbers in immediate proximity
     to the frontiers of Natal, while the British troops occupy
     certain defensive positions well within those borders. The
     question is whether the burgher forces will invade British
     territory, thus closing the door to any possibility of a pacific
     solution. I cannot believe that the South African Republic will
     take such aggressive action, or that Your Honour would
     countenance such a course, which there is nothing to justify.
     Prolonged negotiations have hitherto failed to bring about a
     satisfactory understanding, and no doubt such understanding is
     more difficult than ever to-day, after the expulsion of British
     subjects with great loss and suffering; but until the threatened
     act of aggression is committed I shall not despair of peace, and
     I feel sure that any reasonable proposal, from whatever quarter
     proceeding, would be favourably considered by Her Majesty's
     Government if it offered an immediate termination of present
     tension and a prospect of permanent tranquillity."[177]

         [Footnote 177: C. 9,530.]

With this--practically the final communication of the British Government--it is instructive
to compare the "last words" of the two other protagonists. The Pretoria Executive, true to
its policy of playing for time, sends through Mr. Reitz two long and argumentative replies
to the British despatches of July 27th (the Joint Commission), and May 10th (Mr. Chamberlain's
reply to the petition to the Queen). The Afrikander nationalists having failed to "mediate"
in Pretoria and Bloemfontein, consoled themselves with a final effort in the shape of a direct
appeal to the Queen. In a petition signed by the fifty-eight Afrikander members of both Houses
of the Cape Parliament, including, of course, the members of the Schreiner Cabinet, they declare
their earnest belief that the South African Republic "is fully awakened to the wisdom and discretion
of making liberal provision for the representation of the Uitlanders," and urge Her Majesty's
Government to appoint a Joint Commission--a proposal to which the British Government had declared
that it was impossible to return. The effect of this somewhat half-hearted effort was, however,
on this occasion appreciably diminished by the fact that the nationalist petition was accompanied
by a resolution presented by fifty-three Progressive members of the Cape Parliament, embodying
their entire disapproval of the opinion put forward by the petitioners, and containing the
assurance that Her Majesty's Government might rely upon their strongest support.

[Sidenote: The ultimatum delivered.]

The ultimatum was delivered to Sir William Greene on the afternoon of Monday, October 9th,
and forthwith telegraphed to the High Commissioner at Capetown. Although it was a week behind
time at Pretoria, its arrival was somewhat unexpected at Government House. Saturday and Sunday
had been days of quite unusual calm. The Secretary, whose business it was to decode the official
telegrams, commenced his task with but languid interest. He had decoded so many apparently
unnecessary and inconclusive despatches of late. At first this seemed very much like the others.
But, as he worked on, he came upon words that startled him to a sudden attention:

     "This Government ... in the interest not only of this Republic,
     but also of all South Africa,... feels itself called upon and
     obliged ... to request Her Majesty's Government to give it the
     assurance:

     "(_a_) That all points of mutual difference shall be regulated by
     the friendly course of arbitration, or by whatever amicable way
     may be agreed upon by this Government with Her Majesty's
     Government.

     "(_b_) That the troops on the borders of this Republic shall be
     instantly withdrawn.

     "(_c_) That all reinforcements of troops which have arrived in
     South Africa since June 1st, 1899, shall be removed from South
     Africa within a reasonable time, to be agreed upon with this
     Government, and with a mutual assurance and guarantee upon the
     part of this Government that no attack upon or hostilities
     against any portion of the possessions of the British Government
     shall be made by the Republic during further negotiations within
     a period of time to be subsequently agreed upon between the
     Governments, and this Government will, on compliance therewith,
     be prepared to withdraw the armed burghers of this Republic from
     the borders.

     "(_d_) That Her Majesty's troops which are now on the high seas
     shall not be landed in any part of South Africa.

     "This Government must press for an immediate and affirmative
     answer to these four questions, and earnestly requests Her
     Majesty's Government to return such an answer before or upon
     Wednesday, October 11th, 1899, not later than five o'clock p.m.,
     and it desires further to add that, in the event of unexpectedly
     no satisfactory answer being received by it within that interval,
     it will with great regret be compelled to regard the action of
     Her Majesty's Government as a formal declaration of war, and will
     not hold itself responsible for the consequences thereof, and
     that in the event of any further movements of troops taking place
     within the above-mentioned time in the nearer directions of our
     borders, the Government will be compelled to regard that also as
     a formal declaration of war.

     "I have, etc.,
                              "F. W. REITZ, _State Secretary_."[178]

         [Footnote 178: C. 9,530.]

[Sidenote: An appeal to Afrikanders.]

The war had come; and come in the almost incredible form of a naked assertion of the intention
of the South African Republic to oust Great Britain from its position of paramount Power in
South Africa. And the declaration of war,[179] published two days later by President Steyn,
was no less definite. It referred to Great Britain's "unfounded claim to paramountcy for the
whole of South Africa, and thus also over this State," and exhorted the burghers of the Free
State to "stand up as one man against the oppressor and violator of right." Even greater frankness
characterised the appeal to "Free Staters and Brother Afrikanders" issued by Mr. Reitz. In
this document[180] not only was the entire Dutch population of South Africa invited to rid
themselves, by force of arms, of British supremacy, but the statement of the Boer case took
the form of an impeachment that covered the whole period of British administration. Great Britain--

         [Footnote 179: Cd. 43.]

         [Footnote 180: _Ibid._]

     "has, ever since the birth of our nation, been the oppressor of
     the Afrikander and the native alike.

     "From Slagter's Nek to Laing's Nek, from the Pretoria Convention
     to the Bloemfontein Conference--they have ever been the
     treaty-breakers and robbers. The diamond fields of Kimberley and
     the beautiful land of Natal were robbed from us, and now they
     want the gold-fields of the Witwatersrand.

     "Where is Waterboer to-day? He who had to be defended against the
     Free State is to-day without an inch of ground. Where lies
     Lobengula in his unknown grave to-day, and what fillibusters and
     fortune-hunters are possessors of his country?

     "Where are the native chiefs of Bechuanaland now, and who owns
     their land?

     "Read the history of South Africa, and ask yourselves: Has the
     British Government been a blessing or a curse to this
     sub-continent?

     "Brother Afrikanders! I repeat, the day is at hand on which great
     deeds are expected of us. WAR has broken out. What is it to be? A
     wasted and enslaved South Africa, or--a Free, United South
     Africa?

     "Come, let us stand shoulder to shoulder and do our holy duty!
     The Lord of Hosts will be our Leader.

     "Be of good cheer.
                                   "F. W. REITZ."

That Monday night, besides repeating the ultimatum to the Home Government, Lord Milner telegraphed
to warn the British authorities in Natal, Rhodesia, Basutoland, and the frontier towns.

The ultimatum reached the Colonial Office at 6.45 a.m. on Tuesday. The reply, which was cabled
to Lord Milner at 10.45 p.m. on the same day, was not unworthy of the occasion:

[Sidenote: The British reply.]

     "Her Majesty's Government have received with great regret the
     peremptory demands of the Government of the South African
     Republic. You will inform the Government of the South African
     Republic, in reply, that the conditions demanded by the South
     African Republic are such as Her Majesty's Government deem it
     impossible to discuss."[181]

         [Footnote 181: C. 9,530.]

The High Commissioner was further desired to instruct Sir William Greene, in delivering the
British reply, to ask for his passports.

CHAPTER VII

THE FALL OF THE REPUBLICS

With the presentation of the Boer ultimatum the first and most difficult part of Lord Milner's
task was accomplished. The actual pretensions of President Krüger and his republican confederates
in the Free State and the Cape Colony were declared in a manner that could not fail to make
them understood by the British people at home. The nationalists were unmasked. To what assurance
of victory their military preparations had led them may be seen from the story of Mr. Amery's
meeting with Mr. Reitz, two days before October 2nd, the Monday originally fixed for the delivery
of the ultimatum. On the afternoon of this day, September 30th, Mr. Amery was walking with
the State Secretary in Pretoria. Mr. Reitz, he tells us,[182] "suddenly turned round and said,
'Have you read _Treasure Island_? 'Yes.' 'Then you may remember the passage where they "tip
the black spot" to Long John Silver?' 'Yes.' 'Well, I expect it will fall to my lot on Monday
to "tip the black spot" to Long John Greene.' And hereupon the State Secretary cheerily detailed
to his astounded listener the terms of the ultimatum, compliance with which might yet save
the British Empire from war."

         [Footnote 182: _Times History of the War in South Africa_,
         vol. i., p. 360. It must be remembered that in the Transvaal
         all telegrams had been strictly censored from the end of
         August.]

[Sidenote: Effect of the ultimatum.]

Very different was the position at Capetown. Here there was no room either for levity or the
insolence of anticipated triumph. Knowing what Lord Milner did--what he, of all men, had most
cause to know--both of our unreadiness, and of the preparedness and confidence of the enemy,
he could scarcely have looked forward to the future without the very gravest apprehension.
None the less the ultimatum brought with it a certain sense of relief. The negotiations, which
had degenerated long since into a diplomatic farce, were terminated. The situation had become
once more clear. It has been the duty of few men to bear so heavy and so prolonged a burden
of responsibility as that from which Lord Milner was thus set free. The danger that the Home
Government, in its earnest desire for peace, might accept a settlement that would leave undecided
the central issue of Boer or British supremacy in South Africa had never been wholly absent
from his mind during the harassing negotiations that succeeded the Conference. Up to the very
end there had been a haunting dread lest, in spite of his ceaseless vigilance and unstinted
toil, a manifestation of British loyalty that would never be repeated should be coldly discouraged,
and the nationalist movement allowed to proceed unchecked, until every colonist of British
blood had surrendered the hope of remaining a citizen of the Empire for the degrading necessity
of securing for himself and his children a tolerable position in the United States of South
Africa by a timely alliance with the more progressive Dutch. From the presence of this danger
Lord Milner was now relieved, since, as he instantly foresaw, the whip-lash of this frank appeal
to force brought conviction where marshalled arguments were powerless to move. He had done
what the religious enthusiasm of Livingstone, the political sagacity of Grey, the splendid
devotion and prescience of Frere, and the Elizabethan statecraft of Rhodes, had failed to do.
_He had made the Boer speak out._

England was far from knowing all that these Boer aspirations meant, or the progress already
achieved in the direction of their realisation. But this ignorance made the demands of the
ultimatum seem the more insolent. To Mr. Balfour it was as though President Krüger had gone
mad. But madness or insolence, the effect was the same. With the mass of the nation all hesitation,
all balancing of arguments, were at an end. The one thing that was perceived was that any further
attempt to treat with a people so minded would be an admission to the world that British supremacy
had disappeared from South Africa. On this point, outside the narrow influence of a few professional
partisans and peace-makers, there had never been any doubt: the only question was whether British
supremacy was, or was not, in danger. The Boer challenge having resolved this question, the
mind of the nation was made up. The army, as the instrument of its will, was called upon to
give effect to its decision.

[Sidenote: An anxious situation.]

Two years and eight months elapsed between the expiration of the two days' grace allowed by
the ultimatum and the surrender of Vereeniging. During the first twelve months of this period
Lord Milner's initiative, though his position remained arduous, anxious, and responsible, and
his activity unceasing, was necessarily subordinated to that of the Commander-in-Chief of the
British forces in South Africa. But during the second period of the war--that is to say, from
November 29th, 1900, when Lord Kitchener succeeded Lord Roberts--the constructive statesmanship
of the High Commissioner was called forth in an increasing degree as the area secured for peaceable
occupation became widened, and the problems involved in the settlement and future administration
of the new colonies emerged into increasing prominence and importance. But even during the
first period, when the task of the army was the comparatively simple one of overcoming the
organised resistance of the Republics and subduing the rebellion in the Cape Colony, Lord Milner's
unshaken confidence and perfect mastery of South African conditions proved of inestimable value.

[Sidenote: Results and unpreparedness.]

Five years later he described himself as an "incorrigible optimist." Optimist or not, at this
time he harboured no illusions. He knew that the postponement or neglect of military preparations
had left thousands of loyal subjects of the Crown in a position of entire defencelessness,
and made rebellion easy for thousands of the disaffected Dutch. The first days of war, like
the last days of peace, were punctuated by appeals for the troops that should have been in
South Africa, but were in England; or for guns, rifles, and ammunition which Mr. Schreiner
had kept idle in the colonial armouries until it was too late. On Friday, October 13th, he
held a long and anxious consultation over the wires with Colonel Kekewich at Kimberley. A thousand
rifles were wanted, and wanted instantly. The Cape Artillery 15-pounders, reluctantly conceded
at the last moment by Mr. Schreiner, had not come. They never came, for the next day Kimberley
was cut off, and by Sunday morning Capetown had lost count of the border districts from Kimberley
southward to Orange River. On this Friday the first definite piece of bad news reached the
High Commissioner. An armoured train, trying to run back to Mafeking, had been captured by
the Boers. In proportion as Lord Milner had urged the need of preparation for war, so now he
was the first to realise how grave would be the results of unpreparedness. Fortunately, his
comments upon the events of these first three months of the war have been preserved; and the
record of what was passing in his mind from day to day reveals a burden of anxiety that contrasts
sharply with the easy tolerance with which the first bad news was received in England. On Wednesday,
the 18th, a week after the ultimatum had expired, he wrote of Natal: "We are being slowly surrounded,
and our force unwisely split up." He was gravely concerned for the safety of Kimberley, and
he "doubted the ability of Mafeking to hold out." On November 1st, the day after General Buller
had landed at Capetown, he wrote: "Things are going from bad to worse to-day. In Natal the
Orange Free State Boers are making a move on Colenso, while in the Colony they have crossed
in force at Bethulie; and there is also some suspicion of an attack on the line between Orange
River bridge and De Aar." On November 9th, the arrival of the _Rosslyn Castle_, the first of
the Army Corps transports, brought a gleam of brightness. She was a little late, as she had
been warned to go out of her course after leaving Las Palmas, to avoid a suspicious vessel.
But Methuen's first engagements seemed to him to be Pyrrhic victories. It was "the old story
of charging positions from which the enemy simply clears, after having shot a lot of our men."
On December 5th "alarming rumours came pouring in from all over the Colony," and two days later
Lord Milner telegraphed to warn the Secretary of State that the war was now aggravated by rebellion.
On Saturday, December 16th, the day after Colenso, he wrote: "This has been a week of disasters,
to-day being the worst of all. News was received this morning that Buller had been severely
defeated yesterday in attempting to force the passage of the Tugela."

It was a time when he was receiving the panic outcry for the immediate relief of Kimberley,
in which Rhodes vented his rage at the military impotence to which for the moment England had
allowed herself to be reduced in South Africa; when his councils with his ministers were "gloomy
functions," and his Prime Minister's arguments against the measures which he deemed necessary
for the defence of the Colony and the protection of the native territories had become not merely
wearisome but embittered. His main resource lay in his intense activity. It was his custom,
during this critical period, to begin the day by seeing Mr. Eliot and Mr. Price, the heads
of the railways, and Mr. French, the Postmaster-General. In this way he received information
of every movement of any significance that had occurred within the range of the railway and
post-office systems during the preceding twenty-four hours--information which was of the highest
utility both to him and to the military authorities. Then followed an endless succession of
visitors, from the Prime Minister to the most recent newspaper correspondent out from home,
and a long afternoon and evening of concentrated and unbroken labour upon despatches, proclamations,
minutes, and other official documents. A short ride or walk was sometimes interpolated, but
his days were a dead round of continuous occupation. "One day is so like another--crowded with
work; all hateful, but with no very special feature," he wrote. But of another he says: "Worked
very hard all day; the usual interviews. It was very difficult to take one's mind off the absorbing
subject of the ill success of our military operations."

Mr. Balfour called the insolence of the ultimatum "madness." But Lord Milner knew that it was
no madness, but an assured belief in victory; a confidence founded upon long years of earnest
preparation for war; upon the blood-ties of the most tenacious of European peoples; upon a
Nature that spread her wings over the rough children of the veld and menaced their enemies
with the heat and glamour of her sun, with famine and drought and weariness, with all the hidden
dangers that lurked in her glittering plains and rock-strewn uplands.

[Sidenote: Aspects of the war.]

It is not proposed to give any detailed account of the military operations which led, first,
to the annexation of the Boer Republics, and then to the actual disarmament of the entire Dutch
population of South Africa. The most that the plan of this work permits of is to present the
broad outlines of the war in such a manner that the several phases of the military conflict
may be seen in true perspective, and the relationship between them and the administrative efforts
of Lord Milner be correctly indicated. But it will not be found inconsistent with this restricted
treatment to refer to certain conspicuous features of the war upon which contemporary discussion
has chiefly centred, and in respect of which opinions have been pronounced that do not seem
likely to harmonise in all cases with the results of a more mature judgment and a less interested
inquiry.

The test by which the success or failure of any given military effort is to be measured is,
of course, the test of results. But the application of this test must not be embarrassed by
the assumption, which seems to have vitiated so much otherwise admirable criticism on the conduct
of the war in South Africa, that every action in which a properly equipped and wisely directed
force is engaged must necessarily be successful: or that, if it be not successful, it follows,
as a matter of course, that the officer in command, or one of his subordinates, must have committed
some open and ascertainable violation of the principles of military science. So far is this
from being the case, that military history is full of examples in which the highest merit and
resolution of a commander have been nullified or cheated by the wanton interferences of physical
nature, or by acts on the part of subordinates admittedly beyond the control of any human skill
or foresight.[183]

         [Footnote 183: This chapter was in type some weeks before
         Vol. I. of the Official History of the War was published.
         Where, however, the Official History amends or supplements
         figures, documents, etc., given in earlier official
         publications, the fact is mentioned in a foot-note.]

[Sidenote: Delay of operations.]

Any just appreciation of the events of the first year of the war must be based upon a clear
understanding of the degree in which the military action of the Salisbury Cabinet fell short
of the advice given by Lord Milner, and, in an equal degree by Lord Wolseley, the Commander-in-Chief.
We have noticed already[184] the grave inadequacy of the measures of preparation for war carried
out in South Africa between the failure of the Bloemfontein Conference and the recall of General
Butler. On June 1st the South African garrison consisted of 4,462 men in Cape Colony, and 5,827
men in Natal; or 10,289 men with 24 field-guns in all.[185] On August 2nd the Government decided
to send 2,000 additional troops to Natal, and the Indian Government was warned, a little later,
that certain troops might be required for service in South Africa. In spite of Lord Milner's
urgent representations of the danger of leaving the colonies unprotected, no considerable body
of troops, as we have seen, was ordered out, until the diplomatic situation had become seriously
aggravated by the definite failure of the negotiations initiated by Sir William Greene through
Mr. Smuts.

         [Footnote 184: See p. 191.]

         [Footnote 185: Cd. 1,789 (War Commission). The Official
         _History of the War in South Africa_ gives the total on
         August 2nd as "not exceeding 9,940 men."]

Of the 10,000 men despatched after the Cabinet meeting of September 8th, more than half were
requisitioned from the Indian Army, while the remainder were drawn mainly from the Mediterranean
garrisons.

Thus, by the beginning of the second week in October there were 22,104 British troops in South
Africa, of whom 7,400 were at the Cape and 14,704 in Natal, and 60 field-guns.[186] But the
Army Corps, the "striking force," was still in England. In pursuance of its determination to
postpone to the last moment any action that could be represented as an attempt to force a war
upon the Boers, the British Government had refrained from giving orders for the mobilisation
of the offensive force until October 7th, or a fortnight after the Cabinet meeting of September
22nd, when its determination to "formulate its own proposals" was communicated to the Transvaal
Government.[187] It was then calculated that three months must elapse before this force could
be equipped, transported, and placed in the field in South Africa.

         [Footnote 186: Cd. 1,789. But the Official History gives the
         British total at the outbreak of war as 27,054 men (as
         against over 50,000 burghers); of whom 15,811 (including
         2,781 local troops) were in Natal, 5,221 regulars and 4,574
         local troops were in the Cape Colony, and 1,448 men, raised
         locally by Col. Baden-Powell, were in Mafeking and Southern
         Rhodesia.]

         [Footnote 187: But the Admiralty were given details of the
         offensive force on September 20th. (_Official History._)]

[Sidenote: No political gain.]

Before recording the disastrous effects of the postponement of effective military preparations,
from June to September, it remains to consider whether any political gains, sufficient to compensate
for the loss of military strength, were secured. The policy of relying upon Afrikander advice
failed; since, as we have seen, the admonitions of Sir Henry de Villiers and Mr. Hofmeyr came
too late to turn President Krüger from an obduracy founded upon long years of military preparation.
The over-sea British had made up their minds in June; and nothing occurred in the subsequent
negotiations to deepen their conviction of the essential justice of the British cause. India
was unmoved; indeed, the Hindu masses were slightly sympathetic, while the feudatory princes
came forward with offers of men and treasure to the Government of the Queen-Empress. The attitude
of the respective governments of France, Germany, and Russia was correct. But what secured
this result was not any perception of the moderation of the British demands, or any recognition
of the genuine reluctance of the British Government to make war, but the sight of the British
Navy everywhere holding the seas, the rapidity and ease with which large bodies of troops were
transported from every quarter of the British world, and the manner in which each reverse was
met by a display of new and unexpected reserves of military strength.

If the British Government thought that it would win the peoples of Continental Europe to its
side by a show of hesitation to make war upon a weak state, the sequel proved that it had gravely
misunderstood the conditions under which international respect is produced. Hatred of England
rose in inverse ratio to the evidence of the justness of her cause. When the Boers were victorious,
or seemed to be most capable of defying the efforts of the largest fighting force that Great
Britain had ever put into the field; when, that is to say, it was most clearly demonstrated
that British supremacy in South Africa could only have been maintained by force of arms against
the formidable rival which had risen against it, then the wave of popular hatred surged highest.
When the British arms prospered, the clamour sank; but only to rise again until it was finally
allayed by the knowledge that the Boer resistance was at an end, and that the British Empire
had emerged from the conflict a stronger and more united power.

[Sidenote: Attitude of the United States.]

The case of the United States was somewhat different. Here was an industrial nation like our
own; and one, moreover, whose people were qualified alike by constitutional and legal tradition,
habits of thought, and identity of language, to have discerned the reality of the reluctance
displayed by the British Government to employ force until every resource of diplomacy and every
device of statecraft had been exhausted, and to have drawn the conclusion that the power which
drove the Government into war was a sense of duty, and not greed of territory. Moreover, there
was at this time, at any rate among the more cultivated classes, a feeling of gratitude for
the action of Great Britain in preventing European intervention during the Spanish-American
war, and a genuine desire, on that ground alone, to show sympathy with the English people in
the conflict in which they had become involved. In these circumstances it is somewhat strange
that public opinion in the United States was unmistakably inclined to favour the Boers during
almost the entire period of the war. It is perfectly true that the United States Government
was consistently friendly; but this did not alter the fact that the dominant note in nearly
all public expressions of the sentiment of the United States' people was one of sympathy with
the Boer, and of hostility to the British cause. It might have been thought that, just as most
Englishmen, in the case of the conflict between the United States and Spain, were prepared
to assume that a nation imbued with the traditions and principles of the Anglo-Saxon race would
not have undertaken to enforce its will upon a weak Power without having convinced itself first
of the justice of its cause, so the Americans would have entertained an equally favourable
presumption in respect of the people of Great Britain. That this was not done is due to a cause
which is as significant as it is well ascertained. Making all allowance for the prejudice against
England inevitably aroused in the minds of the less thoughtful members of a great democratic
community, by the fact that her opponent was both a weak state and a republic, this very general
refusal to accept the political morality of the English people as a guarantee of the justice
of their action in South Africa suggests the presence of another and more specific influence.
The explanation given by Americans is that the English nation was itself divided upon the question
of the morality of the South African War--or, at any rate, that the public utterances that
reached the United States were such as to convey this impression. That being so, they ask,
Can you blame us for hesitating to adopt what was at the most, as we understood it, the opinion
of a majority? In support of this view they point to the public utterances, before and after
the war had broken out, of Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, Mr. John Morley, and Mr. Bryce. Of
these, the former was the official head of the Liberal Party, while the two latter were men
whose literary achievements had made their names and personalities both familiar and respected
in the United States. If the opinions of these public men were on this occasion wholly unrepresentative,
why, they ask, were their speeches and articles unrefuted; or, at any rate, allowed to go forth
to the world uncondemned by any clear and authoritative manifestation of the dissent and displeasure
of their countrymen?

[Sidenote: Injurious declarations.]

That declarations such as these did in fact produce injurious effects directly calculable in
human lives, in money, and in the waste and devastation of war, is a fact which will claim
the attention of the reader on a subsequent occasion. They came not merely from the mouths
of the Irish Nationalists, and of advanced Radicals such as Mr. Lloyd-George and Mr. John Burns,
but from men of wider repute. That public opinion should have allowed responsible Englishmen
in time of war to "speak and write as though they belonged to the enemy,"--whether due to an
exaggerated regard for our traditional freedom of speech, or to a failure to recognise that
the altered conditions produced by the extension and perfection of telegraphic communication,
and the development of the Press throughout the civilised world, gave such utterances a value
in international relations altogether different from that possessed (say) by similar utterances
on the part of the anti-nationalists during the Napoleonic wars--is a circumstance that merits
the most serious consideration. No one will deny that this unpatriotic form of opposition,
so long as it exists, constitutes an ever-recurring danger to the most vital interests of the
community. The ultimate remedy lies in the creation of a representative council of the Empire,
and the consequent separation of questions of inter-imperial and foreign policy from the local
and irrelevant issues of party politics. Until this is done, it remains to establish a mutual
understanding under which such questions would be recognised as being outside the sphere of
party recrimination; and for this purpose it is necessary to create a force of public opinion
strong enough to compel the observance of this understanding; or, failing this, to visit its
non-observance with political penalties commensurate to the injury inflicted.

[Sidenote: The Army Corps absorbed.]

The conflict which followed the expiration of the forty-eight hours allowed by the Boer ultimatum
is in more than one respect the most extraordinary in the annals of war. The existence of the
cable and telegraph made instant and continuous communication possible between the army in
the field and the nation at home. Public opinion, informed by the daily records furnished by
the Press, became a factor in determining the conduct of the war. Nor is it strange that a
civilian population, separated by 6,000 miles from the theatre of operations, should have proved
an injurious counsellor. The army was ordered to conquer a people, but forbidden to employ
the methods by which alone it has been hitherto held that conquest is attainable. But no influence
exercised upon the course of the war by false humanitarianism or political partisanship produced
any results comparable to the original injury inflicted upon the British Army by the ignorance
and irresolution displayed by the nation. The postponement of effective military preparations
by the Home Government until the necessity for these preparations had become so plain that
no effort of the Opposition could embarrass its action, was the _fons et origo_ of all subsequent
disaster. The failure to mobilise the Army Corps in June had placed the Army in a position
of disadvantage at the outbreak of the war, from which it never wholly recovered. The original
striking force--the Army Corps--was not employed in its proper function, but absorbed, upon
its arrival in South Africa, in the task of supporting the defensive forces. Twenty-two thousand
men, with an Army Corps advancing upon Bloemfontein or Pretoria, would have sufficed to repel
attacks upon the colonial frontiers, and to check rebellion in the Cape Colony. But twenty-two
thousand men defending one thousand miles of frontier from a mobile force nearly twice as numerous
with the Army Corps six thousand miles away in England, was a very different thing. Yet this
was the situation in which the nation, by withholding from the Government the support necessary
to enable it to give effect to the advice of Lord Wolseley, had elected to place the British
Army. The plan of mobilisation, long prepared and complete in all particulars, worked with
perfect success. Twenty Companies of the Army Service Corps sailed on October 6th, a day before
the actual mobilisation order was issued. The rest of the offensive force--one Cavalry Division,
one Army Corps, and eight battalions of lines of communication troops--began to be embarked
on October 20th, and by November 17th the long succession of transports, bearing the whole
of the men, horses, and guns of which it was composed (with the exception of one cavalry regiment
detained by horse sickness), had sailed for South Africa. This was Lord Wolseley's task, and
it was promptly and efficiently performed. The War Office was not inefficient; but the refusal
to mobilise in June had thrown the whole scheme of the offensive and defensive campaign out
of gear.

[Sidenote: General Buller.]

With the evidence of the War Commission before us, it is impossible to divest General Buller
of a share of responsibility for the disastrous conditions under which the war was commenced.
He was nominated to the South African command in June, and he was consulted upon the strength
and composition of the force which was to be employed. On July 7th Lord Wolseley asked the
Government, apart from the immediate mobilisation of the Army Corps which he still urged, to
"consider whether we should not at a very early date send one Infantry Division and one Cavalry
Brigade--say 10,000 men--to South Africa," adding that he had "no doubt as to the present necessity
of strengthening our military position." But ten days later the despatch of this reinforcement
of 10,000 men was "not considered urgent." Since, according to Lord Wolseley's minute of the
proceedings of the meeting held at the War Office on July 18th, 1899, General Buller used the
weight of his authority to support General Butler's opposition to Lord Milner's urgent request
for immediate reinforcements. In reply to a question as to the desirability of strengthening
the South African garrisons, he said on this occasion, that--

     "he had complete confidence in Butler's ability and forethought,
     and that as long as clever men like Butler and Symons on the spot
     did not say there was danger, he saw no necessity for sending out
     any troops in advance of the Army Corps to strengthen our
     position against any possible attack by the Boers on our
     frontiers."

This memorandum, Lord Wolseley added, contained not the "exact words," but the "exact meaning"
of what he said.[188] It was the precise opposite of the view which Lord Milner had laid before
the Home Government.[189] Indeed the degree in which General Buller had misconceived the entire
military situation in South Africa became at once apparent when he reached Capetown. He had
come out to South Africa with the not unnatural idea that he was to command a definite British
army, which was to engage a definite Boer army. When he had learnt from Lord Milner and others
what the situation actually was, he is said to have gathered up his new impressions in the
remark: "It seems to me that I have got to conquer the whole of South Africa." General Buller
even appears to have shared the common belief of his fellow-countrymen at home that the Cape
was a British colony not only in name but in fact. Nor was he prepared to abandon this belief
all at once. He suggested to the High Commissioner that it would be possible to form local
defence forces out of the Dutch farmers in the Colony. Lord Milner said that this was totally
impracticable; but he added that he would consult Mr. Schreiner on the matter. It is needless
to say, however, that the Prime Minister deprecated the proposal in the most emphatic terms.[190]

         [Footnote 188: Cd. 1,789, pp. 15-17.]

         [Footnote 189: Nor was the Intelligence Department less
         urgent than Lord Milner. "In July of last year [1899],
         earlier warnings being disregarded, a formal communication
         was made for the consideration of the Cabinet, advising the
         despatch of a large force fully equipped, estimated to be
         sufficient to safeguard Natal and Cape Colony from the first
         onrush of the Boers."--Sir John Ardagh, in _The Balfourian
         Parliament_, 1900-1905. By Henry W. Lucy, p. 10. See also the
         evidence of the War Commission, and the "Military Notes"
         issued by the D. M. I. in June (1899).]

         [Footnote 190: In a memorandum of November 20th (furnished to
         Gen. Forestier-Walker) Gen. Buller, on the eve of starting
         for Natal, gives as a first paragraph in his "appreciation of
         the situation" the following remark: "1. Ever since I have
         been here we have been like the man, who, with a long day's
         work before him, overslept himself and so was late for
         everything all day." (_Official History_, p. 209.)]

The War Office scheme was designed to provide a defensive force to hold the colonies, and an
offensive force to invade the Republics. In the three months that elapsed before this scheme
was put into effect, the conditions upon which it was based had changed completely. On the
day that Buller reached Capetown (October 31st) White, with almost the whole of the Natal defensive
force, was shut up in Ladysmith by Joubert. When at length the last units of the Army Corps
were landed (December 4th) in South Africa, Buller was at Maritzburg, organising a force for
the relief of White; and practically the entire offensive force had been broken up to disengage
the defensive forces, or save them from destruction. Buller himself had 14,000 of the Army
Corps in Natal, and more were to follow; Methuen was taking 8,000 men for the relief of Kimberley;
and the balance were being pushed up to strengthen the original defensive forces that were
holding the railways immediately South of the Orange Free State border, and checking the rebellion
in the eastern districts of the Cape Colony. Gatacre's defeat at Stormberg (December 10th),
Methuen's defeat at Magersfontein (December 11th), and Buller's defeat at Colenso (December
15th) together provided ample evidence of the fact that, however desirable it might be to assume
the offensive, a purely defensive _rôle_ must for the time be assigned to the troops then in
South Africa; and that this state of affairs must continue until the arrival of very considerable
reinforcements.

[Sidenote: New striking force necessary.]

The perception of this fact caused the Government to appoint (December 17th) Lord Roberts,
with Lord Kitchener as his Chief-of-Staff, to the South African command, and to prepare and
despatch an entirely new striking force. It was this new force and not the original Army Corps
that "marched to Pretoria," and struck the successive blows which enabled Lord Roberts to report
to the Secretary of State for War (November 15th, 1900) that; "with the occupation of Komati
Poort, and the dispersal of Commandant-General Louis Botha's army, the organised resistance
of the two Republics might be said to have ceased." It was not, therefore, until Lord Roberts
was able to march from Modder River Station (February 11th, 1900), after a month spent at the
Cape in reorganising the transport and other preparations essential to the success of an army
destined to advance for many hundreds of miles through a hostile country, that the British
Army in South Africa was in the position in which the acceptance of Lord Wolseley's advice,
given in June and July, 1899, would have put it upon the outbreak of war. Nor was the force
with which Lord Roberts then advanced, 36,000 men, more numerous than the striking force which
would have been provided, by Lord Wolseley's scheme, had it been carried out in the manner
in which he desired. For the business with which the scattered Army Corps was occupied when
Lord Roberts arrived at Capetown (January 10th, 1900)--the relief of Ladysmith and Kimberley,
and the defence of the eastern districts of the Cape Colony from the Free State commandos and
the colonial rebels--was work directly caused by the absence of the Army Corps from South Africa
when the war broke out. It is not too much to say that the whole of the serious losses incurred
by the British forces in South Africa from the commencement of the war up to the date of Lord
Roberts's advance into the Free State territory, would have been avoided if the state of public
opinion had permitted the Salisbury Cabinet in June to make military preparations commensurate
with the gravity of the situation as disclosed by Lord Milner.

[Sidenote: The regular army exhausted.]

In forming an estimate of the performance of the British Army in South Africa, from a military
point of view, it is necessary to remember the grave initial disadvantage in which it was placed;
and that this initial disadvantage was due, not to the War Office, not to the Cabinet, but
to the nation itself. The manner in which the losses thus caused were repaired is significant
and instructive. By the end of the year (1899), the troops composing three divisions in excess
of the Army Corps were either landed in South Africa or under orders to proceed to the seat
of war. In addition to the 22,000 defensive troops in South Africa on October 11th, the War
Office had supplied, not merely the 47,000 men of the Army Corps, but 85,000 men in all. But,
having done this, it had practically reached the limit of troops available in the regular army
for over-sea operations. By April, 1900, all the reserves had been used up. There remained,
it is true, 103,023 "effectives" of all ranks of the regular army in the United Kingdom on
April 1st; but this total was composed of 37,333 "immature" troops; of the recruits who had
joined since October 1st, 1899; of reservists unfit for foreign service; and of sick and wounded
sent home from South Africa: that is to say, of men who, for one reason or another, were all
alike unfit for service abroad.[191] Further drafts might have been made upon the British regulars
in India; but this course was held to be imprudent. In plain words, the exhaustion of the regular
army compelled the Government to avail itself more fully of the offers of military aid which
had reached it from the colonies, and to utilise the militia and volunteer forces. On December
18th, 1899, the announcement was made that the War Office would allow twelve militia battalions
to volunteer for service abroad, and that a considerable force of yeomanry and a contingent
of picked men from the volunteers would be accepted. This appeal to the latent military resources
of the Empire met with a ready and ample response. Throughout the whole course of the war the
United Kingdom sent 45,566 militia, 19,856 volunteers, and 35,520 yeomanry, with 7,273 South
African Constabulary, and 833 Scottish Horse; the over-sea colonies (including 305 volunteers
from India) provided 30,633 men;[192] while of the small British population in South Africa
no less than the astonishing total of 46,858 took part in the war.[193] In all some 200,000
men--militia, volunteers, and irregulars--came forward to supplement the regular army.

         [Footnote 191: Cd. 1,789.]

         [Footnote 192: _Ibid._]

         [Footnote 193: See returns cited by Lord Roberts in House of
         Lords, February 27th, 1906. The irregulars _raised_ in South
         Africa were between 50,000 and 60,000, according to the _War
         Commission Report_.]

[Sidenote: Auxiliary forces utilised.]

It was mainly from the auxiliary forces and the colonial contingents, and not from the regular
army, that the reinforcements were supplied which repaired the critical losses of the defensive
campaign, and enabled the new striking force to be organised. Nor can it be said that the British
Government failed to do all that was possible to retrieve its original error, when once the
defeats inflicted by the Boer forces had awakened it to a knowledge of the real situation in
South Africa. In his despatch of February 6th, 1900, Lord Roberts was able to report that,
on January 31st, there was an effective fighting force of nearly 40,000 men in Natal and another
of 60,000 in the Cape Colony. Mr. Chamberlain put the case for the Government at its highest
in speaking at Birmingham on May 11th, 1900:

     "Supposing that twelve months ago any man had said in public that
     this country would be able to send out from its own shores and
     from its own citizens an army of more than 150,000 men, fully
     equipped, and that it would be joined by another force of more
     than 30,000 men, voluntarily offered by our self-governing
     colonies ... if he had said that this army, together numbering
     200,000 men, or thereabouts, could have been provided with the
     best commissariat, with the most admirable medical appliances and
     stores that had ever accompanied an army--if he could have said
     that at the same time there would have remained behind in this
     country something like half a million of men, who although they
     may not be equal man to man to the regulars and best-drilled
     armies, are nevertheless capable of bearing arms to some
     purpose--if he had said all this, he would have been laughed to
     scorn."

Moreover, the army was successful. The work which it was required to do was done. In order
to realise the merit of its success two circumstances must be borne in mind: first, the enormous
area of South Africa, and, second, the fact that practically the whole of this area, if we
except the few considerable towns, was not only ill-provided with means of communication and
food supplies, but inhabited by a population which was openly hostile, or, what was worse,
secretly disaffected. Lord Roberts, in the course of his despatches, endeavoured to bring home
both of these circumstances to the public in England.

Of the area he wrote:[194]

         [Footnote 194: November 15th, 1900. Johannesburg.]

     "The magnitude of the task which Her Majesty's Imperial troops
     have been called upon to perform will perhaps be better realised
     if I give the actual number of miles of the several lines of
     communication, each one of which has had to be carefully guarded,
     and compare with the well-known countries of Europe the enormous
     extent of the theatre of war, from one end of which to the other
     troops have had to be frequently moved.

[Sidenote: Vastness of South Africa.]

     "The areas included in the theatre of war are as follows:

                                         Square Miles.
               Cape Colony                  277,151
               Orange River Colony           48,326
               Transvaal                    113,640
               Natal                         18,913
                                           --------
                  Total                     458,030
                                           --------
               Rhodesia                     750,000

     "And the distances troops have had to travel are:

                    By Land                  Miles.
               Capetown to Pretoria          1,040
               Pretoria to Komati Poort        260
               Capetown to Kimberley           647
               Kimberley to Mafeking           223
               Mafeking to Pretoria            160
               Mafeking to Beira             1,135
               Durban to Pretoria              511

     "From these tables it will be seen that, after having been
     brought by sea 6,000 miles and more from their base in the United
     Kingdom, the army in South Africa had to be distributed over an
     area of greater extent than France (204,146 square miles) and
     Germany (211,168 square miles) put together, and, if we include
     that part of Rhodesia with which we had to do, larger than the
     combined areas of France, Germany, and Austria (261,649 square
     miles)."

Of the nature of the country and its inhabitants he wrote:[195]

         [Footnote 195: November 15th, 1900. Johannesburg.]

     "And it should be remembered that over these great distances we
     were dependent on single lines of railway for the food supply,
     guns, ammunition, horses, transport animals, and hospital
     equipment, in fact, all the requirements of an army in the
     field, and that, along these lines, bridges and culverts had
     been destroyed in many places, and rails were being constantly
     torn up."

And of the Cape Colony he wrote:[196]

         [Footnote 196: February 6th, 1900. Capetown.]

     "The difficulties of carrying on war in South Africa do not
     appear to be sufficiently appreciated by the British public. In
     an enemy's country we should know exactly how we stood; but out
     here we have not only to defeat the enemy on the northern
     frontier, but to maintain law and order within the colonial
     limits. Ostensibly, the Dependency is loyal, and no doubt a large
     number of its inhabitants are sincerely attached to the British
     rule and strongly opposed to Boer domination. On the other hand,
     a considerable section would prefer a republican form of
     government, and, influenced by ties of blood and association,
     side with the Orange Free State and the Transvaal. Even the
     public service at the Cape is not free from men whose sympathies
     with the enemy may lead them to divulge secrets and give valuable
     assistance to the Boer leaders in other ways."

[Sidenote: The offensive campaign.]

Bearing in mind that the offensive campaign dates, not from the expiry of the Boer ultimatum
on October 11th, 1899, but from Lord Roberts's advance from Modder River Station on February
11th, 1900, the mere record of dates and events is sufficiently impressive. On February 12th
the Free State border was crossed; on the 15th Kimberley was relieved, on the 27th Cronje's
force surrendered at Paardeberg, on the 28th Ladysmith was relieved, and on March 13th Bloemfontein,
the capital of the Free State, was occupied. The army again advanced early in May; Kroonstad
was entered on the 12th; on May 24th, the Queen's birthday, the Free State was annexed; the
Vaal was crossed on the 27th, Johannesburg was occupied on the 31st, and on June 5th the British
flag was hoisted on the Raadzaal at Pretoria. In the meantime Mafeking had been relieved with
absolute punctuality on May 17th.[197] On June 11th the Boers evacuated Laing's Nek and Majuba,
and the Natal Field Force, under Buller, entered the Transvaal from the south-east. The next
day Roberts defeated the Boers under Louis Botha at Diamond Hill. On July 30th Prinsloo and
4,000 burghers surrendered to Hunter; on August 27th the main Transvaal army, under Louis Botha,
was again defeated at Dalmanutha, and on September 1st the Transvaal was annexed. On the 11th
President Krüger fled the Transvaal; Komati Poort, the eastern frontier town on the railway
line to Delagoa Bay, was entered on the 24th, and two days later railway communication was
re-opened between Delagoa Bay and Pretoria.

         [Footnote 197: Lord Roberts had asked Col. Baden-Powell how
         long he could hold out at Mafeking, and then promised that
         the relief of the town should be effected within the required
         period.]

In spite of the vast area and harassing conditions of the war, in spite of its own military
unpreparedness, and the unexpected strength of the Boer attack, the Power which created the
Republics had destroyed them within less than a twelvemonth from the day on which they had
defied it.

At this point it will be convenient to place on record certain general conclusions which arise
out of the events and circumstances of the South African War, and to consider certain military
criticisms which have been offered upon the conduct of the British Army in the field.

We have seen that the initial losses of the campaign were due, not to any defects in the Army
as a fighting force, but to the position in which the Army was placed by the irresolution of
the nation. We have seen also that within less than a year of the ultimatum the capitals of
the two Republics were occupied, and their power of "organised resistance" was destroyed. During
this stage of the war the regular Army, small as it was, supplemented by selected reinforcements
from the auxiliary services, and by the colonial contingents, sufficed to do the work required
of it. In the second stage, when the work to be accomplished was nothing less than the disarmament
of the entire Dutch population of South Africa, the character of the reinforcements supplied
had greatly depreciated,[198] and the prolongation of the war was in part to be attributed
to this circumstance. For the present, however, it will be sufficient to confine our observations
to the period of "organised resistance."

         [Footnote 198: One fighting British general stated that one
         of the first stage force was equal to five of the men
         supplied after the reserves had been used up in April,
         1900.]

[Sidenote: General conclusions.]

The first of these conclusions is the fact that the real evil revealed by the South African
War is not the inefficiency, or unpreparedness of the War Office, but the ignorance,[199] and
therefore unpreparedness, of the country. From this unreadiness for war on the part of the
nation as a whole there sprang two results: (1) the refusal of the Salisbury Cabinet to allow
the War Office to make adequate military preparations in June, and the disregard of the advice
alike of Lord Milner and Lord Wolseley; (2) the insufficient supply of reserves for the forces
in the field, arising ultimately from the small percentage of men in the nation trained to
the use of arms.

         [Footnote 199: For the direct part played by the Liberal
         leaders in the production of this ignorance, see p. 256.]

The second conclusion to which we are led is that the specific result of the absence of effective
preparations for War in June was to throw the War Office scheme of a fighting force out of
gear. Twenty-two thousand defensive troops, with a striking force of fifty thousand in South
Africa, would have proved sufficient to attain the ends of British policy. As it was, the Army
Corps being in England when hostilities commenced, and not arriving in its entirety until December
4th, the fifty thousand offensive force was absorbed in the work of extricating the twenty-two
thousand defensive force. In other words, the British Army was not put in the position contemplated
by Lord Wolseley's scheme until an entirely new fighting force had been organised and advanced
from Modder River in the beginning of February, 1900. This new striking force was identical
in numbers with the original striking force, the Army Corps,[200] provided by Lord Wolseley's
scheme.

[Sidenote: Criticisms examined.]

Among criticisms on the British Army in the field there are two that claim attention. The first
of these is the allegation that military efficiency was sacrificed to a desire to spare life.
In so far as this criticism is concerned with the handling of their troops by British commanders,
it is strenuously denied that either Lord Roberts, or any of his subordinates, allowed a desire
to spare the lives of the troops under their command to interfere with the successful execution
of any military operation. The specific example of the alleged interference of this motive,
usually cited, is the conduct of the attack upon the Boer position at Paardeberg. In respect
of these operations the actual facts, as they presented themselves to the mind of Lord Roberts,
are these. On reaching the Paardeberg position from Jacobsdal the Commander-in-Chief found
that in the operations of the preceding day Lord Kitchener had lost a thousand men without
gaining a single advantage. The position held by the Boers, although it was commanded by rising
ground on all sides, was one which afforded admirable cover in repelling an attacking force.
In these circumstances Lord Roberts decided, as an application of the principles of military
science, to "sap up" to the Boer positions. The correctness of this decision was proved by
the result. The moment that the Boers realised that they were to be given no further opportunity--such
as a repetition of a direct attack upon their position would have afforded--of inflicting heavy
loss on the British troops, whilst their eventual surrender was no less inevitable, the white
flag was hoisted.

         [Footnote 200: _I.e._, _less_ troops for lines of
         communication. Lord Roberts's force was 36,000, the Army
         Corps was 47,000.]

It is denied with equal definiteness that any general feeling of the kind alleged existed among
subordinate officers or the rank and file of the British troops. Where, however, the allegation
of "a desire to spare life" has regard to the enemy and not to the British troops, the answer
is to be found in the fact that any humanity inconsistent with military efficiency was apparent
and not real. The comparative immunity enjoyed by the enemy on occasions when he was defeated
is due to physical conditions wholly favourable to the Boers, to the knowledge of the country
possessed by the burghers individually and collectively, and to the circumstance that the inhabitants
of the country districts were, in almost all cases, ready to give them every possible assistance
in escaping from the British. There is one particular statement in connection with this criticism
which admits of absolute denial. It has been said that Lord Roberts, the Commander-in-Chief,
received instructions from the Home Government directing him to spare the enemy as much as
possible. This statement, in spite of its _prima facie_ improbability, has met with very general
acceptance. None the less it is entirely baseless. The only limitations imposed by the Home
Government upon Lord Roberts's complete freedom of action in the conduct of the military operations
which he directed were such as arose from the difficulty experienced in supplying him upon
all occasions with troops of the precise number and character required.

[Sidenote: The German general staff.]

The second criticism is one put forward by the German General Staff, forming, as it does, the
only valid complaint against the professional merits of Lord Roberts advanced by that body.
The British Commander-in-Chief, say these German critics, made it his object to "manoeuvre"
the Boers out of positions instead of inflicting severe losses upon them. The answer to this
criticism, in its general form, is to be found in the physical conditions of the country. On
the occasions to which reference is made the burgher forces were found to be posted on high
ground, behind rocks or in intrenchments, with fine open ground in front of them. Obviously
in these circumstances what military science required of the commander directing the attacking
force was to find a means of placing his own troops on equal terms with the enemy; and this
was what Lord Roberts did. The criticism, however, as more precisely stated and applied to
the battle of Diamond Hill in particular, and to the engagements fought in the course of Lord
Roberts's advance from Bloemfontein to Pretoria, takes the form of the allegation that, while
the enveloping movement on both flanks was executed successfully, the full result of this initial
success was not obtained because the attack upon the Boer centre was not pressed home. In other
words, the enemy's centre was never caught and destroyed by the envelopment of his flanks.
This is historically true, and yet the German critics cannot be said to have established their
case, for they omit to take the tactics of the Boers into consideration. Stated briefly, these
were to hold on to a position and inflict such losses as they could upon the attacking troops,
until the final assault became imminent; and then to mount their ponies and gallop away. Against
such tactics as these, it would have been of no avail to push in a frontal attack with the
certainty of incurring heavy loss, and without the chance of securing a decisive success. It
would have been merely playing into the hands of the Boers.

Under such conditions all that was possible was to demonstrate against the Boer centre in the
hope of holding them in their position, until the flanking columns should have nullified their
mobility by cutting in on their line of retreat. The Boers, however, took every precaution
against such an eventuality; and the result was generally, as stated by the German critics,
that the Boers were "manoeuvred" out of their positions. But this does not prove that the course
adopted by Lord Roberts was wrong; it merely proves the extreme difficulty of inflicting a
severe defeat upon an enemy who declines to risk a decisive action, and whose mobility gives
him the power to do so. The course advocated by the critics would have been equally barren
of result, while the cost in lives would have been far greater.

[Sidenote: The Boers not in uniform.]

It remains to notice certain definite circumstances which caused the British Army in South
Africa to be confronted by difficulties which no other army has been required to face. The
Boers were accorded all the privileges of a civilised army, although at the same time they
violated the most essential of the conditions upon the observance of which these privileges
are based. This condition is the wearing, by the forces of a belligerent, of such a uniform
and distinctive dress as will be sufficient to enable the other belligerent to discriminate
with facility between the combatant and non-combatant population of his enemy. The fact that
the burgher forces were not in uniform and were yet accorded the privileges claimed by civilised
troops, was in itself a circumstance that increased both the efforts required, and the losses
incurred, by the British Army to an extent which has not as yet been fully realised. In the
operations which Lord Roberts had conducted in Afghanistan it was not the organised army but
the tribesmen that had proved difficult to overcome. The Afghan army retreated, or, if it stood
its ground, was defeated. But the tribesmen who "sniped" the British troops from the mountain
slopes and from behind stones and rocks, who assembled from all sides as rapidly as they melted
away, constituted the real difficulty of the campaign. In South Africa the burgher forces were
army and tribesmen alike. Owing to the absence of any distinctive uniform the combatant Boers
mingled freely with the British soldiers, and went to and fro among the non-combatant Boer
population in the towns and districts occupied by the British. On one day they were in the
British camp as ox-drivers, or provision-sellers, or what not, and on the next they were in
the burgher fighting line. A single instance will serve to convey an impression of the complete
immunity with which not merely the rank and file, but commandants and generals, entered and
left the British lines. It is believed that on one night General Louis Botha slept in Johannesburg
close to Lord Roberts, the British Commander-in-Chief. The next morning he left the town in
company with some of the British troops. And in the Natal campaign it is notorious that the
camps of the Ladysmith relieving force were swarming with Boer spies whom it was impossible
to detect and punish. Even in the besieged town itself the utmost secrecy at headquarters did
not always avail to prevent a timely intimation of a contemplated attack from reaching the
enemy's lines. Add to this the fact that every Boer farmhouse throughout South Africa was an
Intelligence Depôt for the enemy, and it is easy to understand the facility displayed by the
mobile and ununiformed Boer forces in evading the British columns.

Whether the humanity displayed by the British Government in thus recognising the burghers as
regular belligerents, and in other respects, did not tend to bring about the very evil sought
to be avoided is another question. It is quite possible to maintain that the comparative immunity
from punishment and the disproportionate military success which the Boers enjoyed did in fact,
by contributing to the prolongation of the war, ultimately produce a greater loss of life,
and a greater amount of material suffering, than would have been incurred by the South African
Dutch if the war had been waged with greater severity on the part of Great Britain. That it
increased the cost of the war both in lives and in treasure to the British nation is obvious.
But this is a consideration which does not affect any estimate of the merit or demerit displayed
by the British Army in the field that may be formed either by British or foreign critics. In
order to prove competency it is not necessary to show that no single mistake was made or that
nothing that was done might not have been done better. No war department, no army ever has
been or ever will be created that could come scatheless from the application of such a test
of absolute efficiency. What we require to know is whether the same standard of efficiency
was shown to have been attained in the War Office and in the Army as is required and obtained
in any other branch of the public service, or in any successful or progressive undertaking
conducted by private enterprise. The circumstances of the war were abnormal. From one point
of view it was a civil war; from another it was a rebellion, and from a third it was a war
between two rival military powers, each of whom desired to become supreme in South Africa.
What the military critic has to consider is not so much how these circumstances arose, or whether
they could have been changed or avoided by any political action on the part of Great Britain,
but the degree in which the conditions imposed by them upon the British Army must be taken
into account in applying the ordinary tests of military efficiency to the work which it accomplished
in this particular campaign.

[Sidenote: Difficulties of the campaign.]

The nature of the difficulties presented by the vast extent of the theatre of war, the deficiency
of means of communication, the imperfect cultivation of the land, the sparseness of the population
and their hostility to the British, and the physical and climatic aspects of South Africa in
general, have been broadly indicated in the passages taken from Lord Roberts's despatches.
To pursue the inquiry further would be to travel beyond the scope of this work. That, however,
there is nothing unusual in the fact that civilian forces, inspired by love of country and
aided by physical conditions exceptionally favourable to themselves, should be able to offer
a successful resistance to professional soldiers may be seen by a reference to one of the little
wars of the seventeenth century. In the year 1690 twenty-two thousand French and Savoyard troops
were sent by Louis XIV. to storm the Balsille--a rocky eminence _mutatis mutandis_ the equivalent
of a South African kopje--held by 350 Piedmontese Vaudois. Even so the besieged patriots made
good their escape, and, owing to the sudden change in the politics of Europe brought about
by the accession of William of Orange to the crown of England, actually concluded an honourable
peace with their sovereign, Victor Amadeus of Savoy, a few days after they had been driven
from the Balsille. Assuming that the British troops employed from first to last in the South
African War were five times as numerous as the forces placed in the field by the Dutch nationalists--say
450,000 as against 90,000--we have here a numerical superiority which dwindles into insignificance
beside the magnificent disproportion of the professional troops required to deal with a civilian
force in this seventeenth-century struggle.[201]

         [Footnote 201: Any reader desiring to learn the particulars
         of this struggle is referred to the pages of the writer's
         _The Valley of Light: Studies with Pen and Pencil in the
         Vaudois Valleys of Piedmont_. (Macmillan, 1899). It may be
         added that Napoleon manifested a keen interest in the
         military details of the engagements between the French and
         Savoyard troops and the Vaudois. As regards the number of
         combatants on the Boer side. Lord Kitchener puts the total
         (from first to last) at 95,000 (Cd. 1790, p. 13). The
         _Official History_, however, gives, as the result of an
         elaborate calculation, 87,365 (Vol. I. App. 4).]

CHAPTER VIII

THE REBELLION IN THE CAPE COLONY

The direct share which Lord Milner took in the skilful disposition of the handful of British
troops available at the outbreak of the war for the defence of the north-eastern frontier of
the Cape Colony has been mentioned. The part which he played during the first period of the
war in his relationship to the military authorities is sufficiently indicated by the words
which appear in Lord Roberts's final despatch.

     "This despatch," writes the Commander-in-Chief on April 2nd,
     1901, "would be incomplete were I to omit to mention the benefit
     I have derived from the unfailing support and wise counsels of
     Sir Alfred Milner. I can only say here that I have felt it a high
     privilege to work in close communication with one whose courage
     never faltered however grave the responsibilities might be which
     surrounded him, and who, notwithstanding the absorbing cares of
     his office, seemed always able to find time for a helpful message
     or for the tactful solution of a difficult question."

That this is no conventional compliment, even in the mouth of so great a general as Lord Roberts,
will appear from the fact that on one occasion--to be presently noted--Lord Milner's judgment
did not entirely recommend itself at the moment to the Commander-in-Chief.

[Sidenote: An unnatural alliance.]

But such services, important as they were, are mere accidents in comparison with the volume
of continuous and concentrated effort required to keep the machinery of administration available
for the Imperial Government in a colony in which not merely the majority of the inhabitants,
but the majority of the members of the Legislative Assembly, and half of the ministers of the
Crown, were in more or less complete sympathy with the enemy. The Boer ultimatum, by making
it impossible for the British Government to be any longer cajoled into an elusory settlement
by Boer diplomacy, had relieved Lord Milner of a load of anxiety, and closed a period of unparalleled
physical and mental strain. But it by no means brought Lord Milner's task to an end. The open
rebellion of the Dutch subjects of the Crown, considerable alike in point of numbers and area,
was not the most dangerous aspect of the state of utter disaffection, or rather demoralisation,
to which the Cape Colony had been reduced by twenty years of Dutch ascendancy and nationalist
propaganda. Just as before the ultimatum it was the influence, exercised by constitutional
means, and ostensibly in the interests of the Imperial Government, over the Republics that
brought the Salisbury Cabinet within measurable distance of diplomatic defeat; so, during the
war, what was done and said by the Afrikander nationalists within the letter of the law constituted
in fact the most formidable obstacle to the success of the British arms. If the Dutch in the
Cape Colony had been left to themselves, their efforts to encourage the resistance of the Boers,
in view of the rapid and effective blows struck by Lord Roberts, would probably have been without
result. But unhappily their efforts stimulated the traditional sympathisers of the Boers in
England to fresh action; and they were themselves stimulated in turn by the excesses of the
party opposition which sprang into life again directly Lord Roberts's campaign had relieved
the British people from any fear of military humiliation. Just as in the period before the
war we found the Afrikander leaders striving to "mediate" between the Transvaal and the British
Government; so now during the war we find them striving to "conciliate" the two contending
parties. In both cases their aim was the same--to prevent the destruction of the Republics
and the consequent ruin of the nationalist cause. As in the former case "mediation" was a euphemism
for the diplomatic defeat of the British Government, so now "conciliation" is synonymous with
the restoration of the independence of the Boers--that is, the renunciation of all that the
British people, whether islander or colonist, had fought to secure. That any considerable body
of Englishmen should have allowed themselves to become a second time the dupes of so coarse
a political hypocrisy may well arouse surprise to-day; to a future generation it will seem
almost incredible. The fact, however, admits of neither doubt nor contradiction. It is writ
large in Hansard, in the Blue-books, and in the daily journals. The whole force of this strange
and unnatural alliance between England's most bitter and most skilful enemies in South Africa
and a section of her own sons at home, was directed against Lord Milner during the remaining
years of his High Commissionership.

[Sidenote: Mr Schreiners's attitude.]

For the moment, however, the ultimatum had rendered the British people practically unanimous
in the desire to chastise the insolence of the Boer, and, in the face of this determination,
no opposition was manifested by the Afrikander Government to the free movement and disembarkation
of the Imperial troops. The employment of the local forces in the defence of the colony was
another matter. The Free State commandos crossed the Orange River on October 31st, 1899. The
delay was not due to any regard felt by President Steyn for Mr. Schreiner, but solely to military
considerations. On the previous day General Joubert had shut up Sir George White's force in
Ladysmith; and there was, therefore, no longer any likelihood that these commandos would be
required in Natal. The invasion of the Colony south of the Orange River produced, as we have
noticed, a marked change in Mr. Schreiner's attitude; causing him finally to abandon the neutrality
policy and recognise the necessity of employing the local volunteer forces in the defence of
the Colony. None the less the injury inflicted upon British interests by the Prime Minister's
attempt to keep the people of the Cape Colony out of the conflict was unquestionable. The ministers
of the Crown in this British Colony had allowed arms and ammunition to go through to the Free
State, until the Imperial authorities had interfered; they had refused to supply Mafeking and
Kimberley with much-needed artillery; they had refused to call out the volunteers until the
Colony was about to be invaded by the Free State as well as by the Transvaal, and even then
they had delayed to supply these forces with Lee-Enfield rifles. These were injuries the effect
of which could not be repaired by any subsequent co-operation with the representatives of the
British Government. In addition to calling out the volunteers, Mr. Schreiner allowed the Imperial
military authorities to take over the Cape Government railways, and he consented to the proclamation
of martial law in those districts of the Colony in which the Dutch were in rebellion. But he
was far from yielding, even now, that full and complete assistance to the Governor which would
have been expected, as a matter of course, from the Prime Minister of any other British colony.
On one occasion, at least, during this period the conflict between his views and those of Lord
Milner became so acute that his resignation seemed to be inevitable. But this was not to be
the end of the Afrikander Ministry. In proportion as Mr. Schreiner approached gradually to
agreement with Lord Milner, so did he incur the displeasure of Mr. Hofmeyr and the Dutch, until
(in June, 1901) the Ministry perished of internal dissension.

A week after Lord Roberts reached Capetown (January 10th, 1900), Lord Milner sent home a despatch
in which he tells the story of the rebellion in the Cape Colony. The state of the districts
on the western border of the Republics, north of the Orange River, is described in the words
of a reliable and unbiassed witness who has just arrived at Capetown from Vryburg, where he
has been lately resident:

     "All the farmers in the Vryburg, Kuruman, and Taungs districts,"
     says this witness, "have joined the Boers, and I do not believe
     that you will find ten loyal British subjects among the Dutch
     community in the whole of Bechuanaland. The Field Cornets and
     Justices of the Peace on the Dutch side have all joined ... the
     conduct of the rebels has been unbearable."

Of the position of that part of the Eastern Province of the Cape Colony which, lying to the
south of the Free State, formed the main seat of the rebellion, Lord Milner himself writes:

[Sidenote: Treatment of loyalists.]

     "Within a space of less than three weeks from the occupation of
     Colesberg, no less than five great districts--those of Colesberg,
     Albert, Aliwal North, Barkly East, and Wodehouse--had gone over
     without hesitation, and, so to speak, bodily, to the enemy.
     Throughout that region the Landdrosts of the Orange Free State
     had established their authority, and everywhere, in the
     expressive words of a magistrate, British loyalists were "being
     hunted out of town after town like sheep." In the invaded
     districts the method of occupation has always been more or less
     the same. The procedure is as follows:--A commando enters, the
     Orange Free State flag is hoisted, a meeting is held in the
     courthouse, or market-place, and a Proclamation is read annexing
     the district. The Commandant then makes a speech, in which he
     explains that the people must now obey the Free State laws
     generally, though they are at present under martial law. A local
     Landdrost is appointed, and loyal subjects are given a few days
     or hours in which to quit, or be compelled to serve against their
     country. In either case they lose their property to a greater or
     less extent. If they elect to quit they are often robbed before
     starting or on the journey; if they stay their property and
     themselves are commandeered.

     "The number of rebels who have actually taken up arms and joined
     the enemy during their progress throughout the five annexed
     districts can for the present only be matter of conjecture. I
     shall, however, be on the safe side in reckoning that during
     November it was a number not less than the total of the invading
     commandos, that is, 2,000, while it is probable that of the
     invading commandos themselves a certain proportion were colonists
     who had crossed the border before the invasion took place. And
     the number, whatever it was, which joined the enemy before and
     during November has been increased since. A well-informed refugee
     from the Albert district has estimated the total number of
     colonial Boers who have joined the enemy in the invaded
     districts south of the Orange River at 3,000 to 4,000. In the
     districts north of that river, to which I referred at the
     beginning of this despatch, the number can hardly be less. Adding
     to these the men who became burghers of the Transvaal immediately
     before, or just after, the outbreak of war, with the view of
     taking up arms in the struggle, I am forced to the conclusion
     that, in round figures, not less than 10,000 of those now
     fighting against us in South Africa, and probably somewhat more,
     either are, or till quite recently were, subjects of the
     Queen."[202]

         [Footnote 202: Cd. 264 (Despatch of January 16th, 1900).]

As it turned out, this eastern rebellion was kept within limits by General French's advance
upon Colesberg, and by the skilful and successful cavalry operations which he subsequently
carried out upon the Free State border; but there is abundant evidence to support the belief
that any second reverse in the Eastern Province, such as that which General Gatacre suffered
at Stormberg, would have proved the signal for a rising in the Western Province. The Bond was
active; and the tone of the meetings held by the various branches throughout the Colony was
as frankly hostile to the Imperial Government as it was sympathetic to the Republics.

[Sidenote: State of western province.]

The extent to which Mr. Schreiner's qualified co-operation with the Imperial authorities had
aroused the hostility of the Bond will be seen from the minutes of the proceedings of the meeting
of the Cape Distriks-bestuur, held at the office of _Ons Land_ at the end of January (1900).
It was a small meeting, but among those present were Mr. Hofmeyr himself and Mr. Malan, the
editor of _Ons Land_. On the motion of the latter, it was unanimously determined that the forthcoming
Annual Congress of the Bond should be asked to pass a--

     "resolution (_a_) giving expression of Congress's entire
     disapproval of the policy which led to the present bloody war
     instead of to a peaceful solution of the differences with the
     South African Republic by means of arbitration; and (_b_) urging
     a speedy re-establishment of peace on fair and righteous
     conditions, as also a thorough inquiry by our Parliament into the
     way in which, during the war, private property, the civil
     liberties, and constitutional rights of the subject have been
     treated."[203]

         [Footnote 203: Cd. 261.]

Even more significant--as evidence of the dangerous feeling of exaltation which possessed the
Dutch at this time--was the New Year's exhortation of _Ons Land_, the journalistic mouthpiece
of Mr. Hofmeyr. And Mr. Hofmeyr, it must be remembered, was not only the head of the _Commissie
van Toezicht_, or Executive of three which controlled the Afrikander Bond, but the real master
of the majority in the Cape Parliament, upon which the Schreiner Cabinet depended for its existence.
After setting out the "mighty deeds" achieved by the Afrikander arms during the last three
months, this bitter and relentless opponent of British supremacy in South Africa proceeded
to declare that "still mightier deeds" were to be seen in the coming year (1900), and that
the Afrikander nation, so far from being extinguished by the conflict with Great Britain, would
be welded into one compact mass, and flourish more and more.

Nor was this all. In the closing days of the year (1899) information reached the British military
authorities that a plot was on foot to seize Capetown. The Dutch from the country districts
were to assemble in the capital in the guise of excursionists who had come to town to enjoy
the Christmas and New Year holidays. On New Year's Eve, the night reported to have been fixed
for the attempt, all the military stations in Capetown were kept in frequent communication
by telephone; the streets were paraded by pickets; and, in the drill-shed the Capetown Highlanders
slept under arms. Whether any attempt of the sort was seriously contemplated or not, there
is no question as to the fact that the utmost necessity for precaution was recognised by the
military authorities at Capetown during this period, in spite of the security afforded by the
reinforcements which the Home Government was pouring into the Colony. It was an old boast of
the militant Dutch in the Cape Colony that they would find a way to prevent British troops
from using the colonial railways to attack the Boers.[204] And when at length, a month after
Lord Roberts had arrived, the transport system had been reorganised, the troops concentrated
at De Aar and Modder River, and everything was ready for the forward movement, the most complete
secrecy was observed as to the departure of the Commander-in-Chief and Lord Kitchener. Instead
of leaving for the front with the final drafts from the Capetown station in Adderley Street,
amid the cheering of the British population, these two distinguished soldiers were driven in
a close carriage, on the evening of February 6th, from Government House to the Salt River Station,
where they caught the ordinary passenger train for De Aar.

         [Footnote 204: At the time of the Bechuanaland Expedition
         (1884-5), when the writer was in South Africa, "a controversy
         was seriously maintained between the two moderate Afrikander
         journals, the _Sud Africaan_ and the _Volksblad_, on the
         question whether the Imperial Government had, or had not, the
         right to send troops through the Colony, without the consent
         of the Colonial Ministry. In commenting upon this question a
         correspondent wrote in the _Patriot_, the extreme organ of
         the Afrikanders: 'I believe the _Volksblad_ is correct in
         maintaining that England has that right. But if England has
         the right to send _Rooibaatjes_ (_i.e._ British soldiers) to
         kill my brethren in the Transvaal, then I have also the right
         to try and prevent the same. My brother is nearer than
         England. England can send troops, but whether they will all
         arrive safely in Stellaland--that stands to be seen.'"--_A
         History of South Africa_, by the writer. (Dent, 1900.)]

[Sidenote: Lord Robert's advance.]

No one was more aware of the reality of the Dutch disaffection in the Colony than Lord Milner.
Before Lord Roberts left Capetown for the front he addressed a memorandum to him, in which
the attention of the Commander-in-Chief was drawn to certain special elements of danger in
the whole situation in South Africa as affected by the rebellion of the Dutch in the Cape Colony.
With reference to this memorandum Lord Roberts writes, in the second of his despatches (February
16th, 1900):

     "Before quitting the seat of Government I received a memorandum
     from the High Commissioner, in which Sir Alfred Milner reviewed
     the political and military situation, and laid stress on the
     possibility of a general rising among the disaffected Dutch
     population, should the Cape Colony be denuded of troops for the
     purpose of carrying on offensive operations in the Orange Free
     State. In reply I expressed the opinion that the military
     requirements of the case demanded an early advance into the
     enemy's country; that such an advance, if successful, would
     lessen the hostile pressure both on the northern frontiers of the
     Colony and in Natal; that the relief of Kimberley had to be
     effected before the end of February, and would set free most of
     the troops encamped on the Modder River, and that the arrival of
     considerable reinforcements from home, especially of Field
     Artillery, by the 19th of February, would enable those points
     along the frontier which were weakly held to be materially
     strengthened. I trusted, therefore, that His Excellency's
     apprehensions would prove groundless. No doubt a certain amount
     of risk had to be run, but protracted inaction seemed to me to
     involve more serious dangers than the bolder course which I have
     decided to adopt."

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's proposal.]

There cannot, of course, be any question as to the general wisdom of this decision. Both in
this case, and again in deciding to advance from Bloemfontein upon Johannesburg and Pretoria,
it was just by taking his risks--risks that would have reduced a lesser man to inaction--that
Lord Roberts displayed the distinguishing quality of a great captain of war. In both cases
the best defence was to attack. But as Lord Roberts, in this brief reference, does not indicate
the real point of the High Commissioner's representations, it is necessary to state with some
precision what it was that Lord Milner had actually in his mind. The last thing which occurred
to him was to advocate any course that could weaken our offensive action. But the peculiarity
of the South African political situation, which enabled even a defeated enemy, by detaching
a very small force, to raise a new war in our rear, in what was nominally our country, and
thus to hamper, and possibly altogether arrest, the forward movement, was constantly present
to his thought. The proposal which Lord Milner desired Lord Roberts to adopt was that a certain
minimum of mobile troops should be definitely set aside for the defence of the Colony, and
kept there, whatever happened; since, in Lord Milner's opinion, it was only in this way that
a real and effective form of defence could be made possible, and the number of men locked up
in the passive defence of the railway lines greatly reduced. If this suggestion had been carried
out, as Lord Milner intended, there would have been no second rebellion. What prevented Lord
Roberts from adopting the High Commissioner's suggestion was the numerical insufficiency of
the troops at his disposal. In order to carry the war into the enemy's country, he had practically
to denude the Cape Colony of troops. The subsequent course of the war will reveal the direct
and disastrous influence which the situation in the Cape Colony was destined to exercise upon
the military decisions of the republican leaders--an influence which would have been lessened
materially, if not altogether removed, by the creation of this permanent and mobile force.
And, in point of fact, Lord Milner's apprehension that the rebellion might even now interfere
with the success of the forward movement, unless adequate provision was made to keep it in
check, received almost immediate confirmation. While Lord Roberts was engaged in the capture
of Cronje's force at Paardeberg, the north-midland districts of Prieska, Britstown, and Carnarvon,
lying to the west of the railway from De Aar to Orange River, broke out into rebellion. Although
Lord Roberts at once directed certain columns to concentrate upon this new area of disaffection,
the situation had become so serious that on March 8th--_i.e._, the day after Poplar Grove,
and in the course of the rapid march upon Bloemfontein--Lord Roberts--

     "desired Major-General Lord Kitchener to proceed to De Aar with
     the object of collecting reinforcements, and of taking such steps
     as might be necessary to punish the rebels and to prevent the
     spread of disaffection."[205]

         [Footnote 205: Despatch dated "Government House,
         Bloemfontein, March 15th, 1900."]

That is to say, the disclosure of a new centre of active rebellion in the Colony deprived the
Commander-in-Chief of the services of Lord Kitchener, his Chief-of-Staff, when he was in the
act of executing one of the most critical movements of the campaign.

[Sidenote: The Boer peace overtures.]

The complete revolution in the military situation produced by Lord Roberts's victorious advance
into the Free State elicited from Presidents Krüger and Steyn the "peace overtures" cabled
to Lord Salisbury on March 5th, 1900. In this characteristic document the two Presidents remark
that--

     "they consider it [their] duty solemnly to declare that this war
     was undertaken solely as a defensive measure to safeguard the
     threatened independence of the South African Republic, and is
     only continued in order to secure and safeguard the incontestable
     independence of both Republics as sovereign international states,
     and to obtain the assurance that those of Her Majesty's subjects
     who have taken part with [them] in this war shall suffer no harm
     whatever in person or property."

They further declare that "on these conditions, but on these conditions alone," they are now,
as in the past, desirous of seeing peace re-established in South Africa; and they add considerately
that they have refrained from making this declaration "so long as the advantage was always
on their side," from a fear lest it "might hurt the feelings of honour of the British people."
They conclude:

     "But now that the prestige of the British Empire may be
     considered to be assured by the capture of one of our forces by
     Her Majesty's troops, and that we are thereby forced to evacuate
     other positions which our forces had occupied, that difficulty is
     over, and we can no longer hesitate clearly to inform your
     Government and people, in the sight of the whole civilised world,
     why we are fighting, and on what conditions we are ready to
     restore peace."[206]

         [Footnote 206: Cd. 35.]

The best comment upon this grossly disingenuous document is that which is afforded by certain
passages in Mr. Reitz's book, _A Century of Wrong_, which was written in anticipation of the
outbreak of war and issued so soon as this anticipation had been realised:

     "The struggle of now nearly a century," he writes in his appeal
     to his brother Afrikanders, "hastens to an end; we are
     approaching the last act in that great drama which is so
     momentous for all South Africa.... The questions which present
     themselves for solution in the approaching conflict have their
     origin deep in the history of the past.... By its light we are
     more clearly enabled to comprehend the truth to which our people
     appeal as a final justification for embarking on the war now so
     close at hand.... May the hope which glowed in our hearts during
     1880, and which buoyed us up during that struggle, burn on
     steadily! May it prove a beacon of light in our path, invincibly
     moving onwards through blood and through tears, until it leads us
     to a real union of South Africa.... Whether the result be victory
     or death, Liberty will assuredly rise on South Africa ... just as
     freedom dawned over the United States of America a little more
     than a century ago. Then from Zambesi to Simon's Town it will be
     Africa for the Afrikander."[207]

         [Footnote 207: Mr. Reitz's work was translated into English
         by Mr. W. T. Stead.]

And to this may be added the following extract from a letter written by "one of the distinguished
members of the Volksraad" who voted for war against Great Britain, to one of his friends, a
member of the Legislative Assembly of the Cape Colony:

     "Our plan is, with God's help, to take all that is English in
     South Africa; so, in case you true Afrikanders wish to throw off
     the English yoke, now is the time to hoist the Vier-kleur in
     Capetown. You can rely on us; we will push through from sea to
     sea, and wave one flag over the whole of South Africa, under one
     Afrikander Government, if we can reckon on our Afrikander
     brethren."[208]

         [Footnote 208: Cd. 109.]

[Sidenote: The British reply.]

Lord Salisbury's reply, sent from the Foreign Office on March 11th, is as follows:

     "I have the honour to acknowledge Your Honours' telegram dated
     the 5th of March, from Bloemfontein, of which the purport is
     principally to demand that Her Majesty's Government shall
     recognise the 'incontestable independence' of the South African
     Republic and Orange Free State 'as sovereign international
     states,' and to offer, on those terms, to bring the war to a
     conclusion.

     "In the beginning of October last peace existed between Her
     Majesty and the two Republics under the Conventions which then
     were in existence. A discussion had been proceeding for some
     months between Her Majesty's Government and the South African
     Republic, of which the object was to obtain redress for certain
     very serious grievances under which British residents in the
     South African Republic were suffering. In the course of these
     negotiations the South African Republic had, to the knowledge of
     Her Majesty's Government, made considerable armaments, and the
     latter had, consequently, taken steps to provide corresponding
     reinforcements to the British garrisons of Capetown and Natal. No
     infringement of the rights guaranteed by the Conventions had up
     to that point taken place on the British side. Suddenly, at two
     days' notice, the South African Republic, after issuing an
     insulting ultimatum, declared war upon Her Majesty, and the
     Orange Free State, with whom there had not even been any
     discussion, took a similar step. Her Majesty's dominions were
     immediately invaded by the two Republics, siege was laid to three
     towns within the British frontier, a large portion of the two
     colonies was overrun, with great destruction to property and
     life, and the Republics claimed to treat the inhabitants of
     extensive portions of Her Majesty's dominions as if those
     dominions had been annexed to one or other of them. In
     anticipation of these operations, the South African Republic had
     been accumulating for many years past military stores on an
     enormous scale, which by their character could only have been
     intended for use against Great Britain.

     "Your Honours make some observations of a negative character upon
     the object with which these preparations were made. I do not
     think it necessary to discuss the questions you have raised. But
     the result of these preparations, carried on with great secrecy,
     has been that the British Empire has been compelled to confront
     an invasion which has entailed upon the Empire a costly war and
     the loss of thousands of precious lives. This great calamity has
     been the penalty which Great Britain has suffered for having in
     recent years acquiesced in the existence of the two Republics.

     "In view of the use to which the two Republics have put the
     position which was given to them, and the calamities which their
     unprovoked attack has inflicted upon Her Majesty's dominions, Her
     Majesty's Government can only answer your Honours' telegram by
     saying that they are not prepared to assent to the independence
     either of the South African Republic or of the Orange Free
     State."

[Sidenote: Conventions to be annulled.]

This reply has been cited at length for two reasons. In the first place it affords a concise
and weighty statement of the British case against the Republics, and, in the second, it contains
a specific and reasoned declaration of the central decision of the Salisbury Cabinet, against
which the efforts both of the Dutch party in the Cape and of the friends of the Boers in England
continued to be directed, until the controversy was closed by the surrender of the republican
leaders at Vereeniging. In the Cape Colony the cry of "conciliation" was raised to cloak the
gross appearance of a movement which was, in fact, a direct co-operation with the enemy. And
the same specious word was adopted in England, so soon as the strain of the war had begun to
make itself felt in the constituencies, as a decent flag under which the party opponents of
the Unionist Government in general could join forces with the traditional friends of the Boers
and other convinced opponents of Imperial consolidation. The decision of the Salisbury Cabinet
not to restore the system of the Conventions, which was in fact the decision of the great mass
of the British people both at home and over-sea, was not reversed. It was confirmed in the
House of Commons by 208 votes against 52 on July 25th, 1900, and by the verdict of the country
in the General Election which followed.[209] But the political agitation by which it was sought
to reverse this decision was none the less injurious alike to the Boer and British peoples,
since it acted as a powerful incentive to the republican leaders to continued struggle which,
except for the illusions created by this agitation, they would have recognised as hopeless
in itself and unjustified by any prospect of military success. In both cases the effect of
the agitation was the same: the war was unnecessarily prolonged--intentionally by the Afrikander
nationalists, and unintentionally by Lord (then Mr.) Courtney, Mr. Morley, Mr. Bryce, and other
opponents in England of the annexation of the Republics.

         [Footnote 209: The Unionist party was returned to power with
         a slightly decreased majority--130 as against 150. But this
         loss of seats was counterbalanced by the consideration that
         it is unusual for the same Government to be entrusted with a
         second period of office by a democratic electorate.]

[Sidenote: The 'Conciliation' movement.]

The Presidents had demanded the recognition of the independence of the Republics and a free
pardon for the Cape rebels as the price of peace. The Afrikander nationalists at once began
to co-operate with the Republics in the endeavour to wrest these terms from the British Government.
Mr. Schreiner, as we have seen, had already incurred Mr. Hofmeyr's displeasure by allowing
the Cape Government to render assistance to the Imperial authorities in the prosecution of
the war. The breach thus created between the Prime Minister and Sir Richard (then Mr.) Solomon,
on the one hand, and Dr. Te Water, Mr. Merriman, and Mr. Sauer, who shared the views of the
Bond, on the other, was, rapidly widened by the "conciliation" meetings held throughout the
Colony by the Afrikander nationalists in support of the "peace overtures" of the Presidents.
The British population at the Cape was quick to realise the insidious and fatal character of
the "conciliation" movement thus inaugurated by the Afrikander nationalists. The universal
alarm and indignation to which it gave rise among the loyalists of both nationalities found
expression in the impassioned speech which Sir James (then Mr.) Rose Innes delivered at the
Municipal Hall of Claremont[210] on March 30th, 1900. The purpose of the meeting was to allow
the British subjects thus assembled to record their approval of Lord Salisbury's reply to the
Republics, and their conviction that "the incorporation of these States within the dominions
of the Queen could alone secure peace, prosperity, and public freedom throughout South Africa."
In supporting this resolution, Sir James Rose Innes said:

         [Footnote 210: A suburb of Capetown.]

     "This question of permanent peace is the key-stone of the whole
     matter, because, I take it, we none of us want to see another war
     of this kind. We do not want to see the misery and the suffering
     and the loss which a war of this kind entails. We do not want to
     see our sandy plains drenched with the best blood of England
     again, fighting against white men in this country. We do not want
     to see the flower of colonial manhood shot down on the plains of
     the Orange Free State and the Karroo, and neither do we want to
     see brave men, born in South Africa, dying in heaps, dying for
     what we know is a hopeless ideal. Therefore we say, 'In Heaven's
     name give us peace! Have a settlement, but make no settlement
     which shall not be calculated, as far as human foresight can
     provide, to secure a permanent peace.'"

These were strong words, and their significance was heightened by the well-known independence
of Sir James Innes's political outlook.

[Sidenote: Lord Milner at Bloemfontein.]

A fortnight later Lord Milner declared his mind on the same question. Both the occasion and
the speech are of special interest. The High Commissioner had just returned from a fortnight
at the front. On March 19th he left Capetown in company with Sir Richard Solomon for the north-eastern
districts of the Colony, which, having rebelled in November, had just been reduced to order
by General Brabant and the "Colonial Division," when the Free State invaders had been drawn
off by Lord Roberts's advance. After a week in the Colony, Lord Milner travelled on by rail
to Bloemfontein, which he reached on the 27th. It was a stimulating and suggestive moment.
He was now the guest of the British Commander-in-Chief at the Presidency, where, just ten months
ago, as the guest of President Steyn, he had met Paul Krüger for the first time. The little
Free State capital, then wrapped in its accustomed quietude, was now filled with the tumultuous
presence of a great army. But, complete as was the revolution accomplished by Lord Roberts's
advance, there were signs that the Boer was dying hard, even if he were not coming to life
again. On the 30th a disquieting engagement was fought at Karree Siding, and on the 31st de
Wet dealt his second shrewd blow at Sannah's Post.

With this experience of the actualities of war, Lord Milner, leaving Bloemfontein on April
2nd, had returned to Capetown. On the 12th he was presented with an appreciative address, signed
by all, except one, of the Nonconformist ministers of religion resident in and around Capetown,
in which personal affection for himself and approval of his policy were expressed. The action
of these men was altogether exceptional. It was justified by the circumstance that in England
Lord Milner's policy had been subjected to the bitterest criticism in quarters where Nonconformist
influence was predominant. Not only to Lord Courtney, but to other Liberal friends and associates,
the High Commissioner had become a "lost mind." To the Afrikander nationalists he was "the
enemy"; the efforts which had barely sufficed to keep the administrative machinery of a British
colony at the disposal of the Imperial Government were represented as the unconstitutional
acts of a tyrannical proconsul; having ruthlessly exposed the aspirations of the Afrikander
nationalists he was now to become the destroyer of the Boer nation. The personal note in the
address was, therefore, both instructive and welcome, and it elicited a response in which the
charm of a calm and generous nature shines through an unalterable determination to know and
do the right:

     "As regards myself personally, I cannot but feel it is a great
     source of strength at a trying time to be assured of the
     confidence and approval of the men I see before me, and of all
     whom they represent. You refer to my having to encounter
     misrepresentation and antagonism. I do not wish to make too much
     of that. I have no doubt been exposed to much criticism and some
     abuse. There has, I sometimes think, been an exceptional display
     of mendacity at my expense. But this is the fate of every public
     man who is forced by circumstances into a somewhat prominent
     position in a great crisis. And, after all, praise and blame have
     a wonderful way of balancing one another if you only give them
     time.

     "I remember when I left England for South Africa three years ago,
     it was amidst a chorus of eulogy so excessive that it made me
     feel thoroughly uncomfortable. To protest would have been
     useless: it would only have looked like affectation. So I just
     placed the surplus praise to my credit, so to speak, as something
     to live on in the days which I surely knew must come sooner or
     later, if I did my duty, when I would meet with undeserved
     censure. And certainly I have had to draw on that account rather
     heavily during the last nine months. But there is still a balance
     on the right side which, thanks to you and others, is now once
     more increasing. So I cannot pose as a martyr, and, what is more
     important, I cannot complain of any want of support. No man,
     placed as I have been in a position of singular embarrassment,
     exposed to bitter attacks to which he could not reply, and unable
     to explain his conduct even to his own friends, has ever had more
     compensation to be thankful for than I have had in the constant,
     devoted, forbearing support and confidence of all those South
     Africans, whether in this Colony, in Natal, or in the Republics,
     whose sympathy is with the British Empire.

[Sidenote: Never again.]

     "In the concluding paragraph of your address you refer in weighty
     and well-considered language to the conditions which you deem
     necessary for the future peace and prosperity of South Africa,
     and for the ultimate harmony and fusion of its white races. I can
     only say that I entirely agree with the views expressed in that
     paragraph. The longer the struggle lasts, the greater the
     sacrifices which it involves, the stronger must surely be the
     determination of all of us to achieve a settlement which will
     render the repetition of this terrible scourge impossible. 'Never
     again,' must be the motto of all thinking, of all humane men. It
     is for that reason, not from any lust of conquest, not from any
     desire to trample on a gallant, if misguided, enemy, that we
     desire that the settlement shall be no patchwork and no
     compromise; that it shall leave no room for misunderstanding, no
     opportunity for intrigue, for the revival of impossible
     ambitions, or the accumulation of enormous armaments. President
     Krüger has said that he wants no more Conventions, and I
     entirely agree with him. A compromise of that sort is unfair to
     everybody. If there is one thing of which, after recent
     experiences, I am absolutely convinced, it is that the vital
     interests of all those who live in South Africa, of our present
     enemies as much as of those who are on our side, demand that
     there should not be two dissimilar and antagonistic political
     systems in that which nature and history have irrevocably decided
     must be one country. To agree to a compromise which would leave
     any ambiguity on that point would not be magnanimity: it would be
     weakness, ingratitude, and cruelty--ingratitude to the heroic
     dead, and cruelty to the unborn generations.

     "But when I say that, do not think that I wish to join in the
     outcry, at present so prevalent, against the fine old virtue of
     magnanimity. I believe in it as much as ever I did, and there is
     plenty of room for it in the South Africa of to-day. We can show
     it by a frank recognition of what is great and admirable in the
     character of our enemies; by not maligning them as a body because
     of the sins of the few, or perhaps even of many, individuals. We
     can show it by not crowing excessively over our victories, and by
     not thinking evil of every one who, for one reason or another, is
     unable to join in our legitimate rejoicings. We can show it by
     striving to take care that our treatment of those who have been
     guilty of rebellion, while characterised by a just severity
     towards the really guilty parties, should be devoid of any spirit
     of vindictiveness, or of race-prejudice. We can show it, above
     all, when this dire struggle is over, by proving by our acts that
     they libelled us who said that we fought for gold or any material
     advantage, and that the rights and privileges which we have
     resolutely claimed for ourselves we are prepared freely to extend
     to others, even to those who have fought against us, whenever
     they are prepared loyally to accept them."[211]

         [Footnote 211: Cd. 261.]

It is the third of three critical utterances of which each is summarised, as it were, in a
single luminous phrase. To the Cape Dutch he spoke at Graaf Reinet, after their own manner:
"Of course you are loyal!" To England, on the Uitlander's behalf, he wrote: "The case for intervention
is overwhelming." And now he gathered the whole long lesson of the war into the two words,
"never again."

[Sidenote: British policy.]

A month later Mr. Chamberlain, speaking at Birmingham (May 11th), made a general statement
of the nature of the settlement upon which the British Government had determined. The separate
existence of the Republics, "constantly intriguing as they had done with foreign nations, constantly
promoting agitation and disaffection in our own colonies," was to be tolerated no longer; but
the "individual liberties" of the Boers were to be preserved. After the war was over a period
of Crown Colony government would be necessary; "but," he added, "as soon as it is safe and
possible it will be the desire and the intention of Her Majesty's Government to introduce these
States into the great circle of self-governing colonies." In making this pronouncement Mr.
Chamberlain referred in terms of just severity to the injurious influence which Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman,
as the official leader of the Liberal party, had exercised upon the diplomatic contest of the
preceding year. At the precise period when a word might have been worth anything to the cause
of peace, Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman, he said--

     "had again and again declaimed his own opinion that not only was
     war out of the question, but that military preparations of any
     kind were altogether unnecessary. I do not speak of the wisdom
     which dictated such an expression of opinion," Mr. Chamberlain
     continued, "although he repeated that statement three days before
     the ultimatum was delivered, and a week before the invasion of
     Natal took place. I do not speak, therefore, of his foresight.
     But what is to be said of the patriotism of a man who is not a
     single individual but who represents a great party by virtue of
     his position--although he does not represent it by virtue of his
     opinion--what is to be said of such a man who, at such a time,
     should countermine the endeavours for peace of Her Majesty's
     Government?"

And in the same speech Mr. Chamberlain warned his fellow-countrymen "against the efforts which
would be made by the politicians to snatch from them the fruits of a victory which would be
won by their soldiers; and in particular against the campaign of misrepresentation which had
been commenced already by Mr. Paul, the Stop-the-War Committee, and the other bodies which
were so lavish with what they were pleased to call their 'accurate information.'"

[Sidenote: Sir H. Campbell-Bannerman.]

Had Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman seen fit to profit by the experience of the past, the whole
of the suffering and loss of the next year and a half of wanton hostilities, in all human probability,
would have been avoided. But Mr. Chamberlain's rebuke was disregarded. The senseless and unnatural
alliance between the Afrikander nationalists and the Liberal Opposition was renewed. It is
quite true that the official leader of the Opposition, in speaking at Glasgow on June 7th,
two days after Lord Roberts had occupied Pretoria, declared that, in respect of the settlement,
"one broad principle" must be laid down--

     "the British Imperial power, which has hitherto been supreme in
     effect in South Africa, must in future be supreme in form as well
     as in effect, and this naturally carries with it the point which
     is sometimes put in the foreground, namely, that there must be no
     possibility that any such outbreak of hostilities as we have been
     witnessing shall again occur.... The two conquered States must,
     in some form or under some condition, become States of the
     British Empire."

But when Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman proceeded to inform his audience how this was to be done,
he used expressions which not only robbed his original statement of all significance as an
indication of British unanimity, but conveyed a direct intimation to the Afrikander nationalists
that their endeavours to frustrate the declared objects of the Unionist Government would receive
the support and encouragement of the Opposition in England. His words were:

     "We need have no doubt how it is to be done. By applying our
     Liberal principles, the Liberal principles from which the
     strength of the Empire has been derived, and on which it depends.
     Let us apply our Liberal principles, and whether our party be in
     a majority, or in a minority, I think that it is well in our
     power to secure that these principles shall be applied. [The
     General Election was imminent.] Let us restore as early as
     possible, and let us maintain, those rights of self-government
     which give not only life and vigour, but contentment and loyalty
     to every colony which enjoys them...."

"Liberal principles," when applied to a given administrative problem, as Mr. Chamberlain took
occasion to point out (June 19th), meant, for practical purposes, the opinions which prominent
members of the Liberal party were known to hold upon the matter in question. Lord (then Mr.)
Courtney was for autonomy--"the re-establishment of the independence of the two Republics."
Mr. Bryce advocated "the establishment of two protected States, which would have a sham independence
of not much advantage to them for any practical or useful purpose, but very dangerous to us."
And then there was Mr. Morley. Now Mr. Morley, only a week before, at Oxford (June 10th), had
condemned not only the war, but by implication, the rejection of President Krüger's illusory
Franchise Bill.

[Sidenote: Mr. John Morley.]

     "I assert," said Mr. Morley, "that the evils which have resulted
     from the war immeasurably transcend the evils with which it was
     proposed to deal.... I abhor the whole transaction of the war. I
     think in many ways it is an irreparable situation. We have done
     a great wrong--a wrong of which I believe there is scarcely any
     Englishman living who will not bitterly repent."[212]

         [Footnote 212: Mr. Morley has the doubtful merit of
         consistency. As recently as April 27th, 1906, he alluded to
         the South African War as "that delusive and guilty war," in
         an address to the Eighty Club. According to _The Times_
         report this expression was received with cheers.]

With these words fresh in his memory, Mr. Chamberlain continued:

     "Is Mr. Morley a Liberal? I do not know in that case what would
     become of the new territories if his principles were applied. But
     this I do know--that in that case you would have immediately to
     get rid of Sir Alfred Milner, who is the one great official in
     South Africa who has shown from the first a true grasp of the
     situation; and you would have also to get rid of the Colonial
     Secretary, which would not, perhaps, matter."[213]

         [Footnote 213: It may perhaps be objected that some credit
         should have been allowed to Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman in
         view of the fact that a sum of £41,807,400 was voted in
         Committee of Supply in the House of Commons for military
         requirements, practically without discussion, within four and
         a half hours on June 19th, 1900. This objection is answered
         by the words used by the Duke of Devonshire on the same day:
         "I am afraid I must tell Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman that he
         is not likely to receive from us any recognition, either
         effusive or otherwise, of the patriotism of his party. It is
         quite true that, as he took credit to himself and his
         friends, they have not offered any opposition to our demands
         for supplies or to the military measures which it has been
         found necessary for the Government to take; but the reason
         for that prudent abstinence is not very far to seek. Sir
         Henry Campbell-Bannerman and his friends knew very well that
         any factious opposition to the granting of these supplies
         would have brought down upon them the almost unanimous
         condemnation of the whole people; and Sir Henry
         Campbell-Bannerman is much too shrewd and sensible a man to
         risk the danger of committing for his party an act of
         political suicide."--Address to Women's Liberal Unionist
         Association.]

And so in 1900--after the Raid, after the long diplomatic conflict, after the sudden revelation
of the military strength of the Republics, after the ambitions of the Afrikander nationalists
had been unmasked, and after the Dutch subjects of the Queen had risen in arms--the Liberal
friends of the South African Dutch set themselves to do again what they had done in 1880. Just
as then President Krüger wrote,[214] on behalf of himself and his Afrikander allies, to Lord
(then Mr.) Courtney: "The fall of Sir Bartle Frere ... will be useful.... We have done our
duty, and used all legitimate influence to cause the [Federation] proposals to fail"; so now
these Boer sympathisers prepared to work hand in hand with the Afrikander nationalists in their
endeavour to secure the "fall" of Lord Milner, and to cause the Annexation proposals to "fail."
Happily the analogy ends here. Upon the "anvil" of Lord Milner the "hammers" of the enemies
of the Empire were worn out--_Tritantur mallei, remanet incus_.

         [Footnote 214: June 26th, 1880, C. 2,655.]

CHAPTER IX

THE "CONCILIATION" MOVEMENT

The correspondence forwarded to the Colonial Office during the first half of the year 1900
by Lord Milner, and presented to the House of Commons in time for the Settlement debate of
July 25th, furnishes a complete record of the origin of the "conciliation" movement. The whole
of this interesting and significant collection of documents is worthy of attention; but all
that can be done here is to direct the notice of the reader to one or two of its more salient
features--features which illustrate the extraordinary condition of the Cape Colony, and explain
how the disaffection of the Dutch subjects of the Crown was to be first aggravated, and then
used as a means of saving the independence of the Republics. The position taken up by the Bond
at the end of January (1900) in view of Mr. Schreiner's gradual conversion to the side of the
Imperial Government, is sufficiently indicated in the resolution prepared for submission to
the annual Congress, to which reference has been already[215] made. It was, in effect, a condemnation
not only of the British Government, but of the Cape Government also, in so far as it had co-operated
with the Imperial authorities, and a determination to prevent the war from being carried to
a logical and successful conclusion by the incorporation of the Boer Republics into the system
of British South Africa. The annual Congress, at which these opinions were to be affirmed,
was announced to be held at Somerset East, on March 8th. Lord Milner, however, represented
to Mr. Schreiner that it was very undesirable that such a demonstration should take place;
and, through Mr. Schreiner's influence, the Congress was postponed. But the Prime Minister,
in undertaking to use his influence with the Bond to prevent a denunciation of the policy of
the Imperial Government at so critical a period, expressed the hope that the loyalists on their
side would refrain from any public demonstration of an opposite character.

         [Footnote 215: See p. 349.]

This abstinence from agitation, which was obviously desirable in the public interests at a
time of intense political excitement, by no means suited the leaders of the Bond. _Ons Land_,
in commenting upon the postponement of the Congress, incidentally reveals the real consideration
which made it worth while for the Bond to promote an agitation of this kind. The Bond organ
regrets that the Congress has been postponed. And why?

     "It is said that the [South African] League would have held a
     Congress had the Bond Congress been held. We have nothing to do
     with what the League does or does not do; as a matter of fact,
     its opinion has already been published in the Imperial
     Blue-books. We were of opinion that it would have been the duty
     of the Afrikander party to express itself at the Congress in
     unmistakable terms, and resolutely, in order thereby to maintain
     its true position and strengthen the hands of its friends in
     England who have courageously and with self-sacrifice striven for
     the good and just cause."[216]

         [Footnote 216: Cd. 261.]

This, then, was the real object of the agitation--to "strengthen the hands of the friends of
the Afrikander party in England." The writer of this article suggests, however, that there
is still a prospect that the "good cause" may be promoted, after all, in the way which he desires.

[Sidenote: Origin of the movement.]

This prospect was speedily realised. With characteristic astuteness, the Bond leaders discovered
a method by which their object could be achieved without exposing themselves to the reproach
of "stirring up strife." The meetings were to be held, not as Bond meetings, but as "conciliation"
meetings. The manner in which the machinery of the conciliation movement was originally set
in motion will appear from the following telegram, which President Krüger sent to President
Steyn, on January 20th--that is, a little more than a month before the Bond Congress was postponed:

     "A certain E. T. Hargrove, an English journalist, about whom Dr.
     Leyds formerly wrote that he had done much in Holland to work up
     the peace memorial to Queen Victoria, has come here, as he says,
     from Sauer and Merriman, who are ready to range themselves openly
     on our side, to make propaganda in the Cape Colony, provided an
     official declaration is given that the Republics only desire to
     secure complete independence. He wished that I should write a
     letter to Queen Victoria, but this I refused, and thought it
     desirable that I should write a letter to him personally, in
     which an answer is given to his question. He thinks that a great
     propaganda can be made in the Cape Colony, whereby influence can
     be brought to bear again on the English people and the world. I
     myself do not expect much result, but think that a letter can do
     good, and should be glad to have your opinion and observations as
     soon as possible."[217]

         [Footnote 217: Cd. 261.]

This telegram, one of the many documents found at Bloemfontein upon its occupation by Lord
Roberts, is supplemented by the further facts disclosed by the investigations of the Concessions
Commission, that a sum of £1,000 was advanced to Mr. Hargrove by the manager of the Netherlands
Railway on February 3rd, 1900, and that this loan, paid in specie, was "debited to the account
'Political Situation,' to be hereafter arranged with the Government." The purposes for which
Mr. Hargrove secured this large sum are stated in the following question and answer:

[Sidenote: Mr. Hargrove's £1,000.]

     Q. 591. "Did he ask for money to carry out this object [_i.e._ to
     stop the war on the assurance that the Boers wanted nothing more
     than their independence]?"

     MR. J. VAN KRETSCHMAR, General Manager of the Netherlands South
     African Railway Company: "Yes; he said he had travelling expenses
     to defray, a lot of publications to issue, and books to be
     written, and he asked for money for these purposes."[218]

         [Footnote 218: Cd. 624. The memorandum also noted that the
         £1,000 was "paid at request of F. W. Reitz" (the State
         Secretary). In the Concessions Commission the following
         letter is published:

                         "GOVERNMENT OFFICES, PRETORIA.
                              _7 April, 1899._

         TO VAN KRETSCHMAR VAN VEEN, ESQ.,
         DIRECTOR OF THE N.Z.A. RY. CO.

         HON'D. SIR,--With reference to a letter of his Excellency the
         Ambassador, dated 23 March last, with reference to Mr.
         Statham and the latter's request for an assistance of £300
         for furniture and such like, I have the honour to inform you
         confidentially that the Executive Council has resolved to
         grant this gentleman Statham an amount of £150. As, according
         to previous agreement, a yearly allowance is paid to Mr.
         Statham by your Company, I have the honour to request you
         kindly to pay out to the said Mr. Statham the sum granted
         him. His Excellency the Ambassador is likewise being informed
         of this decision of the Executive Council.--I have, etc.,

                                   J. W. REITZ, _State Secretary_."
         (Q. 608.)

         Mr. Statham is understood to have been a frequent contributor
         to those Liberal journals which sympathised with the Boer
         cause. His allowance, however, had ceased before the war
         broke out.]

Three months later President Krüger's telegram was laid before the two ministers whose names
it contained by Mr. Schreiner, at Lord Milner's request, in order that they might have an opportunity
of "repudiating or explaining the allegations affecting themselves which it contained." Both
Mr. Merriman and Mr. Sauer denied that Mr. Hargrove had received any authority from them to
use their names "in the manner which he appeared to have done." And on April 19th Mr. Merriman
himself wrote to Mr. Hargrove to ask for an explanation. To this letter Mr. Hargrove replied
immediately:

     "This is not an answer to your note of this date, but is to ask
     you to allow me to show your note to a friend of yours and of
     mine. As it is marked 'private' I cannot do this until I hear
     from you. Would you be so good as to send word by the driver of
     the cab which waits?..."

In a second letter, written on the same day (April 19th), and presumably after he had consulted
the mutual friend in question, Mr. Hargrove wrote:

     "Knowing as you do that I never told you of my proposed trip to
     Pretoria, that I never talked the matter over with you in any
     shape or form, you may be sure that when I got there I did not
     speak or make promises in your behalf. But I did mention your
     name in this way: I told President Krüger of a conversation I had
     had with Mr. Sauer, in which I had asked him what his attitude
     would be in the event of the Republics offering to withdraw their
     forces from colonial territory on the condition that their
     independence would be recognised. Mr. Sauer's reply was that, in
     those circumstances he would, in his personal capacity, most
     certainly urge the acceptance of that offer, and that, although
     he could speak for himself only, he thought it probable you would
     do the same."

Mr. Hargrove adds that the "misconception" embodied in President Krüger's telegram is due to
the circumstance that it was probably "dictated in a hurry, amidst a rush of other business,"
and contained a "hasty and more or less careless account" of a "long talk" translated to the
President by Mr. Reitz from English into Dutch.

Mr. Hargrove at the same time forwarded a copy of this letter to Mr. Sauer. With this latter
minister of the Crown he enjoyed a more intimate acquaintance, since, as Lord Milner points
out,[219] he had been Mr. Sauer's travelling companion during this latter's "well-meant, but
unsuccessful, journey to Wodehouse, which was immediately followed by the rebellion of that
district."

         [Footnote 219: In his covering despatch, Cd. 261, p. 126. For
         the circumstances of Mr. Sauer's visit to Dordrecht on the
         occasion mentioned see note, p. 287.]

[Sidenote: The Graaf Reinet congress.]

This, then, was the character of the man who travelled throughout the Colony, addressing meetings
of the Dutch population, in order that "the hands of the friends of the Afrikander party in
England might be strengthened." At the People's Congress, held at Graaf Reinet (May 30th) he
rose to his full stature. "The worst foes of the British Empire," he said,[220] "were not the
Boers, but those who had set up the howl for annexation." And he concluded by urging his audience
to renew their hopes, for he believed that "if they did everything in their power to show what
was right they would win in the end." On the following day Mr. Hargrove was asked, in the name
of the Congress, to continue his agitation in England. The Congress, however, did not propose
to rely exclusively upon Mr. Hargrove's efforts. It resolved to send a deputation of Cape colonists
"to tell the simple truth as they know it" to the people of Great Britain and Ireland.

         [Footnote 220: As reported in _The Cape Times_, Cd. 261.]

There is one other fact which is disclosed by this official correspondence from the High Commissioner
to the Secretary of State which cannot be overlooked. Mr. Merriman and Mr. Sauer both repudiated
absolutely President Krüger's statement that Mr. Hargrove "had come here [_i.e._ to Pretoria],
as he says, from Sauer and Merriman." In view of this repudiation, it is somewhat startling
to find that the letters covering the minutes of the conciliation meetings, forwarded to Lord
Milner from time to time with the request that they may be sent on to the Colonial Office,
bear the signature of Mr. Albert Cartwright, as honorary secretary of the Conciliation Committee
of South Africa. Mr. Albert Cartwright was editor of _The South African News_--that is to say,
of the journal which, as we have noticed before, served as the medium for the expression of
the political views of Mr. Merriman and Mr. Sauer. At the period in question _The South African
News_ rendered itself notorious by circulating the absurd, but none the less injurious, report
that General Buller and his army had surrendered to the Boers in Natal and agreed to return
to England on parole; by publishing stories of imaginary Boer victories; by eulogising Mr.
Hargrove, whose acceptance of the £1,000 from the Netherlands Railway it definitely denied;
and by its persistent and vehement denunciations of Lord Milner. At a later period Mr. Cartwright
was convicted of a defamatory libel on Lord Kitchener, and condemned to a term of imprisonment.[221]

         [Footnote 221: See p. 477.]

[Sidenote: Mischievous effects.]

The situation thus brought about is described by Lord Milner in a passage in the despatch[222]
which covers the transmission of the newspaper report of the People's Congress at Graaf Reinet.
After stating that in return for Mr. Schreiner's efforts to secure the postponement of the
Bond Congress, he had himself persuaded the leaders of the Progressive party to abstain from
any public demonstration of their opinions, he writes:

         [Footnote 222: Cd. 261, despatch of June 6th, 1900.]

     "There was a truce of God on both sides. Then came the
     'conciliation' movement, and the country was stirred from end to
     end by a series of meetings much more violent and mischievous
     than the regular Bond Congress would have been, though, of
     course, on the same lines. The truce being thus broken, it would
     have been useless--and, as a matter of fact, I did not
     attempt--to restrain an expression of opinion on the other side.
     Hence the long series of meetings held in British centres to
     pronounce in favour of the annexation of both Republics, and to
     give cordial support to the policy of Her Majesty's Government
     and myself personally. On the whole, the utterances at these
     meetings have been marked by a moderation totally absent in the
     tone of the conciliators. But no doubt a certain number of
     violent things have been said, and a certain amount of
     unnecessary heat generated. I do not think, however, that those
     [the loyalists] who have held these meetings, under extraordinary
     provocation, are greatly to blame if this has occasionally been
     the case."

That the "conciliation" movement exercised a most injurious influence in a colony of which
a considerable area was in rebellion or under martial law, and where the majority of the inhabitants
were in sympathy with the enemy is obvious. But from the point of view of the Afrikander nationalists
it was an intelligible and effective method of promoting the objects which they had in view.
What is amazing is the part which was played in it by Englishmen, and the confident manner
in which the promoters of the movement relied upon the political co-operation of the friends
of the Boers in the ranks of the Liberal party in England. Every Afrikander who attended these
meetings knew that he was doing his best to arouse hatred against the Englishman and sympathy
for the Boer. The nature of the resolutions to which he gave his adherence left him in no doubt
on this point.

     "The war," said Mr. A. B. de Villiers, at the People's Congress,
     "was the most unrighteous war that was ever pursued. The simple
     aim was to seize the Republics. If that was persisted in,
     Afrikanders would not rest.... Britain would efface the Republics
     and make the people slaves. Race hatred would then be prolonged
     from generation to generation."

To publish abroad such opinions as these was obviously to invite rebellion in the Cape Colony,
to encourage the resistance of the Boers, and to embarrass the British authorities, both civil
and military, throughout South Africa. This was precisely what the Afrikander nationalist desired
to do. But what is to be thought of the Englishmen who, both in the Cape Colony and in England,
took part in this "conciliation" movement? Surely they did not desire these same results. Were
they, then, the comrades or the dupes of the Afrikander nationalists? This is a question upon
which the individual reader may be left to form his own judgment.

[Sidenote: Comrades or dupes.]

This much, at least, is certain. What gave the Afrikander nationalists the power to bring about
the second invasion of the Cape Colony, and to inflict a year and a half of guerilla warfare
upon South Africa, was the co-operation of these Englishmen--whether comrades or dupes--who
opposed the annexation of the Republics. The intense sympathy felt by the Afrikanders for their
defeated kinsmen was natural; but the means by which it was enflamed were artificial. Lord
Milner himself, with his accustomed serenity of judgment, refused to take a "gloomy view" of
the question of racial relations in the Colony, still less in South Africa as a whole.

     "If it is true," he wrote on June 6th, "as the 'conciliators' are
     never tired of threatening us, that race hatred will be eternal,
     why should they make such furious efforts to keep it up at the
     present moment? The very vehemence of their declarations that the
     Afrikanders will never forgive, nor forget, nor acquiesce, seems
     to me to indicate a considerable and well-justified anxiety on
     their part lest these terrible things should, after all, happen."

But while the Cape Colony was in the throes of this agitation, British soldiers were gallantly
fighting their way to Johannesburg and Pretoria. During the six weeks of Lord Roberts's "prolonged
and enforced halt" at Bloemfontein (March 13th--May 1st), and subsequently, while the Army
was advancing upon the Transvaal, considerable progress was made in the work of clearing the
Colony of the republican invaders and re-establishing British authority in the districts in
which the Dutch had risen in rebellion. In the course of these operations a large number of
rebels had fallen into the hands of the Imperial military authorities, and it was the question
of the treatment of these colonial rebels that was destined to bring Mr. Schreiner into direct
conflict with those of his ministers who still held the opinions of the Bond.

[Sidenote: The punishment of rebels.]

In the middle of April Lord Milner had received from Mr. Chamberlain a despatch containing
a preliminary statement of the opinion of the Home Government upon the two questions of the
compensation of loyalists and the punishment of rebels, and on April 14th he requested his
ministers to give formal expression to their views upon the subjects to which Mr. Chamberlain
had drawn his attention. A fortnight later Lord Milner reported to the Home Government the
conclusions at which Mr. Schreiner and his fellow-ministers had arrived. Trial by jury for
persons indicted for high treason must be abandoned, since it would be impossible for the Crown
to obtain the necessary convictions, and a special tribunal must be established by statute.
As regards the nature of the punishment to be inflicted upon the rebels, Mr. Schreiner wrote:

     "Ministers submit that the ends of justice would be served by the
     selection of a certain limited number of the principal offenders,
     whose trials would mark the magnitude of their offence and whose
     punishment, if found guilty, would act as a deterrent. For the
     remainder, ministers believe that the interests both of sound
     policy and of public morality would be served if Her Gracious
     Majesty were moved to issue, as an act of grace, a Proclamation
     of amnesty under which, upon giving proper security for their
     good behaviour, all persons chargeable with high treason, except
     those held for trial, might be enlarged and allowed to return to
     their avocations."[223]

         [Footnote 223: Cd. 264.]

The substance of the Ministers' Minutes containing these conclusions, and the arguments by
which they were supported--notably an appeal to the "Canadian precedent"--were telegraphed
to the Home Government, and on May 4th Mr. Chamberlain replied, also by telegram. While the
people of Great Britain were animated by no vindictive feeling against "those who had been
or were in arms against Her Majesty's forces, whether enemies or rebels"--did, in fact, desire
that all racial animosity should disappear in South Africa at the earliest possible moment
after the war was over--the "sentiments of both sides" must be taken into consideration. The
consequences which would ensue from "the rankling sense of injustice" that would arise if the
rebels were actually placed in a better position after the struggle was over than those who
had risked life and property in the determination to remain "loyal to their Queen and flag,"
would be no less serious than the bad results to be anticipated from any display of a revengeful
policy on the part of the loyalists. He continued:

     "Clemency to rebels is a policy which has the hearty sympathy of
     Her Majesty's Government, but justice to loyalists is an
     obligation of duty and honour. The question is, how can these two
     policies be harmonised? It is clear that, in the interest of
     future peace, it is necessary to show that rebellion cannot be
     indulged in with impunity, and above all that, if unsuccessful,
     it is not a profitable business for the rebel. Otherwise the
     State would be offering a premium to rebellion. The present
     moment, therefore, while the war is still proceeding, and while
     efforts may still be made to tempt British subjects into
     rebellious courses, is in any case not appropriate for announcing
     that such action may be indulged in with absolute impunity. And
     if, as has been suggested, a great many of the Queen's rebellious
     subjects are the mere tools of those who have deceived them, it
     is important that these should be made aware individually that,
     whatever their leaders may tell them, rebellion is a punishable
     offence.

[Sidenote: Clemency and justice.]

     "Up to this time very lenient treatment has been meted out to
     rebels. Although, according to the law of the Cape Colony, and
     under martial law, the punishment of death might have been
     inflicted, in no case has any rebel suffered the capital penalty,
     and the vast majority have been permitted for the present to
     return to their homes and to resume their occupations. There are
     many degrees in the crime of rebellion. Her Majesty's Government
     desire that in any case means shall be found for dealing
     effectually with: (1) The ringleaders and promoters; (2) those
     who have committed outrages or looted the property of their loyal
     fellow-subjects; (3) those who have committed acts contrary to
     the usages of civilised warfare, such as abuse of the white flag,
     firing on hospitals, etc. There remain (4) those who, though not
     guilty, of either of those offences, have openly and willingly
     waged war against Her Majesty's forces; (5) those who confined
     themselves to aiding Her Majesty's enemies by giving information
     or furnishing provisions; and (6) those who can satisfactorily
     prove that they acted under compulsion. In the opinion of Her
     Majesty's Government a distinction ought to be, if possible,
     drawn between these different classes.

     "Her Majesty's Government recognise the difficulty of indicting
     for high treason all who have taken part with the enemy, and they
     would suggest, for the consideration of your ministers, the
     expediency of investing either the Special Judicial Commission
     which, as stated in your telegram of 28th April, is contemplated
     by your ministers, or a separate Commission, with powers to
     schedule the names of all persons implicated in the rebellion
     under the various heads indicated above. It would be necessary
     to decide beforehand how the different categories should then be
     dealt with. As regards 1, 2, and 3, they would, of course, be
     brought before the Judicial Commission and tried by them. Might
     not 4 and 5 be allowed to plead guilty, and be thereupon either
     sentenced to a fine carrying with it disfranchisement, or
     released on recognisances, to come up for judgment when called
     upon (this also to involve disfranchisement), while 6 might be
     subjected to disfranchisement alone? Her Majesty's Government
     offer these as suggestions for the consideration of your
     ministers.

     "In regard to the reasons urged by your ministers in favour of a
     general amnesty, Her Majesty's Government would point out that
     they are of a highly controversial character, and it is
     impossible to discuss them fully at a moment when an indication
     of the views of Her Majesty's Government is urgently required.
     Her Majesty's Government would only observe that the policy which
     they have indicated in this telegram appears to them to be one
     not merely of justice, but of clemency, which the whole white
     population of the Colony might well accept as satisfactory, and
     which should not, any more than the ordinary administration of
     justice, encourage the natives to think that the two white races
     are permanently disunited, while with especial reference to the
     third reason, it may be observed that the expediency of the
     action to be taken in such cases depends upon circumstances which
     must vary greatly according to date and locality. In Lower Canada
     in 1837-38 there was a revolt during peace against the Queen's
     authority, founded on grievances under constitutional conditions
     which were recognised as unsatisfactory by the Government of the
     day, and altered by subsequent legislation. In the Cape there has
     been adhesion to the Queen's enemies during war by those who
     have not even the pretext of any grievance, and who have for a
     generation enjoyed full constitutional liberty. In Canada the
     insurrection was never a formidable one from a military point of
     view; in the Cape it has added very largely to the cost and
     difficulty of the war, and has entailed danger and heavy loss to
     Her Majesty's troops."[224]

         [Footnote 224: Cd. 264.]

[Sidenote: The ministry divided.]

This estimate of the guilt of the Cape rebels--moderate in the light of British colonial history,
merciful beyond dispute as judged by the practice of foreign States--failed to commend itself
to the Afrikander Ministry. On May 29th, when the full text of the Cape ministers' minutes
and enclosures had reached the Colonial Office, Lord Milner inquired of Mr. Chamberlain, on
behalf of his ministers, whether the disfranchisement proposed was for life or for a period
only; and further, whether, in view of their fuller knowledge of the representations of the
Cape Ministry, the views of the Home Government were still to be accepted as those expressed
in the despatch of May 4th. To these questions Mr. Chamberlain replied, by telegram, on June
10th, that the Government continued to hold the opinion that the policy already suggested should
be substantially adhered to; while, as to the period of disfranchisement, he pointed out that--

     "conviction and sentence for high treason carried with it
     disfranchisement for life, and if the offenders were spared the
     other and severer penalties of rebellion, justice seemed to
     demand that they should suffer the full political penalty.
     Disfranchisement for life did not seem to Her Majesty's
     Government to be a very serious punishment for rebellion."

[Sidenote: Mr. Schreiner resigns.]

On June 11th Lord Milner was informed by Mr. Schreiner that ministers were hopelessly divided
on the subject of the treatment of the rebels, and that their differences could not be composed,
and on the following day he replied that, if he could not receive the support of a unanimous
Cabinet to which he, as Governor, was constitutionally entitled, he would be compelled, in
the discharge of his duty, to seek it elsewhere. Mr. Schreiner's resignation, which was placed
in Lord Milner's hands on the next day, was followed by the appointment, on June 18th, of a
Progressive Ministry with Sir Gordon Sprigg as Prime Minister and Sir James Rose Innes as Attorney-General.
Mr. Schreiner, in his memorandum of June 11th, had forwarded to Lord Milner documents containing
particulars of the individual views of the members of his Cabinet. Mr. Solomon, the Attorney-General,
was prepared to adopt a policy in respect of the treatment of the rebels, and the machinery
by which that policy was to be carried out, which appeared to him to involve nothing that would
prevent "complete accord between Her Majesty's Government and this Government on the question."
And in this view both Mr. Schreiner and Mr. Herholdt concurred. But the remaining members of
the Cabinet were entirely opposed to any policy other than that of granting a general amnesty
to all rebels except the "principal offenders," and allowing these latter to be tried by the
machinery of justice already in existence--_i.e._ by Afrikander juries. The minutes which they
respectively addressed to the Prime Minister were bitter invectives directed alike against
the Home Government and Lord Milner.

     "We are asked," Mr. Merriman wrote, on his own and Mr. Sauer's
     behalf, with reference to the suggestions of the Home Government,
     "to deal with a number of men who have, at worst, taken up arms
     in what they, however erroneously, considered to be a righteous
     war--a war in which they joined the Queen's enemies to resist
     what prominent men both here and in England have repeatedly
     spoken of as a crime.... These men, irrespective of class, we are
     asked to put under a common political proscription, to deprive
     them of their civil rights, and by so doing (in fact, this is the
     main commendation of the measure to the "loyals") to deprive
     their friends and kinsfolk, who have rendered the Colony yeoman
     service at the most critical time, of that legitimate influence
     which belongs to a majority. We are asked, in fact, to create a
     class of political 'helots' in South Africa, where we are now
     waging a bloody and costly war ostensibly for the purpose of
     putting an end to a similar state of affairs."

Of course, all this and much more might have been read at any time since the war began in the
columns of _The South African News_, but in a minister's memorandum to the Prime Minister,
and over the signature "John X. Merriman," its naked hostility arrests the mind. Dr. Te Water's
memorandum, although much shorter than that of Mr. Merriman, is even more outspoken. To him,
the direct representative of the republican nationalists in the Afrikander Cabinet, amnesty
for the rebels is the "sound and proper policy." And naturally, since in his eyes the rebels
themselves are--

     "British subjects of Dutch extraction who, after vainly
     endeavouring, by all possible constitutional means, to prevent
     what they, in common with the rest of the civilised world,
     believe to be an unjust and infamous war against their near
     kinsmen, aided the Republics in the terrible struggle forced upon
     them."[225]

         [Footnote 225: Cd. 264.]

[Sidenote: A progressive ministry.]

This is vitriol-throwing, but it is none the less significant. These three men formed half
of the six ministers to whom collectively, Lord Milner, as Governor of the Cape Colony, had
to look for advice during the two critical years that the Afrikander party was in power. Fortunately,
in his capacity of High Commissioner for South Africa, he was free to act without their advice,
as the representative of the Queen. Even so, his achievement is little less than marvellous.
Aided by Mr. Schreiner's pathetic sense of loyalty to the person of the sovereign, he had kept
the Cape Government outwardly true to its allegiance. The long hours of patient remonstrance,
the word-battles from which the Prime Minister had risen sometimes white with passionate resentment,
had not been useless. By tact, by serenity of disposition, by depth of conviction, and latterly
by sheer force of argument, Lord Milner had won Mr. Schreiner, not indeed to the side of England,
but at least to the side of that Empire-State of which England was the head. With the Prime
Minister went Sir Richard Solomon, Mr. Herholdt, and one or two of the Afrikander rank and
file. Thus reinforced, the Progressives commanded a working majority in the Legislative Assembly,
and the ascendancy of the Afrikander party was at an end.

Apart from the secession of Mr. Schreiner and his immediate followers, the Parliamentary strength
of the Afrikander party was lessened by another circumstance, to which Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman
referred in the debate on the South African Settlement in the House of Commons on July 25th.
Certain members of the Cape Parliament, said the leader of the Liberal Opposition, had been
arrested for high treason, with the result that the Afrikander party was deprived of their
votes, and the balance of power between that party and the Progressive party was upset. And
he protested against this manner of turning an Afrikander majority into a minority. The reply
which these remarks on the part of this friend of the Afrikander party in England drew from
the Government is instructive:

     "May I remind the right honourable gentleman," said Mr. Balfour,
     "that the balance of parties was disturbed by another and
     different cause on which he has made no protest? Some members of
     that Parliament, not sharing the views of those who are
     imprisoned, are now fighting at the front and risking their lives
     in the defence of the Empire. Their party is deprived of their
     services in the Cape Parliament, and I should have thought that
     this would have affected the right honourable gentleman much more
     than the absence of men who, under any circumstances, must be
     supposed to be under the darkest suspicion as to their view and
     policy respecting the country to which they owe allegiance."

The Cape Parliament met under the new Ministry in July, and the chief business of the session,
which lasted until the middle of October, was the passing of the Treason Bill. On July 9th
Lord Milner was able to inform Mr. Chamberlain (by telegram) that the Bill had been prepared,
and to indicate the nature of its main provisions. These were: (1) An indemnity for acts done
under martial law; (2) the establishment of a Special Court to try cases in which the Attorney-General
might decide to indict any person for high treason, such cases to be tried without a jury;
(3) the establishment of a Special Commission to "deal with rebels not so indicted and to punish
all found guilty with disfranchisement for five years from the date of conviction"; and (4)
the legalisation of the already existing Compensation Commission. In a despatch dated July
26th--the day after the Settlement debate in the House of Commons--Mr. Chamberlain replied
at length to the arguments put forward by the Schreiner Ministry in favour of a general amnesty,
and exposed in particular the historical inaccuracy of the appeal to the "Canadian precedent."
At the same time he stated that Her Majesty's Government, while they could not be a consenting
party to a policy condoning adhesion to the enemy in the field, had no doubt that "such a measure
of penalty as the mass of loyal opinion in the Colony considered adequate would meet with their
concurrence." That is to say, the proposal of the Home Government for disfranchisement for
life was not pressed, but was abandoned in favour of the lenient penalty originally proposed
by Sir Richard Solomon, independently of any consideration of the views of the Colonial Office,
and now adopted by the Progressive Ministry.

[Sidenote: The treason bill.]

In spite of its leniency, the Treason Bill met with the violent and protracted resistance of
the Afrikander party in the Legislative Assembly. The opportunity thus afforded for the delivery
of fierce invectives against the Imperial authorities was utilised to the full, and the fires
of disaffection lighted by the "Conciliation" meetings were kindled anew into the second and
more disastrous conflagration that culminated in the proceedings of the Worcester Conference
(December 6th). In the Cape Parliamentary Reports the picture of this nightmare session is
to be found faithfully presented in all its ugly and grotesque details. Two facts will serve
to show to what a degree the members of the Legislative Assembly of this British colony had
identified themselves with the cause of the enemy. The first is the circumstance that it was
a common practice of the Afrikander members to refer in Parliament to the military successes
of the Boers with pride as "our" victories. The second is the fact that Mr. Sauer, only three
months ago a minister of the Crown, declared, in opposing the second reading of the Bill, that
"a time would come when there would be very few Dutchmen who would not blush when they told
their children that they had not helped their fellow-countrymen in their hour of need."[226]
Morally, though not legally, the Afrikander members had gone over to the enemy no less than
the rebels who had taken up arms against their sovereign. This was the "loyalty" of the Bond.

         [Footnote 226: _Cape Times_, August 23rd, 1900.]

[Sidenote: Milner visits the colonies.]

The Treason Bill was promulgated, under the title of "The Indemnity and Special Tribunals Act,
1900," on October 12th. On the same day Lord Milner left Capetown for a brief visit to the
Transvaal and Orange River Colony. The intention of the Home Government to place the administrative
and economic reconstruction of the new colonies in his hands had been made known to him informally;
and it was obviously desirable, therefore, that he should acquaint himself with the actual
state of affairs as soon as possible. After a somewhat adventurous journey through the Orange
River Colony, he reached Pretoria on the 15th, and remained at the capital until the 22nd.
He then proceeded to Johannesburg, where he spent the next three days (October 22nd to 25th).
At both places he made provisional arrangements, in consultation with Lord Roberts and Lord
Kitchener, for the early establishment of so much of the machinery of civil administration
as the exigencies of the military situation permitted. Leaving Johannesburg on the 25th, the
High Commissioner stopped for the night at Kroonstad, _en route_ for Bloemfontein. On the morning
following he woke up to find the train still motionless, since the line had been cut by the
Boers--an almost daily occurrence at this period of the war. After a few hours, however, the
journey was resumed; but the High Commissioner's train was preceded by an armoured train as
far as Smalldeel, from which point it ran without escort to Bloemfontein, where he remained
until November 1st. Here, in addition to making the necessary arrangements for the beginning
of civil administration in the Orange River Colony, Lord Milner had the satisfaction of inaugurating
the career of the South African Constabulary under the command of Major-General Baden-Powell.
The departure from Bloemfontein was delayed for a few hours by the destruction of the span
of a railway bridge by the Boers; but at 12 o'clock the High Commissioner's train, again preceded
by its armoured companion, was able to resume its journey southwards. In the course of the
following day (November 2nd) the English mail, going northwards from Capetown, was met, and
among other communications which Lord Milner then received was the despatch of October 18th
enclosing the commissions under which he was appointed to administer the new colonies upon
Lord Roberts's approaching return to England.

Lord Milner arrived at Capetown on November 3rd. During his three weeks' absence the situation
in the Cape Colony had changed for the worse. After the Treason Bill debates the anti-British
propaganda, still carried on under the grotesque pretence of promoting "conciliation," had
taken a different and more sinister form. To their denunciation of the Home Government and
its treatment of the Republics, the Afrikander nationalists now added slander and abuse of
the British and colonial troops in South Africa. In order to understand how such calumnies
were possible in the face of the singular humanity with which the military operations of the
Imperial troops had been conducted, a brief reference to the course of the war is necessary.
The change from regular to guerilla warfare initiated by the Boer leaders in the later months
of this year (1900), and the consequent withdrawal of British garrisons from insecurely held
districts both in the Transvaal and Orange River Colony, were accompanied by the return to
arms of many burghers who, on taking the oath of neutrality, had been allowed to resume their
civil occupations. This breach of faith, whether voluntary or compulsory, compelled the British
military commanders to adopt measures of greater severity in the operations undertaken for
the reconquest of the revolted areas. The punishment inflicted upon the inhabitants of such
areas, especially those adjoining the colonial border, although merciful in comparison with
the penalties actually incurred under the laws of war by those who, having surrendered, resumed
their arms, was considerably more rigorous than the treatment to which the republican Dutch
had been originally subjected. This legitimate and necessary increase of severity, displayed
by the British commanders in districts where the burghers had surrendered, and then taken up
arms a second, or even a third time, was the sole basis of fact upon which the Afrikander nationalists
in the Cape Colony founded the vast volume of imaginary outrage and inhumanity on the part
of the Imperial troops which Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman was held subsequently to have endorsed
by accusing the British Government of carrying on the war in South Africa by "methods of barbarism."[227]

         [Footnote 227: June 14th; 1901 (Holborn Restaurant, and
         elsewhere later). "Whatever Sir Henry Campbell-Bannerman may
         think or say, the German nation may think or say."--The
         _Vossische Zeitung._]

[Sidenote: Libels on the British troops.]

The weapon now adopted for the anti-British campaign was the circulation through the Bond Press,
Dutch and English, of accounts of cruel or infamous acts alleged to have been committed by
British soldiers, and described with every detail calculated to arouse the passionate resentment
of the colonial Dutch. There is only one way in which the reader can be brought to understand
the wantonly false and wholly disgraceful character of these libels. It is to place before
his eyes the literal translation of two examples, printed in Dutch in _The Worcester Advertiser_
of November 23rd, 1900; that is to say, in anticipation of the People's Congress, which was
to be held less than a fortnight later (December 6th) at the little town in the Western Province
so named. The article is headed: "Dreadful Murders perpetrated on Farmers, Women, and Children,
near Boshoff:

[Sidenote: Two examples.]

     "... This unfortunate man [a Boer prisoner] left behind him his
     dear wife and four children. One or two days after his departure
     there came a couple of heroes in the house of the unfortunate
     woman, locked the doors and set fire to the curtains. The woman,
     awfully frightened by it, was in a cruel way handled by these
     ruffians, and compelled to make known where the guns and
     ammunition were hidden. The poor woman, surrounded by her dear
     children (who were from time to time pushed back by these
     soldiers), answered that she could swear before the holy God that
     there was not a single gun or cartridge or anything of that sort
     hidden on that farm. In the meantime the curtains were destroyed
     by the smoke and flames to ashes. The house, at least, was not
     attacked by the flames, but the low, mean lot put at the four
     corners of the house a certain amount of dynamite, to destroy it
     in this way.

     "The heroic warrior and commander over a portion of the civilised
     (?) British troops knocked with great force at the door of the
     house--where still the poor wife and children were upon their
     knees praying to the Heavenly Father for deliverance--saying, 'I
     give you ten minutes' time to acquaint me and point out to me
     where the weapons and ammunition are hidden, and if you do not
     comply I shall make the house and all fly into the air.' The poor
     wife fell upon her knees before the cruel man; prayed the cruel
     man to spare her and her children, where God was her witness
     there was nothing of the kind on the farm, neither was there
     anything stowed away in the house.

     "Standing before him, as if deprived of her senses, [was] the
     poor wife with her four innocent children, and when the ten
     minutes had expired house and all were blown to atoms with
     dynamite, and [there were] laid in ruins, the bodies of the
     deplorable five. May the good God receive their souls with
     Him!...

     "A wife of a Transvaal Boer (who is still in the field, fighting
     for his freedom and right) was lodging with one of her relations,
     when, two days later, after she had given birth to a baby boy,
     she was visited by seven warriors, or so-called Tommy Atkins; the
     young urchin was taken away from its mother by its two legs, by
     the so-called noble British, and his head battered in against the
     bed-post until it had breathed its last, and thereupon thrown out
     by the door as if it was the carcase of a cat or dog. Then these
     damn wretches began their play with this poor and weak woman, who
     only 48 hours before was delivered of a child. The poor wife was
     treated so low and debauched by this seven that she, after a few
     hours, gave up the spirit, and like her child [was] murdered in
     the most dissolute manner.... Can we longer allow that our
     fathers, mothers, brothers, sisters, relatives, yes, our
     children, are murdered by these coward and common murderers? or
     has not the time yet arrived to prevent this civilised nation, or
     to punish them for their atrocities?"[228]

         [Footnote 228: As translated in Blue-book, Cd. 547. Mr. de
         Jong, the editor of the paper, was prosecuted (and convicted)
         for the publication of this and another similar article
         (December 28th).]

On November 26th _The South African News_ published the translation of a letter to the Press,
written by a member of the Legislative Assembly, in view of the same meeting:

     "I am yet glad that another People's Congress will be held.

     "It is our duty to speak now; it is more than time to protest, as
     British subjects, against the extermination of defenceless women
     and children....

     "But, in Heaven's name, let the Congress be a People's Congress
     in reality. Let no one or other stay away for one or other small
     difficulty. Let members of Parliament, clergymen, yes, every man,
     old or young, be present at Worcester on the 6th of December
     next. Let them turn up in numbers. Let us use our rights as
     British subjects in a worthy and decided manner. Let us at least
     adopt three petitions or resolutions: (1) Praying Her Majesty,
     our Gracious Queen, to make an end to the burning of homes and
     the ill-treatment of helpless women and children; if not, that
     they may be murdered at once, rather than die slowly by hunger
     and torture; (2) a petition in which it be urged that the war
     should be ended, and the Republics allowed to retain their
     independence; and finally, a pledge that those who do not wish
     to sign these petitions will no longer be supported by us in any
     way.

     "[No shopkeeper, attorney, doctor, master, or any one--no
     victuals, meat, bread, meal, sheep, oxen, horses, vegetables,
     fruit whatsoever will he sell to the jingoes until the wrong is
     righted and compensated.]

     "The dam is full. Our nation cannot, dare not, say with Cain, 'Am
     I my brother's keeper?' There must be a way out for the
     overflowing water. Disloyal deeds and talk are wrong. But if we,
     as a nation, as one man, earnestly and decisively lay our hands
     to the plough in a constitutional manner, and are determined, I
     trust, through God's help, we shall--yes, we must--win."

The passage placed in brackets, in which this member of the Cape Parliament urges that all
who may refuse to sign the two "petitions" should be rigorously boycotted, was omitted--without
any indication of omission--by _The South African News_. _Ons Land_, on the other hand, expressed
approval of the letter as it stood.[229]

         [Footnote 229: Cd. 547.]

[Sidenote: The Worcester congress.]

These were the kind of stories, and the kind of appeals, with which the mind of the colonial
Dutch had been inflamed by the nationalist leaders when the Worcester Congress met. The gathering
is said to have consisted of between 8,000 and 10,000 persons; and its promoters claimed that
a far larger number--120,000 persons--were represented by the deputies sent from ninety-seven
districts in the Colony. At the close of the meeting a deputation was appointed to lay the
resolutions passed by the Congress before the High Commissioner, and request him to bring them
officially to the notice of the Home Government. It was composed of Mr. de Villiers, a minister
of the Dutch Reformed Church; a member of the Legislative Council; the member of the Legislative
Assembly for Worcester, and two others. This deputation was received by Lord Milner at Government
House on December 11th, and the circumstances of the remarkable interview which then took place
present a striking picture of the state of the Colony at this time, and of the extraordinary
attitude which the mass of the Dutch population had assumed towards the representative of their
sovereign. It is one of those illuminating occasions in which a whole situation is, as it were,
gathered up into a single scene.

The disloyal purpose of the deputation is heightened rather than concealed by the disguise
of the constitutional forms in which it is clothed. The scarcely veiled demand for the independence
of the Cape Colony, now put forward by the Afrikander nationalists, is as magnificently audacious
as the ultimatum. Knowing the infamous character of the methods by which the agitation in favour
of the Boers was being promoted, Lord Milner might have been excused if he had given way to
some strong expressions of indignation. No such note, however, is heard in his reply. He is
as dry and passionless as an attorney receiving his clients. Yet his words are as frank as
his manner is composed. To these delegates he speaks the most terrible truths with the same
freedom as he would have used, if the business of their errand had been a pleasant interchange
of compliments, instead of a grim defiance that might, or might not, be converted from words
into deeds.

[Sidenote: Deputation to Lord Milner.]

Lord Milner, who is accompanied only by his private secretary, surprises the deputation at
the outset by requesting that the resolutions may be read forthwith in his presence. They are:

     "1. We, men and women of South Africa assembled and represented
     here, having heard the report of the people's deputation to
     England, and having taken into earnest consideration the
     deplorable condition into which the peoples of South Africa have
     been plunged, and the grave dangers threatening our civilisation,
     record our solemn conviction that the highest interest of South
     Africa demand (1) A termination of the war now raging, with its
     untold misery and horror, as well as the burning of houses, the
     devastation of the country, the extermination of a white
     nationality, and the treatment to which women and children are
     subjected, which was bound to leave a lasting legacy of
     bitterness and hatred, while seriously endangering the future
     relationship between the forces of civilisation and barbarism in
     South Africa; and (2) the retention by the Republics of their
     independence, whereby alone the peace of South Africa can be
     maintained.

     "2. That this meeting desires a full recognition of the right of
     the people of this Colony to settle and manage its own affairs,
     and expresses its grave disapproval of the policy pursued and
     adopted in this matter by the Governor and High Commissioner, Sir
     Alfred Milner.

     "3. That this Congress solemnly pledges itself to labour in a
     constitutional way unceasingly for the attainment of the objects
     contained in the above resolutions, and resolves to send a
     deputation to His Excellency Sir Alfred Milner to bring these
     resolutions officially to the notice of Her Majesty's
     Government."

These resolutions having been read, Mr. de Villiers proceeds to make two points. First, there
will be no lasting peace in South Africa until the independence of the Republics is restored;
unless this is done, race feeling will go on prevailing "for generations." And, second, it
is the "devastation of property" and "the treatment of the women and children" by the British
that has roused the colonial Dutch to assemble at the Congress. Mr. Pretorius, the member of
the Legislative Council, then drives home both of these points by a short but emphatic speech,
delivered in Dutch, in which he asserts that one of the consequences of the war will be a "never-ending
irreconcilable racial hatred" between the British and Dutch inhabitants.[230] Lord Milner then
rises from his chair and replies to the deputation:

         [Footnote 230: It is scarcely necessary to point out that
         this prophecy of continued racial hatred has been completely
         falsified by events. The writer went out to South Africa a
         second time in January, 1904, when two years had not passed
         since the surrender of the Boers. The one thing, above all
         others, that struck him, and every other visitor from
         England, was the profound peace that reigned from end to end
         of the land.]

[Sidenote: Lord Milner's reply.]

[Sidenote: War no longer justifiable.]

     "I accede to your request to bring these resolutions to the
     notice of Her Majesty's Government. I think it is doubtful
     whether I ought to do so, but in view of the prevailing
     bitterness and excitement it is better to err, if one must err,
     on the side of conciliation and fairness. And, having regard
     especially to the fact that one of the resolutions is directed
     against myself, I wish to avoid any appearance of a desire to
     suppress its companions on account of it. But, having gone thus
     far on the road of concession, I take the liberty, in no
     unfriendly and polemical spirit, of asking you quite frankly what
     good you think can be done by resolutions of this character? I am
     not now referring to the resolution against myself. That is a
     matter of very minor importance. The pith of the whole business
     is in resolution number one, a resolution evidently framed with
     great care by the clever men who are engineering the present
     agitation in the Colony. Now, that resolution asks for two
     things--a termination of the war, and the restoration of the
     independence of the Republics. In desiring the termination of the
     war we are all agreed, but nothing can be less conducive to the
     attainment of that end than to encourage in those who are still
     carrying on a hopeless resistance the idea that there is any,
     even the remotest chance, of the policy of annexation being
     reversed. I am not now speaking for myself. This is not a
     question for me. I am simply directing your attention to the
     repeatedly declared policy of Her Majesty's Government, a policy
     just endorsed by an enormous majority of the nation, and not only
     by the ordinary supporters of the Government, but by the bulk of
     those ordinarily opposed to it. Moreover, that policy is approved
     by all the great self-governing colonies of the Empire, except
     this one, and in this one by something like half the white
     population, and practically the whole of the native. And this
     approving half of the white population, be it observed, embraces
     all those who, in the recent hour of danger, when this Colony
     itself was invaded and partially annexed, fought and suffered
     for the cause of Queen and Empire. I ask you, is it reasonable to
     suppose that Her Majesty's Government is going back upon a policy
     deliberately adopted, repeatedly declared, and having this
     overwhelming weight of popular support throughout the whole
     Empire behind it? And if it is not, I ask you further: What is
     more likely to lead to a termination of the war--a recognition of
     the irrevocable nature of this policy, or the reiteration of
     menacing protests against it? And there is another respect in
     which I fear this resolution is little calculated to promote that
     speedy restoration of peace which we have all at heart. I refer
     to the tone of aggressive exaggeration which characterises its
     allusions to the conduct of the war. No doubt the resolution is
     mild compared with some of the speeches by which it was
     supported, just as those speeches themselves were mild compared
     with much that we are now too well accustomed to hear and to
     read, in the way of misrepresentation and abuse of the British
     Government, British statesmen, British soldiers, the British
     people. But even the resolution, mild in comparison with such
     excesses, is greatly lacking in that sobriety and accuracy which
     it is so necessary for all of us to cultivate in these days of
     bitterly inflamed passions. It really is preposterous to talk,
     among other things, about 'the extermination of a white
     nationality,' or to give any sort of countenance to the now fully
     exploded calumny about the ill-treatment of women and children.
     The war, gentlemen, has its horrors--every war has. Those horrors
     increase as it becomes more irregular on the part of the enemy,
     thus necessitating severer measures on the part of the Imperial
     troops. But, having regard to the conditions, it is one of the
     most humane wars that has ever been waged in history. It has
     been humane, I contend, on both sides, which does not, of course,
     mean that on both sides there have not been isolated acts
     deserving of condemnation. Still, the general direction, the
     general spirit on both sides, has been humane. But it is another
     question whether the war on the side of the enemy is any longer
     justifiable. It is certainly not morally justifiable to carry on
     a resistance involving the loss of many lives and the destruction
     of an immense quantity of property, when the object of that
     resistance can no longer, by any possibility, be attained. No
     doubt, great allowance must be made for most of the men still
     under arms, though it is difficult to defend the conduct of their
     leaders in deceiving them. The bulk of the men still in the field
     are buoyed up with false hopes. They are incessantly fed with
     lies--lies as to their own chance of success, and, still worse,
     as to the intention of the British Government with regard to them
     should they surrender. And for that very reason it seems all the
     more regrettable that anything should be said or done here which
     could help still further to mislead them, still further to
     encourage a resistance which creates the very evils that these
     people are fighting to escape. It is because I am sincerely
     convinced that a resolution of this character, like the meeting
     at which it was passed, like the whole agitation of which that
     meeting is part, is calculated, if it has any effect at all,
     still further to mislead the men who are engaged in carrying on
     this hopeless struggle, that I feel bound, in sending it to Her
     Majesty's Government, to accompany it with this expression of my
     strong personal dissent."[231]

         [Footnote 231: Cd. 547.]

The comment of _Ons Land_ upon Lord Milner's reply to the Worcester Congress deputation was
an open defiance of the Imperial authorities and a scarcely veiled incitement to rebellion.
Mr. Advocate Malan, the editor, who had been elected for the Malmesbury Division upon the retirement
of Mr. Schreiner--now rejected by the Bond--wrote:[232]

         [Footnote 232: As stated in a _Central News_ telegram,
         published in London on December 14th, 1900.]

     "Sir Alfred Milner considers the request of the Afrikanders for
     peace and justice unreasonable. The agitation has now reached the
     end of the first period--that of pleading and petitioning. A deaf
     ear has been turned to the cry of the Afrikanders and their
     Church. But the battle for justice will continue from a different
     standpoint--by mental and material powers. The path will be hard,
     and sacrifices will be required, but the victory will be
     glorious!"

There were, of course, some voices that were raised, among both the republican and colonial
Dutch, in favour of more moderate counsels. In the preceding month (November) Mr. Melius de
Villiers, the late Chief Justice of the Free State, wrote to a Dutch Reformed minister in the
Cape Colony to beg him to use all his influence against the efforts being made in the Cape
Colony to encourage the Boers to continue the struggle. "However much I loved and valued the
independence of the Free State," he says, "it is now absolutely certain that the struggle on
the part of the burghers is a hopeless and useless one." And he then suggests that the Dutch
Reformed ministers in the Cape Colony, instead of petitioning the Queen to grant the independence
of the Republics, should intercede with ex-President Steyn and the Federal leaders and induce
them to discontinue the fight. Women's Congresses and People's Congresses, held to denounce
the barbarities perpetrated in the war, will avail nothing; but the Dutch Reformed Church could
fulfil no higher mission than this genuine peace-making. "It may go against their grain to
urge our people to yield," he adds, "but it seems to me a plain duty."[233] But such voices
were powerless to counteract the effect produced upon the Boers by the demonstrations of hatred
against the British Government, manifested by men whose minds had been inflamed by the infamous
slanders of the Imperial troops to which the "conciliation" movement had given currency.

         [Footnote 233: Cd. 547.]

[Sidenote: Second invasion of the colony.]

On the morning of December 16th, five days after he had received the Worcester Congress deputation,
Lord Milner heard that the burgher forces had again crossed the Orange River between Aliwal
North and Bethulie. Before them lay hundreds of miles of country full of food and horses, and
inhabited by people who were in sympathy with them. On the 20th martial law was proclaimed
in twelve additional districts. On the 17th of the following month the whole of the Cape Colony,
with the exception of Capetown, Simon's Town, Wynberg, Port Elizabeth, East London, and the
native territories, was placed under the same military rule. In the words of a protest subsequently
addressed by the Burgher Peace Committee to their Afrikander brethren, the "fatal result of
the Worcester Congress had been that the commandos had again entered the Cape Colony." The
friends of the Boers in England, duped by the Afrikander nationalists, had involved England
and South Africa in a year and a half of costly, destructive, and unnecessary war.

CHAPTER X

THE DISARMAMENT OF THE DUTCH POPULATION

The new year (1901) opened with a full revelation of the magnitude of the task which lay before
the Imperial troops. Lord Roberts had frankly recognised that the destruction of the Governments
and organised armies of the Republics would be followed by the more difficult and lengthy task
of disarming the entire Boer population within their borders.

     "Recent events have convinced me," he wrote from Pretoria on
     October 10th, 1900, "that the permanent tranquillity of the
     Orange River Colony and Transvaal is dependent on the complete
     disarmament of the inhabitants; and, though the extent of the
     country to be visited, and the ease with which guns, rifles, and
     ammunition can be hidden, will render the task a difficult one,
     its accomplishment is only a matter of time and patience."

That this task proved altogether more lengthy and more arduous than Lord Roberts at this time
expected, was due mainly, though not exclusively, to the same cause as that which had placed
the British army in a position of such grave disadvantage at the outbreak of the war--the play
of party politics in England. Lord Roberts had foreseen that the process of disarming the Boers
would be slow and difficult; but he had not anticipated that the Imperial troops would be hindered
in the accomplishment of this task by the political action of the friends of the Boers in England,
or that the public utterances of prominent members of the Liberal Opposition would re-act with
such dangerous effects upon the Afrikander nationalists that, after more than a year of successful
military operations, the process of disarmament would have to be applied to the Cape Colony
as well as to the territories of the late Republics.

Looking back to the year 1900, with the events of the intervening period before us, it is impossible
to avoid the conclusion that the decision of the Boer leaders to continue the struggle was
determined by political, and not by military considerations. More than one circumstance points
to the fact that both the Boer generals and the civilian members of the Executives of the late
Republics recognised that their position was practically hopeless from a military point of
view.[234] And while Louis Botha, the Commandant-General of the Transvaal, urged his fellow-burghers
to lay down their arms after the battle of Dalmanutha, it was President Steyn, a politician,
and not a fighting man, who manifested the stubborn determination that was directly responsible
for the unnecessary devastation and suffering which the guerilla war entailed upon the Boer
people. The remote, but still carefully cherished possibility of foreign intervention, the
belief that the colonial Dutch would even yet rise _en masse_, and the reliance upon the traditional
sympathy of the Liberal party with the Boer aspirations for independence, were all considerations
that contributed to the decision. But of these three influences the last was incomparably the
most important; since it not only affected the disposition of the republican leaders, but,
what was more, stimulated the Afrikander nationalists to make the efforts which brought the
Dutch in the Cape Colony to the condition of passionate resentment that drew the Boer commandos,
in the last month of 1900 and the opening months of 1901, a second time across the Orange River.

         [Footnote 234: See letter of Piet de Wet to his brother
         Christian, in Cd. 547, and correspondence between Steyn and
         Reitz (captured by British troops), in Cd. 903.]

[Sidenote: An injurious influence.]

