That morning I had come upon a track in the forest, and it had occurred to me as a disagreeable
idea that this was a human pathway. I didn't want to come upon any human beings. The less our
expedition saw of the African population the better for its prospects. Thus far we had been
singularly free from native pestering. So I turned back and was making my way over mud and
roots and dead fronds and petals scattered from the green world above when abruptly I saw my
victim.

I became aware of him perhaps forty feet off standing quite still and regarding me.

He wasn't by any means a pretty figure. He was very black and naked except for a dirty loin-cloth,
his legs were ill-shaped and his toes spread wide and the upper edge of his cloth and a girdle
of string cut his clumsy abdomen into folds. His forehead was low, his nose very flat and his
lower lip swollen and purplish-red. His hair was short and fuzzy, and about his neck was a
string and a little purse of skin. He carried a musket, and a powder-flask was stuck in his
girdle. It was a curious confrontation. There opposed to him stood I, a little soiled, perhaps,
but still a rather elaborately civilised human being, born, bred and trained in a vague tradition.
In my hand was an unaccustomed gun. And each of us was essentially a teeming, vivid brain,
tensely excited by the encounter, quite unaware of the other's mental content or what to do
with him.

He stepped back a pace or so, stumbled and turned to run.

"Stop," I cried; "stop, you fool!" and started to run after him, shouting such things in English.
But I was no match for him over the roots and mud.

I had a preposterous idea. "He mustn't get away and tell them!"

And with that instantly I brought both feet together, raised my gun, aimed quite coolly, drew
the trigger carefully and shot him neatly in the back.

I saw, and saw with a leap of pure exaltation, the smash of my bullet between his shoulder
blades. "Got him," said I, dropping my gun and down he flopped and died without a groan. "By
Jove!" I cried with note of surprise, "I've killed him!" I looked about me and then went forward
cautiously, in a mood between curiosity and astonishment, to look at this man whose soul I
had flung so unceremoniously out of our common world. I went to him, not as one goes to something
one has made or done, but as one approaches something found.

He was frightfully smashed out in front; he must have died in the instant. I stooped and raised
him by his shoulder and realised that. I dropped him, and stood about and peered about me through
the trees. "My word!" I said. He was the second dead human being--apart, I mean, from surgical
properties and mummies and common shows of that sort--that I have ever seen. I stood over him
wondering, wondering beyond measure.

A practical idea came into that confusion. Had any one heard the gun?

I reloaded.

After a time I felt securer, and gave my mind again to the dead I had killed. What must I do?

It occurred to me that perhaps I ought to bury him. At any rate, I ought to hide him. I reflected
coolly, and then put my gun within easy reach and dragged him by the arm towards a place where
the mud seemed soft, and thrust him in. His powder-flask slipped from his loin-cloth, and I
went back to get it. Then I pressed him down with the butt of my rifle.

Afterwards this all seemed to me most horrible, but at the time it was entirely a matter-of-fact
transaction. I looked round for any other visible evidence of his fate, looked round as one
does when one packs one's portmanteau in an hotel bedroom.

