These resources are amply sufficient to bring the war to an honorable issue. Our nation is
in number more than half that of the British Isles. It is composed of a brave, a free, a virtuous,
and an intelligent people. Our country abounds in the necessaries, the arts, and the comforts
of life. A general prosperity is visible in the public countenance. The means employed by the
British cabinet to undermine it have recoiled on themselves; have given to our national faculties
a more rapid development, and, draining or diverting the precious metals from British circulation
and British vaults, have poured them into those of the United States. It is a propitious consideration
that an unavoidable war should have found this seasonable facility for the contributions required
to support it. When the public voice called for war, all knew, and still know, that without
them it could not be carried on through the period which it might last, and the patriotism,
the good sense, and the manly spirit of our fellow-citizens are pledges for the cheerfulness
with which they will bear each his share of the common burden. To render the war short and
its success sure, animated and systematic exertions alone are necessary, and the success of
our arms now may long preserve our country from the necessity of another resort to them. Already
have the gallant exploits of our naval heroes proved to the world our inherent capacity to
maintain our rights on one element. If the reputation of our arms has been thrown under clouds
on the other, presaging flashes of heroic enterprise assure us that nothing is wanting to correspondent
triumphs there also but the discipline and habits which are in daily progress.

***

James Monroe First Inaugural Address Tuesday, March 4, 1817

I should be destitute of feeling if I was not deeply affected by the strong proof which my
fellow-citizens have given me of their confidence in calling me to the high office whose functions
I am about to assume. As the expression of their good opinion of my conduct in the public service,
I derive from it a gratification which those who are conscious of having done all that they
could to merit it can alone feel. My sensibility is increased by a just estimate of the importance
of the trust and of the nature and extent of its duties, with the proper discharge of which
the highest interests of a great and free people are intimately connected. Conscious of my
own deficiency, I cannot enter on these duties without great anxiety for the result. From a
just responsibility I will never shrink, calculating with confidence that in my best efforts
to promote the public welfare my motives will always be duly appreciated and my conduct be
viewed with that candor and indulgence which I have experienced in other stations.

In commencing the duties of the chief executive office it has been the practice of the distinguished
men who have gone before me to explain the principles which would govern them in their respective
Administrations. In following their venerated example my attention is naturally drawn to the
great causes which have contributed in a principal degree to produce the present happy condition
of the United States. They will best explain the nature of our duties and shed much light on
the policy which ought to be pursued in future.

From the commencement of our Revolution to the present day almost forty years have elapsed,
and from the establishment of this Constitution twenty-eight. Through this whole term the Government
has been what may emphatically be called self-government. And what has been the effect? To
whatever object we turn our attention, whether it relates to our foreign or domestic concerns,
we find abundant cause to felicitate ourselves in the excellence of our institutions. During
a period fraught with difficulties and marked by very extraordinary events the United States
have flourished beyond example. Their citizens individually have been happy and the nation
prosperous.

Under this Constitution our commerce has been wisely regulated with foreign nations and between
the States; new States have been admitted into our Union; our territory has been enlarged by
fair and honorable treaty, and with great advantage to the original States; the States, respectively
protected by the National Government under a mild, parental system against foreign dangers,
and enjoying within their separate spheres, by a wise partition of power, a just proportion
of the sovereignty, have improved their police, extended their settlements, and attained a
strength and maturity which are the best proofs of wholesome laws well administered. And if
we look to the condition of individuals what a proud spectacle does it exhibit! On whom has
oppression fallen in any quarter of our Union? Who has been deprived of any right of person
or property? Who restrained from offering his vows in the mode which he prefers to the Divine
Author of his being? It is well known that all these blessings have been enjoyed in their fullest
extent; and I add with peculiar satisfaction that there has been no example of a capital punishment
being inflicted on anyone for the crime of high treason.

Some who might admit the competency of our Government to these beneficent duties might doubt
it in trials which put to the test its strength and efficiency as a member of the great community
of nations. Here too experience has afforded us the most satisfactory proof in its favor. Just
as this Constitution was put into action several of the principal States of Europe had become
much agitated and some of them seriously convulsed. Destructive wars ensued, which have of
late only been terminated. In the course of these conflicts the United States received great
injury from several of the parties. It was their interest to stand aloof from the contest,
to demand justice from the party committing the injury, and to cultivate by a fair and honorable
conduct the friendship of all. War became at length inevitable, and the result has shown that
our Government is equal to that, the greatest of trials, under the most unfavorable circumstances.
Of the virtue of the people and of the heroic exploits of the Army, the Navy, and the militia
I need not speak.

Such, then, is the happy Government under which we live--a Government adequate to every purpose
for which the social compact is formed; a Government elective in all its branches, under which
every citizen may by his merit obtain the highest trust recognized by the Constitution; which
contains within it no cause of discord, none to put at variance one portion of the community
with another; a Government which protects every citizen in the full enjoyment of his rights,
and is able to protect the nation against injustice from foreign powers.

Other considerations of the highest importance admonish us to cherish our Union and to cling
to the Government which supports it. Fortunate as we are in our political institutions, we
have not been less so in other circumstances on which our prosperity and happiness essentially
depend. Situated within the temperate zone, and extending through many degrees of latitude
along the Atlantic, the United States enjoy all the varieties of climate, and every production
incident to that portion of the globe. Penetrating internally to the Great Lakes and beyond
the sources of the great rivers which communicate through our whole interior, no country was
ever happier with respect to its domain. Blessed, too, with a fertile soil, our produce has
always been very abundant, leaving, even in years the least favorable, a surplus for the wants
of our fellow-men in other countries. Such is our peculiar felicity that there is not a part
of our Union that is not particularly interested in preserving it. The great agricultural interest
of the nation prospers under its protection. Local interests are not less fostered by it. Our
fellow-citizens of the North engaged in navigation find great encouragement in being made the
favored carriers of the vast productions of the other portions of the United States, while
the inhabitants of these are amply recompensed, in their turn, by the nursery for seamen and
naval force thus formed and reared up for the support of our common rights. Our manufactures
find a generous encouragement by the policy which patronizes domestic industry, and the surplus
of our produce a steady and profitable market by local wants in less-favored parts at home.

Such, then, being the highly favored condition of our country, it is the interest of every
citizen to maintain it. What are the dangers which menace us? If any exist they ought to be
ascertained and guarded against.

In explaining my sentiments on this subject it may be asked, What raised us to the present
happy state? How did we accomplish the Revolution? How remedy the defects of the first instrument
of our Union, by infusing into the National Government sufficient power for national purposes,
without impairing the just rights of the States or affecting those of individuals? How sustain
and pass with glory through the late war? The Government has been in the hands of the people.
To the people, therefore, and to the faithful and able depositaries of their trust is the credit
due. Had the people of the United States been educated in different principles, had they been
less intelligent, less independent, or less virtuous, can it be believed that we should have
maintained the same steady and consistent career or been blessed with the same success? While,
then, the constituent body retains its present sound and healthful state everything will be
safe. They will choose competent and faithful representatives for every department. It is only
when the people become ignorant and corrupt, when they degenerate into a populace, that they
are incapable of exercising the sovereignty. Usurpation is then an easy attainment, and an
usurper soon found. The people themselves become the willing instruments of their own debasement
and ruin. Let us, then, look to the great cause, and endeavor to preserve it in full force.
Let us by all wise and constitutional measures promote intelligence among the people as the
best means of preserving our liberties.

Dangers from abroad are not less deserving of attention. Experiencing the fortune of other
nations, the United States may be again involved in war, and it may in that event be the object
of the adverse party to overset our Government, to break our Union, and demolish us as a nation.
Our distance from Europe and the just, moderate, and pacific policy of our Government may form
some security against these dangers, but they ought to be anticipated and guarded against.
Many of our citizens are engaged in commerce and navigation, and all of them are in a certain
degree dependent on their prosperous state. Many are engaged in the fisheries. These interests
are exposed to invasion in the wars between other powers, and we should disregard the faithful
admonition of experience if we did not expect it. We must support our rights or lose our character,
and with it, perhaps, our liberties. A people who fail to do it can scarcely be said to hold
a place among independent nations. National honor is national property of the highest value.
The sentiment in the mind of every citizen is national strength. It ought therefore to be cherished.

To secure us against these dangers our coast and inland frontiers should be fortified, our
Army and Navy, regulated upon just principles as to the force of each, be kept in perfect order,
and our militia be placed on the best practicable footing. To put our extensive coast in such
a state of defense as to secure our cities and interior from invasion will be attended with
expense, but the work when finished will be permanent, and it is fair to presume that a single
campaign of invasion by a naval force superior to our own, aided by a few thousand land troops,
would expose us to greater expense, without taking into the estimate the loss of property and
distress of our citizens, than would be sufficient for this great work. Our land and naval
forces should be moderate, but adequate to the necessary purposes--the former to garrison and
preserve our fortifications and to meet the first invasions of a foreign foe, and, while constituting
the elements of a greater force, to preserve the science as well as all the necessary implements
of war in a state to be brought into activity in the event of war; the latter, retained within
the limits proper in a state of peace, might aid in maintaining the neutrality of the United
States with dignity in the wars of other powers and in saving the property of their citizens
from spoliation. In time of war, with the enlargement of which the great naval resources of
the country render it susceptible, and which should be duly fostered in time of peace, it would
contribute essentially, both as an auxiliary of defense and as a powerful engine of annoyance,
to diminish the calamities of war and to bring the war to a speedy and honorable termination.

But it ought always to be held prominently in view that the safety of these States and of everything
dear to a free people must depend in an eminent degree on the militia. Invasions may be made
too formidable to be resisted by any land and naval force which it would comport either with
the principles of our Government or the circumstances of the United States to maintain. In
such cases recourse must be had to the great body of the people, and in a manner to produce
the best effect. It is of the highest importance, therefore, that they be so organized and
trained as to be prepared for any emergency. The arrangement should be such as to put at the
command of the Government the ardent patriotism and youthful vigor of the country. If formed
on equal and just principles, it can not be oppressive. It is the crisis which makes the pressure,
and not the laws which provide a remedy for it. This arrangement should be formed, too, in
time of peace, to be the better prepared for war. With such an organization of such a people
the United States have nothing to dread from foreign invasion. At its approach an overwhelming
force of gallant men might always be put in motion.

Other interests of high importance will claim attention, among which the improvement of our
country by roads and canals, proceeding always with a constitutional sanction, holds a distinguished
place. By thus facilitating the intercourse between the States we shall add much to the convenience
and comfort of our fellow-citizens, much to the ornament of the country, and, what is of greater
importance, we shall shorten distances, and, by making each part more accessible to and dependent
on the other, we shall bind the Union more closely together. Nature has done so much for us
by intersecting the country with so many great rivers, bays, and lakes, approaching from distant
points so near to each other, that the inducement to complete the work seems to be peculiarly
strong. A more interesting spectacle was perhaps never seen than is exhibited within the limits
of the United States--a territory so vast and advantageously situated, containing objects so
grand, so useful, so happily connected in all their parts!

Our manufacturers will likewise require the systematic and fostering care of the Government.
Possessing as we do all the raw materials, the fruit of our own soil and industry, we ought
not to depend in the degree we have done on supplies from other countries. While we are thus
dependent the sudden event of war, unsought and unexpected, can not fail to plunge us into
the most serious difficulties. It is important, too, that the capital which nourishes our manufacturers
should be domestic, as its influence in that case instead of exhausting, as it may do in foreign
hands, would be felt advantageously on agriculture and every other branch of industry. Equally
important is it to provide at home a market for our raw materials, as by extending the competition
it will enhance the price and protect the cultivator against the casualties incident to foreign
markets.

With the Indian tribes it is our duty to cultivate friendly relations and to act with kindness
and liberality in all our transactions. Equally proper is it to persevere in our efforts to
extend to them the advantages of civilization.

The great amount of our revenue and the flourishing state of the Treasury are a full proof
of the competency of the national resources for any emergency, as they are of the willingness
of our fellow-citizens to bear the burdens which the public necessities require. The vast amount
of vacant lands, the value of which daily augments, forms an additional resource of great extent
and duration. These resources, besides accomplishing every other necessary purpose, put it
completely in the power of the United States to discharge the national debt at an early period.
Peace is the best time for improvement and preparation of every kind; it is in peace that our
commerce flourishes most, that taxes are most easily paid, and that the revenue is most productive.

The Executive is charged officially in the Departments under it with the disbursement of the
public money, and is responsible for the faithful application of it to the purposes for which
it is raised. The Legislature is the watchful guardian over the public purse. It is its duty
to see that the disbursement has been honestly made. To meet the requisite responsibility every
facility should be afforded to the Executive to enable it to bring the public agents intrusted
with the public money strictly and promptly to account. Nothing should be presumed against
them; but if, with the requisite facilities, the public money is suffered to lie long and uselessly
in their hands, they will not be the only defaulters, nor will the demoralizing effect be confined
to them. It will evince a relaxation and want of tone in the Administration which will be felt
by the whole community. I shall do all I can to secure economy and fidelity in this important
branch of the Administration, and I doubt not that the Legislature will perform its duty with
equal zeal. A thorough examination should be regularly made, and I will promote it.

It is particularly gratifying to me to enter on the discharge of these duties at a time when
the United States are blessed with peace. It is a state most consistent with their prosperity
and happiness. It will be my sincere desire to preserve it, so far as depends on the Executive,
on just principles with all nations, claiming nothing unreasonable of any and rendering to
each what is its due.

Equally gratifying is it to witness the increased harmony of opinion which pervades our Union.
Discord does not belong to our system. Union is recommended as well by the free and benign
principles of our Government, extending its blessings to every individual, as by the other
eminent advantages attending it. The American people have encountered together great dangers
and sustained severe trials with success. They constitute one great family with a common interest.
Experience has enlightened us on some questions of essential importance to the country. The
progress has been slow, dictated by a just reflection and a faithful regard to every interest
connected with it. To promote this harmony in accord with the principles of our republican
Government and in a manner to give them the most complete effect, and to advance in all other
respects the best interests of our Union, will be the object of my constant and zealous exertions.

Never did a government commence under auspices so favorable, nor ever was success so complete.
If we look to the history of other nations, ancient or modern, we find no example of a growth
so rapid, so gigantic, of a people so prosperous and happy. In contemplating what we have still
to perform, the heart of every citizen must expand with joy when he reflects how near our Government
has approached to perfection; that in respect to it we have no essential improvement to make;
that the great object is to preserve it in the essential principles and features which characterize
it, and that is to be done by preserving the virtue and enlightening the minds of the people;
and as a security against foreign dangers to adopt such arrangements as are indispensable to
the support of our independence, our rights and liberties. If we persevere in the career in
which we have advanced so far and in the path already traced, we can not fail, under the favor
of a gracious Providence, to attain the high destiny which seems to await us.

In the Administrations of the illustrious men who have preceded me in this high station, with
some of whom I have been connected by the closest ties from early life, examples are presented
which will always be found highly instructive and useful to their successors. From these I
shall endeavor to derive all the advantages which they may afford. Of my immediate predecessor,
under whom so important a portion of this great and successful experiment has been made, I
shall be pardoned for expressing my earnest wishes that he may long enjoy in his retirement
the affections of a grateful country, the best reward of exalted talents and the most faithful
and meritorious service. Relying on the aid to be derived from the other departments of the
Government, I enter on the trust to which I have been called by the suffrages of my fellow-citizens
with my fervent prayers to the Almighty that He will be graciously pleased to continue to us
that protection which He has already so conspicuously displayed in our favor.

***

James Monroe Second Inaugural Address Monday, March 5, 1821

Fellow-Citizens:

I shall not attempt to describe the grateful emotions which the new and very distinguished
proof of the confidence of my fellow-citizens, evinced by my reelection to this high trust,
has excited in my bosom. The approbation which it announces of my conduct in the preceding
term affords me a consolation which I shall profoundly feel through life. The general accord
with which it has been expressed adds to the great and never-ceasing obligations which it imposes.
To merit the continuance of this good opinion, and to carry it with me into my retirement as
the solace of advancing years, will be the object of my most zealous and unceasing efforts.

Having no pretensions to the high and commanding claims of my predecessors, whose names are
so much more conspicuously identified with our Revolution, and who contributed so preeminently
to promote its success, I consider myself rather as the instrument than the cause of the union
which has prevailed in the late election. In surmounting, in favor of my humble pretensions,
the difficulties which so often produce division in like occurrences, it is obvious that other
powerful causes, indicating the great strength and stability of our Union, have essentially
contributed to draw you together. That these powerful causes exist, and that they are permanent,
is my fixed opinion; that they may produce a like accord in all questions touching, however
remotely, the liberty, prosperity, and happiness of our country will always be the object of
my most fervent prayers to the Supreme Author of All Good.

In a government which is founded by the people, who possess exclusively the sovereignty, it
seems proper that the person who may be placed by their suffrages in this high trust should
declare on commencing its duties the principles on which he intends to conduct the Administration.
If the person thus elected has served the preceding term, an opportunity is afforded him to
review its principal occurrences and to give such further explanation respecting them as in
his judgment may be useful to his constituents. The events of one year have influence on those
of another, and, in like manner, of a preceding on the succeeding Administration. The movements
of a great nation are connected in all their parts. If errors have been committed they ought
to be corrected; if the policy is sound it ought to be supported. It is by a thorough knowledge
of the whole subject that our fellow-citizens are enabled to judge correctly of the past and
to give a proper direction to the future.

Just before the commencement of the last term the United States had concluded a war with a
very powerful nation on conditions equal and honorable to both parties. The events of that
war are too recent and too deeply impressed on the memory of all to require a development from
me. Our commerce had been in a great measure driven from the sea, our Atlantic and inland frontiers
were invaded in almost every part; the waste of life along our coast and on some parts of our
inland frontiers, to the defense of which our gallant and patriotic citizens were called, was
immense, in addition to which not less than $120,000,000 were added at its end to the public debt.

As soon as the war had terminated, the nation, admonished by its events, resolved to place
itself in a situation which should be better calculated to prevent the recurrence of a like
evil, and, in case it should recur, to mitigate its calamities. With this view, after reducing
our land force to the basis of a peace establishment, which has been further modified since,
provision was made for the construction of fortifications at proper points through the whole
extent of our coast and such an augmentation of our naval force as should be well adapted to
both purposes. The laws making this provision were passed in 1815 and 1816, and it has been
since the constant effort of the Executive to carry them into effect.

The advantage of these fortifications and of an augmented naval force in the extent contemplated,
in a point of economy, has been fully illustrated by a report of the Board of Engineers and
Naval Commissioners lately communicated to Congress, by which it appears that in an invasion
by 20,000 men, with a correspondent naval force, in a campaign of six months only, the whole
expense of the construction of the works would be defrayed by the difference in the sum necessary
to maintain the force which would be adequate to our defense with the aid of those works and
that which would be incurred without them. The reason of this difference is obvious. If fortifications
are judiciously placed on our great inlets, as distant from our cities as circumstances will
permit, they will form the only points of attack, and the enemy will be detained there by a
small regular force a sufficient time to enable our militia to collect and repair to that on
which the attack is made. A force adequate to the enemy, collected at that single point, with
suitable preparation for such others as might be menaced, is all that would be requisite. But
if there were no fortifications, then the enemy might go where he pleased, and, changing his
position and sailing from place to place, our force must be called out and spread in vast numbers
along the whole coast and on both sides of every bay and river as high up in each as it might
be navigable for ships of war. By these fortifications, supported by our Navy, to which they
would afford like support, we should present to other powers an armed front from St. Croix
to the Sabine, which would protect in the event of war our whole coast and interior from invasion;
and even in the wars of other powers, in which we were neutral, they would be found eminently
useful, as, by keeping their public ships at a distance from our cities, peace and order in
them would be preserved and the Government be protected from insult.

It need scarcely be remarked that these measures have not been resorted to in a spirit of hostility
to other powers. Such a disposition does not exist toward any power. Peace and good will have
been, and will hereafter be, cultivated with all, and by the most faithful regard to justice.
They have been dictated by a love of peace, of economy, and an earnest desire to save the lives
of our fellow-citizens from that destruction and our country from that devastation which are
inseparable from war when it finds us unprepared for it. It is believed, and experience has
shown, that such a preparation is the best expedient that can be resorted to prevent war. I
add with much pleasure that considerable progress has already been made in these measures of
defense, and that they will be completed in a few years, considering the great extent and importance
of the object, if the plan be zealously and steadily persevered in.

The conduct of the Government in what relates to foreign powers is always an object of the
highest importance to the nation. Its agriculture, commerce, manufactures, fisheries, revenue,
in short, its peace, may all be affected by it. Attention is therefore due to this subject.

At the period adverted to the powers of Europe, after having been engaged in long and destructive
wars with each other, had concluded a peace, which happily still exists. Our peace with the
power with whom we had been engaged had also been concluded. The war between Spain and the
colonies in South America, which had commenced many years before, was then the only conflict
that remained unsettled. This being a contest between different parts of the same community,
in which other powers had not interfered, was not affected by their accommodations.

This contest was considered at an early stage by my predecessor a civil war in which the parties
were entitled to equal rights in our ports. This decision, the first made by any power, being
formed on great consideration of the comparative strength and resources of the parties, the
length of time, and successful opposition made by the colonies, and of all other circumstances
on which it ought to depend, was in strict accord with the law of nations. Congress has invariably
acted on this principle, having made no change in our relations with either party. Our attitude
has therefore been that of neutrality between them, which has been maintained by the Government
with the strictest impartiality. No aid has been afforded to either, nor has any privilege
been enjoyed by the one which has not been equally open to the other party, and every exertion
has been made in its power to enforce the execution of the laws prohibiting illegal equipments
with equal rigor against both.

By this equality between the parties their public vessels have been received in our ports on
the same footing; they have enjoyed an equal right to purchase and export arms, munitions of
war, and every other supply, the exportation of all articles whatever being permitted under
laws which were passed long before the commencement of the contest; our citizens have traded
equally with both, and their commerce with each has been alike protected by the Government.

Respecting the attitude which it may be proper for the United States to maintain hereafter
between the parties, I have no hesitation in stating it as my opinion that the neutrality heretofore
observed should still be adhered to. From the change in the Government of Spain and the negotiation
now depending, invited by the Cortes and accepted by the colonies, it may be presumed, that
their differences will be settled on the terms proposed by the colonies. Should the war be
continued, the United States, regarding its occurrences, will always have it in their power
to adopt such measures respecting it as their honor and interest may require.

Shortly after the general peace a band of adventurers took advantage of this conflict and of
the facility which it afforded to establish a system of buccaneering in the neighboring seas,
to the great annoyance of the commerce of the United States, and, as was represented, of that
of other powers. Of this spirit and of its injurious bearing on the United States strong proofs
were afforded by the establishment at Amelia Island, and the purposes to which it was made
instrumental by this band in 1817, and by the occurrences which took place in other parts of
Florida in 1818, the details of which in both instances are too well known to require to be
now recited. I am satisfied had a less decisive course been adopted that the worst consequences
would have resulted from it. We have seen that these checks, decisive as they were, were not
sufficient to crush that piratical spirit. Many culprits brought within our limits have been
condemned to suffer death, the punishment due to that atrocious crime. The decisions of upright
and enlightened tribunals fall equally on all whose crimes subject them, by a fair interpretation
of the law, to its censure. It belongs to the Executive not to suffer the executions under
these decisions to transcend the great purpose for which punishment is necessary. The full
benefit of example being secured, policy as well as humanity equally forbids that they should
be carried further. I have acted on this principle, pardoning those who appear to have been
led astray by ignorance of the criminality of the acts they had committed, and suffering the
law to take effect on those only in whose favor no extenuating circumstances could be urged.

Great confidence is entertained that the late treaty with Spain, which has been ratified by
both the parties, and the ratifications whereof have been exchanged, has placed the relations
of the two countries on a basis of permanent friendship. The provision made by it for such
of our citizens as have claims on Spain of the character described will, it is presumed, be
very satisfactory to them, and the boundary which is established between the territories of
the parties westward of the Mississippi, heretofore in dispute, has, it is thought, been settled
on conditions just and advantageous to both. But to the acquisition of Florida too much importance
can not be attached. It secures to the United States a territory important in itself, and whose
importance is much increased by its bearing on many of the highest interests of the Union.
It opens to several of the neighboring States a free passage to the ocean, through the Province
ceded, by several rivers, having their sources high up within their limits. It secures us against
all future annoyance from powerful Indian tribes. It gives us several excellent harbors in
the Gulf of Mexico for ships of war of the largest size. It covers by its position in the Gulf
the Mississippi and other great waters within our extended limits, and thereby enables the
United States to afford complete protection to the vast and very valuable productions of our
whole Western country, which find a market through those streams.

By a treaty with the British Government, bearing date on the 20th of October, 1818, the convention
regulating the commerce between the United States and Great Britain, concluded on the 3d of
July, 1815, which was about expiring, was revived and continued for the term of ten years from
the time of its expiration. By that treaty, also, the differences which had arisen under the
treaty of Ghent respecting the right claimed by the United States for their citizens to take
and cure fish on the coast of His Britannic Majesty's dominions in America, with other differences
on important interests, were adjusted to the satisfaction of both parties. No agreement has
yet been entered into respecting the commerce between the United States and the British dominions
in the West Indies and on this continent. The restraints imposed on that commerce by Great
Britain, and reciprocated by the United States on a principle of defense, continue still in force.

The negotiation with France for the regulation of the commercial relations between the two
countries, which in the course of the last summer had been commenced at Paris, has since been
transferred to this city, and will be pursued on the part of the United States in the spirit
of conciliation, and with an earnest desire that it may terminate in an arrangement satisfactory
to both parties.

Our relations with the Barbary Powers are preserved in the same state and by the same means
that were employed when I came into this office. As early as 1801 it was found necessary to
send a squadron into the Mediterranean for the protection of our commerce, and no period has
intervened, a short term excepted, when it was thought advisable to withdraw it. The great
interests which the United States have in the Pacific, in commerce and in the fisheries, have
also made it necessary to maintain a naval force there. In disposing of this force in both
instances the most effectual measures in our power have been taken, without interfering with
its other duties, for the suppression of the slave trade and of piracy in the neighboring seas.

The situation of the United States in regard to their resources, the extent of their revenue,
and the facility with which it is raised affords a most gratifying spectacle. The payment of
nearly $67,000,000 of the public debt, with the great progress made in measures of defense
and in other improvements of various kinds since the late war, are conclusive proofs of this
extraordinary prosperity, especially when it is recollected that these expenditures have been
defrayed without a burthen on the people, the direct tax and excise having been repealed soon
after the conclusion of the late war, and the revenue applied to these great objects having
been raised in a manner not to be felt. Our great resources therefore remain untouched for
any purpose which may affect the vital interests of the nation. For all such purposes they
are inexhaustible. They are more especially to be found in the virtue, patriotism, and intelligence
of our fellow-citizens, and in the devotion with which they would yield up by any just measure
of taxation all their property in support of the rights and honor of their country.

Under the present depression of prices, affecting all the productions of the country and every
branch of industry, proceeding from causes explained on a former occasion, the revenue has
considerably diminished, the effect of which has been to compel Congress either to abandon
these great measures of defense or to resort to loans or internal taxes to supply the deficiency.
On the presumption that this depression and the deficiency in the revenue arising from it would
be temporary, loans were authorized for the demands of the last and present year. Anxious to
relieve my fellow-citizens in 1817 from every burthen which could be dispensed with, and the
state of the Treasury permitting it, I recommended the repeal of the internal taxes, knowing
that such relief was then peculiarly necessary in consequence of the great exertions made in
the late war. I made that recommendation under a pledge that should the public exigencies require
a recurrence to them at any time while I remained in this trust, I would with equal promptitude
perform the duty which would then be alike incumbent on me. By the experiment now making it
will be seen by the next session of Congress whether the revenue shall have been so augmented
as to be adequate to all these necessary purposes. Should the deficiency still continue, and
especially should it be probable that it would be permanent, the course to be pursued appears
to me to be obvious. I am satisfied that under certain circumstances loans may be resorted
to with great advantage. I am equally well satisfied, as a general rule, that the demands of
the current year, especially in time of peace, should be provided for by the revenue of that year.

I have never dreaded, nor have I ever shunned, in any situation in which I have been placed
making appeals to the virtue and patriotism of my fellow-citizens, well knowing that they could
never be made in vain, especially in times of great emergency or for purposes of high national
importance. Independently of the exigency of the case, many considerations of great weight
urge a policy having in view a provision of revenue to meet to a certain extent the demands
of the nation, without relying altogether on the precarious resource of foreign commerce. I
am satisfied that internal duties and excises, with corresponding imposts on foreign articles
of the same kind, would, without imposing any serious burdens on the people, enhance the price
of produce, promote our manufactures, and augment the revenue, at the same time that they made
it more secure and permanent.

The care of the Indian tribes within our limits has long been an essential part of our system,
but, unfortunately, it has not been executed in a manner to accomplish all the objects intended
by it. We have treated them as independent nations, without their having any substantial pretensions
to that rank. The distinction has flattered their pride, retarded their improvement, and in
many instances paved the way to their destruction. The progress of our settlements westward,
supported as they are by a dense population, has constantly driven them back, with almost the
total sacrifice of the lands which they have been compelled to abandon. They have claims on
the magnanimity and, I may add, on the justice of this nation which we must all feel. We should
become their real benefactors; we should perform the office of their Great Father, the endearing
title which they emphatically give to the Chief Magistrate of our Union. Their sovereignty
over vast territories should cease, in lieu of which the right of soil should be secured to
each individual and his posterity in competent portions; and for the territory thus ceded by
each tribe some reasonable equivalent should be granted, to be vested in permanent funds for
the support of civil government over them and for the education of their children, for their
instruction in the arts of husbandry, and to provide sustenance for them until they could provide
it for themselves. My earnest hope is that Congress will digest some plan, founded on these
principles, with such improvements as their wisdom may suggest, and carry it into effect as
soon as it may be practicable.

Europe is again unsettled and the prospect of war increasing. Should the flame light up in
any quarter, how far it may extend it is impossible to foresee. It is our peculiar felicity
to be altogether unconnected with the causes which produce this menacing aspect elsewhere.
With every power we are in perfect amity, and it is our interest to remain so if it be practicable
on just conditions. I see no reasonable cause to apprehend variance with any power, unless
it proceed from a violation of our maritime rights. In these contests, should they occur, and
to whatever extent they may be carried, we shall be neutral; but as a neutral power we have
rights which it is our duty to maintain. For like injuries it will be incumbent on us to seek
redress in a spirit of amity, in full confidence that, injuring none, none would knowingly
injure us. For more imminent dangers we should be prepared, and it should always be recollected
that such preparation adapted to the circumstances and sanctioned by the judgment and wishes
of our constituents can not fail to have a good effect in averting dangers of every kind. We
should recollect also that the season of peace is best adapted to these preparations.

If we turn our attention, fellow-citizens, more immediately to the internal concerns of our
country, and more especially to those on which its future welfare depends, we have every reason
to anticipate the happiest results. It is now rather more than forty-four years since we declared
our independence, and thirty-seven since it was acknowledged. The talents and virtues which
were displayed in that great struggle were a sure presage of all that has since followed. A
people who were able to surmount in their infant state such great perils would be more competent
as they rose into manhood to repel any which they might meet in their progress. Their physical
strength would be more adequate to foreign danger, and the practice of self-government, aided
by the light of experience, could not fail to produce an effect equally salutary on all those
questions connected with the internal organization. These favorable anticipations have been
realized.

In our whole system, national and State, we have shunned all the defects which unceasingly
preyed on the vitals and destroyed the ancient Republics. In them there were distinct orders,
a nobility and a people, or the people governed in one assembly. Thus, in the one instance
there was a perpetual conflict between the orders in society for the ascendency, in which the
victory of either terminated in the overthrow of the government and the ruin of the state;
in the other, in which the people governed in a body, and whose dominions seldom exceeded the
dimensions of a county in one of our States, a tumultuous and disorderly movement permitted
only a transitory existence. In this great nation there is but one order, that of the people,
whose power, by a peculiarly happy improvement of the representative principle, is transferred
from them, without impairing in the slightest degree their sovereignty, to bodies of their
own creation, and to persons elected by themselves, in the full extent necessary for all the
purposes of free, enlightened and efficient government. The whole system is elective, the complete
sovereignty being in the people, and every officer in every department deriving his authority
from and being responsible to them for his conduct.

Our career has corresponded with this great outline. Perfection in our organization could not
have been expected in the outset either in the National or State Governments or in tracing
the line between their respective powers. But no serious conflict has arisen, nor any contest
but such as are managed by argument and by a fair appeal to the good sense of the people, and
many of the defects which experience had clearly demonstrated in both Governments have been
remedied. By steadily pursuing this course in this spirit there is every reason to believe
that our system will soon attain the highest degree of perfection of which human institutions
are capable, and that the movement in all its branches will exhibit such a degree of order
and harmony as to command the admiration and respect of the civilized world.

Our physical attainments have not been less eminent. Twenty-five years ago the river Mississippi
was shut up and our Western brethren had no outlet for their commerce. What has been the progress
since that time? The river has not only become the property of the United States from its source
to the ocean, with all its tributary streams (with the exception of the upper part of the Red
River only), but Louisiana, with a fair and liberal boundary on the western side and the Floridas
on the eastern, have been ceded to us. The United States now enjoy the complete and uninterrupted
sovereignty over the whole territory from St. Croix to the Sabine. New States, settled from
among ourselves in this and in other parts, have been admitted into our Union in equal participation
in the national sovereignty with the original States. Our population has augmented in an astonishing
degree and extended in every direction. We now, fellow-citizens, comprise within our limits
the dimensions and faculties of a great power under a Government possessing all the energies
of any government ever known to the Old World, with an utter incapacity to oppress the people.

Entering with these views the office which I have just solemnly sworn to execute with fidelity
and to the utmost of my ability, I derive great satisfaction from a knowledge that I shall
be assisted in the several Departments by the very enlightened and upright citizens from whom
I have received so much aid in the preceding term. With full confidence in the continuance
of that candor and generous indulgence from my fellow-citizens at large which I have heretofore
experienced, and with a firm reliance on the protection of Almighty God, I shall forthwith
commence the duties of the high trust to which you have called me.

***

John Quincy Adams Inaugural Address Friday, March 4, 1825

In compliance with an usage coeval with the existence of our Federal Constitution, and sanctioned
by the example of my predecessors in the career upon which I am about to enter, I appear, my
fellow-citizens, in your presence and in that of Heaven to bind myself by the solemnities of
religious obligation to the faithful performance of the duties allotted to me in the station
to which I have been called.

In unfolding to my countrymen the principles by which I shall be governed in the fulfillment
of those duties my first resort will be to that Constitution which I shall swear to the best
of my ability to preserve, protect, and defend. That revered instrument enumerates the powers
and prescribes the duties of the Executive Magistrate, and in its first words declares the
purposes to which these and the whole action of the Government instituted by it should be invariably
and sacredly devoted--to form a more perfect union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquillity,
provide for the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure the blessings of liberty
to the people of this Union in their successive generations. Since the adoption of this social
compact one of these generations has passed away. It is the work of our forefathers. Administered
by some of the most eminent men who contributed to its formation, through a most eventful period
in the annals of the world, and through all the vicissitudes of peace and war incidental to
the condition of associated man, it has not disappointed the hopes and aspirations of those
illustrious benefactors of their age and nation. It has promoted the lasting welfare of that
country so dear to us all; it has to an extent far beyond the ordinary lot of humanity secured
the freedom and happiness of this people. We now receive it as a precious inheritance from
those to whom we are indebted for its establishment, doubly bound by the examples which they
have left us and by the blessings which we have enjoyed as the fruits of their labors to transmit
the same unimpaired to the succeeding generation.

In the compass of thirty-six years since this great national covenant was instituted a body
of laws enacted under its authority and in conformity with its provisions has unfolded its
powers and carried into practical operation its effective energies. Subordinate departments
have distributed the executive functions in their various relations to foreign affairs, to
the revenue and expenditures, and to the military force of the Union by land and sea. A coordinate
department of the judiciary has expounded the Constitution and the laws, settling in harmonious
coincidence with the legislative will numerous weighty questions of construction which the
imperfection of human language had rendered unavoidable. The year of jubilee since the first
formation of our Union has just elapsed; that of the declaration of our independence is at
hand. The consummation of both was effected by this Constitution.

Since that period a population of four millions has multiplied to twelve. A territory bounded
by the Mississippi has been extended from sea to sea. New States have been admitted to the
Union in numbers nearly equal to those of the first Confederation. Treaties of peace, amity,
and commerce have been concluded with the principal dominions of the earth. The people of other
nations, inhabitants of regions acquired not by conquest, but by compact, have been united
with us in the participation of our rights and duties, of our burdens and blessings. The forest
has fallen by the ax of our woodsmen; the soil has been made to teem by the tillage of our
farmers; our commerce has whitened every ocean. The dominion of man over physical nature has
been extended by the invention of our artists. Liberty and law have marched hand in hand. All
the purposes of human association have been accomplished as effectively as under any other
government on the globe, and at a cost little exceeding in a whole generation the expenditure
of other nations in a single year.

Such is the unexaggerated picture of our condition under a Constitution founded upon the republican
principle of equal rights. To admit that this picture has its shades is but to say that it
is still the condition of men upon earth. From evil--physical, moral, and political--it is
not our claim to be exempt. We have suffered sometimes by the visitation of Heaven through
disease; often by the wrongs and injustice of other nations, even to the extremities of war;
and, lastly, by dissensions among ourselves--dissensions perhaps inseparable from the enjoyment
of freedom, but which have more than once appeared to threaten the dissolution of the Union,
and with it the overthrow of all the enjoyments of our present lot and all our earthly hopes
of the future. The causes of these dissensions have been various, founded upon differences
of speculation in the theory of republican government; upon conflicting views of policy in
our relations with foreign nations; upon jealousies of partial and sectional interests, aggravated
by prejudices and prepossessions which strangers to each other are ever apt to entertain.

It is a source of gratification and of encouragement to me to observe that the great result
of this experiment upon the theory of human rights has at the close of that generation by which
it was formed been crowned with success equal to the most sanguine expectations of its founders.
Union, justice, tranquillity, the common defense, the general welfare, and the blessings of
liberty--all have been promoted by the Government under which we have lived. Standing at this
point of time, looking back to that generation which has gone by and forward to that which
is advancing, we may at once indulge in grateful exultation and in cheering hope. From the
experience of the past we derive instructive lessons for the future. Of the two great political
parties which have divided the opinions and feelings of our country, the candid and the just
will now admit that both have contributed splendid talents, spotless integrity, ardent patriotism,
and disinterested sacrifices to the formation and administration of this Government, and that
both have required a liberal indulgence for a portion of human infirmity and error. The revolutionary
wars of Europe, commencing precisely at the moment when the Government of the United States
first went into operation under this Constitution, excited a collision of sentiments and of
sympathies which kindled all the passions and imbittered the conflict of parties till the nation
was involved in war and the Union was shaken to its center. This time of trial embraced a period
of five and twenty years, during which the policy of the Union in its relations with Europe
constituted the principal basis of our political divisions and the most arduous part of the
action of our Federal Government. With the catastrophe in which the wars of the French Revolution
terminated, and our own subsequent peace with Great Britain, this baneful weed of party strife
was uprooted. From that time no difference of principle, connected either with the theory of
government or with our intercourse with foreign nations, has existed or been called forth in
force sufficient to sustain a continued combination of parties or to give more than wholesome
animation to public sentiment or legislative debate. Our political creed is, without a dissenting
voice that can be heard, that the will of the people is the source and the happiness of the
people the end of all legitimate government upon earth; that the best security for the beneficence
and the best guaranty against the abuse of power consists in the freedom, the purity, and the
frequency of popular elections; that the General Government of the Union and the separate governments
of the States are all sovereignties of limited powers, fellow-servants of the same masters,
uncontrolled within their respective spheres, uncontrollable by encroachments upon each other;
that the firmest security of peace is the preparation during peace of the defenses of war;
that a rigorous economy and accountability of public expenditures should guard against the
aggravation and alleviate when possible the burden of taxation; that the military should be
kept in strict subordination to the civil power; that the freedom of the press and of religious
opinion should be inviolate; that the policy of our country is peace and the ark of our salvation
union are articles of faith upon which we are all now agreed. If there have been those who
doubted whether a confederated representative democracy were a government competent to the
wise and orderly management of the common concerns of a mighty nation, those doubts have been
dispelled; if there have been projects of partial confederacies to be erected upon the ruins
of the Union, they have been scattered to the winds; if there have been dangerous attachments
to one foreign nation and antipathies against another, they have been extinguished. Ten years
of peace, at home and abroad, have assuaged the animosities of political contention and blended
into harmony the most discordant elements of public opinion. There still remains one effort
of magnanimity, one sacrifice of prejudice and passion, to be made by the individuals throughout
the nation who have heretofore followed the standards of political party. It is that of discarding
every remnant of rancor against each other, of embracing as countrymen and friends, and of
yielding to talents and virtue alone that confidence which in times of contention for principle
was bestowed only upon those who bore the badge of party communion.

The collisions of party spirit which originate in speculative opinions or in different views
of administrative policy are in their nature transitory. Those which are founded on geographical
divisions, adverse interests of soil, climate, and modes of domestic life are more permanent,
and therefore, perhaps, more dangerous. It is this which gives inestimable value to the character
of our Government, at once federal and national. It holds out to us a perpetual admonition
to preserve alike and with equal anxiety the rights of each individual State in its own government
and the rights of the whole nation in that of the Union. Whatsoever is of domestic concernment,
unconnected with the other members of the Union or with foreign lands, belongs exclusively
to the administration of the State governments. Whatsoever directly involves the rights and
interests of the federative fraternity or of foreign powers is of the resort of this General
Government. The duties of both are obvious in the general principle, though sometimes perplexed
with difficulties in the detail. To respect the rights of the State governments is the inviolable
duty of that of the Union; the government of every State will feel its own obligation to respect
and preserve the rights of the whole. The prejudices everywhere too commonly entertained against
distant strangers are worn away, and the jealousies of jarring interests are allayed by the
composition and functions of the great national councils annually assembled from all quarters
of the Union at this place. Here the distinguished men from every section of our country, while
meeting to deliberate upon the great interests of those by whom they are deputed, learn to
estimate the talents and do justice to the virtues of each other. The harmony of the nation
is promoted and the whole Union is knit together by the sentiments of mutual respect, the habits
of social intercourse, and the ties of personal friendship formed between the representatives
of its several parts in the performance of their service at this metropolis.

Passing from this general review of the purposes and injunctions of the Federal Constitution
and their results as indicating the first traces of the path of duty in the discharge of my
public trust, I turn to the Administration of my immediate predecessor as the second. It has
passed away in a period of profound peace, how much to the satisfaction of our country and
to the honor of our country's name is known to you all. The great features of its policy, in
general concurrence with the will of the Legislature, have been to cherish peace while preparing
for defensive war; to yield exact justice to other nations and maintain the rights of our own;
to cherish the principles of freedom and of equal rights wherever they were proclaimed; to
discharge with all possible promptitude the national debt; to reduce within the narrowest limits
of efficiency the military force; to improve the organization and discipline of the Army; to
provide and sustain a school of military science; to extend equal protection to all the great
interests of the nation; to promote the civilization of the Indian tribes, and to proceed in
the great system of internal improvements within the limits of the constitutional power of
the Union. Under the pledge of these promises, made by that eminent citizen at the time of
his first induction to this office, in his career of eight years the internal taxes have been
repealed; sixty millions of the public debt have been discharged; provision has been made for
the comfort and relief of the aged and indigent among the surviving warriors of the Revolution;
the regular armed force has been reduced and its constitution revised and perfected; the accountability
for the expenditure of public moneys has been made more effective; the Floridas have been peaceably
acquired, and our boundary has been extended to the Pacific Ocean; the independence of the
southern nations of this hemisphere has been recognized, and recommended by example and by
counsel to the potentates of Europe; progress has been made in the defense of the country by
fortifications and the increase of the Navy, toward the effectual suppression of the African
traffic in slaves; in alluring the aboriginal hunters of our land to the cultivation of the
soil and of the mind, in exploring the interior regions of the Union, and in preparing by scientific
researches and surveys for the further application of our national resources to the internal
improvement of our country.

In this brief outline of the promise and performance of my immediate predecessor the line of
duty for his successor is clearly delineated. To pursue to their consummation those purposes
of improvement in our common condition instituted or recommended by him will embrace the whole
sphere of my obligations. To the topic of internal improvement, emphatically urged by him at
his inauguration, I recur with peculiar satisfaction. It is that from which I am convinced
that the unborn millions of our posterity who are in future ages to people this continent will
derive their most fervent gratitude to the founders of the Union; that in which the beneficent
action of its Government will be most deeply felt and acknowledged. The magnificence and splendor
of their public works are among the imperishable glories of the ancient republics. The roads
and aqueducts of Rome have been the admiration of all after ages, and have survived thousands
of years after all her conquests have been swallowed up in despotism or become the spoil of
barbarians. Some diversity of opinion has prevailed with regard to the powers of Congress for
legislation upon objects of this nature. The most respectful deference is due to doubts originating
in pure patriotism and sustained by venerated authority. But nearly twenty years have passed
since the construction of the first national road was commenced. The authority for its construction
was then unquestioned. To how many thousands of our countrymen has it proved a benefit? To
what single individual has it ever proved an injury? Repeated, liberal, and candid discussions
in the Legislature have conciliated the sentiments and approximated the opinions of enlightened
minds upon the question of constitutional power. I can not but hope that by the same process
of friendly, patient, and persevering deliberation all constitutional objections will ultimately
be removed. The extent and limitation of the powers of the General Government in relation to
this transcendently important interest will be settled and acknowledged to the common satisfaction
of all, and every speculative scruple will be solved by a practical public blessing.

Fellow-citizens, you are acquainted with the peculiar circumstances of the recent election,
which have resulted in affording me the opportunity of addressing you at this time. You have
heard the exposition of the principles which will direct me in the fulfillment of the high
and solemn trust imposed upon me in this station. Less possessed of your confidence in advance
than any of my predecessors, I am deeply conscious of the prospect that I shall stand more
and oftener in need of your indulgence. Intentions upright and pure, a heart devoted to the
welfare of our country, and the unceasing application of all the faculties allotted to me to
her service are all the pledges that I can give for the faithful performance of the arduous
duties I am to undertake. To the guidance of the legislative councils, to the assistance of
the executive and subordinate departments, to the friendly cooperation of the respective State
governments, to the candid and liberal support of the people so far as it may be deserved by
honest industry and zeal, I shall look for whatever success may attend my public service; and
knowing that "except the Lord keep the city the watchman waketh but in vain," with fervent
supplications for His favor, to His overruling providence I commit with humble but fearless
confidence my own fate and the future destinies of my country.

***

Andrew Jackson First Inaugural Address Wednesday, March 4, 1829

Fellow-Citizens:

About to undertake the arduous duties that I have been appointed to perform by the choice of
a free people, I avail myself of this customary and solemn occasion to express the gratitude
which their confidence inspires and to acknowledge the accountability which my situation enjoins.
While the magnitude of their interests convinces me that no thanks can be adequate to the honor
they have conferred, it admonishes me that the best return I can make is the zealous dedication
of my humble abilities to their service and their good.

As the instrument of the Federal Constitution it will devolve on me for a stated period to
execute the laws of the United States, to superintend their foreign and their confederate relations,
to manage their revenue, to command their forces, and, by communications to the Legislature,
to watch over and to promote their interests generally. And the principles of action by which
I shall endeavor to accomplish this circle of duties it is now proper for me briefly to explain.

In administering the laws of Congress I shall keep steadily in view the limitations as well
as the extent of the Executive power, trusting thereby to discharge the functions of my office
without transcending its authority. With foreign nations it will be my study to preserve peace
and to cultivate friendship on fair and honorable terms, and in the adjustment of any differences
that may exist or arise to exhibit the forbearance becoming a powerful nation rather than the
sensibility belonging to a gallant people.

In such measures as I may be called on to pursue in regard to the rights of the separate States
I hope to be animated by a proper respect for those sovereign members of our Union, taking
care not to confound the powers they have reserved to themselves with those they have granted
to the Confederacy.

The management of the public revenue--that searching operation in all governments--is among
the most delicate and important trusts in ours, and it will, of course, demand no inconsiderable
share of my official solicitude. Under every aspect in which it can be considered it would
appear that advantage must result from the observance of a strict and faithful economy. This
I shall aim at the more anxiously both because it will facilitate the extinguishment of the
national debt, the unnecessary duration of which is incompatible with real independence, and
because it will counteract that tendency to public and private profligacy which a profuse expenditure
of money by the Government is but too apt to engender. Powerful auxiliaries to the attainment
of this desirable end are to be found in the regulations provided by the wisdom of Congress
for the specific appropriation of public money and the prompt accountability of public officers.

With regard to a proper selection of the subjects of impost with a view to revenue, it would
seem to me that the spirit of equity, caution, and compromise in which the Constitution was
formed requires that the great interests of agriculture, commerce, and manufactures should
be equally favored, and that perhaps the only exception to this rule should consist in the
peculiar encouragement of any products of either of them that may be found essential to our
national independence.

Internal improvement and the diffusion of knowledge, so far as they can be promoted by the
constitutional acts of the Federal Government, are of high importance.

Considering standing armies as dangerous to free governments in time of peace, I shall not
seek to enlarge our present establishment, nor disregard that salutary lesson of political
experience which teaches that the military should be held subordinate to the civil power. The
gradual increase of our Navy, whose flag has displayed in distant climes our skill in navigation
and our fame in arms; the preservation of our forts, arsenals, and dockyards, and the introduction
of progressive improvements in the discipline and science of both branches of our military
service are so plainly prescribed by prudence that I should be excused for omitting their mention
sooner than for enlarging on their importance. But the bulwark of our defense is the national
militia, which in the present state of our intelligence and population must render us invincible.
As long as our Government is administered for the good of the people, and is regulated by their
will; as long as it secures to us the rights of person and of property, liberty of conscience
and of the press, it will be worth defending; and so long as it is worth defending a patriotic
militia will cover it with an impenetrable aegis. Partial injuries and occasional mortifications
we may be subjected to, but a million of armed freemen, possessed of the means of war, can
never be conquered by a foreign foe. To any just system, therefore, calculated to strengthen
this natural safeguard of the country I shall cheerfully lend all the aid in my power.

It will be my sincere and constant desire to observe toward the Indian tribes within our limits
a just and liberal policy, and to give that humane and considerate attention to their rights
and their wants which is consistent with the habits of our Government and the feelings of our
people.

The recent demonstration of public sentiment inscribes on the list of Executive duties, in
characters too legible to be overlooked, the task of reform, which will require particularly
the correction of those abuses that have brought the patronage of the Federal Government into
conflict with the freedom of elections, and the counteraction of those causes which have disturbed
the rightful course of appointment and have placed or continued power in unfaithful or incompetent
hands.

In the performance of a task thus generally delineated I shall endeavor to select men whose
diligence and talents will insure in their respective stations able and faithful cooperation,
depending for the advancement of the public service more on the integrity and zeal of the public
officers than on their numbers.

A diffidence, perhaps too just, in my own qualifications will teach me to look with reverence
to the examples of public virtue left by my illustrious predecessors, and with veneration to
the lights that flow from the mind that founded and the mind that reformed our system. The
same diffidence induces me to hope for instruction and aid from the coordinate branches of
the Government, and for the indulgence and support of my fellow-citizens generally. And a firm
reliance on the goodness of that Power whose providence mercifully protected our national infancy,
and has since upheld our liberties in various vicissitudes, encourages me to offer up my ardent
supplications that He will continue to make our beloved country the object of His divine care
and gracious benediction.

***

Andrew Jackson Second Inaugural Address Monday, March 4, 1833

Fellow-Citizens:

The will of the American people, expressed through their unsolicited suffrages, calls me before
you to pass through the solemnities preparatory to taking upon myself the duties of President
of the United States for another term. For their approbation of my public conduct through a
period which has not been without its difficulties, and for this renewed expression of their
confidence in my good intentions, I am at a loss for terms adequate to the expression of my
gratitude. It shall be displayed to the extent of my humble abilities in continued efforts
so to administer the Government as to preserve their liberty and promote their happiness.

So many events have occurred within the last four years which have necessarily called forth--sometimes
under circumstances the most delicate and painful--my views of the principles and policy which
ought to be pursued by the General Government that I need on this occasion but allude to a
few leading considerations connected with some of them.

The foreign policy adopted by our Government soon after the formation of our present Constitution,
and very generally pursued by successive Administrations, has been crowned with almost complete
success, and has elevated our character among the nations of the earth. To do justice to all
and to submit to wrong from none has been during my Administration its governing maxim, and
so happy have been its results that we are not only at peace with all the world, but have few
causes of controversy, and those of minor importance, remaining unadjusted.

In the domestic policy of this Government there are two objects which especially deserve the
attention of the people and their representatives, and which have been and will continue to
be the subjects of my increasing solicitude. They are the preservation of the rights of the
several States and the integrity of the Union.

These great objects are necessarily connected, and can only be attained by an enlightened exercise
of the powers of each within its appropriate sphere in conformity with the public will constitutionally
expressed. To this end it becomes the duty of all to yield a ready and patriotic submission
to the laws constitutionally enacted, and thereby promote and strengthen a proper confidence
in those institutions of the several States and of the United States which the people themselves
have ordained for their own government.

My experience in public concerns and the observation of a life somewhat advanced confirm the
opinions long since imbibed by me, that the destruction of our State governments or the annihilation
of their control over the local concerns of the people would lead directly to revolution and
anarchy, and finally to despotism and military domination. In proportion, therefore, as the
General Government encroaches upon the rights of the States, in the same proportion does it
impair its own power and detract from its ability to fulfill the purposes of its creation.
Solemnly impressed with these considerations, my countrymen will ever find me ready to exercise
my constitutional powers in arresting measures which may directly or indirectly encroach upon
the rights of the States or tend to consolidate all political power in the General Government.
But of equal, and, indeed, of incalculable, importance is the union of these States, and the
sacred duty of all to contribute to its preservation by a liberal support of the General Government
in the exercise of its just powers. You have been wisely admonished to "accustom yourselves
to think and speak of the Union as of the palladium of your political safety and prosperity,
watching for its preservation with jealous anxiety, discountenancing whatever may suggest even
a suspicion that it can in any event be abandoned, and indignantly frowning upon the first
dawning of any attempt to alienate any portion of our country from the rest or to enfeeble
the sacred ties which now link together the various parts." Without union our independence
and liberty would never have been achieved; without union they never can be maintained. Divided
into twenty-four, or even a smaller number, of separate communities, we shall see our internal
trade burdened with numberless restraints and exactions; communication between distant points
and sections obstructed or cut off; our sons made soldiers to deluge with blood the fields
they now till in peace; the mass of our people borne down and impoverished by taxes to support
armies and navies, and military leaders at the head of their victorious legions becoming our
lawgivers and judges. The loss of liberty, of all good government, of peace, plenty, and happiness,
must inevitably follow a dissolution of the Union. In supporting it, therefore, we support
all that is dear to the freeman and the philanthropist.

The time at which I stand before you is full of interest. The eyes of all nations are fixed
on our Republic. The event of the existing crisis will be decisive in the opinion of mankind
of the practicability of our federal system of government. Great is the stake placed in our
hands; great is the responsibility which must rest upon the people of the United States. Let
us realize the importance of the attitude in which we stand before the world. Let us exercise
forbearance and firmness. Let us extricate our country from the dangers which surround it and
learn wisdom from the lessons they inculcate.

Deeply impressed with the truth of these observations, and under the obligation of that solemn
oath which I am about to take, I shall continue to exert all my faculties to maintain the just
powers of the Constitution and to transmit unimpaired to posterity the blessings of our Federal
Union. At the same time, it will be my aim to inculcate by my official acts the necessity of
exercising by the General Government those powers only that are clearly delegated; to encourage
simplicity and economy in the expenditures of the Government; to raise no more money from the
people than may be requisite for these objects, and in a manner that will best promote the
interests of all classes of the community and of all portions of the Union. Constantly bearing
in mind that in entering into society "individuals must give up a share of liberty to preserve
the rest," it will be my desire so to discharge my duties as to foster with our brethren in
all parts of the country a spirit of liberal concession and compromise, and, by reconciling
our fellow-citizens to those partial sacrifices which they must unavoidably make for the preservation
of a greater good, to recommend our invaluable Government and Union to the confidence and affections
of the American people.

Finally, it is my most fervent prayer to that Almighty Being before whom I now stand, and who
has kept us in His hands from the infancy of our Republic to the present day, that He will
so overrule all my intentions and actions and inspire the hearts of my fellow-citizens that
we may be preserved from dangers of all kinds and continue forever a united and happy people.

***

Martin Van Buren Inaugural Address Monday, March 4, 1837

Fellow-Citizens:

The practice of all my predecessors imposes on me an obligation I cheerfully fulfill--to accompany
the first and solemn act of my public trust with an avowal of the principles that will guide
me in performing it and an expression of my feelings on assuming a charge so responsible and
vast. In imitating their example I tread in the footsteps of illustrious men, whose superiors
it is our happiness to believe are not found on the executive calendar of any country. Among
them we recognize the earliest and firmest pillars of the Republic--those by whom our national
independence was first declared, him who above all others contributed to establish it on the
field of battle, and those whose expanded intellect and patriotism constructed, improved, and
perfected the inestimable institutions under which we live. If such men in the position I now
occupy felt themselves overwhelmed by a sense of gratitude for this the highest of all marks
of their country's confidence, and by a consciousness of their inability adequately to discharge
the duties of an office so difficult and exalted, how much more must these considerations affect
one who can rely on no such claims for favor or forbearance! Unlike all who have preceded me,
the Revolution that gave us existence as one people was achieved at the period of my birth;
and whilst I contemplate with grateful reverence that memorable event, I feel that I belong
to a later age and that I may not expect my countrymen to weigh my actions with the same kind
and partial hand.

So sensibly, fellow-citizens, do these circumstances press themselves upon me that I should
not dare to enter upon my path of duty did I not look for the generous aid of those who will
be associated with me in the various and coordinate branches of the Government; did I not repose
with unwavering reliance on the patriotism, the intelligence, and the kindness of a people
who never yet deserted a public servant honestly laboring their cause; and, above all, did
I not permit myself humbly to hope for the sustaining support of an ever-watchful and beneficent
Providence.

To the confidence and consolation derived from these sources it would be ungrateful not to
add those which spring from our present fortunate condition. Though not altogether exempt from
embarrassments that disturb our tranquillity at home and threaten it abroad, yet in all the
attributes of a great, happy, and flourishing people we stand without a parallel in the world.
Abroad we enjoy the respect and, with scarcely an exception, the friendship of every nation;
at home, while our Government quietly but efficiently performs the sole legitimate end of political
institutions--in doing the greatest good to the greatest number--we present an aggregate of
human prosperity surely not elsewhere to be found.

How imperious, then, is the obligation imposed upon every citizen, in his own sphere of action,
whether limited or extended, to exert himself in perpetuating a condition of things so singularly
happy! All the lessons of history and experience must be lost upon us if we are content to
trust alone to the peculiar advantages we happen to possess. Position and climate and the bounteous
resources that nature has scattered with so liberal a hand--even the diffused intelligence
and elevated character of our people--will avail us nothing if we fail sacredly to uphold those
political institutions that were wisely and deliberately formed with reference to every circumstance
that could preserve or might endanger the blessings we enjoy. The thoughtful framers of our
Constitution legislated for our country as they found it. Looking upon it with the eyes of
statesmen and patriots, they saw all the sources of rapid and wonderful prosperity; but they
saw also that various habits, opinions and institutions peculiar to the various portions of
so vast a region were deeply fixed. Distinct sovereignties were in actual existence, whose
cordial union was essential to the welfare and happiness of all. Between many of them there
was, at least to some extent, a real diversity of interests, liable to be exaggerated through
sinister designs; they differed in size, in population, in wealth, and in actual and prospective
resources and power; they varied in the character of their industry and staple productions,
and [in some] existed domestic institutions which, unwisely disturbed, might endanger the harmony
of the whole. Most carefully were all these circumstances weighed, and the foundations of the
new Government laid upon principles of reciprocal concession and equitable compromise. The
jealousies which the smaller States might entertain of the power of the rest were allayed by
a rule of representation confessedly unequal at the time, and designed forever to remain so.
A natural fear that the broad scope of general legislation might bear upon and unwisely control
particular interests was counteracted by limits strictly drawn around the action of the Federal
authority, and to the people and the States was left unimpaired their sovereign power over
the innumerable subjects embraced in the internal government of a just republic, excepting
such only as necessarily appertain to the concerns of the whole confederacy or its intercourse
as a united community with the other nations of the world.

This provident forecast has been verified by time. Half a century, teeming with extraordinary
events, and elsewhere producing astonishing results, has passed along, but on our institutions
it has left no injurious mark. From a small co mmunity we have risen to a people powerful in
numbers and in strength; but with our increase has gone hand in hand the progress of just principles.
The privileges, civil and religious, of the humblest individual are still sacredly protected
at home, and w hile the valor and fortitude of our people have removed far from us the slightest
apprehension of foreign power, they have not yet induced us in a single instance to forget
what is right. Our commerce has been extended to the remotest nations; the value and even nature
of our productions have been greatly changed; a wide difference has arisen in the relative
wealth and resources of every portion of our country; yet the spirit of mutual regard and of
faithful adherence to existing compacts has continued to prevail in our councils and never
long been absent from our conduct. We have learned by experience a fruitful lesson--that an
implicit and undeviating adherence to the principles on which we set out can carry us prosperously
onward through all the conflicts of circumstances and vicissitudes inseparable from the lapse
of years.

The success that has thus attended our great experiment is in itself a sufficient cause for
gratitude, on account of the happiness it has actually conferred and the example it has unanswerably
given But to me, my fellow-citizens, looking forward to the far-distant future with ardent
prayers and confiding hopes, this retrospect presents a ground for still deeper delight. It
impresses on my mind a firm belief that the perpetuity of our institutions depends upon ourselves;
that if we maintain the principles on which they were established they are destined to confer
their benefits on countless generations yet to come, and that America will present to every
friend of mankind the cheering proof that a popular government, wisely formed, is wanting in
no element of endurance or strength. Fifty years ago its rapid failure was boldly predicted.
Latent and uncontrollable causes of dissolution were supposed to exist even by the wise and
good, and not only did unfriendly or speculative theorists anticipate for us the fate of past
republics, but the fears of many an honest patriot overbalanced his sanguine hopes. Look back
on these forebodings, not hastily but reluctantly made, and see how in every instance they
have completely failed.

An imperfect experience during the struggles of the Revolution was supposed to warrant the
belief that the people would not bear the taxation requisite to discharge an immense public
debt already incurred and to pay the necessary expenses of the Government. The cost of two
wars has been paid, not only without a murmur, but with unequaled alacrity. No one is now left
to doubt that every burden will be cheerfully borne that may be necessary to sustain our civil
institutions or guard our honor or welfare. Indeed, all experience has shown that the willingness
of the people to contribute to these ends in cases of emergency has uniformly outrun the confidence
of their representatives.

In the early stages of the new Government, when all felt the imposing influence as they recognized
the unequaled services of the first President, it was a common sentiment that the great weight
of his character could alone bind the discordant materials of our Government together and save
us from the violence of contending factions. Since his death nearly forty years are gone. Party
exasperation has been often carried to its highest point; the virtue and fortitude of the people
have sometimes been greatly tried; yet our system, purified and enhanced in value by all it
has encountered, still preserves its spirit of free and fearless discussion, blended with unimpaired
fraternal feeling.

The capacity of the people for self-government, and their willingness, from a high sense of
duty and without those exhibitions of coercive power so generally employed in other countries,
to submit to all needful restraints and exactions of municipal law, have also been favorably
exemplified in the history of the American States. Occasionally, it is true, the ardor of public
sentiment, outrunning the regular progress of the judicial tribunals or seeking to reach cases
not denounced as criminal by the existing law, has displayed itself in a manner calculated
to give pain to the friends of free government and to encourage the hopes of those who wish
for its overthrow. These occurrences, however, have been far less frequent in our country than
in any other of equal population on the globe, and with the diffusion of intelligence it may
well be hoped that they will constantly diminish in frequency and violence. The generous patriotism
and sound common sense of the great mass of our fellow-citizens will assuredly in time produce
this result; for as every assumption of illegal power not only wounds the majesty of the law,
but furnishes a pretext for abridging the liberties of the people, the latter have the most
direct and permanent interest in preserving the landmarks of social order and maintaining on
all occasions the inviolability of those constitutional and legal provisions which they themselves
have made.

In a supposed unfitness of our institutions for those hostile emergencies which no country
can always avoid their friends found a fruitful source of apprehension, their enemies of hope.
While they foresaw less promptness of action than in governments differently formed, they overlooked
the far more important consideration that with us war could never be the result of individual
or irresponsible will, but must be a measure of redress for injuries sustained voluntarily
resorted to by those who were to bear the necessary sacrifice, who would consequently feel
an individual interest in the contest, and whose energy would be commensurate with the difficulties
to be encountered. Actual events have proved their error; the last war, far from impairing,
gave new confidence to our Government, and amid recent apprehensions of a similar conflict
we saw that the energies of our country would not be wanting in ample season to vindicate its
rights. We may not possess, as we should not desire to poss ess, the extended and ever-ready
military organization of other nations; we may occasionally suffer in the outset for the want
of it; but among ourselves all doubt upon this great point has ceased, while a salutary experience
will prevent a contrary opini on from inviting aggression from abroad.

Certain danger was foretold from the extension of our territory, the multiplication of States,
and the increase of population. Our system was supposed to be adapted only to boundaries comparatively
narrow. These have been widened beyon d conjecture; the members of our Confederacy are already
doubled, and the numbers of our people are incredibly augmented. The alleged causes of danger
have long surpassed anticipation, but none of the consequences have followed. The power and
influence of the Republic have arisen to a height obvious to all mankind; respect for its authority
was not more apparent at its ancient than it is at its present limits; new and inexhaustible
sources of general prosperity have been opened; the effects of distance ha ve been averted
by the inventive genius of our people, developed and fostered by the spirit of our institutions;
and the enlarged variety and amount of interests, productions, and pursuits have strengthened
the chain of mutual dependence and formed a circ le of mutual benefits too apparent ever to
be overlooked.

In justly balancing the powers of the Federal and State authorities difficulties nearly insurmountable
arose at the outset and subsequent collisions were deemed inevitable. Amid these it was scarcely
believed possible that a scheme of government so complex in construction could remain uninjured.
From time to time embarrassments have certainly occurred; but how just is the confidence of
future safety imparted by the knowledge that each in succession has been happily removed! Overlooking
partial and temporary evils as inseparable from the practical operation of all human institutions,
and looking only to the general result, every patriot has reason to be satisfied. While the
Federal Government has successfully performed its appropriate functions in relation to foreign
affairs and concerns evidently national, that of every State has remarkably improved in protecting
and developing local interests and individual welfare; and if the vibrations of authority have
occasionally tended too much toward one or the other, it is unquestionably certain that the
ultimate operation of the entire system has been to strengthen all the existing institutions
and to elevate our whole country in prosperity and renown.

The last, perhaps the greatest, of the prominent sources of discord and disaster supposed to
lurk in our political condition was the institution of domestic slavery. Our forefathers were
deeply impressed with the delicacy of this subject, and they treated it with a forbearance
so evidently wise that in spite of every sinister foreboding it never until the present period
disturbed the tranquillity of our common country. Such a result is sufficient evidence of the
justice and the patriot ism of their course; it is evidence not to be mistaken that an adherence
to it can prevent all embarrassment from this as well as from every other anticipated cause
of difficulty or danger. Have not recent events made it obvious to the slightest reflectio
n that the least deviation from this spirit of forbearance is injurious to every interest,
that of humanity included? Amidst the violence of excited passions this generous and fraternal
feeling has been sometimes disregarded; and standing as I now do before my countrymen, in this
high place of honor and of trust, I can not refrain from anxiously invoking my fellow-citizens
never to be deaf to its dictates. Perceiving before my election the deep interest this subject
was beginning to excite, I believed it a solemn duty fully to make known my sentiments in regard
to it, and now, when every motive for misrepresentation has passed away, I trust that they
will be candidly weighed and understood. At least they will be my standard of conduct in the
path before me. I then declared that if the desire of those of my countrymen who were favorable
to my election was gratified "I must go into the Presidential chair the inflexible and uncompromising
opponent of every attempt on the part of Congress to abolish slavery in the District of Columbia
against the wishes of the slaveholding States, and also with a determination equally decided
to resist the slightest interference with it in the States where it exists." I submitted also
to my fellow-citizens, with fullness and frankness, the reasons which led me to this determination.
The result authorizes me to believe that they have been approved and are confided in by a majority
of the people of the United States, including those whom they most immediately affect. It now
onl y remains to add that no bill conflicting with these views can ever receive my constitutional
sanction. These opinions have been adopted in the firm belief that they are in accordance with
the spirit that actuated the venerated fathers of the Republic, and that succeeding experience
has proved them to be humane, patriotic, expedient, honorable, and just. If the agitation of
this subject was intended to reach the stability of our institutions, enough has occurred to
show that it has signally failed, and that in this as in every other instance the apprehensions
of the timid and the hopes of the wicked for the destruction of our Government are again destined
to be disappointed. Here and there, indeed, scenes of dangerous excitement have occurred, terrifying
instances of local violence have been witnessed, and a reckless disregard of the consequences
of their conduct has exposed individuals to popular indignation; but neither masses of the
people nor sections of the country have been swerved from their devoti on to the bond of union
and the principles it has made sacred. It will be ever thus. Such attempts at dangerous agitation
may periodically return, but with each the object will be better understood. That predominating
affection for our political system which prevails throughout our territorial limits, that calm
and enlightened judgment which ultimately governs our people as one vast body, will always
be at hand to resist and control every effort, foreign or domestic, which aims or would lead
to overthrow our institutions.

What can be more gratifying than such a retrospect as this? We look back on obstacles avoided
and dangers overcome, on expectations more than realized and prosperity perfectly secured.
To the hopes of the hostile, the fears of the timi d, and the doubts of the anxious actual
experience has given the conclusive reply. We have seen time gradually dispel every unfavorable
foreboding and our Constitution surmount every adverse circumstance dreaded at the outset as
beyond control. Present excitement will at all times magnify present dangers, but true philosophy
must teach us that none more threatening than the past can remain to be overcome; and we ought
(for we have just reason) to entertain an abiding confidence in the stability of our institutions
and an entire conviction that if administered in the true form, character, and spirit in which
they were established they are abundantly adequate to preserve to us and our children the rich
blessings already derived from them, to make our beloved land for a thousand generations that
chosen spot where happiness springs from a perfect equality of political rights.

For myself, therefore, I desire to declare that the principle that will govern me in the high
duty to which my country calls me is a strict adherence to the letter and spirit of the Constitution
as it was designed by those who framed it. Looking back to it as a sacred instrument carefully
and not easily framed; remembering that it was throughout a work of concession and compromise;
viewing it as limited to national objects; regarding it as leaving to the people and the States
all power not explicitly parted with, I shall endeavor to preserve, protect, and defend it
by anxiously referring to its provision for direction in every action. To matters of domestic
concernment which it has intrusted to the Federal Government and to such as rel ate to our
intercourse with foreign nations I shall zealously devote myself; beyond those limits I shall
never pass.

To enter on this occasion into a further or more minute exposition of my views on the various
questions of domestic policy would be as obtrusive as it is probably unexpected. Before the
suffrages of my countrymen were conferred upon me I submitted to them, with great precision,
my opinions on all the most prominent of these subjects. Those opinions I shall endeavor to
carry out with my utmost ability.

Our course of foreign policy has been so uniform and intelligible as to constitute a rule of
Executive conduct which leaves little to my discretion, unless, indeed, I were willing to run
counter to the lights of experience and the know n opinions of my constituents. We sedulously
cultivate the friendship of all nations as the conditions most compatible with our welfare
and the principles of our Government. We decline alliances as adverse to our peace. We desire
commercial relations on e qual terms, being ever willing to give a fair equivalent for advantages
received. We endeavor to conduct our intercourse with openness and sincerity, promptly avowing
our objects and seeking to establish that mutual frankness which is as beneficial in the dealings
of nations as of men. We have no disposition and we disclaim all right to meddle in disputes,
whether internal or foreign, that may molest other countries, regarding them in their actual
state as social communities, and preserving a strict neutr ality in all their controversies.
Well knowing the tried valor of our people and our exhaustless resources, we neither anticipate
nor fear any designed aggression; and in the consciousness of our own just conduct we feel
a security that we shall never be called upon to exert our determination never to permit an
invasion of our rights without punishment or redress.

In approaching, then, in the presence of my assembled countrymen, to make the solemn promise
that yet remains, and to pledge myself that I will faithfully execute the office I am about
to fill, I bring with me a settled purpose to main tain the institutions of my country, which
I trust will atone for the errors I commit.

In receiving from the people the sacred trust twice confided to my illustrious predecessor,
and which he has discharged so faithfully and so well, I know that I can not expect to perform
the arduous task with equal ability and success. But united as I have been in his counsels,
a daily witness of his exclusive and unsurpassed devotion to his country's welfare, agreeing
with him in sentiments which his countrymen have warmly supported, and permitted to partake
largely of his confidence, I may hope that somewhat of the same cheering approbation will be
found to attend upon my path. For him I but express with my own the wishes of all, that he
may yet long live to enjoy the brilliant evening of his well-spent life; and for myself, conscious
of but one desire, faithfully to serve my country, I throw myself without fear on its justice
and its kindness. Beyond that I only look to the gracious protection of the Divine Being whose
strengthening support I humbly solicit, and whom I fervently pray to look down upon us all.
May it be among the dispensations of His providence to bless our beloved country with honors
and with length of days. May her ways be ways of pleasantness and all her paths be peace!

***

William Henry Harrison Inaugural Address Thursday, March 4, 1841

Called from a retirement which I had supposed was to continue for the residue of my life to
fill the chief executive office of this great and free nation, I appear before you, fellow-citizens,
to take the oaths which the Constitution prescribes as a necessary qualification for the performance
of its duties; and in obedience to a custom coeval with our Government and what I believe to
be your expectations I proceed to present to you a summary of the principles which will govern
me in the discharge of the duties which I shall be called upon to perform.

It was the remark of a Roman consul in an early period of that celebrated Republic that a most
striking contrast was observable in the conduct of candidates for offices of power and trust
before and after obtaining them, they seldom carrying out in the latter case the pledges and
promises made in the former. However much the world may have improved in many respects in the
lapse of upward of two thousand years since the remark was made by the virtuous and indignant
Roman, I fear that a strict examination of the annals of some of the modern elective governments
would develop similar instances of violated confidence.

Although the fiat of the people has gone forth proclaiming me the Chief Magistrate of this
glorious Union, nothing upon their part remaining to be done, it may be thought that a motive
may exist to keep up the delusion under which they may be supposed to have acted in relation
to my principles and opinions; and perhaps there may be some in this assembly who have come
here either prepared to condemn those I shall now deliver, or, approving them, to doubt the
sincerity with which they are now uttered. But the lapse of a few months will confirm or dispel
their fears. The outline of principles to govern and measures to be adopted by an Administration
not yet begun will soon be exchanged for immutable history, and I shall stand either exonerated
by my countrymen or classed with the mass of those who promised that they might deceive and
flattered with the intention to betray. However strong may be my present purpose to realize
the expectations of a magnanimous and confiding people, I too well understand the dangerous
temptations to which I shall be exposed from the magnitude of the power which it has been the
pleasure of the people to commit to my hands not to place my chief confidence upon the aid
of that Almighty Power which has hitherto protected me and enabled me to bring to favorable
issues other important but still greatly inferior trusts heretofore confided to me by my country.

The broad foundation upon which our Constitution rests being the people--a breath of theirs
having made, as a breath can unmake, change, or modify it--it can be assigned to none of the
great divisions of government but to that of democracy. If such is its theory, those who are
called upon to administer it must recognize as its leading principle the duty of shaping their
measures so as to produce the greatest good to the greatest number. But with these broad admissions,
if we would compare the sovereignty acknowledged to exist in the mass of our people with the
power claimed by other sovereignties, even by those which have been considered most purely
democratic, we shall find a most essential difference. All others lay claim to power limited
only by their own will. The majority of our citizens, on the contrary, possess a sovereignty
with an amount of power precisely equal to that which has been granted to them by the parties
to the national compact, and nothing beyond. We admit of no government by divine right, believing
that so far as power is concerned the Beneficent Creator has made no distinction amongst men;
that all are upon an equality, and that the only legitimate right to govern is an express grant
of power from the governed. The Constitution of the United States is the instrument containing
this grant of power to the several departments composing the Government. On an examination
of that instrument it will be found to contain declarations of power granted and of power withheld.
The latter is also susceptible of division into power which the majority had the right to grant,
but which they do not think proper to intrust to their agents, and that which they could not
have granted, not being possessed by themselves. In other words, there are certain rights possessed
by each individual American citizen which in his compact with the others he has never surrendered.
Some of them, indeed, he is unable to surrender, being, in the language of our system, unalienable.
The boasted privilege of a Roman citizen was to him a shield only against a petty provincial
ruler, whilst the proud democrat of Athens would console himself under a sentence of death
for a supposed violation of the national faith--which no one understood and which at times
was the subject of the mockery of all--or the banishment from his home, his family, and his
country with or without an alleged cause, that it was the act not of a single tyrant or hated
aristocracy, but of his assembled countrymen. Far different is the power of our sovereignty.
It can interfere with no one's faith, prescribe forms of worship for no one's observance, inflict
no punishment but after well-ascertained guilt, the result of investigation under rules prescribed
by the Constitution itself. These precious privileges, and those scarcely less important of
giving expression to his thoughts and opinions, either by writing or speaking, unrestrained
but by the liability for injury to others, and that of a full participation in all the advantages
which flow from the Government, the acknowledged property of all, the American citizen derives
from no charter granted by his fellow-man. He claims them because he is himself a man, fashioned
by the same Almighty hand as the rest of his species and entitled to a full share of the blessings
with which He has endowed them. Notwithstanding the limited sovereignty possessed by the people
of the United States and the restricted grant of power to the Government which they have adopted,
enough has been given to accomplish all the objects for which it was created. It has been found
powerful in war, and hitherto justice has been administered, and intimate union effected, domestic
tranquillity preserved, and personal liberty secured to the citizen. As was to be expected,
however, from the defect of language and the necessarily sententious manner in which the Constitution
is written, disputes have arisen as to the amount of power which it has actually granted or
was intended to grant.

This is more particularly the case in relation to that part of the instrument which treats
of the legislative branch, and not only as regards the exercise of powers claimed under a general
clause giving that body the authority to pass all laws necessary to carry into effect the specified
powers, but in relation to the latter also. It is, however, consolatory to reflect that most
of the instances of alleged departure from the letter or spirit of the Constitution have ultimately
received the sanction of a majority of the people. And the fact that many of our statesmen
most distinguished for talent and patriotism have been at one time or other of their political
career on both sides of each of the most warmly disputed questions forces upon us the inference
that the errors, if errors there were, are attributable to the intrinsic difficulty in many
instances of ascertaining the intentions of the framers of the Constitution rather than the
influence of any sinister or unpatriotic motive. But the great danger to our institutions does
not appear to me to be in a usurpation by the Government of power not granted by the people,
but by the accumulation in one of the departments of that which was assigned to others. Limited
as are the powers which have been granted, still enough have been granted to constitute a despotism
if concentrated in one of the departments. This danger is greatly heightened, as it has been
always observable that men are less jealous of encroachments of one department upon another
than upon their own reserved rights. When the Constitution of the United States first came
from the hands of the Convention which formed it, many of the sternest republicans of the day
were alarmed at the extent of the power which had been granted to the Federal Government, and
more particularly of that portion which had been assigned to the executive branch. There were
in it features which appeared not to be in harmony with their ideas of a simple representative
democracy or republic, and knowing the tendency of power to increase itself, particularly when
exercised by a single individual, predictions were made that at no very remote period the Government
would terminate in virtual monarchy. It would not become me to say that the fears of these
patriots have been already realized; but as I sincerely believe that the tendency of measures
and of men's opinions for some years past has been in that direction, it is, I conceive, strictly
proper that I should take this occasion to repeat the assurances I have heretofore given of
my determination to arrest the progress of that tendency if it really exists and restore the
Government to its pristine health and vigor, as far as this can be effected by any legitimate
exercise of the power placed in my hands.

I proceed to state in as summary a manner as I can my opinion of the sources of the evils which
have been so extensively complained of and the correctives which may be applied. Some of the
former are unquestionably to be found in the defects of the Constitution; others, in my judgment,
are attributable to a misconstruction of some of its provisions. Of the former is the eligibility
of the same individual to a second term of the Presidency. The sagacious mind of Mr. Jefferson
early saw and lamented this error, and attempts have been made, hitherto without success, to
apply the amendatory power of the States to its correction. As, however, one mode of correction
is in the power of every President, and consequently in mine, it would be useless, and perhaps
invidious, to enumerate the evils of which, in the opinion of many of our fellow-citizens,
this error of the sages who framed the Constitution may have been the source and the bitter
fruits which we are still to gather from it if it continues to disfigure our system. It may
be observed, however, as a general remark, that republics can commit no greater error than
to adopt or continue any feature in their systems of government which may be calculated to
create or increase the lover of power in the bosoms of those to whom necessity obliges them
to commit the management of their affairs; and surely nothing is more likely to produce such
a state of mind than the long continuance of an office of high trust. Nothing can be more corrupting,
nothing more destructive of all those noble feelings which belong to the character of a devoted
republican patriot. When this corrupting passion once takes possession of the human mind, like
the love of gold it becomes insatiable. It is the never-dying worm in his bosom, grows with
his growth and strengthens with the declining years of its victim. If this is true, it is the
part of wisdom for a republic to limit the service of that officer at least to whom she has
intrusted the management of her foreign relations, the execution of her laws, and the command
of her armies and navies to a period so short as to prevent his forgetting that he is the accountable
agent, not the principal; the servant, not the master. Until an amendment of the Constitution
can be effected public opinion may secure the desired object. I give my aid to it by renewing
the pledge heretofore given that under no circumstances will I consent to serve a second term.

But if there is danger to public liberty from the acknowledged defects of the Constitution
in the want of limit to the continuance of the Executive power in the same hands, there is,
I apprehend, not much less from a misconstruction of that instrument as it regards the powers
actually given. I can not conceive that by a fair construction any or either of its provisions
would be found to constitute the President a part of the legislative power. It can not be claimed
from the power to recommend, since, although enjoined as a duty upon him, it is a privilege
which he holds in common with every other citizen; and although there may be something more
of confidence in the propriety of the measures recommended in the one case than in the other,
in the obligations of ultimate decision there can be no difference. In the language of the
Constitution, "all the legislative powers" which it grants "are vested in the Congress of the
United States." It would be a solecism in language to say that any portion of these is not
included in the whole.

It may be said, indeed, that the Constitution has given to the Executive the power to annul
the acts of the legislative body by refusing to them his assent. So a similar power has necessarily
resulted from that instrument to the judiciary, and yet the judiciary forms no part of the
Legislature. There is, it is true, this difference between these grants of power: The Executive
can put his negative upon the acts of the Legislature for other cause than that of want of
conformity to the Constitution, whilst the judiciary can only declare void those which violate
that instrument. But the decision of the judiciary is final in such a case, whereas in every
instance where the veto of the Executive is applied it may be overcome by a vote of two-thirds
of both Houses of Congress. The negative upon the acts of the legislative by the executive
authority, and that in the hands of one individual, would seem to be an incongruity in our
system. Like some others of a similar character, however, it appears to be highly expedient,
and if used only with the forbearance and in the spirit which was intended by its authors it
may be productive of great good and be found one of the best safeguards to the Union. At the
period of the formation of the Constitution the principle does not appear to have enjoyed much
favor in the State governments. It existed but in two, and in one of these there was a plural
executive. If we would search for the motives which operated upon the purely patriotic and
enlightened assembly which framed the Constitution for the adoption of a provision so apparently
repugnant to the leading democratic principle that the majority should govern, we must reject
the idea that they anticipated from it any benefit to the ordinary course of legislation. They
knew too well the high degree of intelligence which existed among the people and the enlightened
character of the State legislatures not to have the fullest confidence that the two bodies
elected by them would be worthy representatives of such constituents, and, of course, that
they would require no aid in conceiving and maturing the measures which the circumstances of
the country might require. And it is preposterous to suppose that a thought could for a moment
have been entertained that the President, placed at the capital, in the center of the country,
could better understand the wants and wishes of the people than their own immediate representatives,
who spend a part of every year among them, living with them, often laboring with them, and
bound to them by the triple tie of interest, duty, and affection. To assist or control Congress,
then, in its ordinary legislation could not, I conceive, have been the motive for conferring
the veto power on the President. This argument acquires additional force from the fact of its
never having been thus used by the first six Presidents--and two of them were members of the
Convention, one presiding over its deliberations and the other bearing a larger share in consummating
the labors of that august body than any other person. But if bills were never returned to Congress
by either of the Presidents above referred to upon the ground of their being inexpedient or
not as well adapted as they might be to the wants of the people, the veto was applied upon
that of want of conformity to the Constitution or because errors had been committed from a
too hasty enactment.

There is another ground for the adoption of the veto principle, which had probably more influence
in recommending it to the Convention than any other. I refer to the security which it gives
to the just and equitable action of the Legislature upon all parts of the Union. It could not
but have occurred to the Convention that in a country so extensive, embracing so great a variety
of soil and climate, and consequently of products, and which from the same causes must ever
exhibit a great difference in the amount of the population of its various sections, calling
for a great diversity in the employments of the people, that the legislation of the majority
might not always justly regard the rights and interests of the minority, and that acts of this
character might be passed under an express grant by the words of the Constitution, and therefore
not within the competency of the judiciary to declare void; that however enlightened and patriotic
they might suppose from past experience the members of Congress might be, and however largely
partaking, in the general, of the liberal feelings of the people, it was impossible to expect
that bodies so constituted should not sometimes be controlled by local interests and sectional
feelings. It was proper, therefore, to provide some umpire from whose situation and mode of
appointment more independence and freedom from such influences might be expected. Such a one
was afforded by the executive department constituted by the Constitution. A person elected
to that high office, having his constituents in every section, State, and subdivision of the
Union, must consider himself bound by the most solemn sanctions to guard, protect, and defend
the rights of all and of every portion, great or small, from the injustice and oppression of
the rest. I consider the veto power, therefore, given by the Constitution to the Executive
of the United States solely as a conservative power, to be used only first, to protect the
Constitution from violation; secondly, the people from the effects of hasty legislation where
their will has been probably disregarded or not well understood, and, thirdly, to prevent the
effects of combinations violative of the rights of minorities. In reference to the second of
these objects I may observe that I consider it the right and privilege of the people to decide
disputed points of the Constitution arising from the general grant of power to Congress to
carry into effect the powers expressly given; and I believe with Mr. Madison that "repeated
recognitions under varied circumstances in acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
branches of the Government, accompanied by indications in different modes of the concurrence
of the general will of the nation," as affording to the President sufficient authority for
his considering such disputed points as settled.

Upward of half a century has elapsed since the adoption of the present form of government.
It would be an object more highly desirable than the gratification of the curiosity of speculative
statesmen if its precise situation could be ascertained, a fair exhibit made of the operations
of each of its departments, of the powers which they respectively claim and exercise, of the
collisions which have occurred between them or between the whole Government and those of the
States or either of them. We could then compare our actual condition after fifty years' trial
of our system with what it was in the commencement of its operations and ascertain whether
the predictions of the patriots who opposed its adoption or the confident hopes of its advocates
have been best realized. The great dread of the former seems to have been that the reserved
powers of the States would be absorbed by those of the Federal Government and a consolidated
power established, leaving to the States the shadow only of that independent action for which
they had so zealously contended and on the preservation of which they relied as the last hope
of liberty. Without denying that the result to which they looked with so much apprehension
is in the way of being realized, it is obvious that they did not clearly see the mode of its
accomplishment. The General Government has seized upon none of the reserved rights of the States.
As far as any open warfare may have gone, the State authorities have amply maintained their
rights. To a casual observer our system presents no appearance of discord between the different
members which compose it. Even the addition of many new ones has produced no jarring. They
move in their respective orbits in perfect harmony with the central head and with each other.
But there is still an undercurrent at work by which, if not seasonably checked, the worst apprehensions
of our antifederal patriots will be realized, and not only will the State authorities be overshadowed
by the great increase of power in the executive department of the General Government, but the
character of that Government, if not its designation, be essentially and radically changed.
This state of things has been in part effected by causes inherent in the Constitution and in
part by the never-failing tendency of political power to increase itself. By making the President
the sole distributer of all the patronage of the Government the framers of the Constitution
do not appear to have anticipated at how short a period it would become a formidable instrument
to control the free operations of the State governments. Of trifling importance at first, it
had early in Mr. Jefferson's Administration become so powerful as to create great alarm in
the mind of that patriot from the potent influence it might exert in controlling the freedom
of the elective franchise. If such could have then been the effects of its influence, how much
greater must be the danger at this time, quadrupled in amount as it certainly is and more completely
under the control of the Executive will than their construction of their powers allowed or
the forbearing characters of all the early Presidents permitted them to make. But it is not
by the extent of its patronage alone that the executive department has become dangerous, but
by the use which it appears may be made of the appointing power to bring under its control
the whole revenues of the country. The Constitution has declared it to be the duty of the President
to see that the laws are executed, and it makes him the Commander in Chief of the Armies and
Navy of the United States. If the opinion of the most approved writers upon that species of
mixed government which in modern Europe is termed monarchy in contradistinction to despotism
is correct, there was wanting no other addition to the powers of our Chief Magistrate to stamp
a monarchical character on our Government but the control of the public finances; and to me
it appears strange indeed that anyone should doubt that the entire control which the President
possesses over the officers who have the custody of the public money, by the power of removal
with or without cause, does, for all mischievous purposes at least, virtually subject the treasure
also to his disposal. The first Roman Emperor, in his attempt to seize the sacred treasure,
silenced the opposition of the officer to whose charge it had been committed by a significant
allusion to his sword. By a selection of political instruments for the care of the public money
a reference to their commissions by a President would be quite as effectual an argument as
that of Caesar to the Roman knight. I am not insensible of the great difficulty that exists
in drawing a proper plan for the safe-keeping and disbursement of the public revenues, and
I know the importance which has been attached by men of great abilities and patriotism to the
divorce, as it is called, of the Treasury from the banking institutions It is not the divorce
which is complained of, but the unhallowed union of the Treasury with the executive department,
which has created such extensive alarm. To this danger to our republican institutions and that
created by the influence given to the Executive through the instrumentality of the Federal
officers I propose to apply all the remedies which may be at my command. It was certainly a
great error in the framers of the Constitution not to have made the officer at the head of
the Treasury Department entirely independent of the Executive. He should at least have been
removable only upon the demand of the popular branch of the Legislature. I have determined
never to remove a Secretary of the Treasury without communicating all the circumstances attending
such removal to both Houses of Congress.

The influence of the Executive in controlling the freedom of the elective franchise through
the medium of the public officers can be effectually checked by renewing the prohibition published
by Mr. Jefferson forbidding their interference in elections further than giving their own votes,
and their own independence secured by an assurance of perfect immunity in exercising this sacred
privilege of freemen under the dictates of their own unbiased judgments. Never with my consent
shall an officer of the people, compensated for his services out of their pockets, become the
pliant instrument of Executive will.

There is no part of the means placed in the hands of the Executive which might be used with
greater effect for unhallowed purposes than the control of the public press. The maxim which
our ancestors derived from the mother country that "the freedom of the press is the great bulwark
of civil and religious liberty" is one of the most precious legacies which they have left us.
We have learned, too, from our own as well as the experience of other countries, that golden
shackles, by whomsoever or by whatever pretense imposed, are as fatal to it as the iron bonds
of despotism. The presses in the necessary employment of the Government should never be used
"to clear the guilty or to varnish crime." A decent and manly examination of the acts of the
Government should be not only tolerated, but encouraged.

Upon another occasion I have given my opinion at some length upon the impropriety of Executive
interference in the legislation of Congress--that the article in the Constitution making it
the duty of the President to communicate information and authorizing him to recommend measures
was not intended to make him the source in legislation, and, in particular, that he should
never be looked to for schemes of finance. It would be very strange, indeed, that the Constitution
should have strictly forbidden one branch of the Legislature from interfering in the origination
of such bills and that it should be considered proper that an altogether different department
of the Government should be permitted to do so. Some of our best political maxims and opinions
have been drawn from our parent isle. There are others, however, which can not be introduced
in our system without singular incongruity and the production of much mischief, and this I
conceive to be one. No matter in which of the houses of Parliament a bill may originate nor
by whom introduced--a minister or a member of the opposition--by the fiction of law, or rather
of constitutional principle, the sovereign is supposed to have prepared it agreeably to his
will and then submitted it to Parliament for their advice and consent. Now the very reverse
is the case here, not only with regard to the principle, but the forms prescribed by the Constitution.
The principle certainly assigns to the only body constituted by the Constitution (the legislative
body) the power to make laws, and the forms even direct that the enactment should be ascribed
to them. The Senate, in relation to revenue bills, have the right to propose amendments, and
so has the Executive by the power given him to return them to the House of Representatives
with his objections. It is in his power also to propose amendments in the existing revenue
laws, suggested by his observations upon their defective or injurious operation. But the delicate
duty of devising schemes of revenue should be left where the Constitution has placed it--with
the immediate representatives of the people. For similar reasons the mode of keeping the public
treasure should be prescribed by them, and the further removed it may be from the control of
the Executive the more wholesome the arrangement and the more in accordance with republican
principle.

Connected with this subject is the character of the currency. The idea of making it exclusively
metallic, however well intended, appears to me to be fraught with more fatal consequences than
any other scheme having no relation to the personal rights of the citizens that has ever been
devised. If any single scheme could produce the effect of arresting at once that mutation of
condition by which thousands of our most indigent fellow-citizens by their industry and enterprise
are raised to the possession of wealth, that is the one. If there is one measure better calculated
than another to produce that state of things so much deprecated by all true republicans, by
which the rich are daily adding to their hoards and the poor sinking deeper into penury, it
is an exclusive metallic currency. Or if there is a process by which the character of the country
for generosity and nobleness of feeling may be destroyed by the great increase and neck toleration
of usury, it is an exclusive metallic currency.

Amongst the other duties of a delicate character which the President is called upon to perform
is the supervision of the government of the Territories of the United States. Those of them
which are destined to become members of our great political family are compensated by their
rapid progress from infancy to manhood for the partial and temporary deprivation of their political
rights. It is in this District only where American citizens are to be found who under a settled
policy are deprived of many important political privileges without any inspiring hope as to
the future. Their only consolation under circumstances of such deprivation is that of the devoted
exterior guards of a camp--that their sufferings secure tranquillity and safety within. Are
there any of their countrymen, who would subject them to greater sacrifices, to any other humiliations
than those essentially necessary to the security of the object for which they were thus separated
from their fellow-citizens? Are their rights alone not to be guaranteed by the application
of those great principles upon which all our constitutions are founded? We are told by the
greatest of British orators and statesmen that at the commencement of the War of the Revolution
the most stupid men in England spoke of "their American subjects." Are there, indeed, citizens
of any of our States who have dreamed of their subjects in the District of Columbia? Such dreams
can never be realized by any agency of mine. The people of the District of Columbia are not
the subjects of the people of the States, but free American citizens. Being in the latter condition
when the Constitution was formed, no words used in that instrument could have been intended
to deprive them of that character. If there is anything in the great principle of unalienable
rights so emphatically insisted upon in our Declaration of Independence, they could neither
make nor the United States accept a surrender of their liberties and become the subjects--in
other words, the slaves--of their former fellow-citizens. If this be true--and it will scarcely
be denied by anyone who has a correct idea of his own rights as an American citizen--the grant
to Congress of exclusive jurisdiction in the District of Columbia can be interpreted, so far
as respects the aggregate people of the United States, as meaning nothing more than to allow
to Congress the controlling power necessary to afford a free and safe exercise of the functions
assigned to the General Government by the Constitution. In all other respects the legislation
of Congress should be adapted to their peculiar position and wants and be conformable with
their deliberate opinions of their own interests.

I have spoken of the necessity of keeping the respective departments of the Government, as
well as all the other authorities of our country, within their appropriate orbits. This is
a matter of difficulty in some cases, as the powers which they respectively claim are often
not defined by any distinct lines. Mischievous, however, in their tendencies as collisions
of this kind may be, those which arise between the respective communities which for certain
purposes compose one nation are much more so, for no such nation can long exist without the
careful culture of those feelings of confidence and affection which are the effective bonds
to union between free and confederated states. Strong as is the tie of interest, it has been
often found ineffectual. Men blinded by their passions have been known to adopt measures for
their country in direct opposition to all the suggestions of policy. The alternative, then,
is to destroy or keep down a bad passion by creating and fostering a good one, and this seems
to be the corner stone upon which our American political architects have reared the fabric
of our Government. The cement which was to bind it and perpetuate its existence was the affectionate
attachment between all its members. To insure the continuance of this feeling, produced at
first by a community of dangers, of sufferings, and of interests, the advantages of each were
made accessible to all. No participation in any good possessed by any member of our extensive
Confederacy, except in domestic government, was withheld from the citizen of any other member.
By a process attended with no difficulty, no delay, no expense but that of removal, the citizen
of one might become the citizen of any other, and successively of the whole. The lines, too,
separating powers to be exercised by the citizens of one State from those of another seem to
be so distinctly drawn as to leave no room for misunderstanding. The citizens of each State
unite in their persons all the privileges which that character confers and all that they may
claim as citizens of the United States, but in no case can the same persons at the same time
act as the citizen of two separate States, and he is therefore positively precluded from any
interference with the reserved powers of any State but that of which he is for the time being
a citizen. He may, indeed, offer to the citizens of other States his advice as to their management,
and the form in which it is tendered is left to his own discretion and sense of propriety.
It may be observed, however, that organized associations of citizens requiring compliance with
their wishes too much resemble the recommendations of Athens to her allies, supported by an
armed and powerful fleet. It was, indeed, to the ambition of the leading States of Greece to
control the domestic concerns of the others that the destruction of that celebrated Confederacy,
and subsequently of all its members, is mainly to be attributed, and it is owing to the absence
of that spirit that the Helvetic Confederacy has for so many years been preserved. Never has
there been seen in the institutions of the separate members of any confederacy more elements
of discord. In the principles and forms of government and religion, as well as in the circumstances
of the several Cantons, so marked a discrepancy was observable as to promise anything but harmony
in their intercourse or permanency in their alliance, and yet for ages neither has been interrupted.
Content with the positive benefits which their union produced, with the independence and safety
from foreign aggression which it secured, these sagacious people respected the institutions
of each other, however repugnant to their own principles and prejudices.

Our Confederacy, fellow-citizens, can only be preserved by the same forbearance. Our citizens
must be content with the exercise of the powers with which the Constitution clothes them. The
attempt of those of one State to control the domestic institutions of another can only result
in feelings of distrust and jealousy, the certain harbingers of disunion, violence, and civil
war, and the ultimate destruction of our free institutions. Our Confederacy is perfectly illustrated
by the terms and principles governing a common copartnership. There is a fund of power to be
exercised under the direction of the joint councils of the allied members, but that which has
been reserved by the individual members is intangible by the common Government or the individual
members composing it. To attempt it finds no support in the principles of our Constitution.

It should be our constant and earnest endeavor mutually to cultivate a spirit of concord and
harmony among the various parts of our Confederacy. Experience has abundantly taught us that
the agitation by citizens of one part of the Union of a subject not confided to the General
Government, but exclusively under the guardianship of the local authorities, is productive
of no other consequences than bitterness, alienation, discord, and injury to the very cause
which is intended to be advanced. Of all the great interests which appertain to our country,
that of union--cordial, confiding, fraternal union--is by far the most important, since it
is the only true and sure guaranty of all others.

In consequence of the embarrassed state of business and the currency, some of the States may
meet with difficulty in their financial concerns. However deeply we may regret anything imprudent
or excessive in the engagements into which States have entered for purposes of their own, it
does not become us to disparage the States governments, nor to discourage them from making
proper efforts for their own relief. On the contrary, it is our duty to encourage them to the
extent of our constitutional authority to apply their best means and cheerfully to make all
necessary sacrifices and submit to all necessary burdens to fulfill their engagements and maintain
their credit, for the character and credit of the several States form a part of the character
and credit of the whole country. The resources of the country are abundant, the enterprise
and activity of our people proverbial, and we may well hope that wise legislation and prudent
administration by the respective governments, each acting within its own sphere, will restore
former prosperity.

Unpleasant and even dangerous as collisions may sometimes be between the constituted authorities
of the citizens of our country in relation to the lines which separate their respective jurisdictions,
the results can be of no vital injury to our institutions if that ardent patriotism, that devoted
attachment to liberty, that spirit of moderation and forbearance for which our countrymen were
once distinguished, continue to be cherished. If this continues to be the ruling passion of
our souls, the weaker feeling of the mistaken enthusiast will be corrected, the Utopian dreams
of the scheming politician dissipated, and the complicated intrigues of the demagogue rendered
harmless. The spirit of liberty is the sovereign balm for every injury which our institutions
may receive. On the contrary, no care that can be used in the construction of our Government,
no division of powers, no distribution of checks in its several departments, will prove effectual
to keep us a free people if this spirit is suffered to decay; and decay it will without constant
nurture. To the neglect of this duty the best historians agree in attributing the ruin of all
the republics with whose existence and fall their writings have made us acquainted. The same
causes will ever produce the same effects, and as long as the love of power is a dominant passion
of the human bosom, and as long as the understandings of men can be warped and their affections
changed by operations upon their passions and prejudices, so long will the liberties of a people
depend on their own constant attention to its preservation. The danger to all well-established
free governments arises from the unwillingness of the people to believe in its existence or
from the influence of designing men diverting their attention from the quarter whence it approaches
to a source from which it can never come. This is the old trick of those who would usurp the
government of their country. In the name of democracy they speak, warning the people against
the influence of wealth and the danger of aristocracy. History, ancient and modern, is full
of such examples. Caesar became the master of the Roman people and the senate under the pretense
of supporting the democratic claims of the former against the aristocracy of the latter; Cromwell,
in the character of protector of the liberties of the people, became the dictator of England,
and Bolivar possessed himself of unlimited power with the title of his country's liberator.
There is, on the contrary, no instance on record of an extensive and well-established republic
being changed into an aristocracy. The tendencies of all such governments in their decline
is to monarchy, and the antagonist principle to liberty there is the spirit of faction--a spirit
which assumes the character and in times of great excitement imposes itself upon the people
as the genuine spirit of freedom, and, like the false Christs whose coming was foretold by
the Savior, seeks to, and were it possible would, impose upon the true and most faithful disciples
of liberty. It is in periods like this that it behooves the people to be most watchful of those
to whom they have intrusted power. And although there is at times much difficulty in distinguishing
the false from the true spirit, a calm and dispassionate investigation will detect the counterfeit,
as well by the character of its operations as the results that are produced. The true spirit
of liberty, although devoted, persevering, bold, and uncompromising in principle, that secured
is mild and tolerant and scrupulous as to the means it employs, whilst the spirit of party,
assuming to be that of liberty, is harsh, vindictive, and intolerant, and totally reckless
as to the character of the allies which it brings to the aid of its cause. When the genuine
spirit of liberty animates the body of a people to a thorough examination of their affairs,
it leads to the excision of every excrescence which may have fastened itself upon any of the
departments of the government, and restores the system to its pristine health and beauty. But
the reign of an intolerant spirit of party amongst a free people seldom fails to result in
a dangerous accession to the executive power introduced and established amidst unusual professions
of devotion to democracy.

The foregoing remarks relate almost exclusively to matters connected with our domestic concerns.
It may be proper, however, that I should give some indications to my fellow-citizens of my
proposed course of conduct in the management of our foreign relations. I assure them, therefore,
that it is my intention to use every means in my power to preserve the friendly intercourse
which now so happily subsists with every foreign nation, and that although, of course, not
well informed as to the state of pending negotiations with any of them, I see in the personal
characters of the sovereigns, as well as in the mutual interests of our own and of the governments
with which our relations are most intimate, a pleasing guaranty that the harmony so important
to the interests of their subjects as well as of our citizens will not be interrupted by the
advancement of any claim or pretension upon their part to which our honor would not permit
us to yield. Long the defender of my country's rights in the field, I trust that my fellow-citizens
will not see in my earnest desire to preserve peace with foreign powers any indication that
their rights will ever be sacrificed or the honor of the nation tarnished by any admission
on the part of their Chief Magistrate unworthy of their former glory. In our intercourse with
our aboriginal neighbors the same liberality and justice which marked the course prescribed
to me by two of my illustrious predecessors when acting under their direction in the discharge
of the duties of superintendent and commissioner shall be strictly observed. I can conceive
of no more sublime spectacle, none more likely to propitiate an impartial and common Creator,
than a rigid adherence to the principles of justice on the part of a powerful nation in its
transactions with a weaker and uncivilized people whom circumstances have placed at its disposal.

Before concluding, fellow-citizens, I must say something to you on the subject of the parties
at this time existing in our country. To me it appears perfectly clear that the interest of
that country requires that the violence of the spirit by which those parties are at this time
governed must be greatly mitigated, if not entirely extinguished, or consequences will ensue
which are appalling to be thought of.

If parties in a republic are necessary to secure a degree of vigilance sufficient to keep the
public functionaries within the bounds of law and duty, at that point their usefulness ends.
Beyond that they become destructive of public virtue, the parent of a spirit antagonist to
that of liberty, and eventually its inevitable conqueror. We have examples of republics where
the love of country and of liberty at one time were the dominant passions of the whole mass
of citizens, and yet, with the continuance of the name and forms of free government, not a
vestige of these qualities remaining in the bosoms of any one of its citizens. It was the beautiful
remark of a distinguished English writer that "in the Roman senate Octavius had a party and
Anthony a party, but the Commonwealth had none." Yet the senate continued to meet in the temple
of liberty to talk of the sacredness and beauty of the Commonwealth and gaze at the statues
of the elder Brutus and of the Curtii and Decii, and the people assembled in the forum, not,
as in the days of Camillus and the Scipios, to cast their free votes for annual magistrates
or pass upon the acts of the senate, but to receive from the hands of the leaders of the respective
parties their share of the spoils and to shout for one or the other, as those collected in
Gaul or Egypt and the lesser Asia would furnish the larger dividend. The spirit of liberty
had fled, and, avoiding the abodes of civilized man, had sought protection in the wilds of
Scythia or Scandinavia; and so under the operation of the same causes and influences it will
fly from our Capitol and our forums. A calamity so awful, not only to our country, but to the
world, must be deprecated by every patriot and every tendency to a state of things likely to
produce it immediately checked. Such a tendency has existed--does exist. Always the friend
of my countrymen, never their flatterer, it becomes my duty to say to them from this high place
to which their partiality has exalted me that there exists in the land a spirit hostile to
their best interests--hostile to liberty itself. It is a spirit contracted in its views, selfish
in its objects. It looks to the aggrandizement of a few even to the destruction of the interests
of the whole. The entire remedy is with the people. Something, however, may be effected by
the means which they have placed in my hands. It is union that we want, not of a party for
the sake of that party, but a union of the whole country for the sake of the whole country,
for the defense of its interests and its honor against foreign aggression, for the defense
of those principles for which our ancestors so gloriously contended. As far as it depends upon
me it shall be accomplished. All the influence that I possess shall be exerted to prevent the
formation at least of an Executive party in the halls of the legislative body. I wish for the
support of no member of that body to any measure of mine that does not satisfy his judgment
and his sense of duty to those from whom he holds his appointment, nor any confidence in advance
from the people but that asked for by Mr. Jefferson, "to give firmness and effect to the legal
administration of their affairs."

I deem the present occasion sufficiently important and solemn to justify me in expressing to
my fellow-citizens a profound reverence for the Christian religion and a thorough conviction
that sound morals, religious liberty, and a just sense of religious responsibility are essentially
connected with all true and lasting happiness; and to that good Being who has blessed us by
the gifts of civil and religious freedom, who watched over and prospered the labors of our
fathers and has hitherto preserved to us institutions far exceeding in excellence those of
any other people, let us unite in fervently commending every interest of our beloved country
in all future time.

Fellow-citizens, being fully invested with that high office to which the partiality of my countrymen
has called me, I now take an affectionate leave of you. You will bear with you to your homes
the remembrance of the pledge I have this day given to discharge all the high duties of my
exalted station according to the best of my ability, and I shall enter upon their performance
with entire confidence in the support of a just and generous people.

***

James Knox Polk Inaugural Address Tuesday, March 4, 1845

Fellow-Citizens:

Without solicitation on my part, I have been chosen by the free and voluntary suffrages of
my countrymen to the most honorable and most responsible office on earth. I am deeply impressed
with gratitude for the confidence reposed in me. Honored with this distinguished consideration
at an earlier period of life than any of my predecessors, I can not disguise the diffidence
with which I am about to enter on the discharge of my official duties.

If the more aged and experienced men who have filled the office of President of the United
States even in the infancy of the Republic distrusted their ability to discharge the duties
of that exalted station, what ought not to be the apprehensions of one so much younger and
less endowed now that our domain extends from ocean to ocean, that our people have so greatly
increased in numbers, and at a time when so great diversity of opinion prevails in regard to
the principles and policy which should characterize the administration of our Government? Well
may the boldest fear and the wisest tremble when incurring responsibilities on which may depend
our country's peace and prosperity, and in some degree the hopes and happiness of the whole
human family.

In assuming responsibilities so vast I fervently invoke the aid of that Almighty Ruler of the
Universe in whose hands are the destinies of nations and of men to guard this Heaven-favored
land against the mischiefs which without His guidance might arise from an unwise public policy.
With a firm reliance upon the wisdom of Omnipotence to sustain and direct me in the path of
duty which I am appointed to pursue, I stand in the presence of this assembled multitude of
my countrymen to take upon myself the solemn obligation "to the best of my ability to preserve,
protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States."

A concise enumeration of the principles which will guide me in the administrative policy of
the Government is not only in accordance with the examples set me by all my predecessors, but
is eminently befitting the occasion.

The Constitution itself, plainly written as it is, the safeguard of our federative compact,
the offspring of concession and compromise, binding together in the bonds of peace and union
this great and increasing family of free and independent States, will be the chart by which
I shall be directed.

It will be my first care to administer the Government in the true spirit of that instrument,
and to assume no powers not expressly granted or clearly implied in its terms. The Government
of the United States is one of delegated and limited powers, and it is by a strict adherence
to the clearly granted powers and by abstaining from the exercise of doubtful or unauthorized
implied powers that we have the only sure guaranty against the recurrence of those unfortunate
collisions between the Federal and State authorities which have occasionally so much disturbed
the harmony of our system and even threatened the perpetuity of our glorious Union.

"To the States, respectively, or to the people" have been reserved "the powers not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States." Each State is
a complete sovereignty within the sphere of its reserved powers. The Government of the Union,
acting within the sphere of its delegated authority, is also a complete sovereignty. While
the General Government should abstain from the exercise of authority not clearly delegated
to it, the States should be equally careful that in the maintenance of their rights they do
not overstep the limits of powers reserved to them. One of the most distinguished of my predecessors
attached deserved importance to "the support of the State governments in all their rights,
as the most competent administration for our domestic concerns and the surest bulwark against
antirepublican tendencies," and to the "preservation of the General Government in its whole
constitutional vigor, as the sheet anchor of our peace at home and safety abroad."

To the Government of the United States has been intrusted the exclusive management of our foreign
affairs. Beyond that it wields a few general enumerated powers. It does not force reform on
the States. It leaves individuals, over whom it casts its protecting influence, entirely free
to improve their own condition by the legitimate exercise of all their mental and physical
powers. It is a common protector of each and all the States; of every man who lives upon our
soil, whether of native or foreign birth; of every religious sect, in their worship of the
Almighty according to the dictates of their own conscience; of every shade of opinion, and
the most free inquiry; of every art, trade, and occupation consistent with the laws of the
States. And we rejoice in the general happiness, prosperity, and advancement of our country,
which have been the offspring of freedom, and not of power.

This most admirable and wisest system of well-regulated self-government among men ever devised
by human minds has been tested by its successful operation for more than half a century, and
if preserved from the usurpations of the Federal Government on the one hand and the exercise
by the States of powers not reserved to them on the other, will, I fervently hope and believe,
endure for ages to come and dispense the blessings of civil and religious liberty to distant
generations. To effect objects so dear to every patriot I shall devote myself with anxious
solicitude. It will be my desire to guard against that most fruitful source of danger to the
harmonious action of our system which consists in substituting the mere discretion and caprice
of the Executive or of majorities in the legislative department of the Government for powers
which have been withheld from the Federal Government by the Constitution. By the theory of
our Government majorities rule, but this right is not an arbitrary or unlimited one. It is
a right to be exercised in subordination to the Constitution and in conformity to it. One great
object of the Constitution was to restrain majorities from oppressing minorities or encroaching
upon their just rights. Minorities have a right to appeal to the Constitution as a shield against
such oppression.

That the blessings of liberty which our Constitution secures may be enjoyed alike by minorities
and majorities, the Executive has been wisely invested with a qualified veto upon the acts
of the Legislature. It is a negative power, and is conservative in its character. It arrests
for the time hasty, inconsiderate, or unconstitutional legislation, invites reconsideration,
and transfers questions at issue between the legislative and executive departments to the tribunal
of the people. Like all other powers, it is subject to be abused. When judiciously and properly
exercised, the Constitution itself may be saved from infraction and the rights of all preserved
and protected.

The inestimable value of our Federal Union is felt and acknowledged by all. By this system
of united and confederated States our people are permitted collectively and individually to
seek their own happiness in their own way, and the consequences have been most auspicious.
Since the Union was formed the number of the States has increased from thirteen to twenty-eight;
two of these have taken their position as members of the Confederacy within the last week.
Our population has increased from three to twenty millions. New communities and States are
seeking protection under its aegis, and multitudes from the Old World are flocking to our shores
to participate in its blessings. Beneath its benign sway peace and prosperity prevail. Freed
from the burdens and miseries of war, our trade and intercourse have extended throughout the
world. Mind, no longer tasked in devising means to accomplish or resist schemes of ambition,
usurpation, or conquest, is devoting itself to man's true interests in developing his faculties
and powers and the capacity of nature to minister to his enjoyments. Genius is free to announce
its inventions and discoveries, and the hand is free to accomplish whatever the head conceives
not incompatible with the rights of a fellow-being. All distinctions of birth or of rank have
been abolished. All citizens, whether native or adopted, are placed upon terms of precise equality.
All are entitled to equal rights and equal protection. No union exists between church and state,
and perfect freedom of opinion is guaranteed to all sects and creeds.

These are some of the blessings secured to our happy land by our Federal Union. To perpetuate
them it is our sacred duty to preserve it. Who shall assign limits to the achievements of free
minds and free hands under the protection of this glorious Union? No treason to mankind since
the organization of society would be equal in atrocity to that of him who would lift his hand
to destroy it. He would overthrow the noblest structure of human wisdom, which protects himself
and his fellow-man. He would stop the progress of free government and involve his country either
in anarchy or despotism. He would extinguish the fire of liberty, which warms and animates
the hearts of happy millions and invites all the nations of the earth to imitate our example.
If he say that error and wrong are committed in the administration of the Government, let him
remember that nothing human can be perfect, and that under no other system of government revealed
by Heaven or devised by man has reason been allowed so free and broad a scope to combat error.
Has the sword of despots proved to be a safer or surer instrument of reform in government than
enlightened reason? Does he expect to find among the ruins of this Union a happier abode for
our swarming millions than they now have under it? Every lover of his country must shudder
at the thought of the possibility of its dissolution, and will be ready to adopt the patriotic
sentiment, "Our Federal Union--it must be preserved." To preserve it the compromises which
alone enabled our fathers to form a common constitution for the government and protection of
so many States and distinct communities, of such diversified habits, interests, and domestic
institutions, must be sacredly and religiously observed. Any attempt to disturb or destroy
these compromises, being terms of the compact of union, can lead to none other than the most
ruinous and disastrous consequences.

It is a source of deep regret that in some sections of our country misguided persons have occasionally
indulged in schemes and agitations whose object is the destruction of domestic institutions
existing in other sections--institutions which existed at the adoption of the Constitution
and were recognized and protected by it. All must see that if it were possible for them to
be successful in attaining their object the dissolution of the Union and the consequent destruction
of our happy form of government must speedily follow.

I am happy to believe that at every period of our existence as a nation there has existed,
and continues to exist, among the great mass of our people a devotion to the Union of the States
which will shield and protect it against the moral treason of any who would seriously contemplate
its destruction. To secure a continuance of that devotion the compromises of the Constitution
must not only be preserved, but sectional jealousies and heartburnings must be discountenanced,
and all should remember that they are members of the same political family, having a common
destiny. To increase the attachment of our people to the Union, our laws should be just. Any
policy which shall tend to favor monopolies or the peculiar interests of sections or classes
must operate to the prejudice of the interest of their fellow-citizens, and should be avoided.
If the compromises of the Constitution be preserved, if sectional jealousies and heartburnings
be discountenanced, if our laws be just and the Government be practically administered strictly
within the limits of power prescribed to it, we may discard all apprehensions for the safety
of the Union.

With these views of the nature, character, and objects of the Government and the value of the
Union, I shall steadily oppose the creation of those institutions and systems which in their
nature tend to pervert it from its legitimate purposes and make it the instrument of sections,
classes, and individuals. We need no national banks or other extraneous institutions planted
around the Government to control or strengthen it in opposition to the will of its authors.
Experience has taught us how unnecessary they are as auxiliaries of the public authorities--how
impotent for good and how powerful for mischief.

Ours was intended to be a plain and frugal government, and I shall regard it to be my duty
to recommend to Congress and, as far as the Executive is concerned, to enforce by all the means
within my power the strictest economy in the expenditure of the public money which may be compatible
with the public interests.

A national debt has become almost an institution of European monarchies. It is viewed in some
of them as an essential prop to existing governments. Melancholy is the condition of that people
whose government can be sustained only by a system which periodically transfers large amounts
from the labor of the many to the coffers of the few. Such a system is incompatible with the
ends for which our republican Government was instituted. Under a wise policy the debts contracted
in our Revolution and during the War of 1812 have been happily extinguished. By a judicious
application of the revenues not required for other necessary purposes, it is not doubted that
the debt which has grown out of the circumstances of the last few years may be speedily paid off.

I congratulate my fellow-citizens on the entire restoration of the credit of the General Government
of the Union and that of many of the States. Happy would it be for the indebted States if they
were freed from their liabilities, many of which were incautiously contracted. Although the
Government of the Union is neither in a legal nor a moral sense bound for the debts of the
States, and it would be a violation of our compact of union to assume them, yet we can not
but feel a deep interest in seeing all the States meet their public liabilities and pay off
their just debts at the earliest practicable period. That they will do so as soon as it can
be done without imposing too heavy burdens on their citizens there is no reason to doubt. The
sound moral and honorable feeling of the people of the indebted States can not be questioned,
and we are happy to perceive a settled disposition on their part, as their ability returns
after a season of unexampled pecuniary embarrassment, to pay off all just demands and to acquiesce
in any reasonable measures to accomplish that object.

One of the difficulties which we have had to encounter in the practical administration of the
Government consists in the adjustment of our revenue laws and the levy of the taxes necessary
for the support of Government. In the general proposition that no more money shall be collected
than the necessities of an economical administration shall require all parties seem to acquiesce.
Nor does there seem to be any material difference of opinion as to the absence of right in
the Government to tax one section of country, or one class of citizens, or one occupation,
for the mere profit of another. "Justice and sound policy forbid the Federal Government to
foster one branch of industry to the detriment of another, or to cherish the interests of one
portion to the injury of another portion of our common country." I have heretofore declared
to my fellow-citizens that "in my judgment it is the duty of the Government to extend, as far
as it may be practicable to do so, by its revenue laws and all other means within its power,
fair and just protection to all of the great interests of the whole Union, embracing agriculture,
manufactures, the mechanic arts, commerce, and navigation." I have also declared my opinion
to be "in favor of a tariff for revenue," and that "in adjusting the details of such a tariff
I have sanctioned such moderate discriminating duties as would produce the amount of revenue
needed and at the same time afford reasonable incidental protection to our home industry,"
and that I was "opposed to a tariff for protection merely, and not for revenue."

The power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises" was an indispensable one
to be conferred on the Federal Government, which without it would possess no means of providing
for its own support. In executing this power by levying a tariff of duties for the support
of Government, the raising of revenue should be the object and protection the incident. To
reverse this principle and make protection the object and revenue the incident would be to
inflict manifest injustice upon all other than the protected interests. In levying duties for
revenue it is doubtless proper to make such discriminations within the revenue principle as
will afford incidental protection to our home interests. Within the revenue limit there is
a discretion to discriminate; beyond that limit the rightful exercise of the power is not conceded.
The incidental protection afforded to our home interests by discriminations within the revenue
range it is believed will be ample. In making discriminations all our home interests should
as far as practicable be equally protected. The largest portion of our people are agriculturists.
Others are employed in manufactures, commerce, navigation, and the mechanic arts. They are
all engaged in their respective pursuits and their joint labors constitute the national or
home industry. To tax one branch of this home industry for the benefit of another would be
unjust. No one of these interests can rightfully claim an advantage over the others, or to
be enriched by impoverishing the others. All are equally entitled to the fostering care and
protection of the Government. In exercising a sound discretion in levying discriminating duties
within the limit prescribed, care should be taken that it be done in a manner not to benefit
the wealthy few at the expense of the toiling millions by taxing lowest the luxuries of life,
or articles of superior quality and high price, which can only be consumed by the wealthy,
and highest the necessaries of life, or articles of coarse quality and low price, which the
poor and great mass of our people must consume. The burdens of government should as far as
practicable be distributed justly and equally among all classes of our population. These general
views, long entertained on this subject, I have deemed it proper to reiterate. It is a subject
upon which conflicting interests of sections and occupations are supposed to exist, and a spirit
of mutual concession and compromise in adjusting its details should be cherished by every part
of our widespread country as the only means of preserving harmony and a cheerful acquiescence
of all in the operation of our revenue laws. Our patriotic citizens in every part of the Union
will readily submit to the payment of such taxes as shall be needed for the support of their
Government, whether in peace or in war, if they are so levied as to distribute the burdens
as equally as possible among them.

The Republic of Texas has made known her desire to come into our Union, to form a part of our
Confederacy and enjoy with us the blessings of liberty secured and guaranteed by our Constitution.
Texas was once a part of our country--was unwisely ceded away to a foreign power--is now independent,
and possesses an undoubted right to dispose of a part or the whole of her territory and to
merge her sovereignty as a separate and independent state in ours. I congratulate my country
that by an act of the late Congress of the United States the assent of this Government has
been given to the reunion, and it only remains for the two countries to agree upon the terms
to consummate an object so important to both.

I regard the question of annexation as belonging exclusively to the United States and Texas.
They are independent powers competent to contract, and foreign nations have no right to interfere
with them or to take exceptions to their reunion. Foreign powers do not seem to appreciate
the true character of our Government. Our Union is a confederation of independent States, whose
policy is peace with each other and all the world. To enlarge its limits is to extend the dominions
of peace over additional territories and increasing millions. The world has nothing to fear
from military ambition in our Government. While the Chief Magistrate and the popular branch
of Congress are elected for short terms by the suffrages of those millions who must in their
own persons bear all the burdens and miseries of war, our Government can not be otherwise than
pacific. Foreign powers should therefore look on the annexation of Texas to the United States
not as the conquest of a nation seeking to extend her dominions by arms and violence, but as
the peaceful acquisition of a territory once her own, by adding another member to our confederation,
with the consent of that member, thereby diminishing the chances of war and opening to them
new and ever-increasing markets for their products.

To Texas the reunion is important, because the strong protecting arm of our Government would
be extended over her, and the vast resources of her fertile soil and genial climate would be
speedily developed, while the safety of New Orleans and of our whole southwestern frontier
against hostile aggression, as well as the interests of the whole Union, would be promoted by it.

In the earlier stages of our national existence the opinion prevailed with some that our system
of confederated States could not operate successfully over an extended territory, and serious
objections have at different times been made to the enlargement of our boundaries. These objections
were earnestly urged when we acquired Louisiana. Experience has shown that they were not well
founded. The title of numerous Indian tribes to vast tracts of country has been extinguished;
new States have been admitted into the Union; new Territories have been created and our jurisdiction
and laws extended over them. As our population has expanded, the Union has been cemented and
strengthened. As our boundaries have been enlarged and our agricultural population has been
spread over a large surface, our federative system has acquired additional strength and security.
It may well be doubted whether it would not be in greater danger of overthrow if our present
population were confined to the comparatively narrow limits of the original thirteen States
than it is now that they are sparsely settled over a more expanded territory. It is confidently
believed that our system may be safely extended to the utmost bounds of our territorial limits,
and that as it shall be extended the bonds of our Union, so far from being weakened, will become
stronger.

None can fail to see the danger to our safety and future peace if Texas remains an independent
state or becomes an ally or dependency of some foreign nation more powerful than herself. Is
there one among our citizens who would not prefer perpetual peace with Texas to occasional
wars, which so often occur between bordering independent nations? Is there one who would not
prefer free intercourse with her to high duties on all our products and manufactures which
enter her ports or cross her frontiers? Is there one who would not prefer an unrestricted communication
with her citizens to the frontier obstructions which must occur if she remains out of the Union?
Whatever is good or evil in the local institutions of Texas will remain her own whether annexed
to the United States or not. None of the present States will be responsible for them any more
than they are for the local institutions of each other. They have confederated together for
certain specified objects. Upon the same principle that they would refuse to form a perpetual
union with Texas because of her local institutions our forefathers would have been prevented
from forming our present Union. Perceiving no valid objection to the measure and many reasons
for its adoption vitally affecting the peace, the safety, and the prosperity of both countries,
I shall on the broad principle which formed the basis and produced the adoption of our Constitution,
and not in any narrow spirit of sectional policy, endeavor by all constitutional, honorable,
and appropriate means to consummate the expressed will of the people and Government of the
United States by the reannexation of Texas to our Union at the earliest practicable period.

Nor will it become in a less degree my duty to assert and maintain by all constitutional means
the right of the United States to that portion of our territory which lies beyond the Rocky
Mountains. Our title to the country of the Oregon is "clear and unquestionable," and already
are our people preparing to perfect that title by occupying it with their wives and children.
But eighty years ago our population was confined on the west by the ridge of the Alleghanies.
Within that period--within the lifetime, I might say, of some of my hearers--our people, increasing
to many millions, have filled the eastern valley of the Mississippi, adventurously ascended
the Missouri to its headsprings, and are already engaged in establishing the blessings of self-government
in valleys of which the rivers flow to the Pacific. The world beholds the peaceful triumphs
of the industry of our emigrants. To us belongs the duty of protecting them adequately wherever
they may be upon our soil. The jurisdiction of our laws and the benefits of our republican
institutions should be extended over them in the distant regions which they have selected for
their homes. The increasing facilities of intercourse will easily bring the States, of which
the formation in that part of our territory can not be long delayed, within the sphere of our
federative Union. In the meantime every obligation imposed by treaty or conventional stipulations
should be sacredly respected.

In the management of our foreign relations it will be my aim to observe a careful respect for
the rights of other nations, while our own will be the subject of constant watchfulness. Equal
and exact justice should characterize all our intercourse with foreign countries. All alliances
having a tendency to jeopard the welfare and honor of our country or sacrifice any one of the
national interests will be studiously avoided, and yet no opportunity will be lost to cultivate
a favorable understanding with foreign governments by which our navigation and commerce may
be extended and the ample products of our fertile soil, as well as the manufactures of our
skillful artisans, find a ready market and remunerating prices in foreign countries.

In taking "care that the laws be faithfully executed," a strict performance of duty will be
exacted from all public officers. From those officers, especially, who are charged with the
collection and disbursement of the public revenue will prompt and rigid accountability be required.
Any culpable failure or delay on their part to account for the moneys intrusted to them at
the times and in the manner required by law will in every instance terminate the official connection
of such defaulting officer with the Government.

Although in our country the Chief Magistrate must almost of necessity be chosen by a party
and stand pledged to its principles and measures, yet in his official action he should not
be the President of a part only, but of the whole people of the United States. While he executes
the laws with an impartial hand, shrinks from no proper responsibility, and faithfully carries
out in the executive department of the Government the principles and policy of those who have
chosen him, he should not be unmindful that our fellow-citizens who have differed with him
in opinion are entitled to the full and free exercise of their opinions and judgments, and
that the rights of all are entitled to respect and regard.

Confidently relying upon the aid and assistance of the coordinate departments of the Government
in conducting our public affairs, I enter upon the discharge of the high duties which have
been assigned me by the people, again humbly supplicating that Divine Being who has watched
over and protected our beloved country from its infancy to the present hour to continue His
gracious benedictions upon us, that we may continue to be a prosperous and happy people.

***

Zachary Taylor Inaugural Address Monday, March 5, 1849

ELECTED by the American people to the highest office known to our laws, I appear here to take
the oath prescribed by the Constitution, and, in compliance with a time-honored custom, to
address those who are now assembled.

The confidence and respect shown by my countrymen in calling me to be the Chief Magistrate
of a Republic holding a high rank among the nations of the earth have inspired me with feelings
of the most profound gratitude; but when I reflect that the acceptance of the office which
their partiality has bestowed imposes the discharge of the most arduous duties and involves
the weightiest obligations, I am conscious that the position which I have been called to fill,
though sufficient to satisfy the loftiest ambition, is surrounded by fearful responsibilities.
Happily, however, in the performance of my new duties I shall not be without able cooperation.
The legislative and judicial branches of the Government present prominent examples of distinguished
civil attainments and matured experience, and it shall be my endeavor to call to my assistance
in the Executive Departments individuals whose talents, integrity, and purity of character
will furnish ample guaranties for the faithful and honorable performance of the trusts to be
committed to their charge. With such aids and an honest purpose to do whatever is right, I
hope to execute diligently, impartially, and for the best interests of the country the manifold
duties devolved upon me.

In the discharge of these duties my guide will be the Constitution, which I this day swear
to "preserve, protect, and defend." For the interpretation of that instrument I shall look
to the decisions of the judicial tribunals established by its authority and to the practice
of the Government under the earlier Presidents, who had so large a share in its formation.
To the example of those illustrious patriots I shall always defer with reverence, and especially
to his example who was by so many titles "the Father of his Country."

To command the Army and Navy of the United States; with the advice and consent of the Senate,
to make treaties and to appoint ambassadors and other officers; to give to Congress information
of the state of the Union and recommend such measures as he shall judge to be necessary; and
to take care that the laws shall be faithfully executed--these are the most important functions
intrusted to the President by the Constitution, and it may be expected that I shall briefly
indicate the principles which will control me in their execution.

Chosen by the body of the people under the assurance that my Administration would be devoted
to the welfare of the whole country, and not to the support of any particular section or merely
local interest, I this day renew the declarations I have heretofore made and proclaim my fixed
determination to maintain to the extent of my ability the Government in its original purity
and to adopt as the basis of my public policy those great republican doctrines which constitute
the strength of our national existence.

In reference to the Army and Navy, lately employed with so much distinction on active service,
care shall be taken to insure the highest condition of efficiency, and in furtherance of that
object the military and naval schools, sustained by the liberality of Congress, shall receive
the special attention of the Executive.

As American freemen we can not but sympathize in all efforts to extend the blessings of civil
and political liberty, but at the same time we are warned by the admonitions of history and
the voice of our own beloved Washington to abstain from entangling alliances with foreign nations.
In all disputes between conflicting governments it is our interest not less than our duty to
remain strictly neutral, while our geographical position, the genius of our institutions and
our people, the advancing spirit of civilization, and, above all, the dictates of religion
direct us to the cultivation of peaceful and friendly relations with all other powers. It is
to be hoped that no international question can now arise which a government confident in its
own strength and resolved to protect its own just rights may not settle by wise negotiation;
and it eminently becomes a government like our own, founded on the morality and intelligence
of its citizens and upheld by their affections, to exhaust every resort of honorable diplomacy
before appealing to arms. In the conduct of our foreign relations I shall conform to these
views, as I believe them essential to the best interests and the true honor of the country.

The appointing power vested in the President imposes delicate and onerous duties. So far as
it is possible to be informed, I shall make honesty, capacity, and fidelity indispensable prerequisites
to the bestowal of office, and the absence of either of these qualities shall be deemed sufficient
cause for removal.

It shall be my study to recommend such constitutional measures to Congress as may be necessary
and proper to secure encouragement and protection to the great interests of agriculture, commerce,
and manufactures, to improve our rivers and harbors, to provide for the speedy extinguishment
of the public debt, to enforce a strict accountability on the part of all officers of the Government
and the utmost economy in all public expenditures; but it is for the wisdom of Congress itself,
in which all legislative powers are vested by the Constitution, to regulate these and other
matters of domestic policy. I shall look with confidence to the enlightened patriotism of that
body to adopt such measures of conciliation as may harmonize conflicting interests and tend
to perpetuate that Union which should be the paramount object of our hopes and affections.
In any action calculated to promote an object so near the heart of everyone who truly loves
his country I will zealously unite with the coordinate branches of the Government.

In conclusion I congratulate you, my fellow-citizens, upon the high state of prosperity to
which the goodness of Divine Providence has conducted our common country. Let us invoke a continuance
of the same protecting care which has led us from small beginnings to the eminence we this
day occupy, and let us seek to deserve that continuance by prudence and moderation in our councils,
by well-directed attempts to assuage the bitterness which too often marks unavoidable differences
of opinion, by the promulgation and practice of just and liberal principles, and by an enlarged
patriotism, which shall acknowledge no limits but those of our own widespread Republic.

***

Franklin Pierce Inaugural Address Friday, March 4, 1853

My Countrymen:

IT is a relief to feel that no heart but my own can know the personal regret and bitter sorrow
over which I have been borne to a position so suitable for others rather than desirable for myself.

The circumstances under which I have been called for a limited period to preside over the destinies
of the Republic fill me with a profound sense of responsibility, but with nothing like shrinking
apprehension. I repair to the post assigned me not as to one sought, but in obedience to the
unsolicited expression of your will, answerable only for a fearless, faithful, and diligent
exercise of my best powers. I ought to be, and am, truly grateful for the rare manifestation
of the nation's confidence; but this, so far from lightening my obligations, only adds to their
weight. You have summoned me in my weakness; you must sustain me by your strength. When looking
for the fulfillment of reasonable requirements, you will not be unmindful of the great changes
which have occurred, even within the last quarter of a century, and the consequent augmentation
and complexity of duties imposed in the administration both of your home and foreign affairs.

Whether the elements of inherent force in the Republic have kept pace with its unparalleled
progression in territory, population, and wealth has been the subject of earnest thought and
discussion on both sides of the ocean. Less than sixty-four years ago the Father of his Country
made "the" then "recent accession of the important State of North Carolina to the Constitution
of the United States" one of the subjects of his special congratulation. At that moment, however,
when the agitation consequent upon the Revolutionary struggle had hardly subsided, when we
were just emerging from the weakness and embarrassments of the Confederation, there was an
evident consciousness of vigor equal to the great mission so wisely and bravely fulfilled by
our fathers. It was not a presumptuous assurance, but a calm faith, springing from a clear
view of the sources of power in a government constituted like ours. It is no paradox to say
that although comparatively weak the new-born nation was intrinsically strong. Inconsiderable
in population and apparent resources, it was upheld by a broad and intelligent comprehension
of rights and an all-pervading purpose to maintain them, stronger than armaments. It came from
the furnace of the Revolution, tempered to the necessities of the times. The thoughts of the
men of that day were as practical as their sentiments were patriotic. They wasted no portion
of their energies upon idle and delusive speculations, but with a firm and fearless step advanced
beyond the governmental landmarks which had hitherto circumscribed the limits of human freedom
and planted their standard, where it has stood against dangers which have threatened from abroad,
and internal agitation, which has at times fearfully menaced at home. They proved themselves
equal to the solution of the great problem, to understand which their minds had been illuminated
by the dawning lights of the Revolution. The object sought was not a thing dreamed of; it was
a thing realized. They had exhibited only the power to achieve, but, what all history affirms
to be so much more unusual, the capacity to maintain. The oppressed throughout the world from
that day to the present have turned their eyes hitherward, not to find those lights extinguished
or to fear lest they should wane, but to be constantly cheered by their steady and increasing
radiance.

In this our country has, in my judgment, thus far fulfilled its highest duty to suffering humanity.
It has spoken and will continue to speak, not only by its words, but by its acts, the language
of sympathy, encouragement, and hope to those who earnestly listen to tones which pronounce
for the largest rational liberty. But after all, the most animating encouragement and potent
appeal for freedom will be its own history--its trials and its triumphs. Preeminently, the
power of our advocacy reposes in our example; but no example, be it remembered, can be powerful
for lasting good, whatever apparent advantages may be gained, which is not based upon eternal
principles of right and justice. Our fathers decided for themselves, both upon the hour to
declare and the hour to strike. They were their own judges of the circumstances under which
it became them to pledge to each other "their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor"
for the acquisition of the priceless inheritance transmitted to us. The energy with which that
great conflict was opened and, under the guidance of a manifest and beneficent Providence the
uncomplaining endurance with which it was prosecuted to its consummation were only surpassed
by the wisdom and patriotic spirit of concession which characterized all the counsels of the
early fathers.

One of the most impressive evidences of that wisdom is to be found in the fact that the actual
working of our system has dispelled a degree of solicitude which at the outset disturbed bold
hearts and far-reaching intellects. The apprehension of dangers from extended territory, multiplied
States, accumulated wealth, and augmented population has proved to be unfounded. The stars
upon your banner have become nearly threefold their original number; your densely populated
possessions skirt the shores of the two great oceans; and yet this vast increase of people
and territory has not only shown itself compatible with the harmonious action of the States
and Federal Government in their respective constitutional spheres, but has afforded an additional
guaranty of the strength and integrity of both.

With an experience thus suggestive and cheering, the policy of my Administration will not be
controlled by any timid forebodings of evil from expansion. Indeed, it is not to be disguised
that our attitude as a nation and our position on the globe render the acquisition of certain
possessions not within our jurisdiction eminently important for our protection, if not in the
future essential for the preservation of the rights of commerce and the peace of the world.
Should they be obtained, it will be through no grasping spirit, but with a view to obvious
national interest and security, and in a manner entirely consistent with the strictest observance
of national faith. We have nothing in our history or position to invite aggression; we have
everything to beckon us to the cultivation of relations of peace and amity with all nations.
Purposes, therefore, at once just and pacific will be significantly marked in the conduct of
our foreign affairs. I intend that my Administration shall leave no blot upon our fair record,
and trust I may safely give the assurance that no act within the legitimate scope of my constitutional
control will be tolerated on the part of any portion of our citizens which can not challenge
a ready justification before the tribunal of the civilized world. An Administration would be
unworthy of confidence at home or respect abroad should it cease to be influenced by the conviction
that no apparent advantage can be purchased at a price so dear as that of national wrong or
dishonor. It is not your privilege as a nation to speak of a distant past. The striking incidents
of your history, replete with instruction and furnishing abundant grounds for hopeful confidence,
are comprised in a period comparatively brief. But if your past is limited, your future is
boundless. Its obligations throng the unexplored pathway of advancement, and will be limitless
as duration. Hence a sound and comprehensive policy should embrace not less the distant future
than the urgent present.

The great objects of our pursuit as a people are best to be attained by peace, and are entirely
consistent with the tranquillity and interests of the rest of mankind. With the neighboring
nations upon our continent we should cultivate kindly and fraternal relations. We can desire
nothing in regard to them so much as to see them consolidate their strength and pursue the
paths of prosperity and happiness. If in the course of their growth we should open new channels
of trade and create additional facilities for friendly intercourse, the benefits realized will
be equal and mutual. Of the complicated European systems of national polity we have heretofore
been independent. From their wars, their tumults, and anxieties we have been, happily, almost
entirely exempt. Whilst these are confined to the nations which gave them existence, and within
their legitimate jurisdiction, they can not affect us except as they appeal to our sympathies
in the cause of human freedom and universal advancement. But the vast interests of commerce
are common to all mankind, and the advantages of trade and international intercourse must always
present a noble field for the moral influence of a great people.

With these views firmly and honestly carried out, we have a right to expect, and shall under
all circumstances require, prompt reciprocity. The rights which belong to us as a nation are
not alone to be regarded, but those which pertain to every citizen in his individual capacity,
at home and abroad, must be sacredly maintained. So long as he can discern every star in its
place upon that ensign, without wealth to purchase for him preferment or title to secure for
him place, it will be his privilege, and must be his acknowledged right, to stand unabashed
even in the presence of princes, with a proud consciousness that he is himself one of a nation
of sovereigns and that he can not in legitimate pursuit wander so far from home that the agent
whom he shall leave behind in the place which I now occupy will not see that no rude hand of
power or tyrannical passion is laid upon him with impunity. He must realize that upon every
sea and on every soil where our enterprise may rightfully seek the protection of our flag American
citizenship is an inviolable panoply for the security of American rights. And in this connection
it can hardly be necessary to reaffirm a principle which should now be regarded as fundamental.
The rights, security, and repose of this Confederacy reject the idea of interference or colonization
on this side of the ocean by any foreign power beyond present jurisdiction as utterly inadmissible.

The opportunities of observation furnished by my brief experience as a soldier confirmed in
my own mind the opinion, entertained and acted upon by others from the formation of the Government,
that the maintenance of large standing armies in our country would be not only dangerous, but
unnecessary. They also illustrated the importance--I might well say the absolute necessity--of
the military science and practical skill furnished in such an eminent degree by the institution
which has made your Army what it is, under the discipline and instruction of officers not more
distinguished for their solid attainments, gallantry, and devotion to the public service than
for unobtrusive bearing and high moral tone. The Army as organized must be the nucleus around
which in every time of need the strength of your military power, the sure bulwark of your defense--a
national militia--may be readily formed into a well-disciplined and efficient organization.
And the skill and self-devotion of the Navy assure you that you may take the performance of
the past as a pledge for the future, and may confidently expect that the flag which has waved
its untarnished folds over every sea will still float in undiminished honor. But these, like
many other subjects, will be appropriately brought at a future time to the attention of the
coordinate branches of the Government, to which I shall always look with profound respect and
with trustful confidence that they will accord to me the aid and support which I shall so much
need and which their experience and wisdom will readily suggest.

In the administration of domestic affairs you expect a devoted integrity in the public service
and an observance of rigid economy in all departments, so marked as never justly to be questioned.
If this reasonable expectation be not realized, I frankly confess that one of your leading
hopes is doomed to disappointment, and that my efforts in a very important particular must
result in a humiliating failure. Offices can be properly regarded only in the light of aids
for the accomplishment of these objects, and as occupancy can confer no prerogative nor importunate
desire for preferment any claim, the public interest imperatively demands that they be considered
with sole reference to the duties to be performed. Good citizens may well claim the protection
of good laws and the benign influence of good government, but a claim for office is what the
people of a republic should never recognize. No reasonable man of any party will expect the
Administration to be so regardless of its responsibility and of the obvious elements of success
as to retain persons known to be under the influence of political hostility and partisan prejudice
in positions which will require not only severe labor, but cordial cooperation. Having no implied
engagements to ratify, no rewards to bestow, no resentments to remember, and no personal wishes
to consult in selections for official station, I shall fulfill this difficult and delicate
trust, admitting no motive as worthy either of my character or position which does not contemplate
an efficient discharge of duty and the best interests of my country. I acknowledge my obligations
to the masses of my countrymen, and to them alone. Higher objects than personal aggrandizement
gave direction and energy to their exertions in the late canvass, and they shall not be disappointed.
They require at my hands diligence, integrity, and capacity wherever there are duties to be
performed. Without these qualities in their public servants, more stringent laws for the prevention
or punishment of fraud, negligence, and peculation will be vain. With them they will be unnecessary.

But these are not the only points to which you look for vigilant watchfulness. The dangers
of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours
are too obvious to be disregarded. You have a right, therefore, to expect your agents in every
department to regard strictly the limits imposed upon them by the Constitution of the United
States. The great scheme of our constitutional liberty rests upon a proper distribution of
power between the State and Federal authorities, and experience has shown that the harmony
and happiness of our people must depend upon a just discrimination between the separate rights
and responsibilities of the States and your common rights and obligations under the General
Government; and here, in my opinion, are the considerations which should form the true basis
of future concord in regard to the questions which have most seriously disturbed public tranquillity.
If the Federal Government will confine itself to the exercise of powers clearly granted by
the Constitution, it can hardly happen that its action upon any question should endanger the
institutions of the States or interfere with their right to manage matters strictly domestic
according to the will of their own people.

In expressing briefly my views upon an important subject rich has recently agitated the nation
to almost a fearful degree, I am moved by no other impulse than a most earnest desire for the
perpetuation of that Union which has made us what we are, showering upon us blessings and conferring
a power and influence which our fathers could hardly have anticipated, even with their most
sanguine hopes directed to a far-off future. The sentiments I now announce were not unknown
before the expression of the voice which called me here. My own position upon this subject
was clear and unequivocal, upon the record of my words and my acts, and it is only recurred
to at this time because silence might perhaps be misconstrued. With the Union my best and dearest
earthly hopes are entwined. Without it what are we individually or collectively? What becomes
of the noblest field ever opened for the advancement of our race in religion, in government,
in the arts, and in all that dignifies and adorns mankind? From that radiant constellation
which both illumines our own way and points out to struggling nations their course, let but
a single star be lost, and, if these be not utter darkness, the luster of the whole is dimmed.
Do my countrymen need any assurance that such a catastrophe is not to overtake them while I
possess the power to stay it? It is with me an earnest and vital belief that as the Union has
been the source, under Providence, of our prosperity to this time, so it is the surest pledge
of a continuance of the blessings we have enjoyed, and which we are sacredly bound to transmit
undiminished to our children. The field of calm and free discussion in our country is open,
and will always be so, but never has been and never can be traversed for good in a spirit of
sectionalism and uncharitableness. The founders of the Republic dealt with things as they were
presented to them, in a spirit of self-sacrificing patriotism, and, as time has proved, with
a comprehensive wisdom which it will always be safe for us to consult. Every measure tending
to strengthen the fraternal feelings of all the members of our Union has had my heartfelt approbation.
To every theory of society or government, whether the offspring of feverish ambition or of
morbid enthusiasm, calculated to dissolve the bonds of law and affection which unite us, I
shall interpose a ready and stern resistance. I believe that involuntary servitude, as it exists
in different States of this Confederacy, is recognized by the Constitution. I believe that
it stands like any other admitted right, and that the States where it exists are entitled to
efficient remedies to enforce the constitutional provisions. I hold that the laws of 1850,
commonly called the "compromise measures," are strictly constitutional and to be unhesitatingly
carried into effect. I believe that the constituted authorities of this Republic are bound
to regard the rights of the South in this respect as they would view any other legal and constitutional
right, and that the laws to enforce them should be respected and obeyed, not with a reluctance
encouraged by abstract opinions as to their propriety in a different state of society, but
cheerfully and according to the decisions of the tribunal to which their exposition belongs.
Such have been, and are, my convictions, and upon them I shall act. I fervently hope that the
question is at rest, and that no sectional or ambitious or fanatical excitement may again threaten
the durability of our institutions or obscure the light of our prosperity.

But let not the foundation of our hope rest upon man's wisdom. It will not be sufficient that
sectional prejudices find no place in the public deliberations. It will not be sufficient that
the rash counsels of human passion are rejected. It must be felt that there is no national
security but in the nation's humble, acknowledged dependence upon God and His overruling providence.

We have been carried in safety through a perilous crisis. Wise counsels, like those which gave
us the Constitution, prevailed to uphold it. Let the period be remembered as an admonition,
and not as an encouragement, in any section of the Union, to make experiments where experiments
are fraught with such fearful hazard. Let it be impressed upon all hearts that, beautiful as
our fabric is, no earthly power or wisdom could ever reunite its broken fragments. Standing,
as I do, almost within view of the green slopes of Monticello, and, as it were, within reach
of the tomb of Washington, with all the cherished memories of the past gathering around me
like so many eloquent voices of exhortation from heaven, I can express no better hope for my
country than that the kind Providence which smiled upon our fathers may enable their children
to preserve the blessings they have inherited.

***

James Buchanan Inaugural Address Wednesday, March 4, 1857

Fellow-Citizens:

I APPEAR before you this day to take the solemn oath "that I will faithfully execute the office
of President of the United States and will to the best of my ability preserve, protect, and
defend the Constitution of the United States."

In entering upon this great office I must humbly invoke the God of our fathers for wisdom and
firmness to execute its high and responsible duties in such a manner as to restore harmony
and ancient friendship among the people of the several States and to preserve our free institutions
throughout many generations. Convinced that I owe my election to the inherent love for the
Constitution and the Union which still animates the hearts of the American people, let me earnestly
ask their powerful support in sustaining all just measures calculated to perpetuate these,
the richest political blessings which Heaven has ever bestowed upon any nation. Having determined
not to become a candidate for reelection, I shall have no motive to influence my conduct in
administering the Government except the desire ably and faithfully to serve my country and
to live in grateful memory of my countrymen.

We have recently passed through a Presidential contest in which the passions of our fellow-citizens
were excited to the highest degree by questions of deep and vital importance; but when the
people proclaimed their will the tempest at once subsided and all was calm.

The voice of the majority, speaking in the manner prescribed by the Constitution, was heard,
and instant submission followed. Our own country could alone have exhibited so grand and striking
a spectacle of the capacity of man for self-government.

What a happy conception, then, was it for Congress to apply this simple rule, that the will
of the majority shall govern, to the settlement of the question of domestic slavery in the
Territories. Congress is neither "to legislate slavery into any Territory or State nor to exclude
it therefrom, but to leave the people thereof perfectly free to form and regulate their domestic
institutions in their own way, subject only to the Constitution of the United States."

As a natural consequence, Congress has also prescribed that when the Territory of Kansas shall
be admitted as a State it "shall be received into the Union with or without slavery, as their
constitution may prescribe at the time of their admission."

A difference of opinion has arisen in regard to the point of time when the people of a Territory
shall decide this question for themselves.

This is, happily, a matter of but little practical importance. Besides, it is a judicial question,
which legitimately belongs to the Supreme Court of the United States, before whom it is now
pending, and will, it is understood, be speedily and finally settled. To their decision, in
common with all good citizens, I shall cheerfully submit, whatever this may be, though it has
ever been my individual opinion that under the Nebraska-Kansas act the appropriate period will
be when the number of actual residents in the Territory shall justify the formation of a constitution
with a view to its admission as a State into the Union. But be this as it may, it is the imperative
and indispensable duty of the Government of the United States to secure to every resident inhabitant
the free and independent expression of his opinion by his vote. This sacred right of each individual
must be preserved. That being accomplished, nothing can be fairer than to leave the people
of a Territory free from all foreign interference to decide their own destiny for themselves,
subject only to the Constitution of the United States.

The whole Territorial question being thus settled upon the principle of popular sovereignty--a
principle as ancient as free government itself--everything of a practical nature has been decided.
No other question remains for adjustment, because all agree that under the Constitution slavery
in the States is beyond the reach of any human power except that of the respective States themselves
wherein it exists. May we not, then, hope that the long agitation on this subject is approaching
its end, and that the geographical parties to which it has given birth, so much dreaded by
the Father of his Country, will speedily become extinct? Most happy will it be for the country
when the public mind shall be diverted from this question to others of more pressing and practical
importance. Throughout the whole progress of this agitation, which has scarcely known any intermission
for more than twenty years, whilst it has been productive of no positive good to any human
being it has been the prolific source of great evils to the master, to the slave, and to the
whole country. It has alienated and estranged the people of the sister States from each other,
and has even seriously endangered the very existence of the Union. Nor has the danger yet entirely
ceased. Under our system there is a remedy for all mere political evils in the sound sense
and sober judgment of the people. Time is a great corrective. Political subjects which but
a few years ago excited and exasperated the public mind have passed away and are now nearly
forgotten. But this question of domestic slavery is of far graver importance than any mere
political question, because should the agitation continue it may eventually endanger the personal
safety of a large portion of our countrymen where the institution exists. In that event no
form of government, however admirable in itself and however productive of material benefits,
can compensate for the loss of peace and domestic security around the family altar. Let every
Union-loving man, therefore, exert his best influence to suppress this agitation, which since
the recent legislation of Congress is without any legitimate object.

It is an evil omen of the times that men have undertaken to calculate the mere material value
of the Union. Reasoned estimates have been presented of the pecuniary profits and local advantages
which would result to different States and sections from its dissolution and of the comparative
injuries which such an event would inflict on other States and sections. Even descending to
this low and narrow view of the mighty question, all such calculations are at fault. The bare
reference to a single consideration will be conclusive on this point. We at present enjoy a
free trade throughout our extensive and expanding country such as the world has never witnessed.
This trade is conducted on railroads and canals, on noble rivers and arms of the sea, which
bind together the North and the South, the East and the West, of our Confederacy. Annihilate
this trade, arrest its free progress by the geographical lines of jealous and hostile States,
and you destroy the prosperity and onward march of the whole and every part and involve all
in one common ruin. But such considerations, important as they are in themselves, sink into
insignificance when we reflect on the terrific evils which would result from disunion to every
portion of the Confederacy--to the North, not more than to the South, to the East not more
than to the West. These I shall not attempt to portray, because I feel an humble confidence
that the kind Providence which inspired our fathers with wisdom to frame the most perfect form
of government and union ever devised by man will not suffer it to perish until it shall have
been peacefully instrumental by its example in the extension of civil and religious liberty
throughout the world.

Next in importance to the maintenance of the Constitution and the Union is the duty of preserving
the Government free from the taint or even the suspicion of corruption. Public virtue is the
vital spirit of republics, and history proves that when this has decayed and the love of money
has usurped its place, although the forms of free government may remain for a season, the substance
has departed forever.

Our present financial condition is without a parallel in history. No nation has ever before
been embarrassed from too large a surplus in its treasury. This almost necessarily gives birth
to extravagant legislation. It produces wild schemes of expenditure and begets a race of speculators
and jobbers, whose ingenuity is exerted in contriving and promoting expedients to obtain public
money. The purity of official agents, whether rightfully or wrongfully, is suspected, and the
character of the government suffers in the estimation of the people. This is in itself a very
great evil.

The natural mode of relief from this embarrassment is to appropriate the surplus in the Treasury
to great national objects for which a clear warrant can be found in the Constitution. Among
these I might mention the extinguishment of the public debt, a reasonable increase of the Navy,
which is at present inadequate to the protection of our vast tonnage afloat, now greater than
that of any other nation, as well as to the defense of our extended seacoast.

It is beyond all question the true principle that no more revenue ought to be collected from
the people than the amount necessary to defray the expenses of a wise, economical, and efficient
administration of the Government. To reach this point it was necessary to resort to a modification
of the tariff, and this has, I trust, been accomplished in such a manner as to do as little
injury as may have been practicable to our domestic manufactures, especially those necessary
for the defense of the country. Any discrimination against a particular branch for the purpose
of benefiting favored corporations, individuals, or interests would have been unjust to the
rest of the community and inconsistent with that spirit of fairness and equality which ought
to govern in the adjustment of a revenue tariff.

But the squandering of the public money sinks into comparative insignificance as a temptation
to corruption when compared with the squandering of the public lands.

No nation in the tide of time has ever been blessed with so rich and noble an inheritance as
we enjoy in the public lands. In administering this important trust, whilst it may be wise
to grant portions of them for the improvement of the remainder, yet we should never forget
that it is our cardinal policy to reserve these lands, as much as may be, for actual settlers,
and this at moderate prices. We shall thus not only best promote the prosperity of the new
States and Territories, by furnishing them a hardy and independent race of honest and industrious
citizens, but shall secure homes for our children and our children's children, as well as for
those exiles from foreign shores who may seek in this country to improve their condition and
to enjoy the blessings of civil and religious liberty. Such emigrants have done much to promote
the growth and prosperity of the country. They have proved faithful both in peace and in war.
After becoming citizens they are entitled, under the Constitution and laws, to be placed on
a perfect equality with native-born citizens, and in this character they should ever be kindly
recognized.

The Federal Constitution is a grant from the States to Congress of certain specific powers,
and the question whether this grant should be liberally or strictly construed has more or less
divided political parties from the beginning. Without entering into the argument, I desire
to state at the commencement of my Administration that long experience and observation have
convinced me that a strict construction of the powers of the Government is the only true, as
well as the only safe, theory of the Constitution. Whenever in our past history doubtful powers
have been exercised by Congress, these have never failed to produce injurious and unhappy consequences.
Many such instances might be adduced if this were the proper occasion. Neither is it necessary
for the public service to strain the language of the Constitution, because all the great and
useful powers required for a successful administration of the Government, both in peace and
in war, have been granted, either in express terms or by the plainest implication.

Whilst deeply convinced of these truths, I yet consider it clear that under the war-making
power Congress may appropriate money toward the construction of a military road when this is
absolutely necessary for the defense of any State or Territory of the Union against foreign
invasion. Under the Constitution Congress has power "to declare war," "to raise and support
armies," "to provide and maintain a navy," and to call forth the militia to "repel invasions."
Thus endowed, in an ample manner, with the war-making power, the corresponding duty is required
that "the United States shall protect each of them [the States] against invasion." Now, how
is it possible to afford this protection to California and our Pacific possessions except by
means of a military road through the Territories of the United States, over which men and munitions
of war may be speedily transported from the Atlantic States to meet and to repel the invader?
In the event of a war with a naval power much stronger than our own we should then have no
other available access to the Pacific Coast, because such a power would instantly close the
route across the isthmus of Central America. It is impossible to conceive that whilst the Constitution
has expressly required Congress to defend all the States it should yet deny to them, by any
fair construction, the only possible means by which one of these States can be defended. Besides,
the Government, ever since its origin, has been in the constant practice of constructing military
roads. It might also be wise to consider whether the love for the Union which now animates
our fellow-citizens on the Pacific Coast may not be impaired by our neglect or refusal to provide
for them, in their remote and isolated condition, the only means by which the power of the
States on this side of the Rocky Mountains can reach them in sufficient time to "protect" them
"against invasion." I forbear for the present from expressing an opinion as to the wisest and
most economical mode in which the Government can lend its aid in accomplishing this great and
necessary work. I believe that many of the difficulties in the way, which now appear formidable,
will in a great degree vanish as soon as the nearest and best route shall have been satisfactorily
ascertained.

It may be proper that on this occasion I should make some brief remarks in regard to our rights
and duties as a member of the great family of nations. In our intercourse with them there are
some plain principles, approved by our own experience, from which we should never depart. We
ought to cultivate peace, commerce, and friendship with all nations, and this not merely as
the best means of promoting our own material interests, but in a spirit of Christian benevolence
toward our fellow-men, wherever their lot may be cast. Our diplomacy should be direct and frank,
neither seeking to obtain more nor accepting less than is our due. We ought to cherish a sacred
regard for the independence of all nations, and never attempt to interfere in the domestic
concerns of any unless this shall be imperatively required by the great law of self-preservation.
To avoid entangling alliances has been a maxim of our policy ever since the days of Washington,
and its wisdom's no one will attempt to dispute. In short, we ought to do justice in a kindly
spirit to all nations and require justice from them in return.

It is our glory that whilst other nations have extended their dominions by the sword we have
never acquired any territory except by fair purchase or, as in the case of Texas, by the voluntary
determination of a brave, kindred, and independent people to blend their destinies with our
own. Even our acquisitions from Mexico form no exception. Unwilling to take advantage of the
fortune of war against a sister republic, we purchased these possessions under the treaty of
peace for a sum which was considered at the time a fair equivalent. Our past history forbids
that we shall in the future acquire territory unless this be sanctioned by the laws of justice
and honor. Acting on this principle, no nation will have a right to interfere or to complain
if in the progress of events we shall still further extend our possessions. Hitherto in all
our acquisitions the people, under the protection of the American flag, have enjoyed civil
and religious liberty, as well as equal and just laws, and have been contented, prosperous,
and happy. Their trade with the rest of the world has rapidly increased, and thus every commercial
nation has shared largely in their successful progress.

I shall now proceed to take the oath prescribed by the Constitution, whilst humbly invoking
the blessing of Divine Providence on this great people.

***

Abraham Lincoln First Inaugural Address Monday, March 4, 1861

Fellow-Citizens of the United States:

IN compliance with a custom as old as the Government itself, I appear before you to address
you briefly and to take in your presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of the United
States to be taken by the President "before he enters on the execution of this office."

I do not consider it necessary at present for me to discuss those matters of administration
about which there is no special anxiety or excitement.

Apprehension seems to exist among the people of the Southern States that by the accession of
a Republican Administration their property and their peace and personal security are to be
endangered. There has never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension. Indeed, the most
ample evidence to the contrary has all the while existed and been open to their inspection.
It is found in nearly all the published speeches of him who now addresses you. I do but quote
from one of those speeches when I declare that--

I have no purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of slavery in
the States where it exists. I believe I have no lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination
to do so.

Those who nominated and elected me did so with full knowledge that I had made this and many
similar declarations and had never recanted them; and more than this, they placed in the platform
for my acceptance, and as a law to themselves and to me, the clear and emphatic resolution
which I now read:

Resolved, That the maintenance inviolate of the rights of the States, and especially the right
of each State to order and control its own domestic institutions according to its own judgment
exclusively, is essential to that balance of power on which the perfection and endurance of
our political fabric depend; and we denounce the lawless invasion by armed force of the soil
of any State or Territory, no matter what pretext, as among the gravest of crimes.

I now reiterate these sentiments, and in doing so I only press upon the public attention the
most conclusive evidence of which the case is susceptible that the property, peace, and security
of no section are to be in any wise endangered by the now incoming Administration. I add, too,
that all the protection which, consistently with the Constitution and the laws, can be given
will be cheerfully given to all the States when lawfully demanded, for whatever cause--as cheerfully
to one section as to another.

There is much controversy about the delivering up of fugitives from service or labor. The clause
I now read is as plainly written in the Constitution as any other of its provisions:

No person held to service or labor in one State, under the laws thereof, escaping into another,
shall in consequence of any law or regulation therein be discharged from such service or labor,
but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom such service or labor may be due.

It is scarcely questioned that this provision was intended by those who made it for the reclaiming
of what we call fugitive slaves; and the intention of the lawgiver is the law. All members
of Congress swear their support to the whole Constitution--to this provision as much as to
any other. To the proposition, then, that slaves whose cases come within the terms of this
clause "shall be delivered up" their oaths are unanimous. Now, if they would make the effort
in good temper, could they not with nearly equal unanimity frame and pass a law by means of
which to keep good that unanimous oath?

There is some difference of opinion whether this clause should be enforced by national or by
State authority, but surely that difference is not a very material one. If the slave is to
be surrendered, it can be of but little consequence to him or to others by which authority
it is done. And should anyone in any case be content that his oath shall go unkept on a merely
unsubstantial controversy as to how it shall be kept?

Again: In any law upon this subject ought not all the safeguards of liberty known in civilized
and humane jurisprudence to be introduced, so that a free man be not in any case surrendered
as a slave? And might it not be well at the same time to provide by law for the enforcement
of that clause in the Constitution which guarantees that "the citizens of each State shall
be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States"?

I take the official oath to-day with no mental reservations and with no purpose to construe
the Constitution or laws by any hypercritical rules; and while I do not choose now to specify
particular acts of Congress as proper to be enforced, I do suggest that it will be much safer
for all, both in official and private stations, to conform to and abide by all those acts which
stand unrepealed than to violate any of them trusting to find impunity in having them held
to be unconstitutional.

It is seventy-two years since the first inauguration of a President under our National Constitution.
During that period fifteen different and greatly distinguished citizens have in succession
administered the executive branch of the Government. They have conducted it through many perils,
and generally with great success. Yet, with all this scope of precedent, I now enter upon the
same task for the brief constitutional term of four years under great and peculiar difficulty.
A disruption of the Federal Union, heretofore only menaced, is now formidably attempted.

I hold that in contemplation of universal law and of the Constitution the Union of these States
is perpetual. Perpetuity is implied, if not expressed, in the fundamental law of all national
governments. It is safe to assert that no government proper ever had a provision in its organic
law for its own termination. Continue to execute all the express provisions of our National
Constitution, and the Union will endure forever, it being impossible to destroy it except by
some action not provided for in the instrument itself.

Again: If the United States be not a government proper, but an association of States in the
nature of contract merely, can it, as a contract, be peaceably unmade by less than all the
parties who made it? One party to a contract may violate it--break it, so to speak--but does
it not require all to lawfully rescind it?

Descending from these general principles, we find the proposition that in legal contemplation
the Union is perpetual confirmed by the history of the Union itself. The Union is much older
than the Constitution. It was formed, in fact, by the Articles of Association in 1774. It was
matured and continued by the Declaration of Independence in 1776. It was further matured, and
the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and engaged that it should be
perpetual, by the Articles of Confederation in 1778. And finally, in 1787, one of the declared
objects for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was "to form a more perfect Union."

But if destruction of the Union by one or by a part only of the States be lawfully possible,
the Union is less perfect than before the Constitution, having lost the vital element of perpetuity.

It follows from these views that no State upon its own mere motion can lawfully get out of
the Union; that resolves and ordinances to that effect are legally void, and that acts of violence
within any State or States against the authority of the United States are insurrectionary or
revolutionary, according to circumstances.

I therefore consider that in view of the Constitution and the laws the Union is unbroken, and
to the extent of my ability, I shall take care, as the Constitution itself expressly enjoins
upon me, that the laws of the Union be faithfully executed in all the States. Doing this I
deem to be only a simple duty on my part, and I shall perform it so far as practicable unless
my rightful masters, the American people, shall withhold the requisite means or in some authoritative
manner direct the contrary. I trust this will not be regarded as a menace, but only as the
declared purpose of the Union that it will constitutionally defend and maintain itself.

In doing this there needs to be no bloodshed or violence, and there shall be none unless it
be forced upon the national authority. The power confided to me will be used to hold, occupy,
and possess the property and places belonging to the Government and to collect the duties and
imposts; but beyond what may be necessary for these objects, there will be no invasion, no
using of force against or among the people anywhere. Where hostility to the United States in
any interior locality shall be so great and universal as to prevent competent resident citizens
from holding the Federal offices, there will be no attempt to force obnoxious strangers among
the people for that object. While the strict legal right may exist in the Government to enforce
the exercise of these offices, the attempt to do so would be so irritating and so nearly impracticable
withal that I deem it better to forego for the time the uses of such offices.

The mails, unless repelled, will continue to be furnished in all parts of the Union. So far
as possible the people everywhere shall have that sense of perfect security which is most favorable
to calm thought and reflection. The course here indicated will be followed unless current events
and experience shall show a modification or change to be proper, and in every case and exigency
my best discretion will be exercised, according to circumstances actually existing and with
a view and a hope of a peaceful solution of the national troubles and the restoration of fraternal
sympathies and affections.

That there are persons in one section or another who seek to destroy the Union at all events
and are glad of any pretext to do it I will neither affirm nor deny; but if there be such,
I need address no word to them. To those, however, who really love the Union may I not speak?

Before entering upon so grave a matter as the destruction of our national fabric, with all
its benefits, its memories, and its hopes, would it not be wise to ascertain precisely why
we do it? Will you hazard so desperate a step while there is any possibility that any portion
of the ills you fly from have no real existence? Will you, while the certain ills you fly to
are greater than all the real ones you fly from, will you risk the commission of so fearful
a mistake?

All profess to be content in the Union if all constitutional rights can be maintained. Is it
true, then, that any right plainly written in the Constitution has been denied? I think not.
Happily, the human mind is so constituted that no party can reach to the audacity of doing
this. Think, if you can, of a single instance in which a plainly written provision of the Constitution
has ever been denied. If by the mere force of numbers a majority should deprive a minority
of any clearly written constitutional right, it might in a moral point of view justify revolution;
certainly would if such right were a vital one. But such is not our case. All the vital rights
of minorities and of individuals are so plainly assured to them by affirmations and negations,
guaranties and prohibitions, in the Constitution that controversies never arise concerning
them. But no organic law can ever be framed with a provision specifically applicable to every
question which may occur in practical administration. No foresight can anticipate nor any document
of reasonable length contain express provisions for all possible questions. Shall fugitives
from labor be surrendered by national or by State authority? The Constitution does not expressly
say. May Congress prohibit slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly
say. Must Congress protect slavery in the Territories? The Constitution does not expressly say.

From questions of this class spring all our constitutional controversies, and we divide upon
them into majorities and minorities. If the minority will not acquiesce, the majority must,
or the Government must cease. There is no other alternative, for continuing the Government
is acquiescence on one side or the other. If a minority in such case will secede rather than
acquiesce, they make a precedent which in turn will divide and ruin them, for a minority of
their own will secede from them whenever a majority refuses to be controlled by such minority.
For instance, why may not any portion of a new confederacy a year or two hence arbitrarily
secede again, precisely as portions of the present Union now claim to secede from it? All who
cherish disunion sentiments are now being educated to the exact temper of doing this.

Is there such perfect identity of interests among the States to compose a new union as to produce
harmony only and prevent renewed secession?

Plainly the central idea of secession is the essence of anarchy. A majority held in restraint
by constitutional checks and limitations, and always changing easily with deliberate changes
of popular opinions and sentiments, is the only true sovereign of a free people. Whoever rejects
it does of necessity fly to anarchy or to despotism. Unanimity is impossible. The rule of a
minority, as a permanent arrangement, is wholly inadmissible; so that, rejecting the majority
principle, anarchy or despotism in some form is all that is left.

I do not forget the position assumed by some that constitutional questions are to be decided
by the Supreme Court, nor do I deny that such decisions must be binding in any case upon the
parties to a suit as to the object of that suit, while they are also entitled to very high
respect and consideration in all parallel cases by all other departments of the Government.
And while it is obviously possible that such decision may be erroneous in any given case, still
the evil effect following it, being limited to that particular case, with the chance that it
may be overruled and never become a precedent for other cases, can better be borne than could
the evils of a different practice. At the same time, the candid citizen must confess that if
the policy of the Government upon vital questions affecting the whole people is to be irrevocably
fixed by decisions of the Supreme Court, the instant they are made in ordinary litigation between
parties in personal actions the people will have ceased to be their own rulers, having to that
extent practically resigned their Government into the hands of that eminent tribunal. Nor is
there in this view any assault upon the court or the judges. It is a duty from which they may
not shrink to decide cases properly brought before them, and it is no fault of theirs if others
seek to turn their decisions to political purposes.

One section of our country believes slavery is right and ought to be extended, while the other
believes it is wrong and ought not to be extended. This is the only substantial dispute. The
fugitive-slave clause of the Constitution and the law for the suppression of the foreign slave
trade are each as well enforced, perhaps, as any law can ever be in a community where the moral
sense of the people imperfectly supports the law itself. The great body of the people abide
by the dry legal obligation in both cases, and a few break over in each. This, I think, can
not be perfectly cured, and it would be worse in both cases after the separation of the sections
than before. The foreign slave trade, now imperfectly suppressed, would be ultimately revived
without restriction in one section, while fugitive slaves, now only partially surrendered,
would not be surrendered at all by the other.

Physically speaking, we can not separate. We can not remove our respective sections from each
other nor build an impassable wall between them. A husband and wife may be divorced and go
out of the presence and beyond the reach of each other, but the different parts of our country
can not do this. They can not but remain face to face, and intercourse, either amicable or
hostile, must continue between them. Is it possible, then, to make that intercourse more advantageous
or more satisfactory after separation than before? Can aliens make treaties easier than friends
can make laws? Can treaties be more faithfully enforced between aliens than laws can among
friends? Suppose you go to war, you can not fight always; and when, after much loss on both
sides and no gain on either, you cease fighting, the identical old questions, as to terms of
intercourse, are again upon you.

This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it. Whenever they shall
grow weary of the existing Government, they can exercise their constitutional right of amending
it or their revolutionary right to dismember or overthrow it. I can not be ignorant of the
fact that many worthy and patriotic citizens are desirous of having the National Constitution
amended. While I make no recommendation of amendments, I fully recognize the rightful authority
of the people over the whole subject, to be exercised in either of the modes prescribed in
the instrument itself; and I should, under existing circumstances, favor rather than oppose
a fair opportunity being afforded the people to act upon it. I will venture to add that to
me the convention mode seems preferable, in that it allows amendments to originate with the
people themselves, instead of only permitting them to take or reject propositions originated
by others, not especially chosen for the purpose, and which might not be precisely such as
they would wish to either accept or refuse. I understand a proposed amendment to the Constitution--which
amendment, however, I have not seen--has passed Congress, to the effect that the Federal Government
shall never interfere with the domestic institutions of the States, including that of persons
held to service. To avoid misconstruction of what I have said, I depart from my purpose not
to speak of particular amendments so far as to say that, holding such a provision to now be
implied constitutional law, I have no objection to its being made express and irrevocable.

The Chief Magistrate derives all his authority from the people, and they have referred none
upon him to fix terms for the separation of the States. The people themselves can do this if
also they choose, but the Executive as such has nothing to do with it. His duty is to administer
the present Government as it came to his hands and to transmit it unimpaired by him to his
successor.

Why should there not be a patient confidence in the ultimate justice of the people? Is there
any better or equal hope in the world? In our present differences, is either party without
faith of being in the right? If the Almighty Ruler of Nations, with His eternal truth and justice,
be on your side of the North, or on yours of the South, that truth and that justice will surely
prevail by the judgment of this great tribunal of the American people.

By the frame of the Government under which we live this same people have wisely given their
public servants but little power for mischief, and have with equal wisdom provided for the
return of that little to their own hands at very short intervals. While the people retain their
virtue and vigilance no Administration by any extreme of wickedness or folly can very seriously
injure the Government in the short space of four years.

My countrymen, one and all, think calmly and well upon this whole subject. Nothing valuable
can be lost by taking time. If there be an object to hurry any of you in hot haste to a step
which you would never take deliberately, that object will be frustrated by taking time; but
no good object can be frustrated by it. Such of you as are now dissatisfied still have the
old Constitution unimpaired, and, on the sensitive point, the laws of your own framing under
it; while the new Administration will have no immediate power, if it would, to change either.
If it were admitted that you who are dissatisfied hold the right side in the dispute, there
still is no single good reason for precipitate action. Intelligence, patriotism, Christianity,
and a firm reliance on Him who has never yet forsaken this favored land are still competent
to adjust in the best way all our present difficulty.

In your hands, my dissatisfied fellow-countrymen, and not in mine, is the momentous issue of
civil war. The Government will not assail you. You can have no conflict without being yourselves
the aggressors. You have no oath registered in heaven to destroy the Government, while I shall
have the most solemn one to "preserve, protect, and defend it."

I am loath to close. We are not enemies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion
may have strained it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching
from every battlefield and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this
broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union, when again touched, as surely they will
be, by the better angels of our nature.

***

Abraham Lincoln Second Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1865

Fellow-Countrymen:

AT this second appearing to take the oath of the Presidential office there is less occasion
for an extended address than there was at the first. Then a statement somewhat in detail of
a course to be pursued seemed fitting and proper. Now, at the expiration of four years, during
which public declarations have been constantly called forth on every point and phase of the
great contest which still absorbs the attention and engrosses the energies of the nation, little
that is new could be presented. The progress of our arms, upon which all else chiefly depends,
is as well known to the public as to myself, and it is, I trust, reasonably satisfactory and
encouraging to all. With high hope for the future, no prediction in regard to it is ventured.

On the occasion corresponding to this four years ago all thoughts were anxiously directed to
an impending civil war. All dreaded it, all sought to avert it. While the inaugural address
was being delivered from this place, devoted altogether to saving the Union without war, urgent
agents were in the city seeking to destroy it without war--seeking to dissolve the Union and
divide effects by negotiation. Both parties deprecated war, but one of them would make war
rather than let the nation survive, and the other would accept war rather than let it perish,
and the war came.

One-eighth of the whole population were colored slaves, not distributed generally over the
Union, but localized in the southern part of it. These slaves constituted a peculiar and powerful
interest. All knew that this interest was somehow the cause of the war. To strengthen, perpetuate,
and extend this interest was the object for which the insurgents would rend the Union even
by war, while the Government claimed no right to do more than to restrict the territorial enlargement
of it. Neither party expected for the war the magnitude or the duration which it has already
attained. Neither anticipated that the cause of the conflict might cease with or even before
the conflict itself should cease. Each looked for an easier triumph, and a result less fundamental
and astounding. Both read the same Bible and pray to the same God, and each invokes His aid
against the other. It may seem strange that any men should dare to ask a just God's assistance
in wringing their bread from the sweat of other men's faces, but let us judge not, that we
be not judged. The prayers of both could not be answered. That of neither has been answered
fully. The Almighty has His own purposes. "Woe unto the world because of offenses; for it must
needs be that offenses come, but woe to that man by whom the offense cometh." If we shall suppose
that American slavery is one of those offenses which, in the providence of God, must needs
come, but which, having continued through His appointed time, He now wills to remove, and that
He gives to both North and South this terrible war as the woe due to those by whom the offense
came, shall we discern therein any departure from those divine attributes which the believers
in a living God always ascribe to Him? Fondly do we hope, fervently do we pray, that this mighty
scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet, if God wills that it continue until all the wealth
piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until
every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was
said three thousand years ago, so still it must be said "the judgments of the Lord are true
and righteous altogether." With malice toward none, with charity for all, with firmness in
the right as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in,
to bind up the nation's wounds, to care for him who shall have borne the battle and for his
widow and his orphan, to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among
ourselves and with all nations.

***

Ulysses S. Grant First Inaugural Address Thursday, March 4, 1869

Citizens of the United States:

YOUR suffrages having elected me to the office of President of the United States, I have, in
conformity to the Constitution of our country, taken the oath of office prescribed therein.
I have taken this oath without mental reservation and with the determination to do to the best
of my ability all that is required of me. The responsibilities of the position I feel, but
accept them without fear. The office has come to me unsought; I commence its duties untrammeled.
I bring to it a conscious desire and determination to fill it to the best of my ability to
the satisfaction of the people.

On all leading questions agitating the public mind I will always express my views to Congress
and urge them according to my judgment, and when I think it advisable will exercise the constitutional
privilege of interposing a veto to defeat measures which I oppose; but all laws will be faithfully
executed, whether they meet my approval or not.

I shall on all subjects have a policy to recommend, but none to enforce against the will of
the people. Laws are to govern all alike--those opposed as well as those who favor them. I
know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent
execution.

The country having just emerged from a great rebellion, many questions will come before it
for settlement in the next four years which preceding Administrations have never had to deal
with. In meeting these it is desirable that they should be approached calmly, without prejudice,
hate, or sectional pride, remembering that the greatest good to the greatest number is the
object to be attained.

This requires security of person, property, and free religious and political opinion in every
part of our common country, without regard to local prejudice. All laws to secure these ends
will receive my best efforts for their enforcement.

A great debt has been contracted in securing to us and our posterity the Union. The payment
of this, principal and interest, as well as the return to a specie basis as soon as it can
be accomplished without material detriment to the debtor class or to the country at large,
must be provided for. To protect the national honor, every dollar of Government indebtedness
should be paid in gold, unless otherwise expressly stipulated in the contract. Let it be understood
that no repudiator of one farthing of our public debt will be trusted in public place, and
it will go far toward strengthening a credit which ought to be the best in the world, and will
ultimately enable us to replace the debt with bonds bearing less interest than we now pay.
To this should be added a faithful collection of the revenue, a strict accountability to the
Treasury for every dollar collected, and the greatest practicable retrenchment in expenditure
in every department of Government.

When we compare the paying capacity of the country now, with the ten States in poverty from
the effects of war, but soon to emerge, I trust, into greater prosperity than ever before,
with its paying capacity twenty-five years ago, and calculate what it probably will be twenty-five
years hence, who can doubt the feasibility of paying every dollar then with more ease than
we now pay for useless luxuries? Why, it looks as though Providence had bestowed upon us a
strong box in the precious metals locked up in the sterile mountains of the far West, and which
we are now forging the key to unlock, to meet the very contingency that is now upon us.

Ultimately it may be necessary to insure the facilities to reach these riches and it may be
necessary also that the General Government should give its aid to secure this access; but that
should only be when a dollar of obligation to pay secures precisely the same sort of dollar
to use now, and not before. Whilst the question of specie payments is in abeyance the prudent
business man is careful about contracting debts payable in the distant future. The nation should
follow the same rule. A prostrate commerce is to be rebuilt and all industries encouraged.

The young men of the country--those who from their age must be its rulers twenty-five years
hence--have a peculiar interest in maintaining the national honor. A moment's reflection as
to what will be our commanding influence among the nations of the earth in their day, if they
are only true to themselves, should inspire them with national pride. All divisions--geographical,
political, and religious--can join in this common sentiment. How the public debt is to be paid
or specie payments resumed is not so important as that a plan should be adopted and acquiesced
in. A united determination to do is worth more than divided counsels upon the method of doing.
Legislation upon this subject may not be necessary now, or even advisable, but it will be when
the civil law is more fully restored in all parts of the country and trade resumes its wonted
channels.

It will be my endeavor to execute all laws in good faith, to collect all revenues assessed,
and to have them properly accounted for and economically disbursed. I will to the best of my
ability appoint to office those only who will carry out this design.

In regard to foreign policy, I would deal with nations as equitable law requires individuals
to deal with each other, and I would protect the law-abiding citizen, whether of native or
foreign birth, wherever his rights are jeopardized or the flag of our country floats. I would
respect the rights of all nations, demanding equal respect for our own. If others depart from
this rule in their dealings with us, we may be compelled to follow their precedent.

The proper treatment of the original occupants of this land--the Indians one deserving of careful
study. I will favor any course toward them which tends to their civilization and ultimate citizenship.

The question of suffrage is one which is likely to agitate the public so long as a portion
of the citizens of the nation are excluded from its privileges in any State. It seems to me
very desirable that this question should be settled now, and I entertain the hope and express
the desire that it may be by the ratification of the fifteenth article of amendment to the
Constitution.

In conclusion I ask patient forbearance one toward another throughout the land, and a determined
effort on the part of every citizen to do his share toward cementing a happy union; and I ask
the prayers of the nation to Almighty God in behalf of this consummation.

***

Ulysses S. Grant Second Inaugural Address Tuesday, March 4, 1873

Fellow-Citizens:

UNDER Providence I have been called a second time to act as Executive over this great nation.
It has been my endeavor in the past to maintain all the laws, and, so far as lay in my power,
to act for the best interests of the whole people. My best efforts will be given in the same
direction in the future, aided, I trust, by my four years' experience in the office.

When my first term of the office of Chief Executive began, the country had not recovered from
the effects of a great internal revolution, and three of the former States of the Union had
not been restored to their Federal relations.

It seemed to me wise that no new questions should be raised so long as that condition of affairs
existed. Therefore the past four years, so far as I could control events, have been consumed
in the effort to restore harmony, public credit, commerce, and all the arts of peace and progress.
It is my firm conviction that the civilized world is tending toward republicanism, or government
by the people through their chosen representatives, and that our own great Republic is destined
to be the guiding star to all others.

Under our Republic we support an army less than that of any European power of any standing
and a navy less than that of either of at least five of them. There could be no extension of
territory on the continent which would call for an increase of this force, but rather might
such extension enable us to diminish it.

The theory of government changes with general progress. Now that the telegraph is made available
for communicating thought, together with rapid transit by steam, all parts of a continent are
made contiguous for all purposes of government, and communication between the extreme limits
of the country made easier than it was throughout the old thirteen States at the beginning
of our national existence.

The effects of the late civil strife have been to free the slave and make him a citizen. Yet
he is not possessed of the civil rights which citizenship should carry with it. This is wrong,
and should be corrected. To this correction I stand committed, so far as Executive influence
can avail.

Social equality is not a subject to be legislated upon, nor shall I ask that anything be done
to advance the social status of the colored man, except to give him a fair chance to develop
what there is good in him, give him access to the schools, and when he travels let him feel
assured that his conduct will regulate the treatment and fare he will receive.

The States lately at war with the General Government are now happily rehabilitated, and no
Executive control is exercised in any one of them that would not be exercised in any other
State under like circumstances.

In the first year of the past Administration the proposition came up for the admission of Santo
Domingo as a Territory of the Union. It was not a question of my seeking, but was a proposition
from the people of Santo Domingo, and which I entertained. I believe now, as I did then, that
it was for the best interest of this country, for the people of Santo Domingo, and all concerned
that the proposition should be received favorably. It was, however, rejected constitutionally,
and therefore the subject was never brought up again by me.

In future, while I hold my present office, the subject of acquisition of territory must have
the support of the people before I will recommend any proposition looking to such acquisition.
I say here, however, that I do not share in the apprehension held by many as to the danger
of governments becoming weakened and destroyed by reason of their extension of territory. Commerce,
education, and rapid transit of thought and matter by telegraph and steam have changed all
this. Rather do I believe that our Great Maker is preparing the world, in His own good time,
to become one nation, speaking one language, and when armies and navies will be no longer required.

My efforts in the future will be directed to the restoration of good feeling between the different
sections of our common country; to the restoration of our currency to a fixed value as compared
with the world's standard of values--gold--and, if possible, to a par with it; to the construction
of cheap routes of transit throughout the land, to the end that the products of all may find
a market and leave a living remuneration to the producer; to the maintenance of friendly relations
with all our neighbors and with distant nations; to the reestablishment of our commerce and
share in the carrying trade upon the ocean; to the encouragement of such manufacturing industries
as can be economically pursued in this country, to the end that the exports of home products
and industries may pay for our imports--the only sure method of returning to and permanently
maintaining a specie basis; to the elevation of labor; and, by a humane course, to bring the
aborigines of the country under the benign influences of education and civilization. It is
either this or war of extermination: Wars of extermination, engaged in by people pursuing commerce
and all industrial pursuits, are expensive even against the weakest people, and are demoralizing
and wicked. Our superiority of strength and advantages of civilization should make us lenient
toward the Indian. The wrong inflicted upon him should be taken into account and the balance
placed to his credit. The moral view of the question should be considered and the question
asked, Can not the Indian be made a useful and productive member of society by proper teaching
and treatment? If the effort is made in good faith, we will stand better before the civilized
nations of the earth and in our own consciences for having made it.

All these things are not to be accomplished by one individual, but they will receive my support
and such recommendations to Congress as will in my judgment best serve to carry them into effect.
I beg your support and encouragement.

It has been, and is, my earnest desire to correct abuses that have grown up in the civil service
of the country. To secure this reformation rules regulating methods of appointment and promotions
were established and have been tried. My efforts for such reformation shall be continued to
the best of my judgment. The spirit of the rules adopted will be maintained.

I acknowledge before this assemblage, representing, as it does, every section of our country,
the obligation I am under to my countrymen for the great honor they have conferred on me by
returning me to the highest office within their gift, and the further obligation resting on
me to render to them the best services within my power. This I promise, looking forward with
the greatest anxiety to the day when I shall be released from responsibilities that at times
are almost overwhelming, and from which I have scarcely had a respite since the eventful firing
upon Fort Sumter, in April, 1861, to the present day. My services were then tendered and accepted
under the first call for troops growing out of that event.

I did not ask for place or position, and was entirely without influence or the acquaintance
of persons of influence, but was resolved to perform my part in a struggle threatening the
very existence of the nation. I performed a conscientious duty, without asking promotion or
command, and without a revengeful feeling toward any section or individual.

Notwithstanding this, throughout the war, and from my candidacy for my present office in 1868
to the close of the last Presidential campaign, I have been the subject of abuse and slander
scarcely ever equaled in political history, which to-day I feel that I can afford to disregard
in view of your verdict, which I gratefully accept as my vindication.

***

Rutherford B. Hayes Inaugural Address Monday, March 5, 1877

Fellow-Citizens:

WE have assembled to repeat the public ceremonial, begun by Washington, observed by all my
predecessors, and now a time-honored custom, which marks the commencement of a new term of
the Presidential office. Called to the duties of this great trust, I proceed, in compliance
with usage, to announce some of the leading principles, on the subjects that now chiefly engage
the public attention, by which it is my desire to be guided in the discharge of those duties.
I shall not undertake to lay down irrevocably principles or measures of administration, but
rather to speak of the motives which should animate us, and to suggest certain important ends
to be attained in accordance with our institutions and essential to the welfare of our country.

At the outset of the discussions which preceded the recent Presidential election it seemed
to me fitting that I should fully make known my sentiments in regard to several of the important
questions which then appeared to demand the consideration of the country. Following the example,
and in part adopting the language, of one of my predecessors, I wish now, when every motive
for misrepresentation has passed away, to repeat what was said before the election, trusting
that my countrymen will candidly weigh and understand it, and that they will feel assured that
the sentiments declared in accepting the nomination for the Presidency will be the standard
of my conduct in the path before me, charged, as I now am, with the grave and difficult task
of carrying them out in the practical administration of the Government so far as depends, under
the Constitution and laws on the Chief Executive of the nation.

The permanent pacification of the country upon such principles and by such measures as will
secure the complete protection of all its citizens in the free enjoyment of all their constitutional
rights is now the one subject in our public affairs which all thoughtful and patriotic citizens
regard as of supreme importance.

Many of the calamitous efforts of the tremendous revolution which has passed over the Southern
States still remain. The immeasurable benefits which will surely follow, sooner or later, the
hearty and generous acceptance of the legitimate results of that revolution have not yet been
realized. Difficult and embarrassing questions meet us at the threshold of this subject. The
people of those States are still impoverished, and the inestimable blessing of wise, honest,
and peaceful local self-government is not fully enjoyed. Whatever difference of opinion may
exist as to the cause of this condition of things, the fact is clear that in the progress of
events the time has come when such government is the imperative necessity required by all the
varied interests, public and private, of those States. But it must not be forgotten that only
a local government which recognizes and maintains inviolate the rights of all is a true self-government.

With respect to the two distinct races whose peculiar relations to each other have brought
upon us the deplorable complications and perplexities which exist in those States, it must
be a government which guards the interests of both races carefully and equally. It must be
a government which submits loyally and heartily to the Constitution and the laws--the laws
of the nation and the laws of the States themselves--accepting and obeying faithfully the whole
Constitution as it is.

Resting upon this sure and substantial foundation, the superstructure of beneficent local governments
can be built up, and not otherwise. In furtherance of such obedience to the letter and the
spirit of the Constitution, and in behalf of all that its attainment implies, all so-called
party interests lose their apparent importance, and party lines may well be permitted to fade
into insignificance. The question we have to consider for the immediate welfare of those States
of the Union is the question of government or no government; of social order and all the peaceful
industries and the happiness that belongs to it, or a return to barbarism. It is a question
in which every citizen of the nation is deeply interested, and with respect to which we ought
not to be, in a partisan sense, either Republicans or Democrats, but fellow-citizens and fellowmen,
to whom the interests of a common country and a common humanity are dear.

The sweeping revolution of the entire labor system of a large portion of our country and the
advance of 4,000,000 people from a condition of servitude to that of citizenship, upon an equal
footing with their former masters, could not occur without presenting problems of the gravest
moment, to be dealt with by the emancipated race, by their former masters, and by the General
Government, the author of the act of emancipation. That it was a wise, just, and providential
act, fraught with good for all concerned, is not generally conceded throughout the country.
That a moral obligation rests upon the National Government to employ its constitutional power
and influence to establish the rights of the people it has emancipated, and to protect them
in the enjoyment of those rights when they are infringed or assailed, is also generally admitted.

