=LIPPINCOTT'S MAGAZINE=

OF

_POPULAR LITERATURE AND SCIENCE_.

AUGUST, 1878.

       *       *       *       *       *

Footnote: Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1878, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.,
in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.

       *       *       *       *       *

ALONG THE DANUBE.

[Illustration: SOMENDRIA.]

Ada-Kalé is a Turkish fortress which seems to spring directly from the bosom of the Danube
at a point where three curious and quarrelsome races come into contact, and where the Ottoman
thought it necessary to have a foothold even in times of profound peace. To the traveller from
Western Europe no spectacle on the way to Constantinople was so impressive as this ancient
and picturesque fortification, suddenly affronting the vision with its odd walls, its minarets,
its red-capped sentries, and the yellow sinister faces peering from balconies suspended above
the current. It was the first glimpse of the Orient which one obtained; it appropriately introduced
one to a domain which is governed by sword and gun; and it was a pretty spot of color in the
midst of the severe and rather solemn scenery of the Danubian stream. Ada-Kalé is to be razed
to the water's edge--so, at least, the treaty between Russia and Turkey has ordained--and the
Servian mountaineers will no longer see the Crescent flag flying within rifle-shot of the crags
from which, by their heroic devotion in unequal battle, they long ago banished it.

The Turks occupying this fortress during the recent war evidently relied upon Fate for their
protection, for the walls of Ada-Kalé are within a stone's throw of the Roumanian shore, and
every Mussulman in the place could have been captured in twenty minutes. I passed by there
one morning on the road from Orsova, on the frontier of Hungary, to Bucharest, and was somewhat
amused to see an elderly Turk seated in a small boat near the Roumanian bank fishing. Behind
him were two soldiers, who served as oarsmen, and rowed him gently from point to point when
he gave the signal. Scarcely six hundred feet from him stood a Wallachian sentry, watching
his movements in lazy, indifferent fashion. And this was at the moment that the Turks were
bombarding Kalafat in Roumania from Widdin on the Bulgarian side of the Danube! Such a spectacle
could be witnessed nowhere save in this land, "where it is always afternoon," where people
at times seem to suspend respiration because they are too idle to breathe, and where even a
dog will protest if you ask him to move quickly out of your path. The old Turk doubtless fished
in silence and calm until the end of the war, for I never heard of the removal of either himself
or his companions.

The journeys by river and by rail from Lower Roumania to the romantic and broken country surrounding
Orsova are extremely interesting. The Danube-stretches of shimmering water among the reedy
lowlands--where the only sign of life is a quaint craft painted with gaudy colors becalmed
in some nook, or a guardhouse built on piles driven into the mud--are perhaps a trifle monotonous,
but one has only to turn from them to the people who come on board the steamer to have a rich
fund of enjoyment. Nowhere are types so abundant and various as on the routes of travel between
Bucharest and Rustchuk, or Pesth and Belgrade. Every complexion, an extraordinary piquancy
and variety of costume, and a bewildering array of languages and dialects, are set before the
careful observer. As for myself, I found a special enchantment in the scenery of the lower
Danube--in the lonely inlets, the wildernesses of young shoots in the marshes, the flights
of aquatic birds as the sound of the steamer was heard, the long tongues of land on which the
water-buffaloes lay huddled in stupid content, the tiny hummocks where villages of wattled
hovels were assembled. The Bulgarian shore stands out in bold relief: Sistova, from the river,
is positively beautiful, but the now historical Simnitza seems only a mud-flat. At night the
boats touch upon the Roumanian side for fuel--the Turks have always been too lazy and vicious
to develop the splendid mineral resources of Bulgaria--and the stout peasants and their wives
trundle thousands of barrows of coal along the swinging planks. Here is raw life, lusty, full
of rude beauty, but utterly incult. The men and women appear to be merely animals gifted with
speech. The women wear almost no clothing: their matted hair drops about their shapely shoulders
as they toil at their burden, singing meanwhile some merry chorus. Little tenderness is bestowed
on these creatures, and it was not without a slight twinge of the nerves that I saw the huge,
burly master of the boat's crew now and then bestow a ringing slap with his open hand upon
the neck or cheek of one of the poor women who stumbled with her load or who hesitated for
a moment to indulge in abuse of a comrade. As the boat moved away these people, dancing about
the heaps of coal in the torchlight, looked not unlike demons disporting in some gruesome nook
of Enchanted Land. When they were gypsies they did not need the aid of the torches: they were
sufficiently demoniacal without artificial aid.

Kalafat and Turnu-Severinu are small towns which would never have been much heard of had they
not been in the region visited by the war. Turnu-Severinu is noted, however, as the point where
Severinus once built a mighty tower; and not far from the little hamlet may still be seen the
ruins of Trajan's immemorial bridge. Where the Danube is twelve hundred yards wide and nearly
twenty feet deep, Apollodorus of Damascus did not hesitate, at Trajan's command, to undertake
the construction of a bridge with twenty stone and wooden arches. He builded well, for one
or two of the stone piers still remain perfect after a lapse of sixteen centuries, and eleven
of them, more or less ruined, are yet visible at low water. Apollodorus was a man of genius,
as his other work, the Trajan Column, proudly standing in Rome, amply testifies. No doubt he
was richly rewarded by Trajan for constructing a work which, flanked as it was by noble fortifications,
bound the newly-captured Dacian colony to the Roman empire. What mighty men were these Romans,
who carved their way along the Danube banks, hewing roads and levelling mountains at the same
time that they engaged the savages of the locality in daily battle! There were indeed giants
in those days.

[Illustration: RUSTCHUK.]

When Ada-Kalé is passed, and pretty Orsova, lying in slumbrous quiet at the foot of noble mountains,
is reached, the last trace of Turkish domination is left behind. In future years, if the treaty
of San Stefano holds, there will be little evidence of Ottoman lack of civilization anywhere
on the Danube, for the forts of the Turks will gradually disappear, and the Mussulman cannot
for an instant hold his own among Christians where he has no military advantage. But at Orsova,
although the red fez and voluminous trousers are rarely seen, the influence of Turkey is keenly
felt. It is in these remote regions of Hungary that the real rage against Russia and the burning
enthusiasm and sympathy for the Turks is most openly expressed. Every cottage in the neighborhood
is filled with crude pictures representing events of the Hungarian revolution; and the peasants,
as they look upon those reminders of perturbed times, reflect that the Russians were instrumental
in preventing the accomplishment of their dearest wishes. Here the Hungarian is eminently patriotic:
he endeavors as much as possible to forget that he and his are bound to the empire of Austria,
and he speaks of the German and the Slav who are his fellow-subjects with a sneer. The people
whom one encounters in that corner of Hungary profess a dense ignorance of the German language,
but if pressed can speak it glibly enough. I won an angry frown and an unpleasant remark from
an innkeeper because I did not know that Austrian postage-stamps are not good in Hungary. Such
melancholy ignorance of the simplest details of existence seemed to my host meet subject for
reproach.

Orsova became an important point as soon as the Turks and Russians were at war. The peasants
of the Banat stared as they saw long lines of travellers leaving the steamers which had come
from Pesth and Bazros, and invading the two small inns, which are usually more than half empty.
Englishmen, Russians, Austrian officers sent down to keep careful watch upon the land, French
and Prussian, Swiss and Belgian military attachés and couriers, journalists, artists, amateur
army-followers, crowded the two long streets and exhausted the market. Next came a hungry and
thirsty mob of refugees from Widdin--Jews, Greeks and gypsies--and these promenaded their variegated
misery on the river-banks from sunrise until sunset. Then out from Roumanian land poured thousands
of wretched peasants, bare-footed, bareheaded, dying of starvation, fleeing from Turkish invasion,
which, happily, never assumed large proportions. These poor people slept on the ground, content
with the shelter of house-walls: they subsisted on unripe fruits and that unfailing fund of
mild tobacco which every male being in all those countries invariably manages to secure. Walking
abroad in Orsova was no easy task, for one was constantly compelled to step over these poor
fugitives, who packed themselves into the sand at noonday, and managed for a few hours before
the cool evening breezes came to forget their miseries. The vast fleet of river-steamers belonging
to the Austrian company was laid up at Orsova, and dozens of captains, conversing in the liquid
Slav or the graceful Italian or guttural German, were for ever seated about the doors of the
little cafés smoking long cigars and quaffing beakers of the potent white wine produced in
Austrian vineyards.

Opposite Orsova lie the Servian Mountains, bold, majestic, inspiring. Their noble forests and
the deep ravines between them are exquisite in color when the sun flashes along their sides.
A few miles below the point where the Hungarian and Roumanian territories meet the mountainous
region declines into foot-hills, and then to an uninteresting plain. The Orsovan dell is the
culminating point of all the beauty and grandeur of the Danubian hills. From one eminence richly
laden with vineyards I looked out on a fresh April morning across a delicious valley filled
with pretty farms and white cottages and ornamented by long rows of shapely poplars. Turning
to the right, I saw Servia's barriers, shutting in from the cold winds the fat lands of the
interior; vast hillsides dotted from point to point with peaceful villages, in the midst of
which white churches with slender spires arose; and to the left the irregular line of the Roumanian
peaks stood up, jagged and broken, against the horizon. Out from Orsova runs a rude highway
into the rocky and savage back-country. The celebrated baths of Mehadia, the "hot springs"
of the Austro-Hungarian empire, are yearly frequented by three or four thousand sufferers,
who come from the European capitals to Temesvar, and are thence trundled in diligences to the
water-cure. But the railway is penetrating even this far-off land, where once brigands delighted
to wander, and Temesvar and Bucharest will be bound together by a daily "through-service" as
regular as that between Pesth and Vienna.

[Illustration: SISTOVA.]

I sat one evening on the balcony of the diminutive inn known as "The Hungarian Crown," watching
the sunbeams on the broad current of the Danube and listening to the ripple, the plash and
the gurgle of the swollen stream as it rushed impetuously against the banks. A group of Servians,
in canoes light and swift as those of Indians, had made their way across the river, and were
struggling vigorously to prevent the current from carrying them below a favorable landing-place.
These tall, slender men, with bronzed faces and gleaming eyes, with their round skull-caps,
their gaudy jackets and ornamental leggings, bore no small resemblance at a distance to certain
of our North American red-skins. Each man had a long knife in his belt, and from experience
I can say that a Servian knife is in itself a complete tool-chest. With its one tough and keen
blade one may skin a sheep, file a saw, split wood, mend a wagon, defend one's self vigorously
if need be, make a buttonhole and eat one's breakfast. No Servian who adheres to the ancient
costume would consider himself dressed unless the crooked knife hung from his girdle. Although
the country-side along the Danube is rough, and travellers are said to need protection among
the Servian hills, I could not discover that the inhabitants wore other weapons than these
useful articles of cutlery. Yet they are daring smugglers, and sometimes openly defy the Hungarian
authorities when discovered. "Ah!" said Master Josef, the head-servant of the Hungarian Crown,
"many a good fight have I seen in mid-stream, the boats grappled together, knives flashing,
and our fellows drawing their pistols. All that, too, for a few flasks of Negotin, which is
a musty red, thick wine that Heaven would forbid me to recommend to your honorable self and
companions so long as I put in the cellar the pearl dew of yonder vineyards!" pointing to the
vines of Orsova.

While the Servians were anxiously endeavoring to land, and seemed to be in imminent danger
of upsetting, the roll of thunder was heard and a few drops of rain fell with heavy plash.
Master Josef forthwith began making shutters fast and tying the curtains; "For now we _shall_
have a wind!" quoth he. And it came. As by magic the Servian shore was blotted out, and before
me I could see little save the river, which seemed transformed into a roaring and foaming ocean.
The refugees, the gypsies, the Jews, the Greeks, scampered in all directions. Then tremendous
echoes awoke among the hills. Peal after peal echoed and re-echoed, until it seemed as if the
cliffs must crack and crumble. Sheets of rain were blown by the mischievous winds now full
upon the unhappy fugitives, or now descended with seemingly crushing force on the Servians
in their dancing canoes. Then came vivid lightning, brilliant and instant glances of electricity,
disclosing the forests and hills for a moment, then seeming by their quick departure to render
the obscurity more painful than before. The fiery darts were hurled by dozens upon the devoted
trees, and the tall and graceful stems were bent like reeds before the rushing of the blast.
Cold swept through the vale, and shadows seemed to follow it. Such contrast with the luminous,
lovely semi-tropical afternoon, in the dreamy restfulness of which man and beast seemed settling
into lethargy, was crushing. It pained and disturbed the spirit. Master Josef, who never lost
an occasion to cross himself and to do a few turns on a little rosary of amber beads, came
and went in a kind of dazed mood while the storm was at its height. Just as a blow was struck
among the hills which seemed to make the earth quiver to its centre, the varlet approached
and modestly inquired if the "honorable society"--myself and chance companions--would visit
that very afternoon the famous chapel in which the crown of Hungary lies buried. I glanced
curiously at him, thinking that possibly the thunder had addled his brain. "Oh, the honorable
society may walk in sunshine all the way to the chapel at five o'clock," he said with an encouraging
grin. "These Danube storms come and go as quickly as a Tsigane from a hen-roost. See! the thunder
has stopped its howling, and there is not a wink of lightning. Even the raindrops are so few
that one may almost walk between them."

[Illustration: NICOPOLIS.]

I returned to the balcony from which the storm had driven me, and was gratified by the sight
of the mountain-side studded with pearls, which a faint glow in the sky was gently touching.
The Danube roared and foamed with malicious glee as the poor Servians were still whirled about
on the water. But presently, through the deep gorges and along the sombre stream and over the
vineyards, the rocks and the roofs of humble cottages, stole a warm breeze, followed by dazzling
sunlight, which returned in mad haste to atone for the displeasure of the wind and rain. In
a few moments the refugees were again afield, spreading their drenched garments on the wooden
railings, and stalking about in a condition narrowly approaching nakedness. A gypsy four feet
high, clad in a linen shirt and trousers so wide as to resemble petticoats, strolled thoughtlessly
on the bank singing a plaintive melody, and now and then turning his brown face skyward as
if to salute the sun. This child of mysterious ancestry, this wanderer from the East, this
robber of roosts and cunning worker in metals, possessed nor hat nor shoes: his naked breast
and his unprotected arms must suffer cold at night, yet he seemed wonderfully happy. The Jews
and Greeks gave him scornful glances, which he returned with quizzical, provoking smiles. At
last he threw himself down on a plank from which the generous sun was rapidly drying the rain,
and, coiling up as a dog might have done, he was soon asleep.

With a marine glass I could see distinctly every movement on the Servian shore. Close to the
water's edge nestled a small village of neat white cottages. Around a little wharf hovered
fifty or sixty stout farmers, mounted on sturdy ponies, watching the arrival of the Mercur,
the Servian steamer from Belgrade and the Sava River. The Mercur came puffing valiantly forward,
as unconcerned as if no whirlwind had swept across her path, although she must have been in
the narrow and dangerous cañon of the "Iron Gates" when the blast and the shower were most
furious. On the roads leading down the mountain-sides I saw long processions of squealing and
grunting swine, black, white and gray, all active and self-willed, fighting each other for
the right of way. Before each procession marched a swineherd playing on a rustic pipe, the
sounds from which primitive instrument seemed to exercise Circean enchantment upon the rude
flocks. It was inexpressibly comical to watch the masses of swine after they had been enclosed
in the "folds"--huge tracts fenced in and provided with shelters at the corners. Each herd
knew its master, and as he passed to and fro would salute him with a delighted squeal, which
died away into a series of disappointed and cynical groans as soon as the porkers had discovered
that no evening repast was to be offered them. Good fare do these Servian swine find in the
abundant provision of acorns in the vast forests. The men who spend their lives in restraining
the vagabond instincts of these vulgar animals may perhaps be thought a collection of brutal
hinds; but, on the contrary, they are fellows of shrewd common sense and much dignity of feeling.
Kara-George, the terror of the Turk at the beginning of this century, the majestic character
who won the admiration of Europe, whose genius as a soldier was praised by Napoleon the Great,
and who freed his countrymen from bondage,--Kara-George was a swineherd in the woods of the
Schaumadia until the wind of the spirit fanned his brow and called him from his simple toil
to immortalize his homely name.

Master Josef and his fellows in Orsova did not hate the Servians with the bitterness manifested
toward the Roumanians, yet they considered them as aliens and as dangerous conspirators against
the public weal. "Who knows at what moment they may go over to the Russians?" was the constant
cry. And in process of time they went, but although Master Josef had professed the utmost willingness
to take up arms on such an occasion, it does not appear that he did it, doubtless preferring,
on reflection, the quiet of his inn and his flask of white wine in the courtyard rather than
an excursion among the trans-Danubian hills and the chances of an untoward fate at the point
of a Servian knife. It is not astonishing that the two peoples do not understand each other,
although only a strip of water separates their frontiers for a long stretch; for the difference
in language and in its written form is a most effectual barrier to intercourse. The Servians
learn something of the Hungarian dialects, since they come to till the rich lands of the Banat
in the summer season. Bulgarians and Servians by thousands find employment in Hungary in summer,
and return home when autumn sets in. But the dreams and ambitions of the two peoples have nothing
in common. Servia looks longingly to Slavic unification, and is anxious to secure for herself
a predominance in the new nation to be moulded out of the old scattered elements: Hungary believes
that the consolidation of the Slavs would place her in a dangerous and humiliating position,
and conspires day and night to compass exactly the reverse of Servian wishes. Thus the two
countries are theoretically at peace and practically at war. While the conflict of 1877 was
in progress collisions between Servian and Hungarian were of almost daily occurrence.

The Hungarian's intolerance of the Slav does not proceed from unworthy jealousy, but rather
from an exaggerated idea of the importance of his own country, and of the evils which might
befall it if the old Serb stock began to renew its ancient glory. In corners of Hungary, such
as Orsova, the peasant imagines that his native land is the main world, and that the rest of
Europe is an unnecessary and troublesome fringe around the edges of it. There is a story of
a gentleman in Pesth who went to a dealer in maps and inquired for a _globus_ of Hungary, showing
that he imagined it to be the whole round earth.

[Illustration: THE DANUBE AT TRAJAN'S BRIDGE.]

So fair were the land and the stream after the storm that I lingered until sunset gazing out
over river and on Servian hills, and did not accept Josef's invitation to visit the chapel
of the Hungarian crown that evening. But next morning, before the sun was high, I wandered
alone in the direction of the Roumanian frontier, and by accident came upon the chapel. It
is a modest structure in a nook surrounded by tall poplars, and within is a simple chapel with
Latin inscriptions. Here the historic crown reposes, now that there is no longer any use for
it at Presburg, the ancient capital. Here it was brought by pious hands after the troubles
between Austria and Hungary were settled. During the revolution the sacred bauble was hidden
by the command of noblemen to whom it had been confided, and the servitors who concealed it
at the behest of their masters were slain, lest in an indiscreet moment they might betray the
secret. For thousands of enthusiasts this tiny chapel is the holiest of shrines, and should
trouble come anew upon Hungary in the present perturbed times, the crown would perhaps journey
once more.

It seems pitiful that the railway should ever invade this out-of-the-way corner of Europe.
But it is already crawling through the mountains: hundreds of Italian laborers are putting
down the shining rails in woods and glens where no sounds save the song of birds or the carol
of the infrequent passer-by have heretofore been heard. For the present, however, the old-fashioned,
comfortless diligence keeps the roads: the beribboned postilion winds his merry horn, and as
the afternoon sun is getting low the dusty, antique vehicle rattles up to the court of the
inn, the guard gets down, dusts the leather casing of the gun which now-a-days he is never
compelled to use: then he touches his square hat, ornamented with a feather, to the maids and
men of the hostelry. When the mails are claimed, the horses refreshed and the stage is covered
with its leathern hood, postilion and guard sit down together in a cool corner under the gallery
in the courtyard and crack various small flasks of wine. They smoke their porcelain pipes imported
from Vienna with the air of men of the world who have travelled and who could tell you a thing
or two if they liked. They are never tired of talking of Mehadia, which is one of their principal
stations. The sad-faced nobleman, followed by the decorous old man-servant in fantastic Magyar
livery, who arrived in the diligence, has been to the baths. The master is vainly seeking cure,
comes every year, and always supplies postilion and guard with the money to buy flasks of wine.
This the postilion tells me and my fellows, and suggests that the "honorable society" should
follow the worthy nobleman's example. No sooner is it done than postilion and guard kiss our
hands; which is likewise an evidence that they have travelled, are well met with every stranger
and all customs, and know more than they say.

The Romans had extensive establishments at Mehadia, which they called the "Baths of Hercules,"
and it is in memory of this that a statue of the good giant stands in the square of the little
town. Scattered through the hills, many inscriptions to Hercules, to Mercury and to Venus have
been found during the ages. The villages on the road thither are few and far between, and are
inhabited by peasants decidedly Dacian in type. It is estimated that a million and a half of
Roumanians are settled in Hungary, and in this section they are exceedingly numerous. Men and
women wear showy costumes, quite barbaric and uncomfortable. The women seem determined to wear
as few garments as possible, and to compensate for lack of number by brightness of coloring.
In many a pretty face traces of gypsy blood may be seen. This vagabond taint gives an inexpressible
charm to a face for which the Hungarian strain has already done much. The coal-black hair and
wild, mutinous eyes set off to perfection the pale face and exquisitely thin lips, the delicate
nostrils and beautifully moulded chin. Angel or devil? queries the beholder. Sometimes he is
constrained to think that the possessor of such a face has the mingled souls of saint and siren.
The light undertone of melancholy which pervades gypsy beauty, gypsy music, gypsy manners,
has an extremely remarkable fascination for all who perceive it. Even when it is almost buried
beneath ignorance and animal craft, it is still to be found in the gypsy nature after diligent
search. This strange race seems overshadowed by the sorrow of some haunting memory. Each individual
belonging to the Tsiganes whom I saw impressed me as a fugitive from Fate. To look back was
impossible; of the present he was careless; the future tempted him on. In their music one now
and then hears hints of a desire to return to some far-off and half-forgotten land. But this
is rare.

There are a large number of "civilized gypsies," so called, in the neighborhood of Orsova.
I never saw one of them without a profound compassion for him, so utterly unhappy did he look
in ordinary attire. The musicians who came nightly to play on the lawn in front of the Hungarian
Crown inn belonged to these civilized Tsiganes. They had lost all the freedom of gesture, the
proud, half-savage stateliness of those who remained nomadic and untrammelled by local law
and custom. The old instinct was in their music, but sometimes there drifted into it the same
mixture of saint and devil which I had seen in the "composite" faces.

[Illustration: BOATS ON THE DANUBE.]

As soon as supper was set forth, piping hot and flanked by flagons of beer and wine, on the
lawn, and the guests had assembled to partake of the good cheer, while yet the afterglow lingered
along the Danube, these dusky musicians appeared and installed themselves in a corner. The
old stream's murmur could not drown the piercing and pathetic notes of the violin, the gentle
wail of the guzla or the soft thrumming of the rude tambourine. Little poetry as a spectacled
and frosty Austrian officer might have in his soul, that little must have been awakened by
the songs and the orchestral performances of the Tsiganes as the sun sank low. The dusk began
to creep athwart the lawn, and a cool breeze fanned the foreheads of the listeners. When the
light was all gone, these men, as if inspired by the darkness, sometimes improvised most angelic
melody. There was never any loud or boisterous note, never any direct appeal to the attention.
I invariably forgot the singers and players, and the music seemed a part of the harmony of
Nature. While the pleasant notes echoed in the twilight, troops of jaunty young Hungarian soldiers,
dressed in red hose, dark-green doublets and small caps sometimes adorned with feathers, sauntered
up and down the principal street; the refugees huddled in corners and listened with delight;
the Austrian officials lumbered by, pouring clouds of smoke from their long, strong and inevitable
cigars; and the dogs forgot their perennial quarrel for a few instants at a time.

The dogs of Orsova and of all the neighboring country have many of the characteristics of their
fellow-creatures in Turkey. Orsova is divided into "beats," which are thoroughly and carefully
patrolled night and day by bands of dogs who recognize the limits of their domain and severely
resent intrusion. In front of the Hungarian Crown a large dog, aided by a small yellow cur
and a black spaniel mainly made up of ears and tail, maintained order. The afternoon quiet
was generally disturbed about four o'clock by the advent of a strange canine, who, with that
expression of extreme innocence which always characterizes the animal that knows he is doing
wrong, would venture on to the forbidden ground. A low growl in chorus from the three guardians
was the inevitable preliminary warning. The new-comer usually seemed much surprised at this,
and gave an astonished glance: then, wagging his tail merrily, as much as to say, "Nonsense!
I must have been mistaken," he approached anew. One of the trio of guardians thereupon sallied
forth to meet him, followed by the others a little distance behind. If the strange dog showed
his teeth, assumed a defiant attitude and seemed inclined to make his way through any number
of enemies, the trio held a consultation, which, I am bound to say, almost invariably resulted
in a fight. The intruder would either fly yelping, or would work his way across the interdicted
territory by means of a series of encounters, accompanied by the most terrific barking, snapping
and shrieking, and by a very considerable effusion of blood. The person who should interfere
to prevent a dog-fight in Orsova would be regarded as a lunatic. Sometimes a large white dog,
accompanied by two shaggy animals resembling wolves so closely that it was almost impossible
to believe them guardians of flocks of sheep, passed by the Hungarian Crown unchallenged, but
these were probably tried warriors whose valor was so well known that they were no longer questioned
anywhere.

The gypsies have in their wagons or following in their train small black dogs of temper unparalleled
for ugliness. It is impossible to approach a Tsigane tent or wagon without encountering a swarm
of these diminutive creatures, whose rage is not only amusing, but sometimes rather appalling
to contemplate. Driving rapidly by a camp one morning in a farmer's cart drawn by two stout
horses adorned with jingling bells, I was followed by a pack of these dark-skinned animals.
The bells awoke such rage within them that they seemed insane under its influence. As they
leaped and snapped around me, I felt like some traveller in a Russian forest pursued by hungry
wolves. A dog scarcely six inches high, and but twice as long, would spring from the ground
as if a pound of dynamite had exploded beneath him, and would make a desperate effort to throw
himself into the wagon. Another, howling in impotent anger, would jump full at a horse's throat,
would roll beneath the feet of the team, but in some miraculous fashion would escape unhurt,
and would scramble upon a bank to try again. It was a real relief when the discouraged pack
fell away. Had I shot one of the animals, the gypsies would have found a way to avenge the
death of their enterprising though somewhat too zealous camp-follower. Animals everywhere on
these border-lines of the Orient are treated with much more tenderness than men and women are.
The grandee who would scowl furiously in this wild region of the Banat if the peasants did
not stand by the roadside and doff their hats in token of respect and submission as he whirled
by in his carriage, would not kick a dog out of his way, and would manifest the utmost tenderness
for his horses.

[Illustration: Orsova.]

Much as the Hungarian inhabitants of the Banat hate the Roumanians, they do not fail to appreciate
the commercial advantages which will follow on the union of the two countries by rail. Pretty
Orsova may in due time become a bustling town filled with grain- and coal-dépôts and with small
manufactories. The railway from Verciorova on the frontier runs through the large towns Pitesti
and Craiova on its way to Bucharest. It is a marvellous railroad: it climbs hills, descends
into deep gullies, and has as little of the air-line about it as a great river has, for the
contractors built it on the principle of "keeping near the surface," and they much preferred
climbing ten high mountains to cutting one tunnel. Craiova takes its name, according to a somewhat
misty legend, from John Assan, who was one of the Romano-Bulgarian kings, Craiova being a corruption
of _Crai Ivan_ ("King John"). This John was the same who drank his wine from a cup made out
of the skull of the unlucky emperor Baldwin I. The old bans of Craiova gave their title to
the Roumanian silver pieces now known as _bañi_. Slatina, farther down the line, on the river
Altu (the _Aluta_ of the ancients), is a pretty town, where a proud and brave community love
to recite to the stranger the valorous deeds of their ancestors. It is the centre from which
have spread out most of the modern revolutionary movements in Roumania. "Little Wallachia,"
in which Slatina stands, is rich in well-tilled fields and uplands covered with fat cattle:
it is as fertile as Kansas, and its people seemed to me more agreeable and energetic than those
in and around Bucharest.

