Distributed Proofreaders

THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

A MAGAZINE OF LITERATURE, ART, AND POLITICS.

VOL. VIII.--NOVEMBER, 1861.--NO. XLIX.

GEORGE SAND.

  "Deduci superbo
  Non humilis mulier triumpho."

These words are applied by Horace to the great Cleopatra, whose heroic end he celebrates, even
while exulting in her overthrow. We apply them to another woman of royal soul, who, capitulating
with the world of her contemporaries, does not allow them the ignoble triumph of plundering
the secrets of her life. They have long clamored at its gates, long shouted at its windows,
in defamation and in glorification. Ready now for their admission, she lets the eager public
in; but what they were most intent to find still eludes them. In the "Histoire de ma Vie" are
the records of her parentage, birth, education. Here are detailed the subtile influences that
aided or hindered Nature in one of her most lavish pieces of work; here are study, religion,
marriage, maternity, authorship, friendship, travel, litigation: but the passionate loving
woman, and whom she loved, are not here. To the world's triumph they belong not, and we honor
the decency and self-respect which consign them to oblivion. Nor shall we endeavor to lift
the veil which she has thus thrown over the most intimate portion of her private life. We will
not ask any _Chronique Scandaleuse_, of which there are plenty, to supply any hiatus in the
_dramatis personae_ of her life. We shall take her as she gives herself to us, bringing out
the full significance of what she says, but not interpolating with it what other people say.
For she has been generous in telling us all that it imports us most to know. The itching curiosity
of the spiteful or the vicious must seek its gratification at other hands than ours: we will
not be its ministers. With all this, we are not obliged to shut our eyes to the true significance
of what she tells us, or to assume that in the account she gives us of herself there is necessarily
less self-deception than self-judgment generally exhibits. If she mistakes the selfish for
the heroic, exalts a gratification into a duty, and preaches to her sex as from the standpoint
of a morality superior to theirs, we shall set it down as it seems to us. But, for the sake
of manhood as well as of womanhood, we would not that any mean or malignant hand should endeavor
to show where she failed, and how.

Was she not to all of us, in our early years, a name of doubt, dread, and enchantment? Did
not all of us feel, in our young admiration for her, something of the world's great struggle
between conservative discipline and revolutionary inspiration? We knew our parents would not
have us read her, _if they knew_. We knew they were right. Yet we read her at stolen hours,
with waning and still entreated light; and as we read, in a dreary wintry room, with the flickering
candle warning us of late hours and confiding expectations, the atmosphere grew warm and glorious
about us,--a true human company, a living sympathy crept near us,--the very world seemed not
the same world after as before. She had given us a real gift; no criticism could take it away.
The hands might be sinful, but the box they broke contained an exceeding precious ointment.

At a later day we saw these things rather differently. The electric intoxication over, which
book or being gives but once to the same person, its elements were viewed with some distrust.
Passing from ideal to real life, as all pass, who live on, we shook our heads over the books,
sighed, ceased to read them. Grown mothers ourselves, we quietly removed them as far as possible
from the young hands about us, and would rather have deprived them of the noble French language
altogether than have allowed it to bring them such lessons as Jacques and Valentine. Yet we
retain the old love for her; the world of literature still seems brighter for her footsteps;
and should we live to learn her death, tears must follow it, and the sense of void left by
the loss of a true friend, noble and loyal-hearted, if mistaken. With this confession of sympathy
with the woman, we begin the critical consideration of the memoirs of herself she has given
to the world.

These memoirs begin at the earliest possible period, including the lives of her parents and
grandparents. The latter were illustrious on one side, obscure on the other. She tells us that
by her paternal grandmother she was allied to the kings of France, and by her maternal grandfather
to the lowest of the people. The grandmother in question was the natural daughter of the famous
Maréchal de Saxe, recognized and educated, but finally left with slender resources, and married
to M. Dupin de Francueil, an accomplished person of good family and fortune, greatly her senior.
To him she bore one child, a son named Maurice, after the great soldier. As might have been
expected, her widowhood was early and long, for her aged partner soon dropped from her side,
beloved and regretted. George tells us that her grandmother was wont to insist that an old
man can be more agreeable in the marital relation than a young one, and that M. Dupin de Francueil,
elegant, accomplished, and devoted to her happiness, had in his life left nothing for her imagination
to desire or her heart to regret.

As this lady is one of the heroines of the "Histoire de ma Vie," we cannot do it justice without
lingering a little over her portraiture. She is described as tall, fair, and of a Saxon type
of beauty. Her manners would seem to have been _de haute école_, and her culture was on a large
and noble scale. Austere in her morals, her faith was the deistic philosophy of the ante-revolutionary
period; but, like other people of noble mind, instead of making doubt a pretext for license,
she brought up virtue to justify the latitude of her creed, that the solid results of conscience
should entitle her to the free interpretation of doctrine. She was chaste, benevolent, and
sincere. Her mother had been a singer of merit and celebrity, and she, the daughter, had both
inherited her musical talent, and had received one of those thorough musical educations which
alone make the possession of the art a pleasure and resource. It must often occur to those
who hear our young ladies sing and play, that the accomplishment is little valued by them,
save as an outward social adornment.

Hence those ambitious and perfectly uninteresting performances with which we are constantly
bored in the fashionable musical world. It is self-love which gives us those flat, empty _adagios_,
those cold, keen runs and embellishments. Love of the art has more modesty in the undertaking,
and more warmth in the execution. George says that she has heard all the greatest singers of
modern times, but that her grandmother, in her old age, singing fragments of the operas of
her own time in a cracked and trembling voice, and accompanying herself on an old harpsichord
with three fingers of a palsied hand, always remained to her a type of art above all others.

The first volume of these memoirs gives interesting notice of the friendships which surrounded
Madame Dupin during her married life. These embraced various celebrities, historical and literary.
Her husband was the congenial friend of the best minds of the day, and was able, among other
things, to procure her the difficult pleasure of an interview with Jean Jacques Rousseau, then
living near her in great spleen and retirement. We cannot do better than to give the relation
of this in her own words, as preserved by her grand-daughter. It is highly characteristic of
the parties and of the times.

"Before I had seen Rousseau, I had read the 'Nouvelle Héloïse' in one breath, and at the last
pages I found myself so overcome that I wept and sobbed. My husband gently rallied me for this;
but that day I could only cry from morning till evening. During this, M. de Francueil, with
the address and the grace which he knew how to put into everything, ran to find Jean Jacques.
I do not know how he managed it, but he carried him off, he brought him, without having communicated
to me his intention.

"I, unconscious of all this, was not hastening my toilet. I was with Madame d'Esparbès de Lussan,
my friend, the most amiable woman in the world, and the prettiest, _though she squinted a little,
and was slightly deformed._ M. de Francueil had come several times to see if I was ready. I
did not observe any marks of haste in my husband, and did not hurry myself, never suspecting
that he was there, the sublime Bear, in my parlor. He had entered, looking partly foolish and
partly cross, and had seated himself in a corner, showing no other impatience than that about
dinner, in order to get away very soon.

"Finally, my toilet finished, and my eyes still red and swollen, I go to the parlor. I see
a little man, ill-dressed and scowling, who rose clumsily, who _chewed out_ some confused words.
I look, and I guess who it is,--I try to speak,--I burst into tears. Francueil tries to put
us in tune by a pleasantry, and bursts into tears. We could not say anything to each other.
Rousseau pressed my hand without addressing me a single word. We tried to dine, to cut short
all these sobs. But I could eat nothing. M. de Francueil could not be witty that day, and Rousseau
escaped directly on leaving the table, without having said a word,--displeased, perhaps, with
having found a new contradiction to his claim of being the most persecuted, the most hated,
and the most calumniated of men."

The simplicity of this narration justifies its quotation here, as illustrative of the taste
and manners that prevailed a hundred years ago. The lively emotion provoked by the "Nouvelle
Héloïse" is scarcely more foreign to our ideas and experience than the triangular fit of weeping
in the parlor, and the dinner, silent through excess of feeling, that followed it.

M. Dupin de Francueil lived with great, but generous extravagance, and, as his widow averred,
"ruined himself in the most amiable manner in the world." He died, leaving large estates in
great confusion, from which his widow and young son were compelled to "accept the poverty"
of seventy-five thousand livres of annual income,--a sum which the Revolution, at a later day,
greatly reduced. Till its outbreak, Madame Dupin lived in peace and affluence, though not on
the grand scale of earlier days,--devoting herself chiefly to the care and education of her
son, Maurice, in which latter task she secured the services of a young abbé, who afterwards
prudently became the _Citizen_ Deschartres, and who continued in the service of the family
during the rest of a tolerably long life. This personage plays too important a part in the
memoirs to be passed over without special notice. He continued to be the faithful teacher and
companion of Maurice, until the exigencies of military life removed the latter from his control.
He was also the man of business of Madame Dupin, and, at a later day, the preceptor of George
herself, who, with childish petulance, bestowed on him the sobriquet of _grand homme_, in consequence,
she tells us, of his _omnicompétence_ and his air of importance. "My grandmother," she says,
"had no presentiment, that, in confiding to him the education of her son, she was securing
the tyrant, the saviour, and the friend of her whole remaining life." We would gladly give
here in full George's portrait of her tutor; but if we should stop to sketch all the admirable
photography of this work, our review would become a volume. We can only borrow a trait or two,
and pass on to the consideration of other matters.

"He had been good-looking; but I am sure that no one, even in his best days, could have looked
at him without laughing, so clearly was the word _pedant_ written in all the lines of his face
and in every movement of his person. To be complete, he should have been ignorant, _gourmand_,
and cowardly. But, far from this, he was very learned, temperate, and madly courageous. He
had all the great qualities of the soul, joined to an insufferable disposition, and a self-satisfaction
which amounted almost to delirium. But what devotion, what zeal, what a tender and generous soul!"

In the intervals of his necessary occupations he studied medicine and surgery, in the latter
of which he attained considerable skill. In the many subsequent years of his country life,
he made these accomplishments very useful to the village folk. No stress of weather or unseasonableness
of hours could detain him from attending the sick, when summoned; but being obliged, as George
says, to be ridiculous as well as sublime in all things, he was wont to beat his patients when
they were bold enough to offer him money for their cure, and even made missile weapons of the
poultry and game which they brought him in acknowledgment of his services, assailing them with
blows and harder words, till they fled, amused or angry. Maurice, his first pupil, was a delicate
and indolent child, and showed little robustness of character till his early manhood, when
the necessity of a career forced him into the ranks of the great army.

The first threatenings of the Revolution found in Madame Dupin an unalarmed observer. As a
disciple of Voltaire and Rousseau, she could not but detest the abuses of the Court; she shared,
too, the general personal alienation of the aristocracy from the _German woman_, as they called
Marie Antoinette. She admired, in turn, the probity of Necker and the genius of Mirabeau; but
the current of disorder finally found its way to her, and swept away her household peace among
the innumerable wrecks that marked its passage. Implicated as the depository of some papers
supposed to be of treasonable character, she was arrested and imprisoned in Paris, her son
and Deschartres being officially separated from her and detained at Passy. The imprisonment
lasted some months, and its tedium was beguiled by the most fervent love-letters between the
boy of sixteen and his mother. The sorrow of this separation, George says, metamorphosed the
sickly, spoiled child into a fervent and resolute youth, whose subsequent career was full of
courage and self-denial. Of the Revolution she writes:--

"In my eyes, it is one of the phases of evangelical life: a tumultuous, bloody life, terrible
at certain moments, full of convulsions, of delirium, and of sobbing. It is the violent contest
of the principle of equality preached by Jesus, and passing, now like a radiant light, now
like a burning torch, from hand to hand, to our own days, against the old pagan world, which
is not destroyed, which will not be for a long time yet, in spite of the mission of Christ,
and so many other divine missions, in spite of so many stakes, scaffolds, and martyrs. What
is there, then, to astonish us in the vertigo which seized all minds at the period of the inextricable
_mêlée_ into which France precipitated herself in '93? When everything went by retaliation,
when every one became, by deed or intention, victim and executioner in turn, and when between
the oppression endured and the oppression exercised there was no time for reflection or liberty
of choice, how could passion have abstracted itself in action, or impartiality have dictated
quiet judgments? Passionate souls were judged by others as passionate, and the human race cried
out as in the time of the ancient Hussites,--'This is a time of mourning, of zeal, and of fury.'"

The tone of our author concerning this and subsequent revolutions which have come within her
own observation is throughout temperate, hopeful, and charitable. The noblest side of womanhood
comes out in this; and however her fiery youth might have counselled, in the pages now under
consideration she appears as the apologist of humankind, the world's peacemaker.

George loves to linger over the details of her father's early life. They are, indeed, all she
possesses of him, as she was still in early childhood when he died. So much and such charming
narrations has she to give us of his military life, his musical ability, his courage and disinterestedness,
that she herself does not manage to get born until nearly the end of the third volume, and
that through a series of concatenations which we must hastily review.

The imprisonment of Madame Dupin was not long; after some months of detention, she was allowed
to rejoin her son at Passy, and the whole family-party speedily removed to Nohant, in the heart
of Berry, which henceforth figures as the homestead in the pages of these volumes. But Maurice
is soon obliged to adopt a profession. His mother's revenues have been considerably diminished
by the political troubles. He feels in himself the power, the determination, to carve out a
career for himself, and gallantly enters, as a simple soldier, the armies of the Republic,--Napoleon
Bonaparte being First Consul. Although he soon saw service, his promotion seems to have been
slow and difficult. He was full of military ardor, and laborious in acquiring the science of
his profession; but there were already so many candidates for every smallest distinction, and
Maurice was no courtier, to help out his deserts with a little fortunate flattery. He complains
in his letters that the tide has already turned, and that even in the army diplomacy fares
better than real bravery. Still, he soon rose from the ranks, served with honor on the Rhine
and in Italy, and became finally attached to the _personnel_ of Murat, during the occupation
of the Peninsula. His title of grandson of the Maréchal de Saxe was sometimes helpful, sometimes
hurtful. In the eyes of his comrades it won him honor; but Napoleon, on hearing his high descent
urged as a claim to consideration, is said to have replied, brusquely,--"I don't want any of
those people." In his letters to his mother, he recounts his adventures, military and amorous,
with frankness, but without boasting; but his confidences soon become very partial, and before
she knows it the poor mother has a dangerous rival. We will let him give his own account of
the origin of this new relation.

"You know that I was in love in Milan. You guessed it, because I did not tell you of it. At
times I fancied myself beloved in return, and then I saw, or thought I saw, that I was not.
I wished to divert my thoughts; I went away, desiring to think no more of it.

"This charming woman is here, and we have hardly spoken to each other. We scarcely exchanged
a look. I felt a little vexation, though that is scarcely in my nature. She was proud towards
me, although her heart is tender and passionate. This morning, during breakfast, we heard distant
cannon. The General ordered me to mount at once, and go to see what it was. I rise, take the
staircase in two bounds, and run to the stable. At the very moment of mounting my horse I turned
and saw behind me this dear woman, blushing, embarrassed, and casting on me a lingering look,
expressive of fear, interest, love."

This fatal look, as the experienced will readily conceive, did the business. The young soldier
dreamed only of a love affair like twenty others which had made the pastime of his oft-changing
quarters; but this "dear woman," Sophie Victoire Antoinette Delaborde, daughter of an old bird-fancier,
was destined to become his wife, and the mother of his daughter, Aurore Dupin, whom the world
knows as George Sand. The circumstances of her youth had been untoward. She was at this period
already the mother of one child, born out of marriage, and seems to have been making the campaign
of Italy under the so-called protection of some rich man, whose name is not given us. This
protection she hastened to leave, following thenceforward with devotion the precarious fortunes
of the young soldier, and gaining her own subsistence, until their marriage, by the toil of
the needle, to which she had been bred. Of course, Maurice's confidences to his mother under
this head soon cease. An amour with a person in Victoire's position could be admitted; but
a serious, solid affection, leading to marriage, this would break his mother's heart, and indeed
not without reason. The reader must remember that this is a chapter out of French society,
on which account we suppress all hysterical comment upon a state of things universally received
and acknowledged therein. Maurice's trivial, and _we_ should say, unprincipled pursuit of Victoire
would be considered perfectly legitimate in the sphere which made the world to him. The sequel,
perhaps, would not have been considered differently here and there; for, however we may recognize
the sacredness of true affection, a marriage so unequal and with such sinister antecedents
would be regarded in all society with little approbation, or hope of good. His mother soon
grew alarmed, as various symptoms of an enduring and carefully concealed attachment became
evident to her keen observation. In the years that followed, she left no means untried to break
off this dangerous connection;--her remonstrances were by turns tender and violent,--her reasonings,
no doubt, in great part just; but Maurice defended the woman of his choice from all accusations,
from every annoyance, on the ground of her devoted and honorable attachment to him. After four
years of continued trouble and irresolution, in which, George tells us, he had again and again
made the endeavor to sacrifice Victoire to his mother's happiness, and after the birth of several
children, who soon ceased to live, he wedded her by civil rite. The birth of his daughter soon
followed. "And thus it was," says George, "that I was born legitimate."

"My mother had on a pretty pink dress that day, and my father was playing some _contredanses_
on his faithful Cremona (I have it yet, that old instrument by the sound of which I first saw
the light). My mother left the dance and passed into her own room. As she went out very quietly,
the dance continued. At the last _chassez all round_, my Aunt Lucy went into my mother's room,
and immediately cried,--

"Come, come here, Maurice! You have a daughter!"

"She shall be named Aurore, for my poor mother, who is not here to bless her, but who will
bless her one day," said my father, receiving me in his arms.

"She was born in music and in pink," said my aunt. "She will be happy."

Not eminent, perhaps, has been the realization of this augury.

The young couple were so poor, at this moment of their marriage, that a slender thread of gold
was forced to serve for the nuptial ring; it was not until some days later that they were able
to expend six francs in the purchase of that indispensable ornament. The act once consummated,
Maurice gave himself up to some hours of bitter suffering, made inevitable by what he considered
a grave act of disobedience against the best of mothers. His conscience, however, on the whole,
justified him. He had obeyed the Scripture precept, forsaking the old for the inevitable new
relation, and surrounding her who was really his wife with the immunities of civil recognition.
The marriage was concealed for some months from his mother,--who at a subsequent period left
no stone unturned to prove its nullity. The religious ceremony, which Catholicism considers
as the indissoluble tie, had not yet been performed, and Mme. Dupin hoped to prove some informality
in the civil rite. In this, however, she did not succeed, and after long resistance, and ill-concealed
displeasure, she concluded by acknowledging the unwelcome alliance. It was the little Aurore
herself whose unconscious hand severed the Gordian knot of the family difficulties. Introduced
by a stratagem into her grandmother's presence, and seated in her lap as the child of a stranger,
the family traits were suddenly recognized, and the little one (eight months old) effected
a change of heart which neither lawyer nor priest could have induced. St. Childhood is fortunately
always in the world, working ever these miracles of reconciliation.

George speaks with admirable candor of the inevitable relations between these two women. She
does full justice to the legitimacy of the grandmother's objections to the marriage, and her
fears for its result, which were founded much more on moral than on social considerations.
At the same time she nobly asserts her mother's claim to rehabilitation through a passionate
and disinterested attachment, a faithful devotion to the duties of marriage and maternity,
and a widowhood whose sorrow ended only with her life. She says,--"The doctrine of redemption
is the symbol of the principle of expiation and of rehabilitation"; but she adds,--"Our society
recognizes this principle in religious theory, but not in practice; it is too great, too beautiful
for us." She says farther,--"There still exists a pretended aristocracy of virtue, which, proud
of its privileges, does not admit that the errors of youth are susceptible of atonement. This
condemnation is the more absurd, because, for what is called the World, it is hypocritical.
It is not only women of really irreproachable life, nor matrons truly respected, who are called
upon to decide upon the merits of their misled sisters. It is not the company of the excellent
of the earth who make opinion. That is all a dream. The great majority of women of the world
is really a majority of _lost women_." We must understand these remarks as applying to French
society, in respect even of which we are not inclined to admit their truth. Yet there is a
certain justice in the inference that women are often most severely condemned by those who
are no better than themselves; and this insincerity of uncharity is far more to be dreaded
than the over-zeal of virtuous hearts, which oftenest helps and heals where it has been obliged
to wound.

At the risk of unduly multiplying quotations, we will quote here what George says of her mother
in this, the flower of her days. At a later day, the ill-regulated character suffered and made
others suffer with its own discords, which education and moral training had done nothing to
reconcile. The manly support, too, of the nobler nature was wanting, and the best half of her
future and its possibilities was buried in the untimely grave of her husband. Here is what
she was when she was at her best:--

"My mother never felt herself either humiliated or honored by the company of people who might
have considered themselves her superiors. She ridiculed keenly the pride of fools, the vanity
of _parvenus_, and, feeling herself of the people to her very finger-ends, she thought herself
more noble than all the patricians and aristocrats of the earth. She was wont to say that those
of her race had redder blood and larger veins than others,--which I incline to believe; for,
if moral and physical energy constitute in reality the excellence of races, we cannot deny
that this energy is compelled to diminish in those who lose the habit of labor and the courage
of endurance. This aphorism is certainly not without exception, and we may add that excess
of labor and of endurance enervates the organization as much as the excess of luxury and idleness.
But it is certain, in general, that life rises from the bottom of society, and loses itself
in measure as it rises to the top, like the sap in plants.

"My mother was not one of those bold _intrigantes_ whose secret passion is to struggle against
the prejudices of their time, and who think to make themselves greater by clinging, at the
risk of a thousand affronts, to the false greatness of the world. She was far too proud to
expose herself even to coldness. Her attitude was so reserved that she passed for a timid person;
but if one attempted to encourage her by airs of protection, she became more than reserved,
she showed herself cold and taciturn. With people who inspired her with respect, she was amiable
and charming; but her real disposition was gay, petulant, active, and, above all, opposed to
constraint. Great dinners, long _soirées_, commonplace visits, balls themselves, were odious
to her. She was the woman of the fireside or of the rapid and frolicking walk; but in her interior,
as in her goings abroad, intimacy, confidence, relations of entire sincerity, absolute freedom
in her habits and the employment of her time, were indispensable to her. She, therefore, always
lived in a retired manner, more anxious to avoid unpleasant acquaintances than eager to make
advantageous ones. Such, too, was the foundation of my father's character, and in this respect
never was couple better assorted. They were never happy out of their little household. And
they have bequeathed me this secret _sauvagerie_, which has always rendered the [fashionable]
world insupportable to me, and home indispensable."

In referring back to these volumes, we are led into continual loiterings by the way. The style
of our heroine is so magical, that we are constantly tempted to let her tell her own story,
and to give to the gems of hers which we insert in these pages the slightest possible setting
of our own. But it is not our business to anticipate for any one a reading from which no student
of modern literature, or, indeed, of modern mind, will excuse himself. We must give only so
much as shall make it sure that others will seek more at the fountain-head; but for this purpose
we must turn less to the book, and trust for our narration to a sufficiently recent perusal
still vividly remembered.

Aurore could scarcely have passed out of her third year when she accompanied her mother to
Madrid, where her father was already in attendance upon Murat. She remembers their quarters
in the palace, magnificently furnished, and the half-broken toys of the royal children, whose
destruction she was allowed to complete. To please his commander-in-chief, her father caused
her to assume a miniature uniform, like those of the Prince's aide-de-camps, whose splendid
discomfort she still recalls. This would seem a sort of prophecy of that assuming of male attire
in later years which was to constitute a capital circumstance in her life. The return from
the Peninsula was weary and painful to the mother and child, and made more so by the disgust
with which the Spanish roadside bill-of-fare inspired the more civilized French stomach. They
were forced to make a part of the journey in wagons with the common soldiery and camp-retainers,
and Aurore in this manner took the itch, to her mother's great mortification. Arrived at Nohant,
however, the care of Deschartres, joined to a self-imposed _régime_ of green lemons, which
the little girl devoured, skins, seeds, and all, soon healed the ignominious eruption. Here
the whole family passed some months of happy repose, too soon interrupted by the tragical death
of Maurice. He had brought back from Spain a formidable horse, which he had christened the
_terrible_ Leopardo, and which, brave cavalier as he was, he never mounted without a certain
indefinable misgiving. He often said, "I ride him badly, because I am afraid of him, and he
knows it." Dining with some friends in the neighborhood, one day, he was late in returning.
His wife and mother passed the evening together, the first jealous and displeased at his protracted
absence, the second occupied in calming the irritation and rebuking the suspicions of her companion.
The wife at last yielded, and retired to rest. But the mother's heart, more anxious, watched
and watched. Towards midnight, a slight confusion in the house augmented her alarm. She started
at once, alone and thinly dressed, to go and meet her son. The night was dark and rainy; the
terrible Leopardo had fulfilled the prophetic forebodings of his rider. The poor lady, brought
up in habits of extreme inactivity, had taken but two walks in all her life. The first had
been to surprise her son at Passy, when released from the Revolutionary prison. The second
was to meet and escort back his lifeless body, found senseless by the roadside.

We have done now with Aurore's ancestry, and must occupy our remaining pages with accounts
of herself. Much time is given by her to the record of her early childhood, and the explanation
of its various phases. She loves children; it is perhaps for this reason that she dwells longest
on this period of her life, describing its minutest incidents with all the poetry that is in
her. One would think that her childhood seemed to her that actual flower of her life which
it is to few in their own consciousness. Despite the loss of her father, and the vexed relations
between her mother and grandmother which followed his death, her infancy was joyous and companionable,
passed mostly with the country surroundings and out-door influences which act so magically
on the young. It soon became evident that she was to be confided chiefly to her grandmother's
care; and this, which was at first a fear, soon came to be a sorrow. Still her mother was often
with her, and her time was divided between the plays of her village-friends and the dreams
of romantic incident which early formed the main feature of her inner life. Already at a very
early age her mother used to say to those who laughed at the little romancer,--"Let her alone;
it is only when she is making her novels between four chairs that I can work in peace." This
habit of mind grew with her growth. Her very dolls played grandiose parts in her child-drama.
The paper on the wall became animated to her at night, and in her dreams she witnessed strange
adventures between its Satyrs and Bacchantes. Soon she imagined for herself a sort of angel-companion,
whose name was Corambé. His presence grew to be more real to her than reality itself, and in
her quiet moments she wove out the mythology of his existence, as Bhavadgheetas and Mahabraatus
have been dreamed. In process of time, she built, or rather entwisted, for him a little shrine
in the woods. All pretty things the child could gather were brought together there, to give
him pleasure. But one day the foot of a little playmate profaned this sanctuary, and Aurore
sought it no more, while still Corambé was with her everywhere.

Although she seems to have always suffered from her mother's inequalities of temper, yet for
many years she clung to her, and to the thought of her, with jealous affection. The great difference
of age which separated her from her grandmother inspired fear, and the grand manners and careful
breeding of the elder lady increased this effect. When left with her, the child fell into a
state of melancholy, with passionate reactions against the chilling, penetrating influence,
which yet, having reason on its side, was destined to subdue her. "Her chamber, dark and perfumed,
gave me the headache, and fits of spasmodic yawning. When she said to me, '_Amuse yourself
quietly_,' it seemed to me as if she shut me up in a great box with her." What sympathetic
remembrances must this phrase evoke in all who remember the _gêne_ of similar constraints!
George draws from this inferences of the wisdom of Nature in confiding the duties of maternity
to young creatures, whose pulses have not yet lost the impatient leap of early pleasure and
energy, and to whom repose and reflection have not yet become the primal necessities of life.
This want of the nearness and sympathy of age she was to experience more, as, by the consent
of both parties, her education was to be conducted under the superintendence of her grandmother,
from whom the mother derived her pension, and whose estate the child was to inherit. The separation
from her mother, gradually effected, was the great sorrow of her childhood. She revolted from
it sometimes openly, sometimes in secret; and the project of escaping and joining her mother
in Paris, where, with her half-sister Caroline, they would support themselves by needle-work,
was soon formed and long cherished. For the expenses of this intended journey, the child carefully
gathered and kept her little treasures, a coral comb, a ring with a tiny brilliant, etc., etc.
In contemplating these, she consoled many a heartache; as who is there of us who has not often
effectually beguiled _ennui_ and privation by dreams of joys that never were to have any other
reality? The mother seems to have entered into this plan only for the moment; it soon escaped
her remembrance altogether, and the little girl waited and waited to be sent for, till finally
the whole vision faded into a dream.

