
                      BLACKWOOD'S

                  EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

     No. CCCXLII.     APRIL, 1844.        VOL. LV.

                  TABLE OF CONTENTS

    THE PIRATES OF SEGNA.
      --A TALE OF VENICE AND THE ADRIATIC. IN TWO PARTS.--PART II.

    THE SLAVE-TRADE.

    MOSLEM HISTORIES OF SPAIN.
      --THE ARABS OF CORDOVA.

    TWO NIGHTS IN SOUTHERN MEXICO.
      --A FRAGMENT FROM THE JOURNAL OF AN AMERICAN TRAVELLER.

    THE BRITISH FLEET.

    MARSTON; OR, THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.
      --PART X.

    THE CHILD'S WARNING.

    THE TWO PATRONS.

    IRELAND.

THE PIRATES OF SEGNA.

A TALE OF VENICE AND THE ADRIATIC. IN TWO PARTS.

PART II.

CHAPTER I.--THE BATTLE OF THE BRIDGE.

The time occupied by the events detailed in the three preceding chapters, had been passed by
Antonio in a state of self-exile from his master's studio. Conscious of having disobeyed the
earnest injunctions of Contarini, the weakness of his character withheld him alike from confessing
his fault, and from encountering the penetrating gaze of the old painter. Neglecting thus his
usual occupation, he passed his days in his gondola, wandering about the canals in the hope
of again meeting with the mysterious being who had made such an impression on his excitable
fancy. Hitherto all his researches had been fruitless; but although day after day passed without
his finding the smallest trace of her he sought, his repeated disappointments seemed only to
increase the obstinacy with which he continued the search.

The incognita not only engrossed all his waking thoughts, but she still haunted him in his
dreams. Scarcely a night passed that her wrinkled countenance did not hover round his pillow,
now partially shrouded by the ample veil, then again fully exposed and apparently exulting
in its unearthly ugliness; or else peering at him from behind the drapery that covered the
walls of his apartment. In vain did he attempt to address the vision, or to follow it as it
gradually receded and finally melted away into distance.

It was from a dream of this description that he was one morning awakened by his faithful gondolier
Jacopo. The sun was shining brightly through his chamber windows, and he heard an unusual degree
of noise and bustle upon the canal without.

"Up, Signor mio!" cried the gondolier joyously, and with a mixture of respect and affectionate
familiarity in his tone and manner. "Up, Signor Antonio! You were not wont to oversleep yourself
on the day of the Bridge Fight. All Venice is hastening thither. Quick, quick! or we shall
never be able to make our way through the press of gondolas."

The words of the gondolier reminded Antonio that this was the day appointed for the celebration
of a festival, which for weeks past had been looked forward to with the greatest impatience
and interest, by Venetians of all ranks, ages, and sexes; a festival which he himself was in
the habit of regularly attending, though on this occasion his preoccupied thoughts and feelings
had made him utterly unconscious that it was so near at hand.

Although the ancient and bitter hatred of the Guelphs and Ghibellines had died away, and the
factions which divided northern Italy had sunk into insignificance, nearly a century before
this period, the memory of their feuds was still kept up by their great grandchildren, and
Venice was still severed into two parties or communities, separated from each other by the
grand canal. Those who dwelt on the western or land side of this boundary were styled the Nicolotti,
after the parish of San Nicolo; while those on the eastern or sea side took the appellation
of Castellani, from the district of Castello. Not only the inhabitants of the city itself,
but those of the suburbs and neighbouring country, were included in these two denominations;
the people from Mestre and the continent ranging themselves under the banners of the Nicolotti,
while those from the islands were strenuous Castellani.

The frequent and sanguinary conflicts of the Guelphs and Ghibellines were now replaced and
commemorated by a popular festival, occurring sometimes once, sometimes oftener in the year;
usually in the autumn or spring. "In order that," says an old chronicler of the time, "the
heat being less great at those seasons, the blood of the combatants should not become too heated
and the fight too dangerous." "Also on cloudy days," says the same authority, "that the spectators
might not be molested by the sun; and on Sundays or Saints' days, that the people thereby might
not be hindered from their occupations." On these occasions one of the numerous bridges was
selected as the scene of the mock combat that constituted the chief amusement of the day. The
quays afforded good standing-room to the spectators; and here, under the inspection of ædiles
appointed by the people, the two parties met, and disputed for supremacy in a battle, in which,
however, no more dangerous weapons than fists were allowed to be brought into play.

It was not the populace alone that divided itself into these two factions. Accordingly as the
palaces of the nobles stood on the one or the other side of the canal, were their owners Castellani
or Nicolotti, although their partizanship existed but in jest, and only showed itself in the
form of encouragement to their respective parties; whereas with the lower orders the strife,
begun in good-humour, not unfrequently turned to bitter earnest, and had dangerous and even
fatal results. In the wish, however, to keep up a warlike spirit in the people, and perhaps
still more with a view to make them forget, in a temporary and boundless license, the strict
subjection in which they were habitually held, the senate was induced to permit the continuance
of a diversion, which from the local arrangements of Venice, the narrowness of the streets
and bridges, and the depth of the larger canals, was unavoidably dangerous, and almost invariably
attended with loss of life.

Hastily dressing himself, Antonio hurried into his gondola in order to proceed to the bridge
of San Barnaba, opposite to the church of the same name and to the Foscarini palace, that being
the spot appointed for the combat. The canal of the Giudecca was one black mass of gondolas,
which rendered even a casual glimpse of the water scarcely obtainable; and it was amidst the
cries of the gondoliers and the noise of boats knocking against each other, that the young
painter passed the Dogana and reached the grand canal. There the crowd became so dense, that
Jacopo, seeing the impossibility of passing, turned aside in time, and making a circuit, entered
the Rio de San Trovaso, whence, through innumerable narrow canals, he succeeded in reaching
the scene of the approaching conflict.

The combatants were attending mass, and had not yet made their appearance. Wonderfully great,
however, was the concourse of spectators already assembled. Since sunrise they had been thronging
thither from all sides, eager to secure places which might afford them a good view of the fight.
Every roof, gable, and chimney had its occupants; not a projection however small, not a wall
however lofty and perilous, but was covered with people, for the most part provided with baskets
of provisions, and evidently determined to sit or stand out the whole of the spectacle. In
the anxiety to obtain good places, the most extraordinary risks were run, and feats of activity
displayed. Here might be seen individuals clambering up perpendicular buildings, by the aid
of ledges and projections which appeared far too narrow to afford either grasp or foot-hold;
further on, some herculean gondolier or peasant served as base to a sort of human column, composed
of five or six men, who, scrambling over each other's shoulders, attained in this manner some
seemingly inaccessible position. The seafaring habits of the Venetian populace, who were accustomed
from boyhood to climb the masts and rigging of vessels, now stood them in good stead; and notwithstanding
all the noise, confusion, and apparent peril, it was very rarely that an accident occurred.

Under the red awnings covering the balconies and flat roofs of the palaces, were seated groups
of ladies, whose rich dresses, glittering with the costliest jewels and embroideries, appeared
the more magnificent from being contrasted with the black attire of the grave patricians who
accompanied them. But perhaps the most striking feature of this striking scene was to be found
in the custom of masking, then almost universal in Venice, and the origin of which may be traced
in great part to dread of the Inquisition, and of its prying enquiries into the actions and
affairs of individuals. Amidst the sea of faces that thronged roofs, windows, balconies, streets,
and quays, the minority only were uncovered, and the immense collection of masks, of every
form and colour, had something in it peculiarly fantastic and unnatural, conveying an impression
that the wearers mimicked human nature rather than belonged to it.

Venice, whose trade and mercantile importance were at this period greatly on the decline, saw
nevertheless, on occasions like the present, strangers from the most opposite nations of Europe,
and even Asia, mingling peaceably on her canals. Here were Turks in their bright red caftans
and turbans; there Armenians in long black robes; and Jews, whose habitually greedy and crafty
countenances had for the nonce assumed an expression of eager curiosity and expectation. The
mercantile spirit of the Venetians prevented them from extending to individuals the quarrels
of states; and although the republic was then at war with Spain, more than one superb hidalgo
might be seen, wrapped in his national gravity as in a mantle, and affecting a total disregard
of the blunt or hostile observations made within his hearing by sailors of the Venetian navy,
or by individuals smarting under the loss of ships and cargoes captured by Spanish galleys.

Scattered here and there amongst the crowd, Antonio's searching eye soon remarked a number
of men, to whom, accustomed as he was to analyse the heterogeneous composition of a Venetian
mob, he was yet at a loss to assign any distinct class or country. Their sunburnt and strongly
marked features were partially hidden by the folds of ample cloaks, in which they kept themselves
closely muffled; and it appeared to Antonio, that in their selection of places they were more
anxious to escape observation than to obtain a good view of the approaching fight. In the dark
patches of shadow thrown by the overhanging balconies, in the recesses of deep and gloomy portals,
or peering out from the entrance of some narrow and tortuous alley, these men were grouped,
silent, scowling, and alone, and apparently known to none of the surrounding crowd. But suspicious
as were the appearance and deportment of the persons in question, Antonio's thoughts were too
much engrossed by another and far more interesting subject, to accord them much attention.
He nourished the hope of discovering amongst the multitude assembled around him, the mysterious
being who had taken so strong a hold on his imagination. Vainly, however, did he scan every
balcony and window and strain his eyes to distinguish the faces of the more distant of the
assembled dames. More than once the flutter of a white robe, or a momentarily fancied resemblance
of figure, made his heart beat high with expectation, until a second glance destroyed his hopes;
and the turning of a head or drawing aside of a veil disclosed the blooming features of some
youthful beauty, to which, in his then state of mind, the wrinkled and unearthly visage of
the incognita would have been infinitely preferable.

While the young painter was thus fluctuating between hope and disappointment, several lads
with naked arms, or but slightly encumbered with clothing, were giving the spectators a foretaste
of the approaching conflict; and, encouraged by the applause which was liberally vouchsafed
them, making violent efforts to drive one another off the bridge. At times the spirit of partizanship
would induce some of the bystanders to come to the aid of those who seemed likely to be defeated--an
interference that was repressed by the ædiles stationed at either end of the bridge, who did
their utmost to enforce the laws of this popular tournament. Notwithstanding their efforts,
however, the _mostra_ or duello between two persons, by which the combat should begin, was
often converted into the _frotta_ or mêlée, in which all pressed forward without order. The
first advantage was held to be--for one of the combatants to draw blood, if it were only a
single drop, from the nose or mouth of his opponent. Loud applause rewarded the skill and vigour
of him who succeeded in throwing his adversary into the canal; but the clamour became deafening
when a champion was found who maintained his station in the centre of the bridge, without any
of the opposite party venturing to attack him. This feat won the highest honour that could
be obtained; and he who achieved it retired from his post amid the waving of scarfs and handkerchiefs,
and the enthusiastic cheers of the gratified spectators.

At length the bell of the Campanile announced that mass was over, and presently, out of two
opposite streets that had been purposely kept clear, the combatants emerged, pressing forward
in eager haste towards the bridge; their arms naked to the shoulders, their breasts protected
by leathern doublets, and their heads by closely fitting caps--their dress altogether as light
as possible, and well adapted to the struggle in which they were about to engage. The loud
hum of the multitude was hushed on their appearance, and the deepest silence reigned while
the ædiles marshaled them to their respective places, on which they planted themselves in threatening
attitudes, their broad and muscular chests expanded, their fists clenched, their feet seeming
to grasp the ground on which they stood.

A loud flourish of trumpets gave the signal of the onset, and with inconceivable impetuosity
the two parties threw themselves on each other. In spite, however, of the fury and violence
of the shock, neither side yielded an inch of ground. The bridge was completely filled with
men from end to end, and from side to side; there was no parapet or barrier of any kind to
prevent the combatants from pushing one another into the canal; yet so equally balanced was
the strength of the two parties, that after nearly half an hour's struggle very few men had
been thrown from the bridge, and not the smallest advantage had been obtained either by Castellani
or Nicolotti. Those in the rear, who had as yet done nothing but push the others forward, now
came to the front, and the combat was renewed with fresh vigour, but for a long time without
any result. Again and again were the combatants changed; but it was past noon before Antonio,
whose thoughts had been gradually diverted from the incognita by the struggle that was going
on, perceived symptoms of weariness amongst those indefatigable athletes. Here and there a
knee was seen to bend, or a muscular form to sink, under some well-directed blow, or before
a sudden rush of the opposite party. First one, then another of the combatants was hurled from
the bridge into the canal, an immersion that, dripping with perspiration as they were, not
unfrequently caused death or severe illness. Nevertheless the fury of the fight seemed rather
to increase than diminish. So long as only a man here and there fell into the water, they were
dragged out by their friends; and the spectators even seemed to feel pity and sympathy for
the unfortunates, as they saw them carried along, some covered with blood, others paralysed
by the sudden cold, with faces pale as death and limbs stiff and rigid. But as the fury and
violence of the combatants augmented, the bystanders forgot every other feeling in the excitement
of the fight, about the result of which they seemed as anxious as those who were actively engaged
in it. Even women might be seen encouraging those who were driven back, and urging them once
more to the charge; applauding and cheering them on when they advanced, and assailing those
who hung back with vehement reproaches. The uproar and shouting, shrieks and yells, exceeded
any thing that could be imagined. The partizans had got completely mixed together; and, instead
of the struggle being confined to the foremost ranks of the contending parties, the whole bridge
was now one coil of raging combatants. Men fell into the canal by scores, but no one thought
of rendering them any assistance. Their places were immediately filled up, and the fight lost
none of its fury from their absence.

Evening was now approaching, and the combat was more violent than it had yet been, or than
it had for years been known to be, when Antonio saw the cloaked and mysterious individuals
who had already attracted his attention, emerge from their lurking-places, and disappear in
different directions. Presently he thought he observed some of them on the bridge mingling
with the combatants, whose blind rage prevented them from noticing the intrusion. Wherever
they passed, there did the fight augment in obstinacy and fury. Suddenly there was a violent
rush upon the bridge, a frightful outcry, and a clash of steel. At the same moment the blades
of several swords and daggers were seen crossed and glittering upon the bridge, without its
being possible for any one to divine whence the weapons came. The spectators, seized with a
panic fear, fled in every direction, and sprang in crowds from the quays to seek shelter under
the awnings of the gondolas covering the canal. In vain did the gondoliers resist the intrusion
of the fugitives: all considerations of rank and property were lost sight of in the terror
of the moment, and some of the boats sank under the weight of the multitudes that poured into
them. In their haste to get away, the gondolas impeded each other, and became wedged together
in the canal; and amidst the screams of the ladies and angry exclamations of the men, the gondoliers
laid down their oars and began to dispute the precedence with blows. Meanwhile the people on
the roofs of the houses, believing themselves in safety, espoused different sides, and threw
stones and bricks at each other, and at those standing below. In an incredibly short time houses
were entirely unroofed, and a perfect storm of tiles rained upon the quays and streets. Those
who had first fled, when they attained what appeared a safe distance, halted to look on, and
thus prevented others from getting away. Antonio was amongst the number whose escape was thus
impeded. His gondolier lay at the bottom of the boat, stunned by a blow from a stone; he himself
was bruised and wounded by the missiles that fell in all directions.

The tumult was at its height when suddenly a sound was heard that had a truly magical effect
upon the rioters, for such they might now be termed. The alarm-bell of St Mark's rang out its
awful peal. In an instant the yells of defiance were hushed; the arm that was already drawn
back to deal a blow fell harmless by its owner's side, the storm of missiles ceased, the contending
factions parted, and left the combat undecided. The habit of obedience and the intimation of
some danger to the city, stilled in an instant the rage of party feeling, and combatants and
spectators alike hurried away in the direction of St Mark's place, the usual point of rendezvous
on such occasions.

Jacopo had now recovered his senses, and Antonio's gondola was one of the first which reached
the square in front of the cathedral. Thence the young painter at once discovered the cause
of the alarm. Smoke and flame were issuing from some buildings on the opposite island of San
Giorgio Maggiore, where the greater part of the merchants' warehouses were situated. Thither
the crowd of gondolas now steered, and Antonio found himself carried along with the stream.
But although the fire was already beginning to subside before the prompt measures taken to
subdue it, the alarm-bell kept clanging on; and Antonio soon perceived that there must be some
other point of danger to which it was intended to turn the attention of the people. Gazing
about for some indication of its source, he saw several gondolas hurrying towards the grand
canal, on which most of the palaces of the nobles were situated, and he ordered Jacopo to steer
in the same direction.

On reaching the palazzo of the Malipieri family, a strange scene presented itself to him. The
open space between the side of the palace and the adjacent church of San Samuele, was crowded
with men engaged in a furious and sanguinary conflict. At one of the windows of the palace,
a tall man in a flowing white robe, with a naked sabre in one hand and a musquetoon in the
other, which, from the smoke still issuing from its muzzle, had apparently just been discharged,
stood defending himself desperately against a band of fierce and bearded ruffians, who swarmed
up a rope ladder fixed below the window. The person making so gallant a defence was the Senator
Malipiero; the assailants were Uzcoques from the fortress of Segna.

The arrival of the Proveditore Marcello at Gradiska, and his subsequent recognition of his
jewels at the ball, having destroyed Strasolda's hopes of obtaining her father's liberation
through the intervention of the archducal counsellors, the high-spirited maiden resolved to
execute a plan she had herself devised, and which, although in the highest degree rash and
hazardous, might still succeed if favoured by circumstances and conducted with skill and decision.
This was to seize upon the person of a Venetian of note, in order to exchange him for the Uzcoques
then languishing in the dungeons of the republic.

The Venetians were not yet aware that the much-dreaded woivode Dansowich was among their prisoners.
The time chosen by the Uzcoques for their expeditions and surprises was usually the night;
and this, added to the custom of mask-wearing, was the cause that the features of Dansowich
were unknown to his captors. Nevertheless the striking countenance and lofty bearing of the
chieftain, and of one or two of those who were taken prisoners with him, raised suspicions
that they were persons of mark--suspicions which were not dissipated by their reiterated denial
of being any thing more than common Uzcoques. It was this doubt which saved their lives; for
their captors, instead of hanging them at once at the yard-arm of the galleys, which was the
usual manner of disposing of Segnarese prisoners, took them to Venice, and placed them at the
disposal of the senate. All subsequent threats and promises proved ineffectual to extort from
the pirates an acknowledgment of superior rank; and the Venetian authorities would perhaps
have ended in believing the account they gave of themselves, had not the urgent applications
made by the Austrian Envoy and the Capitano of Fiume, for the release of the Uzcoques, given
their suspicions new strength. The object of the Venetians was, if they could ascertain that
there was a chief among the prisoners, to obtain from him, by torture or otherwise, confessions
which might enable them to prove to the Archduke the encouragement afforded by his counsellors
to the piracies of the Segnarese. They accordingly delayed, by every possible pretext, giving
an answer to the archducal ambassador, doing their utmost meanwhile to find out the real quality
of the prisoners. This, Strasolda was most anxious that they should not discover; and her anxiety
was scarcely less to prevent the captivity of their leader from becoming known among the pirates
themselves. His daughter's entreaties, and his own better nature, had frequently caused Dansowich
to check his followers in the atrocities they were too apt to commit. In consequence of this
interference, Strasolda suspected her father to be more feared than liked by Jurissa Caiduch
and some others of the inferior woivodes or officers; and she apprehended that, if she confided
her plan to them, they would be more likely to thwart than to aid her in it. The crews of the
two boats which had been engaged in the skirmish with the Venetian galleys when Dansowich was
captured, and the men composing the garrison of the castle on the evening of that fatal occurrence,
were therefore all whose assistance she could reckon upon. Some of those were her relatives,
and the others tried and trusty adherents. They alone knew of their leader's captivity, his
absence having been accounted for to the mass of Uzcoques dwelling in the town of Segna, by
a pretended journey to Gradiska; and being too few in number to attack a Venetian galley, the
sole plan that seemed to offer a chance of success to this handful of faithful followers, was
the hazardous one devised by Strasolda. Of this, they did not hesitate to attempt the execution.

With the utmost cunning and audacity did the Uzcoques enter Venice on the day appointed for
the Battle of the Bridge, singly, and by twos and threes, variously disguised, and mingled
with the country people and inhabitants of the islands who were hastening to the festival.
Watching their opportunity when the fight was at the fiercest, one party mixed with the combatants,
exciting and urging them on, and doing all in their power to increase the confusion; others
set fire to the warehouses on the island of San Giorgio, in order to draw the public attention
in that direction; while the third and most numerous division, favoured by the deepening twilight
and the deserted state of that part of the city, succeeded in fixing a rope ladder to the window
of the Malipieri palace, the chief of which noble house was, as they had previously ascertained,
lying sick in bed in a side-chamber, attended only by a few domestics.

But there were two things which Strasolda and the Uzcoques had forgotten to include in their
calculations. These were, first, the slavish obedience of the Venetian populace to the call
of their superiors--an obedience to which they were accustomed to sacrifice every feeling and
passion; secondly, the Argus eyes and omnipresent vigilance of the Secret Tribunal. Scarcely
was the ladder applied, when the first gush of flame from the warehouses brought a deafening
peal from the alarm-bell; and at the same moment, the masked and armed familiars of the Venetian
police, rising as it seemed out of the very earth, surrounded the ladder, and a fierce conflict
began. Even the watchfulness and precautions of the Inquisition, however, were to a certain
extent overmatched by Uzcoque cunning and foresight. Had it not been necessary to ring the
alarm bell on account of the fire, the police, who were far the most numerous, and who each
moment received an accession to their numbers, could scarcely have failed to capture some of
their opponents, and thus have ascertained to a certainty what the promoters and the object
of this audacious attempt really were. But before they could accomplish this, the small piazza
where the conflict was going on was thronged with the populace, half intoxicated with the excitement
of the scarcely less serious fight they had been witnessing and sharing in. In the crush and
confusion that ensued, familiars and Uzcoques were separated; and the latter, mingling with
the crowd, and no longer distinguishable from the cloaked and masked figures that surrounded
them, easily succeeded in effecting their escape.

When Antonio, who was pushed hither and thither by the mob, was able to extricate himself sufficiently
to get another view of the window, the invalid nobleman, delivered from his assailants, had
retired into his apartment, while the ladder, now deserted by the Uzcoques, had been cut and
thrown down. Desirous of escaping from this scene of confusion, the young painter was making
his way towards the quay, close to which his gondola was waiting, when his heart suddenly leaped
within him at the sight of a muffled figure that passed near him, and in which he thought he
recognized the mysterious old woman who had of late occupied so much of his thoughts. She was
followed by a number of the rabble, who pressed upon her with oaths and curses, asserting that
she was one of the party which had attacked the palace of the Malipieri.

"I saw her holding the ladder," exclaimed one fellow.

"Nay, she was climbing up it herself," cried a second.

"Strike the foul witch dead!" shouted a score of voices.

The old woman's life was in the greatest peril, when a strange and unaccountable, but at the
same time irresistible impulse, moved Antonio to go to her rescue. He was forcing his way through
the crowd with this intention, when the object of the popular fury turned her head towards
him. Her veil was for a moment partially drawn aside, affording a glimpse of her features in
profile; and Antonio, still the slave of his diseased imagination, fancied that her yellow
shriveled features had been metamorphosed into a countenance of regular beauty; such a countenance,
in short, as befitted the graceful and symmetrical form to which it belonged. Confused and
bewildered, the naturally weak and undecided youth stood deliberating and uncertain whether
he should attempt the rescue, which would have been by no means difficult to accomplish by
the display of a little boldness and promptitude. Whilst he was thus hesitating, there suddenly
broke through the crowd a young man, attired like himself in a black dress, and holding a naked
rapier in his hand. The new comer had probably lost his mask in the tumult and confusion, for
his features were uncovered, and Antonio saw, to his inexpressible consternation and astonishment,
that they were the exact counterpart of his own. Before he could recover from this new shock,
the stranger, by the aid of his fierce and determined demeanour, and the rapid play of his
weapon, had made his way to the mysterious old woman, whose back was turned towards him, and
seizing her round the waist he again forced a passage through the throng to the nearest gondola,
which happened to be that of the young painter. The crowd pressed after him, and Antonio was
hurried along with it to the edge of the quay. But at the very moment that, to avoid being
pushed into the water by the throng, he sprang into one end of his gondola, he saw the stranger,
who had just entered it at the other, gaze with a look of disgust and dismay on the features
of her he had rescued, and then with a cry of horror, leap into another boat, which immediately
rowed rapidly away. At the same instant Jacopo, by a strong sweep of the oar, spun the gondola
round, and shot into a narrow canal which soon led them out of sight and sound of the scene
of confusion they had just left.

These various events had succeeded each other so rapidly, that Antonio could hardly credit
his senses when he found himself in this strange manner the deliverer of the mysterious being
who now sat under the awning of his gondola, her frightful countenance, unveiled in the struggle
and no longer seen through the beautifying prism of the young artist's imagination, again displaying
the yellow and wrinkled skin, and the deep-set glittering eyes, which now seemed fixed upon
him with an expression of love and gratitude that froze his blood. With a shuddering sensation
he retreated to the stern of the boat, where Jacopo stood pale and trembling, crossing himself
without a moment's intermission.

"Are you mad, Signore," whispered the gondolier, "to risk your life in behalf of such a frightful
witch? Never did I see you so ready with your rapier, flashing it in people's eyes as though
it had been one of your painting brushes."

"By Heaven, Jacopo," answered Antonio, "that was not I"--

"The saints protect us!" interrupted the gondolier. "You are assuredly bewitched, or have lost
your senses, Signore. To think of your thus denying your own noble daring! Do, for the blessed
virgin's sake, let us jump out upon the next landing-place, and leave the gondola to the sorceress
who has bewitched you. Holy mother! she is coming this way!"

A prey to the strangest and most contradictory emotions, Antonio hastily advanced to meet the
mysterious being, whom he could not help regarding with superstitious awe, though he at the
same time felt himself drawn towards her by a fascination, against which he found it was in
vain to contend. The features of the unknown were again shrouded carefully in her veil, but
her black and brilliant eyes glittered through it like nebulous stars.

"To the house of the Capitano of Fiume," whispered she to Antonio, and then retreated, as if
anxious to avoid further conversation, into the interior of the gondola.

In the district of Castello, through which Antonio and his strange companion were now passing,
the canals and quays were deserted, and not a sound was heard except the distant hum of the
multitude assembled in the quarter of St Mark's. Without exciting suspicion or attracting observation,
they reached the Rialto and the grand canal, and the gondola stopped at a landing-place opposite
the church of San Moyses.

As the young painter assisted his mysterious charge out of the boat, a gentle pressure from
the warm soft hand which for a moment rested upon his, quickened every pulse in his frame;
and long after the enigmatical being had disappeared behind the angle of a palace, he stood
gazing, like one entranced, at the spot where he had last seen her imposing and graceful figure.
The approach of Jacopo, still crossing himself, and calling upon all the saints for protection
against the snares of the evil one, roused the perplexed youth from his reverie; and, stepping
into the gondola, he was soon gliding rapidly over the canals in the direction of his father's
palace.

CHAPTER II.

THE PICTURE.

The gondola of the young painter, gliding rapidly and silently over the still waters of the
canals, was passing a turn leading to the Giudecca, when it suddenly occurred to Antonio that
he would seek his old master, and, after confessing his disobedience, relate to him the events
of the day, and make him the confidant of his troubles and perplexities. A word to Jacopo changed
the direction of the gondola, and they entered the grand canal, on which Contarini's dwelling
was situated.

The brief twilight of Italy had passed, and it was now completely night, dark and starless,
which made more startling the sudden appearance of several blazing torches, borne by masked
and hooded figures attired in black, who struck loud and repeated blows on the gates of the
Palazzo Contarini.

"Antonio Marcello! We seek Antonio Marcello!" exclaimed a deep and hollow voice.

It would be necessary to be a Venetian, and to have lived in those days, fully to comprehend
the feeling of horror which caused Antonio's blood to run cold, and the sweat to stand in beads
upon his forehead, when he heard his name uttered by the familiars of the state Inquisition.
Frightful dungeons, masked judges, halls hung with black, the block and the gleaming axe, the
rack and its blood-stained attendants, the whole grim paraphernalia of the Secret Tribunal,
passed like the scenes of a phantasmagoria before the mental vision of the young painter. He
at once conjectured the cause for which they were seeking him. He had doubtless been taken
for the youth who, by his energy and promptitude, had rescued the mysterious old woman from
the mob, and who bore so striking and unaccountable resemblance to himself; and it must be
on suspicion of his being connected with the attack on the Malipieri palace, that the ministers
of justice were hunting him out. Nor did he see how he should he able to convince his judges
of his innocence. The tale he had to tell, although the truth, was still too marvellous and
improbable to obtain credence, and would be more likely to draw upon him severe punishment,
or perhaps the torture, with the view of inducing him to confess its falsehood. Bewildered
by his terror, Antonio sat trembling, and utterly incapable of deciding as to the course he
should adopt, when the trusty gondolier again came to his rescue.

"Cospetto! Signor!" he exclaimed, "have you lost your senses, that you run thus into the very
jaws of those devil's messengers? To one like myself flight would certainly avail little; but,
with a Proveditore for your father, you may arrange matters if you only take time before you
become their prisoner. Quick, then, to the palazzo! Don't you see old Contarini's head stuck
out of his window? He is telling them you are not there. They have doubtless been to your father's
palace, and will not be likely to return thither at present."

While the faithful fellow's tongue was thus wagging, his arms were not idle. Intimately acquainted,
as became his calling, with the numerous windings and intricacies of the Venetian canals, he
threaded them with unhesitating confidence; and, favoured by the darkness of the night, succeeded
in getting Antonio unobserved through a back entrance of his father's palace.

The first impulse of the terrified youth on finding himself thus in at least temporary security,
was to destroy the picture of the mysterious old woman, which, if found by the agents of the
Inquisition, might bear false but fatal witness against him. With pallid cheek, and still trembling
with alarm, he was hurrying to his chamber to execute his intention, when he encountered his
father, who advanced to meet him, and, grasping his arm, fixed upon him for some moments his
stern and searching gaze.

"The picture, father!" exclaimed the terror-stricken Antonio. "For the love of Heaven, stay
me not! Let me destroy that fatal picture!"

Regardless of his son's agitation and terror, the Proveditore half led, half forced him to
a seat in a part of the room, when the red blaze from the larch logs that were crackling on
the hearth, lit up the young man's features.

"What means this, Antonio?" he said; "what has befallen during my absence at Gradiska? The
familiars of the Inquisition have been seeking you here--you, the last person whose name I
should expect to hear in such mouths. Alarm me it did not; for well I know that you are too
scant of energy and settled purpose to be mixed up in conspiracies against the state."

Antonio was still too much preoccupied by his terror to understand, or at any rate to heed,
the severity of his father's remark. Collecting his scattered thoughts, he proceeded to narrate
all that had occurred to him, not only on that day, but since his first meeting with the incognita
near the church of San Moyses, on the very same spot whither he had conveyed her in his gondola
but a short hour ago.

"Let me destroy the painting, father!" he concluded; "it may be found, and used as testimony
against me."

The Proveditore had listened with a smile, that was at once contemptuous and sorrowful, to
his son's narrative, and to the confession of his weakness and disobedience to the injunctions
of his aged teacher. When he had finished speaking, there was a minute's silence, broken at
last by the elder Marcello.

"I have long been convinced," he said, "that Contarini would never succeed in making of you
a painter fit to rank with those old and illustrious masters of whom Venice is so justly proud.
But I had not thought so poorly of you, Antonio, as to believe that you would want courage
to defend an object, for the attainment of which you scrupled not to disobey your venerable
instructor. What the kind entreaties and remonstrances of Contarini could not induce you to
abandon, you are ready to annihilate on the very first symptom of danger. Oh, Venice!" exclaimed
the Proveditore, his fine countenance assuming an expression of extreme bitterness, as he gazed
mournfully at the portraits of his ancestors, including more than one Doge, which were suspended
round the walls of the apartment--"Venice! thou art indeed degenerate, when peril so remote
can blanch the cheek of thy patrician youth."

He strode twice up and down the hall, then returning to his son, bade him fetch the picture
which he was so desirous of destroying. Antonio, downcast and abashed by these reproaches,
which, however, were insufficient to awaken nobler aspirations in his weak and irresolute nature,
hurried to his chamber, and presently returned with a roll of canvass in his hand, which he
unfolded and spread before the Proveditore--then, dreading to encounter his father's ridicule,
he shrunk back out of the firelight. But the effect produced upon Marcello by the portrait
of the old woman, was very different from that anticipated by his son. Scarcely had he cast
his eyes upon the unearthly visage, when he started back with an exclamation of horror and
astonishment.

"By all the saints, Antonio," cried he in an altered voice, "that is a fearful portrait! Alas,
poor wretch! thou art long since in thy grave," continued he, addressing the picture, and with
looks and tones strangely at variance with his usually stern and imperturbable deportment.
"The worms have preyed on thee, and thou art as dust and ashes. Why, then, dost thou rise from
the dead to fright me with that ghastly visage?"

"Is the face known to you, father?" the astonished Antonio ventured to exclaim.

"Known to me! Ay, too well! That wrinkled skin, that unearthly complexion, those deep-set eyes
glowing like burning coals. Just so did she glare upon me as she swung from the tree, the blood
driven into her features by the agonizing pressure of the halter. 'Tis the very look that has
haunted me for years, and caused me many bitter moments of remorse; though, God knows, the
deed was lawful and justifiable, done in the execution of my duty to the republic. And yet
she lives," he continued musingly. "How could she have been saved? True, she had not been hanging
long when we left the place. Some of her people, doubtless, were concealed hard by, and cut
her down ere life had entirely fled. But, ha! 'tis a clue this to the perpetrators of to-day's
outrage, for she was with them. Uzcoques, then they must have been! Said you not, Antonio,
that she came from the house of the Capitano when first you saw her, and that to-day you left
her there?"

"At her own special desire, father," replied Antonio.

"Then is the chain of evidence almost complete," continued the Proveditore. "It must have been
herself. And now--this attack on the Malipieri palace. What was its object? A hostage?--Ay,
I see it all, and our prisoner is none other than Dansowich himself. But we must have proof
of that from his own confession; and this portrait may help to extort it."

Whilst uttering these broken sentences, which were totally incomprehensible to the bewildered
Antonio, the Proveditore had donned his mantle, and placed his plumed cap upon his head.

"No, Antonio," said he, "we will not destroy this picture, hideous though it be. It may prove
the means of rendering weighty service to the republic."

And with these words, inexplicable to his son, the Proveditore left the apartment; and, taking
with him the mysterious portrait, hastened to the prison were the Uzcoque leader was immured.

The pirate chief was a man of large and athletic frame, of strong feelings, and great intellectual
capabilities. His brow was large, open, and commanding; his countenance, bronzed with long
exposure to the elements, and scarred with wounds, was repulsive, but by no means ignoble;
his hair and beard had long been silvered over by time and calamity; but his vast bodily strength
was unimpaired, and when roused into furious resentment, his manly chest emitted a volume of
sound that awed every listener. Upon a larger stage, and under circumstances more favourable
to the fair development of his natural powers and dispositions, the pirate Dansowich would
have become one of the most distinguished and admirable men of his time. Placed by the accident
of birth upon the frontiers of Christian Europe, and cherishing from early youth a belief that
the highest interests of the human race were involved in the struggle between the Crescent
and the Cross, he had embraced the glorious cause with that enthusiastic and fiery zeal which
raises men into heroes and martyrs. Too soon, however, were these lofty aspirations checked
and blighted by the anti-Christian policy of trading Venice, the bad faith of Austria towards
the Uzcoque race, and the extortions of her counsellors. Cursing in the bitterness of his heart,
not only Turks, Austrians, and Venetians, but all mankind, he no longer opposed the piratical
tendencies of his neglected people, and eventually headed many of their marauding expeditions.

It was nearly midnight when Dansowich was awakened from a deep but troubled slumber by a grating
noise at the door of his dungeon. Anxiety of mind, and still more, the effect of confinement
in an impure and stifling atmosphere, upon one accustomed to the breezes of the Adriatic and
the free air of the mountains, had impaired his health, and his sleep was broken by harassing
and painful dreams. In that from which he now awoke, with the sweat of anguish on his brow,
he had fancied himself before the tribunal of the Inquisition. The rack was shown to him, and
they bade him choose between confession and torture. He then thought he heard his name repeated
several times in tones deep and sepulchral. Starting up in alarm, he saw the door of his prison
open, and give admittance to a man muffled in a black cloak, who walked up to the foot of his
bed of damp straw, and threw the rays of a dark lantern full into his dazzled eyes.

The traces of recent and strong emotion, visible at that moment on the pirate's countenance,
did not escape the Proveditore, who attributed them, and rightly, to an artifice he had practised.
Previously to entering the dungeon, he had caused the name of Nicolo Dansowich to be repeated
several times in a deep hollow voice. Aware of the superstitious credulity of the Uzcoques,
the wily Venetian had devised this stratagem as one likely to produce a startling effect upon
the prisoner, and to forward the end he proposed to obtain by his visit. He now seated himself
upon a wooden bench, the only piece of furniture in the dungeon, and addressed the captive
in a mild and conciliating tone.

"You should keep better watch over your dreams," said he, "if you wish our tribunals to remain
in ignorance of your secrets."

"My dreams!" repeated the Uzcoque, somewhat startled by the ominous coincidence between Marcello's
words and the visions that had broken his slumber.

"Ay, friend, your dreams! The jailers are watchful, and little passes in these prisons without
coming to their knowledge. More than once have they heard you revealing in your sleep that
which, during your waking hours, you so strenuously deny.--'Enough! Enough!' you cried. 'I
will confess all. I am Nicolo Dansowich.'"

While Marcello was speaking, the old Uzcoque had had time to collect his thoughts, and call
to mind the numerous snares and devices by which the Venetian tribunals obtained confessions
from their prisoners. With an intuitive keenness of perception, he in a moment saw through
the Proveditore's stratagem, and resolved to defeat it. A contemptuous smile played over his
features, and, shaking his head incredulously, he answered the Venetian--

"The watchful jailers you speak of have doubtless been cheering their vigils with the wine
flask," said he. "Their draughts must have been deep, to make them hear that which was never
spoken."

"Subterfuge will avail you nothing," replied Marcello. "Your sleeping confessions, although
you may now wish to retract them, are yet sufficient grounds for the tribunal to go upon, and
the most excruciating tortures will be used, if needful, to procure their waking confirmation.
Reflect, Dansowich," continued the Proveditore in a persuasive and gentle tone, "on the position
in which you now find yourself. Your life is forfeited; and, if you persist in your denials,
you will never leave this dungeon but for the rack or scaffold. On the other hand, the senate
respects you as a brave and honourable, although misguided man, and would gladly see you turn
from the error of your ways. Now is the time to ensure yourself a tranquil and respected old
age. Hearken to the proposals I am empowered to make you. The Signoria offers you life, freedom,
and a captainship in the island of Candia, on the sole condition, on your part, of disclosing
the intrigues and perfidy of the council at Gradiska, and furnishing us, as you are assuredly
able to do, with documents by which we may prove to the Archduke the treachery of his ministers.
Again, I say--Reflect! or rather hesitate not, but decide at once between a prosperous and
honourable life, and a death of degradation and anguish."

Neither the threats nor the temptations held out by the Proveditore seemed to have the smallest
effect upon the Uzcoque.

"You are mistaken," replied he calmly. "I am not Dansowich, nor have I any knowledge of the
intrigues at Gradiska. I could not therefore, if I wished it, buy my life by the treachery
demanded of me; and if the woivodes of Segna think as I do, they will let themselves be hewn
in pieces before they do the bidding of your senators, or concede aught to the wishes of false
and crafty Venice."

"You are a brave man, Dansowich!" resumed the Proveditore, who saw the necessity of changing
his tactics. "You care little for the dangers and sufferings of this world. But yet--pause
and reflect. Your hair is silvered by time, and even should you escape your present peril,
you will still, ere many years are past, have to render an account to a higher tribunal than
ours. By an upright course you might atone for the crimes of your youth and manhood, and become
the chosen instrument of Heaven to deliver your fellow-Christians from a cruel scourge and
sore infliction."

"And who has brought the scourge upon you?" demanded the old man in a raised voice, measuring
the Proveditore with a stern and contemptuous look. "Is it our fault that, whilst we were striving
to keep the Turk from the door of Christendom, you sought every means of thwarting our efforts
by forming treaties with the infidel? You do well to remind me that my head is grey. I was
still a youth when the name of Uzcoque was a title of honour as it is now a term of reproach--when
my people were looked upon as heroes, by whose valour the Cross was exalted, and the Crescent
bowed down to the dust. Those were the days when, on the ruins of Spalatro, we swore to live
like eagles, amidst barren cliffs and naked rocks, the better to harass the heathen--the days
when the power of the Moslem quailed and fled before us. And had not your sordid Venetian traders
stepped in, courting the infidel for love of gain, the Cross would still be worshipped on all
the shores of the Adriatic, and the Uzcoques would still combat for honour and victory instead
of revenge and plunder. But your hand has ever been against us. Your long galleys were ever
ready to sink our barks or blockade our coast; and the fate of robbers and murderers awaited
our people if they had the mishap to fall into your hands. You reduced us at last to despair.
Each valiant deed performed against the Turk was recompensed by you with new persecutions,
till at last you converted into deadly enemies those who would willingly have been your friends
and fast allies. Thank yourselves, then, for the foe you have raised up. Your own cowardice
and greed have engendered the hydra which now preys upon your heart's blood."

The Proveditore remarked with satisfaction, not unmingled with surprise, that the old pirate,
who had hitherto replied to all interrogatories with a degree of cold reserve and cunning which
had baffled his examiners, was becoming visibly excited, and losing his power of self-control.
This was favourable to the meditated stratagem of the Venetian, who now, in pursuance of the
scheme he had combined, gave the conversation another direction.

"I an willing to acknowledge," said he, "that the republic has at times dealt somewhat hardly
with your people. But which is in fact the worst foe, he who openly attacks you, or he who
makes you his tool to sow discord amongst Christians, and to excite the Turks against Venice,
while under pretence of protection he squeezes from you the booty obtained at the price of
your blood?"

"And who does that?" demanded the Uzcoque.

"Who! Need you ask the question? What do you give for the shelter you receive from Austria?
At what price do you inhabit the town and castle of Segna?"

"At none that I am aware of," replied Dansowich fiercely. "We dwell there, in virtue of our
compact with the Emperor, as soldiers of the Archduke, bound to defend the post confided to
us against the aggressions of the infidel. As soldiers we have our pay, as mariners we have
our lawful booty."

"Pay and booty!" repeated the Proveditore scornfully. "Whence comes, then, your manifest misery
and poverty? Whence comes it that you turn robbers, if in the pay of Austria? No, Dansowich,
you will not deceive us by such flimsy pretexts! Your gains, lawful and unlawful, are wrested
from you by the archducal counsellors, in whose hands you are mere puppets. 'Twas they who
prompted you to tell the Turks that you were in league with Venice; that the republic encouraged
your misdeeds, and shared the profits of your aggressions on the subjects of the Porte. They
it was who caused the documents to be prepared, with forged seals and signatures of the illustrious
Signoria, which were to serve as proofs of your lying assertions. Deny this, if you can."

The beard and mustache of the old Uzcoque appeared to curl and bristle with fury at the insulting
imputations of the Proveditore. For a moment he seemed about to fly at his interlocutor; his
fingers clutched and tore the straw upon which he was sitting; and his fetters clanked as his
whole frame shook with rage. After a brief pause, and by a strong effort, he restrained himself,
and replied calmly to the taunting accusation of the Venetian.

"Why go so far," said he, "to seek for motives that may be found nearer home? You seem to have
forgotten how many times the Archduke has compelled us to make restitution of booty wrested
from Venetian subjects. You forget, too, that it was in consequence of your complaints he sent
to the cruel Rabbata to control us--Rabbata whom we slew in our wrath, for we are freemen and
brook no tyranny. If we are poor individually, it is because we yield up our booty into the
hands of our woivodes, to be used for the common good of seven hundred families. No, Signor!
if the republic has to complain of us, let her remember the provocations received at her hands,
the persecutions which converted a band of heroes into a pirate horde, and which changed our
holy zeal against the enemies of the Cross into remorseless hatred of all mankind. As to the
forged seals and signatures you talk of, and the deceptions practised on the Turks, if such
there were, they were the self-willed act of our woivodes, and in no way instigated by Austria."

"Thou liest, Dansowich!" said the Proveditore sternly. "Did you not proclaim and swear in the
public market-place of the Austrian town of Segna, that you were the friends and allies of
Venice? This you would never have dared to do, but with the approval and connivance of the
archducal government."

The eyes of the pirate sparkled with a strange and significant gleam as the Proveditore recalled
the circumstance to his recollection.

"Know ye not," said he with a grim smile, "whom ye have to thank for that good office? 'Twas
Dansowich himself, who thereby but half fulfilled his vow of vengeance against the republic.
And when did it occur?" he continued with rising fury. "Was it not shortly after the day in
which that heartless villain, the Proveditore Marcello, captured the woivode's wife, and hung
her, unoffending and defenceless, unshriven and unabsolved, upon a tree on the Dalmatian shore?"

The Uzcoque paused, overcome by the bitter memories he was calling up, and by the fury and
hatred they revived in his breast. His eyes were bloodshot, and the foam stood upon his lips
as he concluded. The Proveditore smiled. The favourable moment he had been waiting had arrived,
the moment when he doubted not that Dansowich would betray himself. Taking Antonio's drawing
from under his cloak, he suddenly unrolled and held it before the Uzcoque, in such a manner
that the light of the lantern fell full upon the ghastly countenance of the old woman.

"Behold!" said he. "Does that resemble her you speak of?"

The object of the Proveditore was gained, but he had not well calculated all the consequences
of his stratagem.

"Fiend of hell!" shouted Dansowich in a voice of thunder, while a sudden light seemed to burst
upon him. "'Tis thou who are her murderer!" And bounding forward with a violence that at once
freed him from his fetters, which fell clattering on the dungeon floor, he clutched the senator
by the throat, and hurled him to the ground before the astonished Venetian had time to make
the slightest resistance.

"Art thou still in being?" he muttered, while his teeth gnashed and ground together. "I thought
thee long since dead. But, no! 'twas written thou shouldst die by my hand. Be it done to thee
as thou didst to the wife of my bosom," continued he, while kneeling on the breast of the Proveditore,
and compressing his throat in an iron gripe that threatened to prove as efficacious and nearly
as speedy in its operation as the bow-string of the Turk. In vain did Marcello struggle violently
to free himself from the crushing pressure of the pirate's fingers. Although a very powerful
man, and in the full vigour of his strength, the disadvantage at which he had been taken prevented
his being a match for the old Uzcoque, whose sinews were braced by a long life of hardship.
Fortunately, however, for the Venetian, the furious shout of Dansowich had been overheard by
the guards and jailers, who now rushed into the dungeon, and rescued the half strangled Proveditore
from the grasp of his fierce antagonist.

"Do him no hurt!" exclaimed Marcello, so soon as he was able to speak, seeing that the guards
were disposed to handle the Uzcoque somewhat roughly; "the secret I have won is well worth
the risk. The prisoner is Dansowich, woivode of Segna."

The fetters which the pirate had snapped with such facility, were, upon examination, found
to be filed more than half through. The instrument by which this had been effected was sought
for and discovered, and the prisoner, having been doubly manacled, was again left to the solitude
of his cell. After directing all imaginable vigilance to be used for the safe custody of so
important a captive, the Proveditore re-entered his gondola and was conveyed back to his palace.

CHAPTER III.

THE PIRATES.

The desperate attempt on the life of the Proveditore, and the evidence given by him as to the
identity of the prisoner, had the result that may be supposed, and the old Uzcoque was put
to the torture. But the ingenuity of Venetian tormentors was vainly exhausted upon him; the
most unheard of sufferings failed to extort a syllable of confession from his lips. At last,
despairing of obtaining the desired information by these means, the senate commissioned Marcello,
as one well acquainted with the localities, to make a descent on the Dalmatian coast, and profiting
by the consternation of the Uzcoqes at the loss of their leader, to endeavour to surprise a
small fort situated at some distance from Segna, and which was the abode of Dansowich. In the
absence of the old pirate it would probably be carelessly guarded and easily surprised; and
it was hoped that documents would be found there, proving that which the Venetians were so
anxious to establish. Another object of the expedition was to capture, if possible, the mysterious
female who had been lately seen more than once in Venice, and who had taken so prominent a
part in the attack on the palace of the Malipieri.

Accompanied by his son, whom for various reasons he had resolved to take with him, Marcello
went on board an armed galley, and with a favouring breeze steered for the Dalmatian coast.
He had little doubt of accomplishing the object of his expedition with ease and safety; for
a Venetian Fleet was already blockading the channel of Segna, and the archducal city of Fiume,
where several of the Uzcoque barks were undergoing repairs. The blockade had been instituted
in consequence of the outrageous piracies committed by the Uzcoques during the Easter festival,
and was a measure frequently adopted by the republic; which, although carefully avoiding a
war, neglected no other means of enforcing their applications to the court at Gradiska for
an energetic interference in the proceedings of the pirates. The inconvenience and interruption
to the trade of Fiume occasioned by these blockades, usually induced the archducal government
to institute a pretended investigation into the conduct of the Uzcoques, or at least to promise
the Venetians some reparation--a mockery of satisfaction with which the latter, in their then
state of decline and weakness, were fain to content themselves. Reckoning upon the terror inspired
by the presence of the squadron now employed in the blockade, as well as upon its support,
should he require it, the Proveditore made sure of success. He was doomed, however, to be cruelly
disappointed in his sanguine anticipations.

When the attempt to get possession of the person of a Venetian nobleman had failed, Strasolda
found it impossible to keep her father's captivity any longer a secret, and was compelled to
appeal to the whole of the Uzcoques to assist her in his deliverance. Information of the woivode's
recognition, and of the tortures he had suffered, soon reached the ears of the pirates, who
were not slow to perceive that the safety, and even the existence of their tribe, were now
at stake. Although well acquainted with the inflexible character of Dansowich, they trembled
lest the agonies he was made to suffer should force from him a confession, which would enable
the Venetians to convince the archduke of the criminal collusion between his counsellors and
the Uzcoques. This would be the signal for the withdrawal of the archducal protection from
the pirates, who then, exposed to the vengeance of all whom they had plundered, must inevitably
succumb in the unequal conflict that would ensue.

The imminence of the peril inspired the Uzcoques with unwonted courage and energy. Jurissa
Caiduch himself, forgetting any cause of dislike he might have to Dansowich, joined heart and
hand in the plans formed by the pirates for the deliverance of their leader. Every man in Segna,
whether young or old, all who could wield a cimeter or clutch a knife, hastily armed themselves,
and crowded into the fleet of long light skiffs in which they were wont to make their predatory
excursions. Then breaking furiously through the line of Venetian ships, stationed between Veglia
and the mainland, and which were totally unprepared for this sudden and daring manoeuvre, they
disappeared amidst the shoals and in the small creeks and inlets of the Dalmatian islands belonging
to the republic, where the ponderous Venetian galleys would vainly attempt to follow them.
Their object was the same which they had already attempted to carry out in Venice on the day
of the Bridge Fight; namely, to seize upon some Venetian magistrate or person of importance
whom they might exchange for Dansowich. Under the guidance of Jurissa Caiduch they waylaid
and boarded every vessel that passed up or down the Adriatic, especially those coming from
the Ionian islands, in hope of meeting with a Venetian of rank. Nor did they pursue their researches
upon the water alone. Not a night passed that one or other of the islands was not lighted up
by the blaze of villages, hamlets, and villas. In the absence of Dansowich, there was no restraint
upon their fury; and urged on by the bloodthirsty Jurissa, the cruelties they committed were
unprecedented even in their sanguinary annals. Nor were they without hope that the barbarities
they were perpetrating might induce the Venetians to restore their leader to liberty, in order
that he might, as was well known to be his wont, check the excesses of his followers.

The outbreak of the pirates had been so sudden and unexpected, that the Proveditore, who sailed
from Venice on the same day on which it occurred, had received no intelligence of it, and,
unconscious of his peril, steered straight for the islands. One circumstance alone appeared
strange to him, which was, that during the last part of his voyage he did not meet a single
vessel, although the quarter of the Adriatic through which he was passing was usually crowded
with shipping. But he was far from attributing this extraordinary change to its real cause.

It was afternoon when Marcello's galley cane in sight of the white cliffs of Cherso, and shortly
afterwards entered the channel, running between that island and Veglia. The masses of dark
clouds in the western horizon were becoming momentarily more threatening, and various signs
of an approaching storm made the captain of the galley especially anxious to get, before nightfall,
into the nearest harbour, which was that of Pesca, at the southern extremity of the island
of Veglia. All sail was made upon the galley, and they were running rapidly down the channel,
when a red light suddenly flashed over the waves in the quarter of the horizon they were approaching,
and was reflected back upon the sky, now darkened with clouds and by the approach of night.
Attracted by this unusual appearance, Antonio hurried to the high quarterdeck of the galley;
and scarcely had he ascended it, when the fiery glow fell in a flood of rosy light upon the
distant chalk cliffs. Entranced by the picturesque beauty of the scene, the young painter forgot
to enquire the cause of this singular illumination, when suddenly his attention was caught
by a shout from the man at the helm.

"By Heavens, 'tis a fire!" ejaculated the sailor, who had been watching the unusual appearance.
"All Pesca must be in flames."

He had scarcely uttered the words when the galley rounded a projecting point of land, and the
correctness of the seaman's conjecture was apparent. A thick cloud of smoke hung like a pall
over the unfortunate town of Pesca. Tongues of flame darted upwards from the dense black vapour,
lighting up sea and land to an immense distance.

Scarcely had Antonio's startled glance been able to take in this imposing spectacle, when the
storm, which had long been impending, burst forth with tremendous violence; the wind howled
furiously amongst the rigging, and the galley was tossed like a nutshell from crest to crest
of the foaming waves; each moment bringing it into more dangerous proximity to the rocky shoals
of that iron-bound shore. The light from the burning town showed the Venetians all the dangers
of their situation; and their peril was the more imminent because the signal usually made for
boats to tow large vessels through the rocks and breakers, was at such a moment not likely
to be observed or attended to by the people of Pesca. Nevertheless the signal was hoisted;
but instead of bringing the assistance so much needed by the Venetians, it drew upon them an
enemy far more formidable than the elements with which they were already contending. Boats
were soon seen approaching the galley; but as they drew near it was evident they were not manned
by the peaceful fishermen, who usually came out to render assistance to vessels. They were
crowded with wild, fierce-looking figures, who, on arriving within a short distance of the
ship, set up a savage yell of defiance, and sent a deadly volley of musket-balls amongst the
astounded Venetians. Before the latter had recovered from their astonishment, the light skiffs
of the Uzcoques were within a few yards of the galley. Another fatally effective volley of
musketry; and then, throwing down their fire-arms, the pirates grasped their sabres and made
violent efforts to board. But each time that they succeeded in closing, the plunging of the
ponderous galley into the trough of the sea, or the rising of some huge wave, severed them
from their prey, and prevented them from setting foot on the decks of the Venetian vessel.
This delay was made the most of by the officers of the latter, in making arrangements for defence.
The Proveditore himself, a man of tried and chivalrous courage, and great experience both in
land and sea warfare, lent his personal aid to the preparations, and in a few pithy and emphatic
words strove to encourage the crew to a gallant resistance. But the soldiers and mariners who
manned the galley had already sustained a heavy loss by the fire of the Uzcoques, and were
moreover alarmed by their near approach to that perilous shore, as well as disheartened by
the prospect of a contest with greatly superior numbers. Although some few took to their arms
and occupied the posts assigned them by their officers, the majority seemed more disposed to
tell beads and mutter prayers, than to display the energy and decision which alone could rescue
them from the double peril by which they were menaced. The pirates, meanwhile, were constantly
foiled in their attempts to board by the fury of the elements, till at last, becoming maddened
by repeated disappointments, they threw off their upper garments, and fixing their long knives
firmly between their teeth, dashed in crowds into the water. Familiar with that element from
childhood, they skimmed over its surface with the lightness and rapidity of sea-mews, and swarmed
up the sides of the galley. A vigorous defence might yet have saved the vessel; but the heroic
days of Venice were long past--the race of men who had so long maintained the supremacy of
the republic in all the Italian seas, was now extinct. After a feeble and irresolute resistance,
the Venetians threw down their arms and begged for quarter; while the Proveditore, disgusted
at the cowardice of his countrymen, indignantly broke his sword, and retreating to the quarterdeck,
there seated himself beside his son, and calmly awaited his fate.

Foremost among the assailants was Jurissa Caiduch, who sprang upon the deck of the galley,
foaming with rage, and slaughtering all he met on his passage. The blazing town lighted up
the scene, and showed him and his followers where to strike. In vain did the unfortunate crew
implore quarter. None was given, and the decks of the ship soon streamed with blood, while
each moment the cries of the victims became fewer and fainter.

Totally forgetting in his blind fury the object of the expedition, Jurissa stayed not his hand
in quest of hostages, but rushed with uplifted knife on Marcello and his son. The latter shrieked
for mercy; while the Proveditore, unmoved by the imminence of the peril, preserved his dignity
of mien, and fixed his deep stern gaze upon the pirate. Jurissa paused for an instant, staggered
by the look, and awed by the commanding aspect, of the Venetian. Soon, however, as though indignant
at his own momentary hesitation, he rushed forward with a furious shout and uplifted blade.
The knife was descending, the next instant it would have entered the heart of Marcello; when
an Uzcoque, recognizing by the light of the conflagration the patrician garb of the Proveditore,
uttered a cry of surprise, and seized the arm of his bloodthirsty leader.

"Caiduch!" exclaimed the pirate, "would you again blast our purpose? This man is a Venetian
noble. His life may buy that of Dansowich."

"It is the Proveditore Marcello!" cried Antonio, eager to profit by the momentary respite.

The words of the young painter passed from mouth to mouth, and in a few seconds the whole of
the Uzcoques were acquainted with the important capture that had been made. For a moment astonishment
kept them tongue-tied, and then a wild shout of exultation conveyed to their companions on
shore the intelligence of some joyful event.

Ropes were now thrown out to the pirate skiffs, the galley was safely towed into the harbour,
and the Proveditore, his son, and the few Venetian sailors who had escaped the general slaughter,
were conducted to the burning town, amidst the jeers and ill-treatment of their captors. Exposed
to great danger from the falling roofs and timbers of the blazing houses, they were led through
the streets of Pesca, and on their way had ample opportunity of witnessing the incredible cruelties
exercised by the pirates upon the inhabitants of that ill-fated town. What made these cruelties
appear still more horrible, was the part taken in them by the Uzcoque women, who, as was the
case at that period with most of the Sclavonian races, were all trained to the use of arms,[1]
and who on this occasion swelled the ranks of the freebooters. Their ferocity exceeded, if
possible, that of the men. Neither age, sex, nor station afforded any protection against these
furies, who perpetrated barbarities the details of which would exceed belief.

    [1] The reader of German literature will call to mind the
    anecdote, in Jean Paul's _Levana_, of a Moldavian woman who in
    one day slew seven men with her own hand, and the same evening
    was delivered of a child.

The violence of the flames rendering it impossible to remain in the town, the Uzcoques betook
themselves to the castle of a nobleman, situated on a rising ground a short distance from Pesca.
On first landing, the pirates had broken into this castle and made it their headquarters. After
pillaging every thing of value, they had gratified their savage love of destruction by breaking
and destroying what they could not well carry away. In the court-yard were collected piles
of furniture, pictures of price, and fragments of rich tapestry, rent by those ruthless spoilers
from the walls of the apartments. With this costly fuel had the Uzcoques lit fires, at which
quarters of oxen and whole sheep were now roasting.

A shout of triumph burst forth when the news of the Proveditore's capture was announced to
the pirates who had remained at the castle, and they crowded round the unfortunate prisoners,
overwhelming them with threats and curses. Something like silence being at length obtained,
Jurissa commanded instant preparations to be made for the banquet appointed to celebrate the
success of their expedition. Tables were arranged in a spacious hall of the castle, and upon
them soon smoked the huge joints of meat that had been roasting at the fires, placed on the
bare boards without dish or plate. Casks of wine that had been rescued from the flames of the
town, or extracted from the castle cellars, were broached, or the heads knocked in, and the
contents poured into jugs and flagons of every shape and size. Although the light of the conflagration,
glaring red through the tall Gothic windows, lit up the hall and rendered any further illumination
unnecessary, a number of torches had been fixed round the apartment, the resinous smoke of
which floated in clouds over the heads of the revelers. Seating themselves upon benches, chairs,
and empty casks, the Uzcoques commenced a ravenous attack upon the coarse but abundant viands
set before them.

The scene was a strange one. The brutal demeanour of the men, their bearded and savage aspect;
the disheveled bloodstained women, mingling their shrill voices with the hoarse tones of their
male companions; the disordered but often picturesque garb and various weapons of the pirates;
the whole seen by the light of the burning houses--more resembled an orgie of demons than an
assemblage of human beings; and even the cool and resolute Proveditore felt himself shudder
and turn pale as he contemplated this carnival of horrors, celebrated by wretches on whose
hands the blood of their fellow-men was as yet hardly dry. Antonio sat supporting himself against
the table, seeming scarcely conscious of what passed around him. Both father and son had been
compelled to take their places at the board, amidst the jeers and insults of the Uzcoques.

The revel was at its height, when Jurissa suddenly started from his seat, and struck the table
violently with his drinking-cup.

"Hold, Uzcoques!" he exclaimed; "we have forgotten the crowning ornament of our banquet."

He whispered something to an Uzcoque seated beside him, who left the room. While the pirates
were still asking one another the meaning of Jurissa's words, the man returned, bearing before
him a trencher covered with a cloth, which he placed at the upper end of the table.

"Behold the last and best dish we can offer to our noble guests!" said Jurissa; "'twill suit,
I doubt not, their dainty palates." And, tearing off the cloth, he exposed to view the grizzly
and distorted features of a human head.

The shout of savage exultation that burst from the pirates at this ghastly spectacle, drowned
the groan of rage and grief uttered by the Proveditore, as he recognised in the pale and rigid
countenance the well-known features of his friend Christophoro Veniero. That unfortunate nobleman,
on his return from a voyage to the Levant, had fallen into the hands of Jurissa, who, before
he was aware of the rank of his prisoner, had barbarously slain him. This had occurred not
many hours before the capture of Marcello; and it was to the murder of Veniero that the Uzcoque
made allusion, when he seized Jurissa's arm at the moment he was about to stab the Proveditore.

One of the pirates, a man of gigantic stature and hideous aspect, now rose from his seat, staggering
with drunkenness, and forcing open the jaws of the dead, placed a piece of meat between the
teeth. The wildest laughter and applause greeted this frightful pantomime, which made the blood
of the Proveditore run cold.

"Infernal and bloody villains!" shouted he, unable to restrain his indignation, and starting
to his feet as he spoke. There was a momentary pause, during which the pirates gazed at the
noble Venetian, seemingly struck dumb with surprise at his temerity. Then, however, a dozen
sinewy arms were extended to seize him, and a dozen daggers menaced his life. Dignified and
immovable, the high-souled senator offered no resistance, but inwardly ejaculating a short
prayer, awaited the death-stroke. It came not, however. Although some of the Uzcoques, in their
fury and intoxication, would have immolated their valuable hostage, others, who had drunk less
deeply, protested against the madness of such an act, and rushed forward to protect him. Their
interference was resented, and a violent quarrel ensued. Knives were drawn, benches overturned,
chairs broken up and converted into weapons; on all sides bare steel was flashing, deep oaths
resounding, and missiles of various kinds flying across the tables. It would be impossible
to say how long this scene of drunken violence would have lasted, or how long the Proveditore
and his son would have remained unscathed amidst the storm, had not the advent of a fresh actor
upon the scene stilled the tumult in a manner so sudden as to appear almost miraculous.

The new comer was no other than the ghastly old woman who has been seen to play such an important
part in this history, and who now entered the banqueting hall with hasty step and impatient
gesture.

"Uzcoques!" she exclaimed in a shrill, clear, and emphatic voice, that rose above the clamour
of the brawl; "Uzcoques! what means this savage uproar? Are you not yet sated with rapine and
slaughter, that you thus fall upon and tear each other? Are ye men, or wolves and tigers? Is
this the way to obtain your leader's deliverance; and will the news of this day's havoc, think
you, better the position of Dansowich?"

The pirates hung their heads in silent confusion at this reproof. None dared to reply; Jurissa
alone grumbled something inaudible.

"Follow me!" continued the singular woman whose words had so extraordinary an effect on this
brutal band. "Follow, every man! and stop as far as may be, the ruin you have begun."

Obedient to her voice the Uzcoques left the hall, some of them sullenly and slowly enough,
but none venturing to dispute the injunction laid upon them. The old woman waited till the
scene of tumult and revel was abandoned by all but Marcello and his son, and then hurrying
after the pirates, led the way to the burning town. In a few minutes the two Venetians beheld,
from the castle windows, the dark forms of the freebooters moving about in the firelight, as
they busied themselves to extinguish the conflagration. Here and there the white robe of the
mysterious old woman was discernible as she flitted from one group to another, directing their
efforts, and urging them to greater exertions.

"Strange!" said the Proveditore musingly, "that so hideous and repulsive an old creature should
exercise such commanding influence over these bandits."

He looked round to his son as he spoke; but Antonio, worn out by the fatigues and agitation
of the day, had stretched himself upon a bench and was already in a deep sleep. The Proveditore
gazed at him for a brief space, with an expression of mingled pity, regret, and paternal affection
upon his countenance.

"As weak of body as infirm of purpose," he murmured. "Alas! that a name derived from old Roman
ancestors should be borne by one so little qualified to do it honour! Had it pleased Heaven
to preserve to me the child stolen in his infancy by the Moslem, how different would have been
my position! That masculine and noble boy, so full of life and promise, would have proved a
prop to my old age, and an ornament to his country. But now, alas!"--

He continued for a while to indulge in vain regrets that the course of events had not been
otherwise; then turning to the window, he watched the efforts made by the pirates to extinguish
the flames, until a dense cloud of smoke that overhung the town was the only sign remaining
of the conflagration.

For some time the Proveditore paced up and down the hall in anxious thought upon his critical
position, and the strange circumstances that had led to it. In vain did he endeavour to reconcile,
with what now seemed more than ever inexplicable, the vindictive rage of Dansowich in the dungeon,
and the evidence before him that the pirate's wife was still in existence. It was a riddle
which he was unable to solve; and at last, despairing of success, he abandoned the attempt,
and sought in slumber a temporary oblivion of the perils that surrounded him.

CHAPTER IV.

THE RECOGNITION.

Upon a divan in the splendid armoury of the pacha's palace at Bosnia-Serai, the young Turk
Ibrahim was seated in deep thought, the day after his return home. On the walls around him
were displayed weapons and military accoutrements of every kind. Damascus sabres richly inlaid,
and many with jeweled hilts, embroidered banners, golden stirrups, casques of embossed silver,
burnished armour and coats-of-mail, were arranged in picturesque and fanciful devices. As the
young Moslem gazed around him, and beheld these trophies of victories won by Turkish viziers
and pachas in their wars against Austria and Venice, his martial and fearless spirit rose high,
and he reproached himself with weakness and pusillanimity for having abandoned the pursuit
of her he loved. Bitterly did he now regret his precipitation in leaving Venice the morning
after the Battle of the Bridge, and while under the influence of the shock he had received,
in beholding the hideous features of an old woman where he had expected to find the blooming
countenance of Strasolda. His love for the Uzcoque maiden, as he had seen her when his captive,
and again in the cavern on the coast by Segna, returned in full force. He was already planning
a journey to Venice, when he was interrupted in his meditations by the noise of a horse's hoofs
dashing full speed into the court of the palace. In another minute an attendant summoned him
to the presence of the pacha, and there he heard the news just received, of the wild outbreak
of the Uzcoques. The Martellossi and other troops were ordered to proceed immediately to the
frontier, in order to protect Turkish Dalmatia from the pirates; and Ibrahim, at his urgent
request, was appointed to a command in the expedition.

With joyful alacrity did the young Turk arm and hurry to horse; and then, putting himself at
the head of a troop of light cavalry, sped onwards in the direction of the country where he
hoped to gain tidings of Strasolda. Having received strict orders to content himself with protecting
the Turkish frontier, and above all not to infringe on Archducal territory, Ibrahim, on arriving
at the boundary of the pachalic, left his troop in charge of the second in command, and with
a handful of men entered Venetian Dalmatia, with the intention of obtaining information concerning
the Uzcoques, and more especially concerning her he loved. He was assisted in his enquiries
by the good understanding existing between Venice and the Porte; and he soon learned that,
after the burning of Pesca, the pirates had suddenly ceased their excesses and returned to
Segna, taking the Proveditore with them. They had not gone, however, either to the castle or
the town; but fearful lest the Archduke should interfere, and make them give up their illustrious
prisoners, had betaken themselves to the mountains, in the numerous caverns and lurking-places
of which they were able to conceal their captives. From every mouth did the eager enquirer
hear praises of the female who accompanied the Uzcoques. None spoke of her but in terms of
love and gratitude. As regarded her appearance accounts were at variance, some representing
her as young and beautiful, while others compassionated her frightful ugliness; and, more than
ever perplexed by this conflicting testimony, Ibrahim pursued his march and his enquiries,
still hoping by perseverance to arrive at a solution of the enigma.

While the young Turk was thus employed, the Proveditore and his son were conveyed by their
captors from one place of security to another, passing one night in the depths of some ravine,
the next amongst the crags and clefts of the mountains, but always moving about in the daytime,
and never sleeping twice in the same place. Since the evening of the revel at Pesca they had
not again beheld the mysterious old woman, although they had more than once heard her clear
and silvery voice near the place allotted to them for confinement and repose. In certain attentions
and comforts, intended as alleviations of their unpleasant position, female care and thought
were also visible; but all their efforts were vain to obtain a sight of the friendly being
who thus hovered around them.

It was on a beautiful evening some fourteen days after their capture, that the Proveditore
and his son lay upon the bank of the only river that waters the rocky vicinity of Segna, wearied
by a long and rapid march. There was an unusual degree of bustle observable amongst the Uzcoques,
and numerous messengers had been passing to and from the castle of Segna, which was at no great
distance from the spot where they had now halted. From the various indications of some extraordinary
occurrence, the two Venetians began to hope that the crisis of their fate was approaching,
and that they should at last know in what manner their captors meant to dispose of them. Nor
were they wrong in their expectations. Suddenly the mysterious old woman stood before them,
her partially veiled features bearing their wonted hideous aspect, and her eyes, usually so
brilliant, dimmed with tears.

"You are free," said she in an agitated voice to the Proveditore and his son. "Our people will
escort you to Fiume in all safety, and there you will find galleys of the republic to convey
you back to Venice."

At the sight of the old woman's unearthly countenance, Antonio covered his face with his hands;
the Proveditore rose from the ground deeply moved.

"Singular being!" he exclaimed, "by this mildness and mercy you punish me more effectually
than by the bloodiest revenge you could have taken for my cruel treatment of you."

"You owe me no thanks," was the reply; "thank rather the holy Virgin, who sent the youth beside
you to be your guardian angel, and who delivered you into the hands of the Uzcoques at a time
when they had need of a hostage. Surely it was by the special intervention of Heaven that the
murderer of the wife was sent to serve as ransom for the captive husband. But the atonement
has come too late, the noble Dansowich was basely ensnared into an act of violence, and his
life paid the forfeit of his wrath--he died upon the rack. And now the wily counsellors at
Gradiska compel us to release you."

She paused, interrupted by a flood of tears. After a short silence, broken only by her sobs,
she became more composed, and the Proveditore again addressed her.

"But what," said he, "could have driven Dansowich to an act of violence, which he must have
known would entail a severe punishment? Surely his wife's safety and the lapse of years might
have enabled him to forgive, if not to forget, the unsuccessful attempt upon her life."

"His wife's safety!" exclaimed the old woman. "Have the trials and fatigues of the last few
days turned your brain? Alas! too surely was the rope fixed round her neck; and had you not
carried off her remains how could you have possessed her portrait, and by the devilish stratagem
of showing it to the bereaved husband, have driven him to the act which cost him his life?"

"Gracious Heaven! what hideous jest is this?" exclaimed Marcello. "Do I not see you living
and standing before me; and think you I could ever forget your features, or the look you gave
me when hanging from the tree? You were cut down and saved after our departure; and but a few
weeks have elapsed since my son painted your likeness, after conveying you across the canal
in his gondola."

The old woman stood for a few moments as though petrified by what she had just heard. At last
she passed her hand slowly across her face, as if to convince herself of her identity.

"And she you murdered resembled _me_?" she exclaimed in a trembling voice. "It was of _me_
that the portrait was taken, and by _him_!" she continued, pointing to Antonio with a gesture
of horror and contempt. "_My_ picture was it, that was held before Dansowich, and by _you_,
the murderer of his wife? Holy Virgin!" she exclaimed, as the truth seemed to flash upon her,
"how has my faith in thee misled me! I beheld in this youth one sent by Heaven to aid me; but
now I see that he was prompted by the powers of darkness to steal my portrait, and thus become
the instrument of destruction to the best and noblest of our race."

"Forgive and spare us!" exclaimed Antonio, conscience-stricken as he remembered the admonitions
of Contarini. "'Tis true, I was the instrument, but most unwittingly. How could I know so sad
an end would follow?"

"'Tis not my wont to seek revenge," replied the old woman; "nor do I forget that you saved
my life from the fury of the Venetians."

Antonio essayed to speak, but had not courage to correct the error into which she had been
led by his strong resemblance to the gallant stranger.

"But," she continued, "'tis time you should have full proof that the features you painted were
not those of the wife of Dansowich."

With these words she threw back her veil, unfastened some small hooks concealed in her abundant
tresses, and took off a mask of thin and untanned lambskin, wrinkled and stained with yellow
and purple streaks by exposure to sun and storm. This mask, closely fitted to features regular
and prominent, and strongly resembling those of her unfortunate mother, whose large, dark,
and very brilliant eyes she had also inherited, will explain the misconception of the Proveditore
as well as that of Dansowich, who had never seen his daughter in a disguise worn only at Venice
or other places of peril, and while away from her father and his protection.

While the beautiful but still tearful Uzcoque maid stood thus revealed before the astonished
senator, and his enraptured and speechless son, the approaching footfall of a horse at full
speed was heard, and in an instant there darted round the angle of a cliff the martial figure
of a Turk, mounted upon a large and powerful steed, of that noble race bred in the deserts
eastward of the Caspian. The tall and graceful person of the stranger was attired in a close
riding-dress of scarlet cloth, from the open breast of which gleamed a light coat-of-mail.
A twisted turban bound with chains of glittering steel defended and adorned his head. A crooked
cimeter suspended from his belt was his only weapon. His countenance bore a striking resemblance
to that of Antonio, and had the same sweet and graceful expression about the mouth and chin;
but the more ample and commanding forehead, the well opened flashing eyes, the more prominent
and masculine nose, the clear, rich, olive complexion and soldierly bearing, proclaimed him
to be of a widely different and higher nature. Riding close up to the side of Strasolda, he
reined in his steed with a force and suddenness that threw him on his haunches; but speedily
recovering his balance, the noble animal stood pawing the earth and lashing his sides with
his long tail, like some untamed and kingly creature of the desert; his veins starting out
in sharp relief, his broad chest and beautiful limbs spotted with foam, and his long mane,
that would have swept the ground, streaming like a banner in the sea-breeze.

For a moment the startled Strasolda gazed alternately, and in wild and mute amazement, at Antonio
and the stranger; but all doubt and hesitation were dispersed in an instant by the well-remembered
and impassioned tones, the martial bearing and Moslem garb of Ibrahim, whose captive she had
been before she saw him in the cavern.

Leaping from his saddle and circling her slender waist with his arm, he addressed her in those
accents of truth and passion which go at once to the heart--

"Heroic daughter of Dansowich! thou art the bright star of my destiny, the light of my soul!
Thou must be mine! Come, then, to my heart and home! Gladden with thy love the life of Ibrahim,
and he will give thee truth unfailing and love without end."

Strasolda did not long hesitate. Already prepossessed in favour of the young and noble-minded
Moslem; her allegiance to the Christian powers and faith weakened by the treachery of Austria;
her people degraded into robbers; a soldier's daughter, and keenly alive to the splendours
of martial gallantry and glory; an orphan, too, and desolate--can it be wondered at if she
surrendered, at once and for ever, to this generous and impassioned lover all the sympathies
of her affectionate nature? She spoke not; but, as she leaned half-fainting on his arm, her
eloquent looks said that which made Ibrahim's pulses thrill with grateful rapture. Pressing
her fondly to his bosom, he placed her on the back of his faithful steed, and vaulted into
the saddle. Snorting as the vapour flew from his red nostrils, and neighing with mad delight,
the impatient animal threw out his iron hoofs into the air, flew round the angle of the cliff,
and joined erelong a dozen mounted spearmen. Then, bending their headlong course towards the
far east, in a few seconds all had disappeared.

During this scene, which passed almost with the speed of thought, the Proveditore, who was
seated on a ledge of the cliff, had gazed anxiously and wildly at the youthful stranger. He
knew him in an instant, and would have singled him out amidst thousands; but was so overwhelmed
by a rushing tide of strong and heartrending emotions, that he could neither rise nor speak,
and remained, long after the Turk had disappeared, with out-stretched arms and straining eye-balls.

"Gracious Heaven!" exclaimed the bewildered Antonio, half suspecting the truth, "who was that
daring youth?"

After a pause, and in tones broken and inarticulate, his father answered--"Thy twin brother,
Antonio! When a child he was stolen from me by some Turks in Candia; and those who stole have
given him their own daring and heroic nature, for they are great and rising, while Venice and
her sons are falling and degenerate. Oh Ercole! my dear and long-lost son--seen but a moment
and then lost for ever!" ejaculated the bereaved father, as, refusing all comfort, he folded
his cloak over his face and wept bitterly.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE.--Shortly after these events, Venice, urged at last beyond all endurance, took up arms
against Austria on account of the protection afforded by the latter power to the Uzcoques.
The pirate vessels were burned, Segna besieged and taken, the Uzcoques slain or dispersed.
The quarrel between Austria and the republic was put an end to by the mediation of Spain shortly
before the breaking out of the Thirty Years' War.

"Ces misérables," says a distinguished French writer, speaking of the Uzcoques, "fûrent bien
plus criminels par la faute des puissances, que par l'instinct de leur propre nature. Les Vénétiens
les aigrirent; l'église Romaine préféra de les persécuter au devoir de les éclaircir; la maison
d'Autriche en fit les instruments de sa politique, et quand le philosophe examine leur histoire
il ne voit pas que les Uscoques soient les seuls criminels."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SLAVE-TRADE.[2]

    [2] Fifty Days on board a Slave vessel, in 1843. By the Rev.
    PASCOE GRENFELL HILL, Chaplain of H.M.S. Cleopatra.

The extraordinary change which took place in the public mind in the beginning of the century
on the subject of the slave-trade, unquestionably justified the determination of Government
to abolish a traffic contradictory to every principle of Christianity. It had taken twenty
years to obtain this victory of justice. But we must exonerate the mind of England from the
charge of abetting this guilty traffic in human misery. The nation had been almost wholly ignorant
of its nature. Of course, that Africans were shipped for the West Indies was known; that, as
slaves, they were liable to the severities of labour, or the temper of masters, was also known;
but in a country like England, where every man is occupied with the concerns of public or private
life, and where the struggle for competence, if not for existence, is often of the most trying
order, great evils may occur in the distant dependencies of the crown without receiving general
notice from the nation. It seems to have been one of the singular results of the war with America,
that the calamities of the slave-trade should have been originally brought to the knowledge
of the people. The loss of our colonies on the mainland, naturally directed public attention
to the increased importance of the West Indian colonies. A large proportion of our supplies
for the war had been drawn from those islands; they had become the station of powerful fleets
during the latter portion of the war; large garrisons were placed in them; the intercourse
became enlarged from a merely commercial connexion with our ports, to a governmental connection
with the empire; and the whole machinery of the West Indian social system was brought before
the eye of England.

The result was the exposure of the cruelties which slavery entails, and the growing resolution
to clear the country of the stigma, and the benevolent desire to relieve a race of beings,
who, however differing in colour and clime from ourselves, were sons of the same common blood,
and objects of the same Divine mercy. The exertions of Wilberforce, and the intelligent and
benevolent men whom he associated with himself in this great cause, were at last successful;
and he gained for the British the noblest triumph ever gained for a nation over its own habits,
its selfishness, its pride, and its popular opinion.

But the manner in which this great redemption of national character was effected, did less
honour to the wisdom of the cabinet than to the benevolence of the people. Fox, probably sincere,
but certainly headlong, rushed into emancipation as he had rushed into every measure that bore
the name of popularity. Impatient of the delay which might take the honour of this crowning
act out of the hands of his party--and unquestionably, in any shape, it was an honour to any
party--he hurried it forward without securing the concert, or compelling the acquiescence,
of any one of the European kingdoms engaged in the slave-trade. It is true that England was
then at war with them all; but there was thus only the stronger opportunity of pronouncing
the national resolve, never to tolerate the commerce in slaves, and never to receive any country
into our protection by which that most infamous of all trades was tolerated. The opportunity
was amply given for establishing the principle, in the necessity which every kingdom in succession
felt for the aid of England, and the abolition ought to have been the first article of the
treaty. But the occasion was thrown away.

The parliamentary regulations, which had largely provided for the comfort of the slaves on
the passage from Africa, and their protection in the British colonies, could not be extended
to the new and tremendous traffic which was engaged in by all the commercial states of Europe
and the West. The closing of the British mart of slavery flooded the African shore with desperate
dealers in the flesh and blood of man; whose only object was profit, and who regarded the miseries
of the African only as they affected his sale. The ships which, by the British regulations,
had been suffered to carry only a number limited to their accommodation, were now crowded with
wretches, stowed in spaces that scarcely allowed them to breathe. The cheapness of the living
cargo, produced by the withdrawal of the British from the slave coast, excited the activity,
almost the fury, of the trade; and probably 100,000 miserable beings were thus annually dragged
from their own country, to undergo the labour of brutes, and die the death of brutes in the
Western World.

Another source of evil was added to the original crime. The colonial possessions of Spain had
been broken up into republics, and those were all slave-dealers. The great colony of Portugal,
Brazil, had rushed into this frightful commerce with the feverish avidity of avarice set free
from all its old restrictions. North America, coquetting with philanthropy, and nominally abjuring
the principle of slavery, suffered herself to undergo the corruption of the practice for the
temptation of the lucre, and the Atlantic was covered with slave-ships.

But rash, ill considered, and unfortunate as was the precipitate measure of Fox, we shall never
but rejoice at the abolition of the slave-trade by our country. If England had stood alone
for ever in that abolition, it would be a national glory. To have cast that commerce from her
at all apparent loss, was the noblest of national gains; and it may be only when higher knowledge
shall be given to man, of the causes which have protected the empire through the struggles
of war and the trials of peace, that we may know the full virtue of that most national and
magnanimous achievement of charity to man.

It is only in the spirit of this principle that the legislature has followed up those early
exertions, by the purchase of the final freedom of the slave, by the astonishing donative of
twenty millions sterling, the largest sum ever given for the purposes of humanity. It is only
in the same spirit that our cabinet continues to press upon the commercial states the right
of search, a right which we solicit on the simple ground of humanity; and which, though it
cannot be our duty to enforce at the hazard of hostility, must never be abandoned where we
can succeed by the representations of reason, justice, and religion.

The curious and succinct narrative to which we now advert, gives the experience of a short
voyage on board of one of those slave ships. And the miseries witnessed by its writer, whose
detail seems as accurate as it is simple, more than justify the zeal of our foreign secretary
in labouring to effect the total extinction of this death-dealing trade.

H.M.S. the Cleopatra, of twenty-six guns, commanded by Captain Wyvill, arriving at Rio Janeiro
in September 1842, the reverend writer took the opportunity of being transferred from the Malabar,
as chaplain. In the beginning of September the Cleopatra left the Mauritius, to proceed to
the Mozambique Channel, off Madagascar, her appointed station, to watch the slave-traders.
After various cruises along the coast, and as far as Algoa Bay, they at last captured a slaver.

_April 12._--At daybreak the look-out at the topmast-head perceived a vessel on the lee quarter,
at such a distance as to be scarcely visible; but her locality being pronounced "very suspicious,"
the order was given to bear up for her. The breeze falling, the boats were ordered out, and
in a few minutes the barge and the first gig were pulling away in the direction of the stranger.
So variable, however, is the weather at this season, that before the boats had rowed a mile
from the ship, a thick haze surrounded the ship, and the chase was lost sight of. The rain
fell in torrents, and the ship was going seven knots through the water. On the clearing up
of the fog, the chase was again visible. The sun broke forth, and the rakish-looking brigantine
appeared to have carried on all sail during the squall. They could see, under her sails, the
low black hull pitching up and down; and, approaching within range, one of the forecastle guns
was cleared away for a bow-chaser. The British ensign had been for some time flying at the
peak. It was at length answered by the green and yellow Brazilian flag. At length, after a
variety of dexterous manoeuvres to escape, and from fifteen to twenty shots fired after her,
she shortened sail and lay to. Dark naked forms passing across the deck, removed any remaining
doubt as to her character, and showed that she had her slave cargo on board. An officer was
sent to take possession, and the British ensign displaced the Brazilian. The scene on board
was a sufficiently strange one; the deck was crowded with negroes to the number of 450, in
almost riotous confusion, having risen but a little while before against the crew. The meagre,
famished-looking throng, having broken through all control, had seized every thing for which
they had a fancy in the vessel; some with handfuls of the powdered roots of the cassava, others
with large pieces of pork and beef, having broken open the casks, and others with fowls, which
they had torn from the coops. Many were busily dipping rags, fastened with bits of string,
into the water-casks to act as sponges, and had got at the contents of a cask of Brazilian
rum, which they greatly enjoyed. However, they exhibited the wildest joy, mingled with the
clank of the iron, as they were knocking off their fetters on every side. From the moment the
first ball had been fired, they had been actively employed in thus freeing themselves. The
crew found but thirty thus shackled in pairs, but many more pairs of shackles were found below.
There could not be a moment's doubt as to the light in which they viewed their captors, now
become their liberators. They rushed towards them in crowds, and rubbed their feet and hands
caressingly, even rolling themselves on the deck before them; and, when they saw the crew of
the vessel rather unceremoniously sent over the side into the boat which was to take them prisoners
to the frigate, they set up a long universal shout of triumph and delight. The actual number
of the negroes now on board, amounted to 447. Of those 180 were men, few, however, exceeding
twenty years of age; 45 women; 213 boys. The name of the prize was the Progresso, last from
Brazil, and bound to Rio Janeiro. The crew were seventeen; three Spaniards, and the rest Brazilians.
The vessel was of about 140 tons; the length of the slave-deck, 37 feet; its mean breadth,
21½ feet; its height, 3½ feet--a horrible space to contain between four and five hundred human
beings. How they could even breathe is scarcely conceivable. The captain and one of the crew
were said to have been drowned in the surf at the embarkation of the negroes. Two Spaniards,
and a Portuguese cook, were sent back into the prize.

As the writer understood Spanish, and as some one was wanting to interpret between the English
crew and those managers of the negroes, he proposed to go on board with them to their place
of destination, the Cape of Good Hope. The English crew were a lieutenant, three petty officers,
and nine seamen. It had been the captain's first intention to take a hundred of the negroes
on board the frigate, which would probably have prevented the fearful calamities that followed;
but an unfortunate impression prevailed, that some of them were infected with the small-pox.
In the same evening the Progresso set sail. For the first few hours all went on well--the breeze
was light, the weather warm, and the negroes were sleeping on the deck; their slender supple
limbs entwined in a surprisingly small compass, resembling in the moonlight confused piles
of arms and legs, rather than distinct human forms. But about an hour after midnight, the sky
began to gather clouds, a haze overspread the horizon to windward, and a squall approached.
The hands, having to shorten sail, suddenly found the negroes in the way, and the order was
given to send them all below.

There seems to have been some dreadful mismanagement to cause the horrid scene that followed.
Why _all_ the negroes should have been driven down together; or why, when the vessel was put
to rights, they should not have been allowed to return to the deck; or why, when driven down,
the hatches should have been forced upon them--are matters which we cannot comprehend; but
nothing could be more unfortunate than the consequence of those rash measures. We state the
event in the words of the narrative:--

    "The night being intensely hot and close, 400 wretched beings
    crammed into a hold twelve yards in length, seven in breadth,
    and only three and a half feet in height, speedily began to
    make an effort to re-issue to the open air; being thrust back,
    and striving the more to get out, the _after hatch_ was forced
    down upon them. Over the other hatchway, in the fore part of
    the vessel, a wooden grating was fastened. A scene of agony
    followed those most unfortunate measures, unequaled by any
    thing that we have heard of since the Black Hole of Calcutta.
    To this _sole inlet_ for the air, the suffocating heat of the
    hold, and perhaps panic from the strangeness of their
    situation, made them press. They crowded to the grating, and,
    clinging to it for air, completely barred its entrance. They
    strove to force their way through apertures in length fourteen
    inches, and barely six inches in breadth, and in some
    instances succeeded. The cries, the heat, I may say without
    exaggeration, 'the smoke of their torment,' which ascended,
    can be compared to nothing earthly. One of the Spaniards gave
    warning that the consequence would be many deaths--_manana
    habra muchos muertos_."

If this statement with its consequences be true, we cannot conceive how the conduct of those
persons by whom it was brought about can be passed over without enquiry. There seems to have
been nothing in the shape of _necessity_ for its palliation. There was no storm, the vessel
was in no danger of foundering unless the hatches were fastened down. That the negroes might
have lumbered the deck for the first few minutes of preparing to meet the squall is probable;
but why, when they were palpably suffocating, they should still have been kept down, is one
of the most unaccountable circumstances we ever remember. We must hope that while we are nationally
incurring an enormous expenditure to extinguish this most guilty and detestable traffic, such
scenes will be guarded against for ever, by the strictest orders to the captors of the slave-traders.
It would have been infinitely better for the wretched cargo if they had been carried to their
original destination, and sent to toil in the fields of Brazil.

The Spaniard's prediction was true. Next morning no less than fifty-four crushed and mangled
corpses were lifted up from the slave deck, and thrown overboard. We shall avoid disgusting
our readers with mentioning the state in which their struggles had left those trampled and
strangled beings. On the survivors being released from their torrid dungeon, they drank their
allowance of water, somewhat more than half a pint to each, with inconceivable eagerness. A
heavy shower having freshened the air, in the evening most of the negroes went below of their
own accord, the hatchways having been left open to allow them air. But a short time, however,
had elapsed, when they began tumultuously to reascend; and some of the persons on deck, fearful
of their crowding it too much, repelled them, and they were trampled back, screaming and writhing
in a confused mass. The hatch was about to be forced down upon them; and had not the lieutenant
in charge left positive orders to the contrary, the catastrophe of last night would have been
re-enacted. On explaining to the Spaniard that it was desired he should dispose those who came
on deck in proper places, he set himself to the task with great alacrity; and he showed with
much satisfaction how soon and how quietly they might be arranged out of the way of the ropes,
covered with long rugs provided for the purpose. "To-morrow," said he, "there will be no deaths,
except perhaps among some of those who are sick already." On the next day there was but one
dead, but three were reported dying from the sufferings of the first night. They now saw the
Cleopatra once more, and the alarm of small-pox having been found groundless, the captain took
on board fifty of the boys.

To our surprise, the provisions on board the slaver were ample for the negroes, consisting
of Monte Video dried beef, small beans, rice, and cassava flour. The cabin stores were profuse;
lockers filled with ale and porter, barrels of wine, liqueurs of various sorts, cases of English
pickles, raisins, &c. &c.; and its list of medicines amounted to almost the whole _Materia
Medica_. On questioning the Spaniards as to the probability of extinguishing the slave-trade,
their reply was, that though in the creeks of Brazil it might be difficult, yet it had grown
a desperate adventure. Four vessels had been already taken on the east coast of Africa this
year; but the venture is so lucrative, that the profits of a fifth which escaped, would probably
more than compensate the loss of the four.

On the east coast negroes are paid for in money or coarse cottons, at the rate of eighteen
dollars for men, and twelve for boys. At Rio Janeiro their value may be estimated at £52 for
men, £41, 10s. for women, and £31 for boys. Thus, on a cargo of 500, at the mean price the
profit will exceed £19,000--

    Cost price of 500, average fifteen
        dollars, or £3 5s. each,          £1,625
    Selling price at Rio Janeiro, average
        £41 10s.,                        £20,730

While these enormous profits continue, it must be a matter of extreme difficulty to suppress
the trade, especially while the principals, captains, and crews, have perfect impunity. At
present, all that they suffer is the loss of their cargo. But if enactments were made, by which
heavy fines and imprisonment were to be inflicted on the merchants to whom the expedition could
be traced, and corporal punishment and transportation for life for the crews, and for the captains
service as common sailors on board our frigates, we should soon find the ardour for the traffic
diminished.

The voyage was slow from the frequent calms. By the 20th of April they had advanced only to
the tropic, 350 miles. From day to day the sick among the negroes were dropping off. A large
shark followed the ship, which they conceived might have gorged some of the corpses. He was
caught, but the stomach was empty. When brought on the deck, he exhibited the usual and remarkable
tenacity of life. Though his tail was chopped, and even his entrails taken out, in neither
of which operations it exhibited any sign of sensation, yet no sooner was a bucket of salt
water poured on it to wash the deck, than it began to flounder about and bite on all sides.

Symptoms of fever now began to appear on board, and the Portuguese cook died.

_April 29_.--A storm, the lightning intolerably vivid, flash succeeding flash with scarcely
a sensible intermission; blue, red, and of a still more dazzling white, which made the eye
shrink, lighting up every object on deck as clearly as at mid-day. All the winds of heaven
seemed let loose, as it blew alternately from every point of the compass. The screams of distress
from the sick and weak in the hold, were heard through the roar of the tempest. From the rolling
and creaking, one might fancy every thing going asunder. The woman's shed on deck had been
washed down, and the planks which formed its roof falling in a heap, a woman was found dead
under the ruin.

_May 1_.--In this hemisphere, marking the approach of the cold weather, the naked negroes began
to shiver, and their teeth to chatter.

_May 3_.--Another storm, with severe cold. Seven negroes were found dead this morning. The
wretched beings had begun now to steal water and brandy from the hold. "None can tell," says
the writer, "save he who has tried, the pangs of thirst which may excite them in that heated
hold, many of them fevered by mortal disease. Their daily allowance of water is about a half
pint in the morning, and the same quantity in the evening." This passage now became all storms.
A heavy squall came on _May 8_, which continued next day a strong gale. The first object which
met the eye in the morning, was three negroes dead on the deck.

_May 11_.--Another storm, heavier than any of the preceding ones. Towards evening the report
of the helmsman was the gratifying one, that the heart of the gale was broke; yet a yellow
haze overspread the setting sun, and it continued to blow as wildly as ever. Squalls rapidly
succeeding each other mingled sea and air in one sheet of spray, blinding the eyes of the helmsman;
waves towering high above us, tossing up the foam from their crests towards the sky, threatened
to engulf the vessel at every moment. When the squalls, breaking heavily on the vessel, caused
her to heel over, and the negroes to tumble one against each other in the hold, the shrieks
of the sufferers through the darkness of the night, rising above the noise of the winds and
waves, seemed of all horrors in this unhappy vessel the saddest. Dysentery now attacked the
crew, and the boatswain's mate died. We pass over the melancholy details of this miserable
voyage, in which disgusts and distresses of every kind seemed to threaten all on board with
death, every day bringing its mortality. At last on Sunday, May 28th, the welcome sight of
Cape Agulhas cheered them at the distance of ten miles. The weather was now fine, but the mortality
continued, the fatal cases averaging four a-day. On the 1st of June eight were found dead in
the morning; and, when the morning mist had cleared away, they found themselves within three
miles of Simon's Bay. As soon as the Progresso anchored, the superintendent of the naval hospital
came on board, and the writer descended with him for the last time to the slave hold. Accustomed
as he had been to scenes of suffering, he was unable to endure a sight, surpassing all he could
have conceived, he said, of human misery, and made a hasty retreat. The numbers who had died
within the fifty days were 163. Even this was not all; for, on returning to the vessel next
day, six corpses were added to the eight of the preceding day, and the fourteen were piled
on deck for interment on the shore. A hundred of the healthiest negroes were landed at the
pier to proceed in waggons to Cape Town; but though rescued from a state of extreme misery,
the change seemed to excite anxiety and apprehension. Each of the men had received on landing
a new warm jacket and trousers, and the women had each a new white blanket in addition to an
under dress, and they were placed snugly in waggons; yet their countenances resembled those
of condemned victims. Of the whole of the original cargo, not far short of one half had died.
To what causes this horrible mortality must be imputed, it is not our purpose to decide; but
that it did not arise from the original tendency of the negroes to sickness seems evident--the
fact being, that of the fifty who were taken on board the frigate, but one had died at sea
and one on shore. Within a few days the liberated negroes had acquired a more cheerful look,
their first conception having been that they were to be devoured by the people of the country,
and they were reluctant to eat, fearing that it was intended to fatten them for the purpose.
However, the negroes in the colonies soon freed them from this apprehension.

We shall be rejoiced if the publicity given to this little but intelligent pamphlet by our
means, may assist in drawing the attention of the influential classes to the subject. We fully
believe that, if we were to look for the deepest misery that was ever inflicted in this world,
and the greatest mass of it, we should find it in the slave-trade. It is the misery, not as
in civilized life, of scattered individuals, but of multitudes, and a misery comprehending
every other; sudden separation from every tie of the human heart, parent, child, spouse, and
country; the misery of bodily affliction, disease, famine, storms, shipwreck, and ultimately
slavery, with all its wretchedness of toil and tyranny for life. We certainly do not think
it our duty to go to war for the object of teaching humanity to other nations. We must no attempt
to heal the calamity of the African by the greatest of all calamities and crimes--an unnecessary
war. But England has only to persevere sincerely and steadily, however calmly, and she will,
by the blessing of that supreme Disposer of the ways of men, who desires the happiness of all
his creatures, succeed in the extinction of a traffic which has brought a curse, and brings
it at this hour, and will bring it deeper still, upon every nation which insults the laws of
humanity and the dictates of religion, by dealing in the flesh and blood of man.

       *       *       *       *       *

MOSLEM HISTORIES OF SPAIN.[3]--THE ARABS OF CORDOVA.

    [3] The History of the Mohammedan Dynasties in Spain. By AHMED
    IBN MOHAMMED AL-MAKKARI of Telemsan. Translated and
    illustrated with Critical Notes by Pascual de Gayangos, late
    Professor of Arabic in the Athenæum of Madrid.--Printed for
    the Oriental Translation Fund. 2 vols. 4to. 1840-43.

    "The second day was that when Martel broke
    The Mussulmen, delivering France opprest,
    And in one mighty conflict, from the yoke
    Of unbelieving Mecca saved the West."
                                    SOUTHEY.

The Arab domination in Spain is the grand romance of European history. The splendid but mysterious
fabric of Asiatic power and science is seen for age after age, like the fairy castle of St
John, exalted far above the rugged plain of Frank semi-barbarism--till the spell is at last
broken by the iron prowess of Christian chivalry; and the glittering edifice vanishes from
the land as though it had never been, leaving, like the fabled structure of the poet, only
a wreath of laurel to bind the brows of the victor. Yet though replete with gorgeous materials
both for history and fiction, and stored not only with the recondite lore of Asia and Egypt,
but with the borrowed treasures of ancient Greece, (long known to Christendom only by versions
through an Arabic medium,) the language and literature of this marvellous people, and even
their history, except so far as it related to their never-ceasing warfare with their Christian
foes, remained, up to the middle of the last century, a sealed book to their Spanish successors.
Coming into possession, like the Israelites of old, "of a land for which they did not labour,
of cities which they built not, of vineyards and olive-yards which they planted not," the Spaniards
not merely contemned, but persecuted with the fiercest bigotry, all that was left in the peninsula
of the genius and learning of their predecessors. Eighty thousand volumes were publicly burned
in one fatal _auto-da-fé_ at Granada by order of Cardinal Ximenes, in whom the literature of
his own language yet found a munificent patron; and so meritorious, did the deed appear in
the eyes of his contemporaries, that the number has been magnified to an incredible amount
by his biographers, in their zeal for the renown of their hero! So complete was the destruction
or deportation[4] of the seventy public libraries, which, a century and a half before the subjugation
of the Moors, were open in different cities of Spain, that the valuable collection now in the
Escurial owes its origin to the accidental capture, early in the seventeenth century, of three
ships laden with books belonging to Muley Zidan, emperor of Morocco--and even of this casual
prize so little was the value appreciated, that it was not till more than a hundred years later,
and after three-fourths of the books had been consumed by fire in 1671, that the learned and
diligent Casiri was commissioned to make a catalogue of the remainder. The result was the well-known
_Bibliotheca Arabico-Hispana Escurialensis_, which appeared in 1760-70; and which, in the words
of the present learned translator, "though hasty and superficial, and containing frequent unaccountable
blunders, must, with all its imperfections, ever be valuable as affording palpable proof of
the literary cultivation of the Spanish Arabs, and as containing the first glimpses of historical
truth." Up to this time the only authority on Spanish history purporting to be drawn from Mohammedan
sources, was the work of a Morisco named Miguel de Luna, written by command of the Inquisition;
which was first printed at Granada in 1592, and has passed through many editions. Its value
may be estimated from its placing the Mohammedan conquest of Spain in the time of Yakub Al-mansor,
the actual date of whose reign was from A.D. 1184 to 1199; insomuch that Señor de Gayangos
suggests, as a possible explanation of its glaring inaccuracies, that it was the writer's intention
to hoax his employers. Casiri had, however, opened the door for further researches; and he
was followed in the same path by Don Faustino de Borbon, whose works, valuable rather from
the erudition which they display than from their judgment or critical acumen, have now become
extremely scarce--and next by Don Antonio José Condé, one of the most zealous and laborious,
if not the most accurate, of Spanish orientalists. His "History of the Domination of the Arabs
and Moors in Spain," has been generally regarded as of high authority, and is in truth the
first work on the subject drawn wholly from Arab sources; but it receives summary condemnation
from Señor de Gayangos, for "the uncouth arrangement of the materials, the entire want of critical
or explanatory notes, the unaccountable neglect to cite authorities, the numerous repetitions,
blunders, and contradictions." These charges are certainly not without foundation; but they
are in some measure accounted for by the trouble and penury in which the author's last years
were spent, and the unfinished state in which the work was left at his death in 1820.

    [4] The Almoravide and Almohade princes, who ruled both in
    Spain and Africa, often inserted a clause in their treaties
    with the Christians for the restoration of the libraries
    captured in the towns taken from the Moslems; and Ibn Khaldun
    mentions, that Yakob Al-mansor destined a college at Fez for
    the reception of the books thus recovered.

An authentic and comprehensive view of the Arab period, as described by their own writers,
was therefore still a desideratum in European literature, which the publication before us may
be considered as the first step towards supplying. The work of Al-Makkari, which has been taken
as a text-book, is not so much an original history as a collection of extracts, sometimes abridged,
and sometimes transcribed in full, from more ancient historians; and frequently giving two
or three versions of the same event from different authorities--so that, though it can claim
but little merit as a composition, it is of extreme value as a repository of fragments of authors
in many cases now lost; and further, as the only "uninterrupted narrative of the conquests,
wars, and settlements of the Spanish Moslems, from their first invasion of the Peninsula to
their final expulsion." In the arrangement of his materials, the translator has departed considerably,
and with advantage, from the original; giving the historical books in the form of a continuous
narrative, and omitting several sections relating to matters of little interest--while the
deficiencies and omissions of the author are supplied by an appendix, containing, in addition
to a valuable body of original notes, copious extracts from numerous unpublished Arabic MSS.
relating to Spain, which afford ample proof of the extent and diligence of his researches among
the Oriental treasures of Paris and London. To those in the Escurial, however, he was denied
access during his labours--an almost incredible measure of illiberality, which, if he be correct
in ascribing it to his known intention of publishing in England, "ill suits a country" (as
he justly remarks in the preface) "which has lately seen its archives and monastic libraries
reduced to cinders, and scattered or sold in foreign markets, without the least struggle to
rescue or secure them."

Ahmed Al-Makkari, the author or compiler of the present work, derived his surname from a village
near Telemsan called Makkarah, where his family had been established since the conquest of
Africa by the Arabs. He was born at Telemsan some time in the latter half of the sixteenth
century, and educated by his uncle, who held the office of Mufti in that city; but having quitted
his native country in 1618 on a pilgrimage to Mekka, he married and settled in Cairo. During
a visit to Damascus in 1628, he was received with high distinction by Ahmed Ibn Shahin Effendi,
the director of the college of Jakmak in that city, and a distinguished patron of literature;
at whose suggestion (he tells us) he undertook this work. His original purpose had been only
to write the life of Abu Abdullah Lisanuddin, a celebrated historian and minister in Granada,
better known to Oriental scholars as Ibnu'l-Khattib; but having completed this, the thought
struck him of adding, as a second part, an historical account of the Moslems of Spain. He had
formerly written an extensive and elaborate work on this subject, composed (to use his own
words) "in such an elevated and pleasing style, that had it been publicly delivered by the
common crier, it would have made even the stones deaf:--but, alas! the whole of this we had
left in Maghreb (Morocco) with the rest of our library.... However, we have done our best to
make the present work as useful and complete as possible." It was probably the last literary
undertaking of his life; since he was on the point of quitting Cairo to fix his residence in
Damascus, when he died of a fever in the second Jomada of A.H. 1041, (Jan. 1632,) leaving a
high reputation as a traditionist and doctor of the Moslem law.

The introductory chapter gives a sketch of the various nations which inhabited _Andalus_ or
Spain before the Arab conquest, prefaced by extracts from numerous writers eulogistic of a
country "whose excellences" (as Al-Makkari himself declares) "are such and so many that they
cannot easily be contained in a book ... so that one of their wise men, who knew that the country
had been called the bird's tail, owing to the supposed resemblance of the earth to a bird with
extended wings, remarked that that bird was the peacock, the principal beauty of which was
in the tail." These panegyrics are not in all cases exactly consistent; for while the famous
geographer, Obeydullah Al-Bekri, "compares his native country to Syria for purity of air and
water, to China for mines and precious stones, &c. &c., and to Al-Ahwaz (a district in Persia)
_for the magnitude of its snakes_"--the Sheikh Ahmed Al-Razi (better known as the historian
Razis) praises its comparative freedom from wild beasts and reptiles. The name _Andalus_ is
derived by some authors from a great grandson of Noah so named, who settled there soon after
the deluge; but Al-Makkari rather inclines, with Ibn Khaldun and other writers, to deduce it
from the _Andalosh,_ (Vandals,) "a tribe of barbarians," who appear to be considered as the
earliest inhabitants; but who, having incurred the divine wrath by their wickedness and idolatry,
were all cut off by a terrible drought, which left the land for a hundred years an uninhabited
desert. A colony then arrived from Africa, under a chief named Batrikus, eleven generations
of whose descendants reigned for one hundred and fifty-seven years; after which they were all
annihilated by the "barbarians of Rome, who invaded and conquered the country; and it was after
their king Ishban, son of Titus, that Andalus was called Ishbaniah," (Hispania.) As Ishban
is just after said to have "plundered and demolished Ilia, which is the same as Al-Kods the
illustrious," (Jerusalem,) it is obvious that the name must be a corruption of Vespasian, who
is thus made the son instead of the father of Titus. We are told that authors differ whether
it was on this occasion, or at the former capture of Jerusalem by Bokht-Nasser, (Nebuchadnezzar,)
at which a king of Spain named Berian was also present, that the table constructed by the genii
for Solomon, and which Tarik afterwards found at Toledo, was transported to Spain--and Al-Makkari
professes himself, as well he may, unable to reconcile the different accounts. Fifty-five kings
descended from Ishban, whose race was dispossessed ("about the time of the Messiah, on whom
be peace!") by a people called Bishtilikat, (Visigoths?) under a king called Talubush, (Ataulphus?)
whom Al-Makkari holds to have been the same people as the "barbarians of Rome," though "there
are not wanting authors who make the Goths and the Bishtilikat only one nation." After holding
possession during the reigns of twenty-seven monarchs, they were in turn subdued by the Goths,
whose royal residence was "Toleyalah, (Toledo,) though Isbiliah (Seville) continued to be the
abode of the sciences." The Gothic kings are said to have been thirty-six;--but the only one
particularized by name is "Khoshandinus, (Constantine,) who not only embraced Christianity
himself, but called on his subjects to do the same, and is held by the Christians as the greatest
king they ever had.... Several kings of his posterity reigned after him, till Andalus was finally
subdued by the Arabs, by whose means God was pleased to make manifest the superiority of Islam
over every other religion."

With the Arab, conquest the authentic history commences; and the accounts given from the Moslem
writers of this memorable event, which first gave the followers of the Prophet a footing in
Europe, differ in no material point from the eloquent narrative of Gibbon. Al-Makkari, however,
does not fail to inform us, that predictions had been rife from long past ages, which foretold
the invasion and conquest of the country by a fierce people from Africa; and potent were the
spells and talismans constructed to ward off the danger, "by the _Greek_ kings who reigned
in old times." Several of these are described with due solemnity; and among them we find the
tale of the visit paid by Roderic[5] to the magic tower at Toledo, which has been rendered
familiar by the pages of Scott and Southey. We shall not here recapitulate the well-known incidents
of the wrongs and revenge of Count Yllan, or Julian, the first landing of Tarif at Tarifa,
the second expedition sent by Musa under Tarik Ibn Zeyad, and the death or disappearance of
the Gothic king on the fatal day of Guadalete.[6] So complete was the discomfiture of the Christians,
that the kingdom fell, without a second blow, before the victors of a single field; and was
overrun with such rapidity, that from the inability of the conquerors to garrison the cities
which surrendered, they were entrusted for the time to the guard of the Jews!--a singular circumstance,
which, when coupled with the statement that many of the Berbers (of whom the invading army
was almost wholly composed) were recent converts from Judaism,[7] would apparently imply that
the conquest was facilitated by a previous correspondence. The subjugation of the country was
completed by the arrival of Musa himself, who reduced Seville and the other towns which still
held out, and is even said to have crossed the Pyrenees and sacked Narbonne;[8] but this is
not mentioned by any Christian writer, and is referred by the translator to his invasion of
Catalonia, which the Arabs considered as part of "the land of the Franks." After the first
fury of conquest had subsided, the Christians who remained in their homes were permitted to
live unmolested, on payment of the capitation-tax; but peculiar privileges were accorded to
the Jews, and the hold of the Moslems on the country was strengthened by the vast influx of
settlers, not only from Africa, but from Syria and Arabia, who were attracted by the reports
of the riches and fertility of the new province. Nearly all the tribes of Arabia are enumerated
by Al-Makkari as represented in Spain; and the feuds of the two great divisions, the Beni-Modhar[9]
or race of Adnan, and the Beni-Kahttan or Arabs of Yemen, gave rise to most of the civil wars
which subsequently desolated Andalus.

    [5] He is called by the Arabic writers Ludherik--a name
    afterwards applied as a general designation to the kings of
    Castile.

    [6] The translator adduces strong grounds for believing that
    the battle was fought, not as usually held, in the plain of
    Xeres, on the south bank of the Guadalete, but "nearer the
    sea-shore, and not far from the town of Medina-Sidonia."

    [7] This is not mentioned by the authors from whom Al-Makkari
    has drawn his materials, but is stated by Professor de
    Gayangos on the authority of Ibn Khaldun.

    [8] A story is here told of Musa's reaching some colossal
    ruins, and a monument inscribed with Arabic characters
    pointing out that place as the term of his conquests--a legend
    which perhaps gave the hint for one of the tales in the
    Thousand and One Nights, in which he is sent on an expedition
    to the city of Brass on the shores of the Western Ocean.--See
    Lane's translation, chap. 21.

    [9] Condé, and the writers who have followed him, constantly
    speak of the Beni-Modhar as Egyptian--an error owing to the
    neglect or omission of the point which in Arabic orthography
    distinguishes _Modhar_ from _Missr_, (Egypt.)

The spoil of the vanquished kingdom was immense--the accumulation of long years of luxury and
freedom from foreign invasion in a country which, both from the fertility of the soil and the
abundance of the precious metals, was then probably the richest in Europe. Whatever degree
of credit we may attach to the famous table of Solomon, "said by some to be of pure gold, and
by others green emerald," and the gems and ornaments of which are described with full Oriental
luxuriance, every account referring to the booty acquired in the principal cities, gives ample
evidence of the riches and splendour of the Visigoths. "The plunder found at Toledo[10] was
beyond calculation. It was common for the lowest men in the army to find magnificent gold chains,
and long strings of pearls and rubies. Among other precious objects were found 170 diadems
of the purest red gold, set with every sort of precious stone; several measures full of emeralds,
rubies, and other gems; and an immense number of gold and silver vases. Such was the eagerness
for plunder, and the ignorance of some, especially the Berbers, that when two or more of this
nation fell upon an article which they could not conveniently divide, they would cut it in
pieces, whatever the material might be, and share it among them." Some of the victorious army
seized some ships in the eastern ports, and set sail for their homes with their plunder; but
they were speedily overtaken by a tremendous storm, and all perished in the waves--a manifest
token, we are given to understand, of the Divine vengeance for the abandonment of the _holy_
warfare under the banners of Islam.

    [10] Burkhardt (Travels in Arabia, i. 303) says, that all the
    golden ornaments which the Khalif Walid gave to the mosque at
    Mekka, "were sent from Toledo in Spain, and carried upon mules
    through Africa and Arabia."

Musa was on his march into Galicia to crush the last embers of national resistance, when his
progress was checked by a peremptory summons from the Khalif, to answer at Damascus the charges
forwarded against him by Tarik, whom he had unjustly disgraced and punished. Being convicted
of falsehood, on the production by Tarik of the missing foot of the table of Solomon, the merit
of finding which had been claimed by Musa, he was tortured and deprived of his riches; and
the head of his gallant son Abdulaziz, whom he had left in command in Spain, was shown to him
in public by the Khalif Soliman, the successor of Walid, with the cruel demand if he knew whose
it was. "I do," was the father's reply: "it is the head of one who fasted and prayed; may the
curse of Allah fall on it if he who slew him is a better man than he!" But though Musa was
thus arrested in the last stage of his conquering career, so complete was the prostration of
the Christians, that the viceroys who succeeded Abdulaziz, overlooking or disregarding this
yet unsubdued corner of Spain, at once poured their forces across the Pyrenees, seeking new
fields of conquest and glory in the countries of the Franks. But the antagonists whom they
here encountered, unlike the luxurious Goths of Spain, still preserved the barbarian valour
which they had brought from their German forests. And As-Samh, (the Zama of the Christian writers,)
the first Saracen general who obtained a footing in France, "fell a martyr to the faith," with
nearly his whole army, in a battle with Eudo, Duke of Aquitaine, before Toulouse, May 10, A.D.
721. But the fiery zeal of the Moslems was only stimulated by this reverse. In the course of
the ten following years, their dominion was established as far as the Rhone and Garonne; till,
in 732, the torrent of invasion, headed by the _Wali_ Abdurrahman, burst into the heart of
the country; and the battle, decisive of the destinies of France, and perhaps of Europe, was
fought between Tours and Poitiers, in October of that year, (Ramadhan, A.H. 114.) Few details
are given by the Arab writers of the seven days' conflict, in which the ranks of the Moslems
were shattered by the iron arm of Charles Martel; "and the army of Abdurrahman was cut to pieces
at a spot called _Balatt-ush-Shohadá_, (the Pavement of the Martyrs,) he himself being in the
number of the slain." Some confusion here appears, as the same epithet had been applied to
the former battle near Toulouse; but this "disastrous day" of Tours virtually extinguished
the schemes of Arab conquest in France, though it was not till many years later that they were
completely dislodged from Narbonne, and their other acquisitions between the Garrone and the
Pyrenees.

Meanwhile the Christian remnant, left unmolested in the Asturian and Galician mountains, gradually
recovered courage: and in 717-18, "a despicable barbarian," (as he is termed by Ibn Hayyan,
a writer often cited by Al-Makkari,) "named Belay, (Pelayo or Pelagius,) rose in Galicia; and
from that moment the Christians began to resist the Moslems, and to defend their wives and
daughters; for till then they had not shown the least inclination to do so." "Would to God,"
piously subjoins Al-Makkari, "that the Moslems had then extinguished at once the sparkles of
a fire destined to consume their whole dominion in those parts! But they said--'What are thirty
barbarians, perched on a rock? they must inevitably die!'" The spark, which contained the germ
of the future independence of Spain, was thus suffered to remain and spread, while the swords
of the Moslems were occupied in France; and its growth was further favoured by the anarchy
and civil dissensions which broke out among the conquerors. While the leaders of the different
Arab factions contested, sword in hand, the viceroyalty of Spain, the Berbers (whose conversion
to Islam was apparently yet but imperfect) rose in furious revolt both in Spain and Africa,
and were only overpowered by a fresh army sent by the Khalif Hisham from Syria. But the arrival
of these reinforcements added new fuel to the old feuds of the Beni-Modhar, and the Yemenis
or Beni-Kahttan; and a desperate civil war raged till 746, when the Khalif's lieutenant, the
Emir Abu'l-Khattar, who supported the Yemenis, was killed in a pitched battle fought near Cordova.
The leader of the victorious tribe, Yusuf Al-Fehri,[11] now assumed supreme power, which he
exercised nearly ten years as an independent ruler, without reference to the court of Damascus.
The state of affairs in the East, indeed, left little leisure to the Umeyyan khalifs to attend
to the regulation of a remote province. Their throne was already tottering before the arms
and intrigues of the Abbasides, whose black banners, under the guidance of the formidable Abu-Moslem,
were even now bearing down from Khorassan upon Syria. The unpopular cause of the Beni-Umeyyah,
who were detested for the murder of the grandsons of the Prophet under the second of their
line, was lost in a single battle; and the death of Merwan, the last khalif of the race, was
followed by the unsparing proscription of the whole family. "Every where they were seized and
put to death without mercy; and few escaped the search made by the emissaries of As-Seffah,
(_the bloodshedder_, the surname of the first Abbaside khalif,) in every province of the empire."

    [11] The tribe of Fehr hold a conspicuous place in the Spanish
    annals, and one of them was the leader of the last attempt to
    shake off the yoke of Castile, after the capture of Granada.

Among the few survivors of the general doom, was a youth named Abdurrahman Ibn Muawiyah, a
grandson of the Khalif Hisham. In his infancy his granduncle Moslemah, the leader of the first
Saracen host sent against Constantinople, had indicated him, from certain marks, as the destined
restorer of the fallen fortunes of his race; and he was preserved, by a timely warning from
a client of his house, from the fatal banquet, in which ninety of the Beni-Umeyyah were treacherously
massacred. Yet so hot was the pursuit, that his younger brother was taken and slain before
his eyes, while swimming the Euphrates with him in their flight. But Abdurrahman, after numberless
perils and adventures, at length reached Africa, which was ruled by the _wali_ or viceroy Abdurrahman
Ibn Habib, the father of Yusuf Al-Fehri, who had been a personal retainer of his family. But
he soon found that he had erred in trusting to the faith of Ibn Habib; and, after narrowly
escaping the search made for him by the emissaries of the governor, lay concealed for several
years, a fugitive and outlaw, among the tribes of Northern Africa. In this extremity, he at
length cast his eyes on Spain, where the Abbasides had never been recognized, and where his
own clansmen of the Koreysh, with their _maulis_, (freedmen or clients,) were numerous and
powerful. The overtures of the royal adventurer were eagerly listened to by the Yemenis, who
burned to revenge their late defeat on the Beni-Modhar; and Abdurrahman, landing at Al-muñecar
in the autumn of 755, found himself instantly at the head of 700 horse, and was speedily joined
by the chieftain of the Yemenis, who admitted him into Seville. During the march the want of
a banner was remarked, "and a long spear was produced, on the point of which a turban was to
be placed; but as it would have been necessary to incline the head of the spear, which was
supposed to be of extremely bad omen, it was held erect between two olive trees, and a man,
ascending one of them, was enabled to fasten the turban to the spear without lowering it....
With this same banner did Abdurrahman, and his son Hisham, vanquish their enemies whenever
they met them; and in such veneration was it held, that whenever the turban by long use decayed,
it was not removed, but a new one placed over it. In this manner it was preserved till the
days of Abdurrahman II.; some say till the days of his son Mohammed, when the turban on the
spear being decayed, the vizirs of that monarch, seeing nothing under it but a few rags twisted
round the spear, gave orders for their removal, and the whole was thrown away.... 'From that
time,' remarks the judicious historian Ibn Hayyan, 'the empire of the Beni-Umeyyah began visibly
to decline.'"

Under the auspices of this novel _oriflamme_ the Umeyyan prince and his followers advanced
upon Cordova, whither Yusuf Al-Fehri, who had been engaged in suppressing an insurrection in
the _Thagher_, (Aragon,) had hastened to oppose them at the head of the Beni-Modhar. Exchanging
for a mule the fiery courser which the jealous whispers of his adherents had remarked as designed
to secure his escape in case of defeat, Abdurrahman led his troops to the attack; and his victory
established on the throne of Spain a new dynasty of the Beni-Umeyyah, "who thus regained in
the west the supremacy which they had lost in the east." Those of the fallen family who had
escaped the general massacre, flocked to the court of their fortunate kinsman, "to all of whom
he gave pensions, commands, and governments, by which means his empire was strengthened;"--and
the robes and turbans of the monarch and the princes were always white, the colour assumed
by the house of Umeyyah, in opposition to the black livery of their rivals. Though Abdurrahman
never assumed the title of commander of the faithful, he suppressed the _khotbah_ or public
prayers in the name of the Abbasides; and when Al-Ala, the _wali_ of Africa, invaded Spain
in order to re-establish the supremacy of the eastern khalif, the head of his unsuccessful
general, thrown before the tent of Al-mansor at Mekka, conveyed to him the first tidings of
the destruction of the armament by the "hawk of the Koreysh," as he was wont to term Abdurrahman.
In the elation of triumph from this success, he is even said to have contemplated marching
through Africa to attack Al-mansor in the east; but this design was frustrated by the continual
rebellions of the Arab tribes, whom all his address and prudence was unable to keep in order;
and "while the Moslems were revolting against their sovereign, the Christians of Galicia gathered
strength, took possession of the towns and fortresses on the frontier, and expelled their inhabitants."
We find him at length obliged, in order to maintain his authority, to have recourse to the
system, which in the next century became universal in the east, of entrusting the defence of
his throne and person, not to the native levies of his kingdom, but to a standing army of purchased
slaves or _Mamlukes_. "He began to cease all communication with the chiefs of the Arabian tribes,
whom he found animated with a strong hatred against him, and to surround himself with slaves
and people entirely devoted to him; for which end he engaged followers and took clients from
every province of his empire, and sent over to Africa to enlist Berbers. 'Thus,' says Ibn Hayyan,
'Abdurrahman collected an army of slaves and Berbers, amounting to upwards of 40,000 men, by
means of whom he always remained victorious, in every contest with the Arabian tribes of Andalus.'"

The sciences and fine arts, which had been almost banished from Spain since the conquest, returned
in the train of the new dynasty; and literature was encouraged by the example of Abdurrahman,
who was himself a poet of no mean merit. His affectionate remembrance of his Syrian home, led
him to introduce into his new kingdom the flowers and fruits of the east;--and the palm-tree,
which was the parent of all those of its kind in Spain, and to which he addressed the well-known
lines, lamenting their common fate as exiles from their fatherland, was planted by himself
in the gardens of the Rissáfah, a country palace built on the model of one near Damascus, in
which the first years of his life had been spent. In architectural magnificence he rivaled
or surpassed the former princes of his race, the monuments of whose grandeur still exist in
the mosque of the Beni-Umeyyah at Damascus, and other edifices adorning the cities of Syria.
The palaces and aqueducts which he constructed in Cordova, testified his zeal for the splendour,
as well as his care for the salubrity, of his capital;--and after expending the sum of 80,000
golden _dinars_ (the produce of the royal fifth of all spoil taken in war) in the erection
of the stately mosque which bears his name, he bequeathed the completion of the structure,
at his death, A.D. 788, to his younger son Hisham, whom he nominated as his successor, to the
exclusion of the elder brother Soliman. Al-Makkari devotes an entire chapter to the wonders
of this celebrated temple, which was finished A.D. 794, nine years after its commencement,
and received additions from almost every successive sovereign of the house of Umeyyah. In its
present state, as the cathedral of Cordova, it still covers more ground than any church in
Christendom; but the inner roof, with its elaborate carving, the _mihrab_, or shrine, of minute
inlaid work of ivory, gems, and precious woods, and containing a copy of the Koran which had
belonged to the Khalif Othman--the embossed plates of gold and silver which encrusted the doors,
and the apples of the same metals which surmounted the dome--have long since disappeared; and
the thousand (or, as some say, thirteen hundred) columns of polished marble which it once boasted,
have been grievously reduced in number, to make room for the shrines and chapels of Christian
saints. The unequal length and proportions of those which remain, their irregular grouping,
and the want of height in the roof which they support, indicate a far lower grade of architectural
taste than that which we find in the aerial palaces of Granada; but all the Arabic writers
who have described it, concur in considering it one of the wonders of the world; and it ranked,
in the estimation of the Spanish Moslems, as inferior in point of sanctity to none but the
Kaaba, and the mosque of Omar at Jerusalem.

The mood of the Beni-Umeyyah, who appear in their eastern reign only as gloomy and execrated
tyrants, had been chastened by their misfortunes; and the virtues of Abdurrahman _Ad-dakhel_
(_the enterer or conqueror_, as he is generally termed by historians) were emulated by his
descendants. As an illustration of the character of his son Hisham, it is related by Al-Makkari,
that on hearing that the people of Cordova said, that his only motive in restoring the great
bridge over the Guadalquivir was to pass over it himself when he went out hunting, he bound
himself by a solemn vow never to cross it again as long as he lived; but the reign of this
beneficent prince lasted only eight years. His immediate successors, Al-hakem I., and Abdurrahman
II., were almost constantly engaged in warfare, either against their own rebellious relatives
and revolted subjects,[12] or against the Christians of Galicia, who, by the middle of the
ninth century, had advanced their frontier to the Douro and repeatedly repulsed the armies
sent against them from Cordova; but we find no mention in the writers cited by Al-Makkari,
either of the annual tribute of a hundred virgins, popularly said to have been exacted by the
Moslems, or of the great victory in 846, by which King Ramiro redeemed his country from this
degrading badge of vassalage.[13] So widely extended was the martial renown of the Umeyyan
sovereigns, that in 839 a suppliant embassy was received by Abdurrahman II. from the Greek
Emperor _Tufilus_, (Theophilus,) then hard pressed by the arms of the Abbaside khalif Al-mutassem,
to solicit his aid against their common enemy; and, though Abdurrahman declined to embark in
this distant and hazardous enterprise, a friendly intercourse long continued to be kept up
between the courts of Cordova and Constantinople. The military establishment was fully organized,
and placed on a formidable footing. Besides the troops quartered in the provinces and receiving
regular pay, the _haras_ or royal guard of Mamlukes, whose commander was one of the principal
officers of the court, was augmented to 5000 horse and 1000 foot, all Christians or foreigners
by birth, who occupied barracks close to the royal palace, and constantly mounted guard at
the gates. The coast was also defended by a powerful fleet of armed vessels, of which each
of the seaports fitted out its proportion, against the hostile attacks of the Abbaside lieutenauts
of Africa, and the predatory descents of the _Majus_[14] or Northmen; who, after laying waste
with fire and sword the French and English coasts, had extended their ravages into the southern
seas even to the Straits of Gibraltar. Lisbon and Seville were sacked by them in 844; and their
piratical fleets continued for many years to carry pillage and bloodshed along the shores of
the Peninsula.

    [12] It was by a body of exiles under Abu Hafss Omar, the
    Apochapsus of the Greeks, (incorrectly called Abu _Caab_ by
    Gibbon,) driven from Cordova after one of these insurrections,
    that Crete was conquered in 823.

    [13] In this battle, according to the veracious Spanish
    chroniclers, Santiago first appeared on his white horse in the
    mêlée, fighting for the Christians.--See the "Maiden Tribute,"
    in Lockhart's _Spanish Ballads_.

    [14] _Majus_--Magians or fire worshippers, is the term
    invariably applied to these fierce Pagans by the Arabic
    historians, apparently by a negative induction from their
    being neither Moslems, Jews, nor Christians.

The simplicity which the first Abdurrahman had uniformly preserved in his dress and habits
of life, was soon exchanged by his successors for royal magnificence, rivaling that of the
Abbaside court at Bagdad. It was Abdurrahman II. who, in a love quarrel with a beautiful inmate
of his harem, caused the door of her chamber to be blocked up with bags of silver coin, to
be removed on her relenting--"and she threw herself on her knees and kissed his feet; but,"
naïvely adds the Arab historian, "the money she kept, and no portion of it ever returned to
the treasury." The same prince testified his esteem for the fine arts, by riding forth in state
from his capital, to welcome the arrival of Zaryab, a far-famed musician, whom the jealousy
of a rival had driven from Bagdad, and who founded in Spain a famous school of music; and in
his convivial habits, and the freedom which he allowed to the companions of his festive hours,
his character accords with that assigned in the _Thousand and One Nights_, though not in the
page of history, to Haroon-Al-Rasheed. He died in 852, leaving the crown to his son Mohammed,
whose reign, as well as those of his two sons Almundhir and Abdullah, who filled the throne
in succession, is but briefly noticed by Al-Makkari, though Señor de Gayangos has supplied
some valuable additional matter in his notes. The never-ceasing contest with the Christians
was waged year by year; and the Princes of Oviedo, though often defeated in the plain and driven
back into their mountains, when the forces of Andalus were gathered against them; yet surely,
though slowly, gained ground against the provincial _walis_ or viceroys. At the death of "Ordhun
Ibn Adefunsh," (Ordoño I.) in 866, their territory extended from the Atlantic and the Bay of
Biscay to Salamanca; and the Moslem power was diverted by the rising strength of Navarre, where
the Basques had shaken off the divided allegiance paid alternately to the court of Cordova
and the Carlovingian rulers of France, and conferred on Garcia-Ramirez, in 857, an independent
regal title. But these distant hostilities, as yet, little affected the tranquillity of the
seat of government, which was more nearly interested in the frequent revolts of the provinces
under its rule,[15] and particularly by the rebellion of the _Muwallads_, (or descendants of
Christian converts to Islam;) which, though the information extant respecting it is somewhat
scanty, would appear to have been little less than a struggle between the two races for the
dominion of Spain. One of the Muwallad chiefs, named Omar Ibn Hafssun,[16] maintained for years
a sort of semi-independence in the Alpuxarras. Al-mundhir fell in a skirmish against him in
888, only two years after his accession; and the insurrection, after continuing through the
whole reign of Abdullah, was only finally suppressed under Abdurrahman III.

    [15] No fewer than twenty-seven insurgent leaders, in the
    reign of Abdullah alone, are enumerated in the translator's
    notes from Ibn Hayyan.

    [16] The epithet of _kelb_, "dog," frequently applied to this
    leader, has led Condé into the strange error of creating for
    him a son, whom he calls _Kalib_ Ibun Hafssun. The term
    _Muwallad_ is said to be the origin of _mulatto_.

The system of government under these princes, appears to have remained in nearly the same form
as it had been fixed by Abdurrahman I. The monarch nominated, during his lifetime, one of his
sons as his successor; and the _wali-al-ahd_, or crown-prince, thus selected, received the
oaths of allegiance of the dignitaries of the state, and was admitted to a share in the administration--a
wise regulation, which prevented the recurrence of the civil wars arising from the ambition
of princes of the blood, which had distracted the reigns of Al-hakem I. and Abdurrahman II.
The council of the sovereign was composed of the _vizirs_ or ministers of the different departments,
the _katibs_ or secretaries, and the chiefs of the law; the _walis_ of the six great provinces
into which Abdurrahman I. divided his empire,[17] as well as the municipal chiefs of the principal
cities were also summoned on emergencies:--while the prime minister, or highest officer of
the state, in whom, as in the Turkish _Vizir-Azem_,[18] the supreme direction of both civil
and military affairs was vested, was designated the _Hajib_ or chamberlain. Of the four orthodox[19]
sects of the Soonis, the one which predominated in Spain, as it does to the present day in
Barbary and Africa, was that of Malik Ibn Ans, whose doctrines were introduced in the reign
of Al-hakem I., by doctors who had received instruction from the lips of the Imam Malik himself
at Mekka; and was formally established by that prince throughout his dominions. The judicial
offices were filled, as in other Moslem countries, by Kadis, whose decisions were regulated
by the precepts of the Koran: but we find no mention (even before the assumption of the titles
of Imam and Khalif by Abdurrahman III.) of any supreme ecclesiastical chief like the Sheikh-al-Islam
or Mufti of the Ottomans;--though there were chief justices analogous to the Turkish Kadileskers,
who bore the title of _Kadi-'l-jamah_.

    [17] We do not find this division mentioned by the authors
    cited by Al-Makkari; but it is stated by Condé, and appears to
    have prevailed as long as the kingdom retained its unity. The
    six provincial capitals were Saragossa, Toledo, Merida,
    Valencia, Murcia, and Granada. Shortly before the arrival of
    Abdurrahman, Yusuf Al-Fehri had organized _five_ great
    governments, one of which comprised Narbonne and the
    Trans-Pyrenean conquests.

    [18] Under the Arab dynasties of the east, the _vizir_ was
    exclusively an officer _of the pen_: and Makrizi expressly
    mentions that Bedr-al-Jemali, who became vizir to the Fatimite
    khalif Al-Mostanssor in 1074, was the first in whom _the sword
    and the pen_ were united.

    [19] See Sale's Koran. Preliminary Discourse. Sect. 8.

The royal revenue was derived from a variety of sources. The principal were, a land-tax amounting
to one-tenth of the produce of the soil and the mines, the capitation-tax paid by the Jews
and Christians, and the fifth of the spoil taken from the enemy--an enormously productive item
in a time of constant warfare--besides a duty of two and a half per cent on all exports and
imports. These were the legitimate dues of the crown, sanctioned by the Koran; but the splendid
court maintained by the later sovereigns of Cordova, their lavish expenditure in building,
and their large military and naval establishments, often compelled them to have recourse to
irregular methods of raising money, by forced loans and by duties laid on different articles
of food, in direct violation of the Moslem law. The amount raised by all these means varied
greatly at different periods. Under Abdurrahman II., the whole direct revenue is said not to
have exceeded 1,000,000 of gold _din[=a]rs_:--but the royal fifths, and other extraordinary
sources of income, appear not to have been included in this estimate:--and a century later,
under the third and greatest prince of that name, we are told, on the authority of the biographer
Ibn Khallekan, that "the revenues of Andalus amounted to 5,480,000 gold _din[=a]rs_, collected
from taxes," (it is elsewhere said from the _land_-tax:) besides 765,000 derived from markets--exclusive
also of the royal fifth of the spoil, and the capitation-tax levied on Christians and Jews
living in the Moslem dominions, the amount of which is said to have equaled all the rest. An
annual sum of equal amount, reckoning the _din[=a]r_ at ten shillings, had never in the history
of the world been raised in a territory of the same extent, and probably equaled the united
incomes of all the Christian princes in Europe--if we except the revenue of the Greek Emperor,
it certainly far exceeded them. "Of this vast income," Ibn Khallekan continues, "one-third
was appropriated to the payment of the army, another third was deposited in the royal coffers
to cover the expenses of the household, and the remainder was spent yearly in the construction
of Az-zahra and such other buildings as were erected under his reign." This tripartite allotment
of the revenue is alluded to under several reigns: the expenses of administration and the salaries
of the civil functionaries were included under the second head; and the third portion was,
in ordinary case, reserved "to repel invasions and meet emergencies."

The prince under whom the vast revenue thus stated is said to have been collected, ascended
the throne on the death of his grandfather Abdullah, in the 300th year of the Hejra, and the
912th of the Christian era:--and his reign, of more than fifty lunar years, saw the power and
splendour of the Umeyyan dynasty attain its zenith. For some years after his accession, he
headed his armies in person against the Christians and the partizans of Ibn Hafssun, who still
continued in arms: but the severe defeat which he received in 939 at Simaneas, near Zamora,
(called by Moslem writers the battle of Al-handik,) from Ramiro II. of Leon, disgusted him
with active warfare; and he deputed the command of his armies to his generals and the princes
of the blood, who, in annual campaigns, so effectually kept the Christians within their limits,
that little territorial acquisition was made by them during his reign; while the voluntary
adhesion of the Berber tribes, after the overthrow of the Edrisite dynasty in 941 by the arms
of the Fatimite khalifs, gave him almost unresisted possession of great part of Fez and Morocco.
The defeat of Al-handik, and the treason and execution in 950, of his elder son Abdullah, (whom
disappointment at being postponed to his younger brother in the succession, had led to conspire
against his father's life,) were almost the only clouds which dimmed the continual sunshine
of his prosperity--and his grandeur was enhanced in the eyes of his subjects, by the assumption
of the highest prerogatives of Islam. Hitherto the princes of his line had contented themselves
with the style of _Amirs of the Moslems,_ and _Beni-Kholaifah_ or "sons of the Khalifs;" but
in 929, "seeing the state of weakness and degradation to which the khalifate of the Beni-Abbas
at Bagdad had been reduced," he no longer hesitated to adopt the titles of Imam and Khalif,
with the appellation of An-nasir Ledinillah, (defender of the religion of God,) under which
he is generally mentioned by historians.

The writers from whom Al-Makkari has drawn his materials, exhaust their powers of language
in panegyrics on the unrivaled magnificence of the court of Abdurrahman; which was thronged
both by men of letters whom the distracted state of the East had driven thither for refuge,
and by ambassadors, not only from the princes of Islam, but from "Hoto the king of the Alaman,"
(Otho the Great of Germany,) the king of France, and numerous other Christian potentates. The
reception of these missions was usually signalized by a gorgeous display of the pomp of the
court--and the ceremonial on the arrival in 949 of the envoys of Constantine VII. of Constantinople,
is described at length from Ibn Hayyan. "The vaulted hall in his palace of Az-zahra, which
he had fixed upon as the place where he would receive their credentials, was beautifully decorated,
and a throne glittering with gold and sparkling with gems raised in the midst. To the right
of the throne stood five of the khalif's sons, to the left three others, one being absent from
illness. Next to them were the vizirs, each at his post on the right or left of the throne.
Then came the hajibs or chamberlains, the sons of the vizirs, the freed slaves of the khalif,
and the wakils or officers of his household. The court of the palace had been strewn with the
richest carpets; and silken awnings of the most gorgeous description had every where been thrown
over the doors and arches. Presently the ambassadors entered the hall, and were struck with
awe at the magnificence displayed, and the power of the Sultan before whom they stood. They
advanced a few steps, and presented the letter of their master, Constantine son of Leo, Lord
of Constantinah the Great, (Constantinople.) It was written on sky-blue paper, and the characters
were of gold. Within the letter was an enclosure, the ground of which was also sky-blue like
the first, but the characters were of silver: it was likewise written in Greek, and contained
a list of the presents which the Lord of Constantinah sent to the Khalif. On the letter was
a seal of gold of the weight of four mithkals, on one side of which was a likeness of the Messiah,
and on the other those of the King Constantine and his son. The letter was enclosed in a bag
of silver cloth, over which was a case of gold, with a portrait of King Constantine admirably
executed on stained glass. All this was enclosed in a case covered with cloth of silk and gold
tissue. On the first line of the _Inwan_ or introduction was written, 'Constantine and Romanin,
(Romanus,) believers in the Messiah, kings of the Greeks;' and in the next, 'To the great and
exalted in dignity and power, as he most deserves, the noble in descent, Abdurrahman the khalif,
who rules over the Arabs of Andalus: may God preserve his life!'" The conclusion of this splendid
ceremony was, however, less imposing than the commencement; for a learned _Faquih_, who had
been appointed to harangue the envoys in a set speech, was so overawed by the grandeur around
him, that "his tongue clove to his mouth, he could not aticulate a single word, and fell senseless
to the ground" Nor did his successor, "who was reputed to be a prince in rhetoric, and an ocean
of language," fare much better; for though he began fluently, "all of a sudden he stopped for
want of a word which did not occur to him, and thus put an end to his peroration." In this
awkward dilemma, the reputation of the Andalusian rhetoricians was saved by Mundhir Ibn Said,
who not only poured forth a torrent of impromptu eloquence, but delivered a long ex-tempore
poem, "which to this day stands unequalled; and Abdurrahman was so pleased, that he appointed
him preacher and Imam to the great mosque; and some time after, the office of Kadi-'l-jamah,
or supreme judge, being vacant, he named him to that high post, and made him besides reader
of the Khoran to the mosque of Az-zahra."

The palace of Az-zahra, where the eyes of the Greeks were dazzled by this costly pageant, is
one of the familiar names of the romance of Spanish history:--it is known to all the world
how Abdurrahman, to gratify the capricious fancy of a beautiful and beloved mistress, expended
millions, and tasked the labour of thousands, in erecting on the plain beyond Cordova a fairy
palace and city which might bear her name and be her own. And like a fairy fabric did Az-zahra
vanish; for so utterly was it destroyed, during the wars and civil tumults attending the fall
of the race which raised it, that at the present day not a stone can be found, not a vestige
even of the foundations traced, to show where it once stood; and all that we know of this "wondrous
freak of magnificence" is drawn from the glowing accounts of contemporary writers, who saw
it during the brief period of its glory. It is principally from Ibn Hayyan that Al-Makkari
has copied the details of this marvellous structure, with its "15,000 doors, counting each
flap or fold as one," all covered either with plates of iron, or sheets of polished brass;
and its 4000 columns, great and small, 140 of which were presented by the Emperor of Constantinople,
and 1013, mostly of green and rose-coloured marble, were brought from various parts of Africa.
Among the principal ornaments were two fountains brought from Constantinople, "the larger of
gilt bronze, beautifully carved with basso-relieve representing human figures,"--the smaller
surrounded by twelve figures, made of red gold in the arsenal of Cordova: they were all ornamented
with jewels, and the water poured out of their mouths. The famous fountain of quicksilver,
which could be set in motion at pleasure, was placed in the _Kasr-al-Kholaifa_, or hall of
the khalifs, "the roof and walls of which were of gold, and solid but transparent blocks of
marble of various colours: on each side were eight doors fixed on arches of ivory and ebony,
ornamented with gold and precious stones, and resting on pillars of variegated marble and transparent
crystal:--and in the centre was fixed the unique pearl presented to An-nassir by the Greek
Emperor." The mosque and baths attached to the palace were on a corresponding scale of magnificence:
and the number of inmates, male and female, is said to have been not less than 20,000. The
expenses of the establishment must have consumed the revenues of a kingdom, if we are to believe
the statement, that 12,000 loaves of bread were daily allowed to feed the fish in the ponds!
"But all this and more is recorded by orators and poets who have exhausted the mines of eloquence
in the description," --says Al-Makkari, who, after enlarging upon "the running streams, the
luxuriant gardens, the stately buildings for the accommodation of the guards and high functionaries--the
throngs of soldiers, pages, eunuchs, and slaves, attired in robes of silk and brocade, moving
to and fro through its broad streets--and the crowds of judges, katibs, theologians, and poets,
walking with becoming gravity through the spacious halls and ample courts of the palace,"--concludes
with a burst of pious enthusiasm. "Praise be to God who allowed those contemptible creatures
(mankind) to build such palaces, and to inhabit them as a recompense in this world, that the
faithful might be stimulated to the path of virtue, by reflecting that the pleasures enjoyed
by their owners were still very far from giving even a remote idea of those reserved for the
true believers in paradise!"

"Abdurrahman," as Al-Makkari sums up his character, "has been described as the mildest and
most enlightened of sovereigns. His meekness, generosity, and love of justice, became proverbial:
none of his ancestors surpased him in courage, zeal for religion, and other virtues which constitute
an able and beloved monarch. He was fond of science, and the patron of the learned, with whom
he loved to converse.... We should never finish, were we to transcribe the innumerable anecdotes
respecting him which are scattered like loose pearls over the writings of the Andalusian poets
and historians,"--but as the "pearls" selected possess but little novelty in the illustration
of the kingly virtues which they commemorate, we prefer to quote once more the oft-repeated
legacy to posterity, in which this "Soliman of the West," as he was called by his contemporaries,
confessed that, like his eastern prototype, he had found all his grandeur "but vanity and vexation
of spirit."--"After his death a paper was found in his on handwriting, in which were noted
those days he had spent in happiness and without any cause of sorrow, and they were found to
amount to fourteen. O, man of understanding! consider and observe the small portion of happiness
the world affords, even in the most enviable position! The khalif An-nasir, whose prosperity
in mundane affairs became proverbial, had only fourteen days of undisturbed enjoyment during
a reign of fifty years, seven months, and three days. Praise be given to him, the Lord of eternal
glory and everlasting empire! There is no God but he!"

In the fulness of years and glory, Abdurrahman died of a paralytic stroke at Az-zahra, on the
second or third of Ramadhan, A.H. 350, (Oct. 961,) and was succeeded, according to his previous
nomination, by his son Al-hakem II., who assumed on this occasion the title of Al-mustanser-billah,
(one who implores God's assistance.) This prince has been characterized, by one of the ablest
of recent historians,[20] as "one of those rare beings, who have employed the awful engine
of despotism in promoting the happiness and intelligence of his species;" and who rivaled,
"in his elegant tastes, appetite for knowledge, and munificent patronage, the best of the Medici:"--nor
is this high praise undeserved. Though he more than once headed his armies in person, with
success, against the Christians and Northmen, and maintained on public occasions the state
and magnificence which had been introduced by his father, the toils of war and the pomp of
royalty were alike alien to his inclinations, which had been directed from his earliest years
to pursuits of literature and science. The library which he amassed is said by some writers
to have amounted to the almost incredible number of 400,000 volumes: and such was his ardour
in the collection of books, that even in Persia and other remote regions, the munificence which
he exercised through agents employed for the purpose, secured him copies of forthcoming works
even before their appearance in their own country. "He made Andalus a great market for the
literary productions of every clime ... so that rich men in Cordova, however illiterate they
might be, rewarded writers and poets with the greatest munificence, and spared neither trouble
nor expense in forming libraries." Nor were these treasures of literature idly accumulated,
at least by Al-hakem himself; for so vast and various was his reading, that there was scarcely
one of his books (as we are assured by the historian Ibn'ul-Abbar) which was not enriched with
remarks and annotations from his pen. "In the knowledge especially of history, biography, and
genealogy, he was surpassed by no living author of his days: and he wrote a voluminous history
of Andalus, in which was displayed such sound criticism, that whatever he related, as borrowed
from more ancient sources, might be implicitly relied upon."

    [20] Prescott's Ferdinand and Isabella, i. 351.

The reign of Al-hakem was the Augustan age of Andalusian literature; and besides the numerous
learned men whom the fame of his father's and his own liberality, with the security of their
rule, had attracted to Spain from other regions of Islam, we find in the pages of Al-Makkari
an extensive list of native authors, principally in the departments of poetry, history, and
philology, who are said to be "a few only of the most eminent who flourished during this reign"--but
none of their names, however noted in their own day, are known in modern Europe. Nor was the
gentler sex, as is usually the case in the lands of Islam, excluded from the general taste
for letters; and one of our author's chapters is almost entirely filled with a catalogue of
the poetesses who adorned Andalus at this and other periods of its history. One of these, Mariam
or Mary, the daughter of Abu-Yakub Al-ansari, who rose into celebrity in the latter years of
Al-hakem, appears to have been one of the earliest _bas-bleus_ on record. Independent of her
poetical talents, she gave lectures at her residence at Seville "in rhetoric and literature;
which, united to her piety, virtue, and amiable disposition, gained her the affection of her
sex, and procured her many pupils: she lived to old age, and died after the 400th year of the
Hejra," (A.D. 1010.) The favourite study of the Moslems, the divinity and law of the Koran,
was cultivated with especial zeal under a monarch who was himself a rigid observer of its ordinances;
and various anecdotes are related by Al-Makkari of the extraordinary deference paid by Al-hakem
to the eminent theologians who frequented his court. The Khalif himself "attended public worship
every Friday, and distributed alms to the poor; he laid out large sums in the construction
of mosques, hospitals, and colleges for youth;[21] and being himself very strict in the observance
of his religious duties, he enforced the precepts of the _Sunnah_ (tradition) throughout his
dominions." With this view, severe edicts were directed against the use of wine, which had
become prevalent among the Andalusian Moslems; and Al-hakem was with difficulty restrained,
by representations of the ruin which would be thus brought on the cultivators, from ordering
the destruction of all the vines in his dominions. But the reign of this excellent and enlightened
prince lasted only fifteen years; and at his death, (Sept. 976,) which was caused by the same
malady that had proved fatal to his father, the glory of the house of Umeyyah expired.

    [21] Eighty free schools are said by other authorities to have
    existed or been founded during this reign in Cordova; the
    number of dwelling-houses in which at the same time, great and
    small, is stated at 200,000.

The evils of a minority had never yet been experienced in the succession of the Umeyyan princes,
all of whom had ascended the throne at a mature age, and with some experience of administration
from their previous recognition as heir. But Hisham II., (surnamed Al-muyyed-billah, the assisted
by God,) the only son of Al-hakem, was but nine years old at the time of his father's decease;
and for some time the government was directed in his name by the Hajib, Jafar Al-Mushafi; but
the influence of the queen-mother erelong succeeded in displacing this faithful minister, in
favour of Mohammed Ibn Abu Amir, who then held the post of _sahib-ush-shortah_, or captain
of the guard. This remarkable personage (better known in history by his surname of Al-mansur)
was the son of a religious devotee, and his condition in early life was so humble, that he
supported himself as a public letter-writer in the streets of Cordova; but an accident having
introduced him into the palace, he so skilfully wound his way among the intigues of the court,
as to attain the highest place next the throne. But even this dignity was far from satisfying
his ambition. Under various pretexts he destroyed or drove into exile, within a few years,
all the princes of the blood, and others whose influence or station might have endangered the
success of his projects, and concentrated in his own hands all the powers of the state; while
the khalif, secluded from public view within his palace, was as completely a puppet in the
hands of his all-powerful minister, as the khalifs of Bagdad at the same period in those of
the _Emirs-al-Omrah_. Secure of the support of the soldiery, whose affections he had gained
by his liberality, Al-mansur so little affected to disguise his assumption of supremacy, that
he ordered his own name to be struck on the coin, and repeated in the public prayers, along
with that of Hisham, thus arrogating to himself a share in the two most inalienable prerogatives
of sovereignty. His robes were made of a peculiar fashion and stuff appropriated to royalty;
he received embassies seated on the throne, and declared peace and war in his own name. To
such utter helplessness was the khalif reduced,[22] that he was unable even to oppose the removal
of the royal treasure fiom Cordova to a fortified palace which Al-mansur had built for his
residence, not far from Az-zahra, and had named, as if in mockery, Az-zahirah;--and the Hajib
was at one time obliged to quiet the murmurs of the populace, who doubted whether their sovereign
was still in existence, by leading him in procession through the streets of the capital; "and
the eyes of the people feasted on what had been so long concealed from them."

    [22] Some historians even speak of this period as the "dynasty
    of the Amirites," from Al-mansur's father, Abn Amir.

But this daring usurpation was in part redeemed by qualities in the usurper worthy of a king.
Though the bigotry of Al-masur led him to order the destruction of those volumes in the library
of Al-hakem which treated of philosophy and the abstruse sciences, on the ground that such
studies tended to irreligion, he was yet liberal to the learned men who visited his court at
Az-zahirah, where he resided in royal splendour during the intervals of his campaigns; and
he endeared hinself to the people, by his generosity, his rigid justice, and the strict control
which he enforced over his subordinate officers. But it was on his fervent zeal for the cause
of Islam, and his martial exploits against the Christians, (whence his surname of _Al-mansur_,
or _the Victorious_, was derived,) that his fame and popularity chiefly rested. The martial
spirit of the Spanish Moslems appears, from various anecdotes related by Al-Makkari, to have
suffered great deterioration from the progress of luxury and decay of discipline; but the armies
led by Al-mansur were mainly recruited from the fiery tribes of Barbary, and strengthened by
numerous Christian slaves or Mamlukes, trained to serve their captors in arms against their
own countrymen. With forces thus constituted, did Al-mansur, in whom once more shone forth
the spirit of the Arab conquerors of past times, invade the Christian territories in each spring
and autumn for twenty-six successive years, carrying the Moslem arms in triumph even to the
shores of the "Green Sea," (Atlantic Ocean,) and into regions which Tarik and Musa had never
reached. Astorga and Leon, in spite of the efforts of Bermudo II. to save his capital, were
taken and razed to the ground in 983. Barcelona only escaped the same fate in the following
year by submission and tribute; but the crowning glory of Al-mansur's achievements in the _al-jahid_
or holy war, was the capture, in 997, Santiago, the shrine and sepulchre of the patron saint
of Spain. "No Moslem general had ever penetrated as far as that city, which is in an inaccessible
position in the most remote part of Galicia, and is a sanctuary regarded by the Christians
with veneration equal to that which the Moslems entertain for the Kaaba,"--but Al-mansur, supplied
with provisions from a fleet which accompanied his march along the coast of Portugal, forced
his way through the Galician defiles, and occupied the holy city without opposition--all the
inhabitants having fled, according to Ibn Hayyan, with the exception of an old monk who tended
the tomb. The city and cathedral were leveled with the ground; the shrine alone was left untouched
in the midst of the ruins, from the belief of the Moslems that St James was the brother of
the Messiah--and the church-bells were conveyed on the shoulders of the captives to Cordova,
where they were suspended as lamps in the great mosque, to commemorate the triumph of Islam
in the principal seat of Christian worship and pilgrimage.

Such was the depression produced among the Christians by these repeated disasters, that, if
we may believe Al-Makkari, "one of Al-mansur's soldiers having left his banner fixed in the
earth on a mountain before a Christian town, the garrison dared not come out for several days
after the retreat of the Moslem army, not knowing what troops might be behind it." The pressing
sense of common danger, at length extinguished ("for the first time perhaps," as Conde remarks)
the feuds of the Christian princes; and in the spring of 1002 the united forces of the Count
of Castile, Sancho the Great of Navarre, and the King of Leon, confronted the Moslem host at
Kalat-an-nosor,[23] (the Castle of the Eagles,) on the frontiers of Old Castile. The mighty
conflict which ensued is very briefly dismissed by Al-Makkari--"Al-mansur attacked and defeated
them with great loss"--but a far different account is given by the Christian chroniclers, who
represent the Moslems as only saved from a total overthrow by the approach of night. It seems,
in truth, to have been nearly a drawn battle, with immense carnage on both sides; but the advantage
was decidedly with the Christians, who retained possession of the field; while Al-mansur, weakened
by the loss of great numbers of his best men and officers, abandoned his camp, and retreated
the next day across the Douro. In all his fifty-two campaigns he is said never before to have
been defeated; and the chagrin occasioned by this severe reverse, joined to a malady under
which he was previously suffering, ended his life shortly after[24] at Medinah-Selim, (Medinaceli.)
He was buried by his sons in the same place; the dust which had adhered to his garments in
his campaigns against the Christians, and which had been carefully preserved for the purpose,
being placed in the tomb with the corpse--a practice not unusual at the funeral of a celebrated
warrior. "This enlightened and never-vanquished Hajib"--says Al-Makkali, with whom Al-mansur
is a favourite hero--"used continually to ask God to permit him to die in his service and in
war against the infidels, and thus his desire was granted;... and after his death, the Mohammedan
empire in Andalus began to show visible signs of decay."

    [23] The precise locality of this famous battle is not very
    clearly ascertained; but Condé places it betveen Soria and
    Medinaceli.

    [24] The battle is placed by the Christian writers in 998; but
    the death of Al-mansur, which both Christians and Moslems
    agree in stating to have taken place within a very short time,
    is said by the latter to have been A.M. 392, A.D. 1002.

Al-mansur had a worthy successor in his son Abdul-malek, who at once received the appointment
of Hajib from the passive Khalif:--but on his death in 1008, the post was assumed by his brother
Abdurrahman, popularly known as Shanjul, a Berber word signifying _madman_--a surname which
he had earned by his habits of low vice and intemperance. Scarcely had he entered upon office,
when, not contented with exercising sovereign authority, like his father and brother, under
an appearance of delegation from the Khalif, he persuaded or compelled the feeble Hisham, who
had no male issue, to appoint him _Wali-al-ahd,_ or heir-presumptive--the deed of nomination
is given at length by Al-Makkari, and is a curious specimen of a state-paper. But this transfer
was viewed with deep indignation by the people of Cordova, who were warmly attached to the
line of their ancient princes; and their discontent being fomented by the members of the Umeyyan
family, they rose in furious revolt during the absence of the Hajib on the Galician frontiers,
deposed Hisham, and raised to the throne Mohammed-Al-muhdi, a great-grandson of Abdurrahman
III. Abdurrahman, returning in haste to quell the insurrection, found himself deserted by his
army, and was put to death with most of his family and principal adherents; and the power of
the Amirites vanished in a day like the remembrance of dream. But the sceptre which had thus
been struck from their grasp, found no other hand strong enough to seize it; and from the first
deposition of Hisham II. in 1009, to the final dissolution of the monarchy on the abdication
of Hisham III. in 1031, the whole of Moslem Spain presented a frightful scene of anarchy and
civil war. Besides the imbecile Hisham, who was at least once released and restored to the
throne, and was personated by more than one pretender, the royal title was assumed, within
twenty years by not fewer than six princes of the house of Umeyyah, and by three of a rival
race--a branch of the Edrisites called Beni-Hammud, who endeavoured in the general confusion
to assert their claims as descendants of the Khalif Ali. The aid of the Christians was called
in by more than one faction; and Cordova was stormed and sacked after a long siege in 1013,
by the African troops who followed the standard of Soliman Ab-muhdi, one of the Umeyyan competitors.
The palaces of Az-zahra and Az-zahirah were utterly destroyed; the remains of Hakem's library,
with the treasures amassed by former sovereigns, were either plundered or dispersed; nor did
the ancient capital of Audalus, no more the seat of the Khalifate, ever recover its former
grandeur. The provincial _walis_, many of whom owed their appointments to the Hajibs of the
house of Amir, and were disaffected to the Beni-Umeyyah, every where threw off their allegiance
and assumed independence, till only the districts in its immediate vicinity remained attached
to Cordova, which was still considered the seat of the Mohammedan empire. The last Umeyyan
prince who ruled there was a grandson of the great Abdurrahman, named Hisham Al-Mutadd; whom
the inhabitants, after expelling the troops of the Beni-Hammud in 1027, invited to ascend the
throne of his ancestors. "He was a mild and enlightened prince and possessed many brilliant
qualities; but notwithstanding this, the volatile and degenerate citizens of Cordova grew discontented
with him, and he was deposed by the army in 422, (A.D. 1031.) He left the capital and retired
to Lerida, where he died in 428, (A.D. 1036.) He was the last member of that illustrious dynasty
which had ruled over Andalus and a great portion of Africa for two hundred and eighty-four
years, counting from the accession of Abdurrahman I., surnamed Ab-dakhel, in 138, (A.D. 756.)
There is no God but God! He is the Almighty!"

The fall of the Umeyyan khalifate closes the first of the two brilliant periods which illustrate
the Arab history of Spain. The uninterrupted hereditary succession for ten generations, and
the long average duration of the reign of each monarch, from the arrival in Spain of Abdurrahman
I. in 756, to the death or disappearance of Hisham II. in 1009, are without a parallel it any
other Moslem dynasty, with the single exception of the Ottoman line; and though, on pursuing
the comparison, the Umeyyan princes cannot vie with the last-named race in extent of conquest
and splendour of martial achievement, they far surpass not only the Ottomans, but almost every
sovereign family in the annals of Islam, in the cultivation of kingly virtues and arts of peace,
and the refinement and love of literature, which they introduced and fostered in their dominions.
During the greater part of their rule, the court of Cordova was the most polished and enlightened
in Europe removed equally from the martial rudeness of those of the Frank monarchs, and the
punctilious attention to forms and jealous etiquette, within which the Grcek emperors studiously
intrenched themselves. The useful arts, and in particular the science of agriculture, necessary
for the support of a dense population, were cultivated to an extent of which no other country
afforded an example; and the commerce which filled the ports of Spain, from all parts of Europe
and the East, was the natural result of the industry of her people. In how great a degree the
personal character of the Umeyyan sovereigns contributed to this state of political and social
prosperity, is best proved by the rapid disruption and fall of the monarchy, when it passed
into the feeble hands of Hisham II., and by the history of the two following centuries of anarchy,
civil war, and foreign domination. But the sun of Andalusian glory, which had attained its
meridian splendour under the Khalifs of Cordova, once more emerged before the close of its
course from the clouds and darkness which surrounded it;--and its setting rays shone, with
concentrated lustre, over the kingdom of GRANADA.

       *       *       *       *       *

TWO NIGHTS IN SOUTHERN MEXICO.

A FRAGMENT FROM THE JOURNAL OF AN AMERICAN TRAVELLER.

"A capital place this for our bivouac!" cried I, swinging myself off my mule, and stretching
my arms and legs, which were stiffened by a long ride.

It _was_ a fairish place, to all appearances--a snug ravine, well shaded by mahogany-trees,
the ground covered with the luxuriant vegetation of that tropical region, a little stream bubbling
and leaping and dashing down one of the high rocks that flanked the hollow, and rippling away
through the tall fern towards the rear of the spot where we had halted, at the distance of
a hundred yards from which the ground was low and shelving.

"A capital place this for our bivouac!"

My companion nodded. As to our lazy Mexican _arrieros_ and servants, they said nothing, but
began making arrangements for passing the night. Curse the fellows! If they had seen us preparing
to lie down in a swamp, cheek by jowl with an alligator, I believe they would not have offered
a word of remonstrance. Those Mexican half-breeds, half Indian half Spaniard, with sometimes
a dash of the Negro, are themselves so little pervious to the dangers and evils of their soil
and climate, that they never seem to remember that Yankee flesh and blood may be rather more
susceptible; that niguas[25] and musquittoes, and _vomito prieto_, as they call their infernal
fever, are no trifles to encounter; without mentioning the snakes, and scorpions, and alligators,
and other creatures of the kind, which infest their strange, wild, unnatural, and yet beautiful
country.

    [25] The nigua is a small but very dangerous insect which
    fixes itself in the feet, bores holes in the skin, and lays
    its eggs there. These, if not extracted, (which extraction by
    the by is a most painful operation) cause first an intolerable
    itching, and subsequently sores and ulcers of a sufficiently
    serious nature to entail the loss of the feet.

I had come to Mexico in company with Jonathan Rowley, a youth of Virginian raising, six and
twenty years of age, six feet two in his stockings, with the limbs of a Hercules and shoulders
like the side of a house. It was towards the close of 1824; and the recent emancipation of
Mexico from the Spanish yoke, and its self-formation into a republic, had given it a new and
strong interest to us Americans. We had been told much, too, of the beauty of the country--but
in this we were at first rather disappointed; and we reached the capital without having seen
any thing, except some parts of the province of Vera Cruz, that could justify the extravagant
encomiums we had heard bestowed in the States upon the splendid scenery of Mexico. We had not,
however, to go far southward from the chief city, before the character of the country altered,
and became such as to satisfy our most sanguine expectations. Forests of palms, of oranges,
citrons, and bananas, filled the valleys: the marshes and low grounds were crowded with mahogany-trees,
and with immense fern plants, in height equal to trees. All nature was on a gigantic scale--the
mountains of an enormous height, the face of the country seamed and split by _barrancas_ or
ravines, hundreds, ay, thousands of feet deep, and filled with the most abundant and varied
vegetation. The sky, too, was of the deep glowing blue of the tropics, the sort of blue which
seems varnished or clouded with gold. But this ardent climate and teeming soil are not without
their disadvantages. Vermin and reptiles of all kinds, and the deadly fever of these latitudes,
render the low lands uninhabitable for eight months out of the twelve. At the same time there
are large districts which are comparatively free from these plagues--perfect gardens of Eden,
of such extreme beauty that the mere act of living and breathing amongst their enchanting scenes,
becomes a positive and real enjoyment. The heart seems to leap with delight, and the soul to
be elevated, by the contemplation of those regions of fairy-like magnificence.

The most celebrated among these favoured provinces is the valley of Oaxaca, in which two mountainous
districts, the Mistecca and Tzapoteca, bear off the palm of beauty. It was through this immense
valley, nearly three hundred leagues in length, and surrounded by the highest mountains in
Mexico, that we were now journeying. The kind attention of our chargé-d'affaires at the Mexican
capital, had procured us every possible facility in travelling through a country, of which
the soil was at that time rarely trodden by any but native feet. We had numerous letters to
the alcaldes and authorities of the towns and villages which are sparingly sprinkled over the
southern provinces of Mexico; we were to have escorts when necessary; every assistance, protection,
and facility, were to be afforded us. But as neither the authorities nor his excellency, Uncle
Sam's envoy, could make inns and houses where none existed, it followed that we were often
obliged to sleep _à la belle étoile_, with the sky for a covering. And a right splendid roof
it was to our bedchamber, that tropical sky, with its constellations, all new to us northerns,
and every star magnified by the effect of the atmosphere to an incredible size. Mars and Saturn,
Venus and Jupiter, had all disappeared; the great and little Bear were still to be seen; in
the far distance the ship Argo and the glowing Centaur; and, beautiful above all, the glorious
sign of Christianity the colossal Southern Cross, in all its brightness and sublimity, glittering
in silvery magnificence out of its setting of dark blue crystal.

We were travelling with a state and a degree of luxury that would have excited the contempt
of our backwoodsmen; but in a strange country we thought it best to do as the natives did;
and accordingly, instead of mounting our horses and setting forth alone, with our rifles slung
over our shoulders, and a few handfuls of parched corn and dried flesh in our hunting pouches,
we journeyed Mexican fashion, with a whole string of mules, a _topith_ or guide, a couple of
_arrieros_ or muleteers, a cook, and one or two other attendants. While the latter were slinging
our hammocks to the lowermost branches of a tree--for in that part of Mexico it is not very
safe to sleep upon the ground, on account of the snakes and vermin--our _cocinero_ lit a fire
against the rock, and in a very few minutes an iguana which we had shot that day was spitted
and roasting before it. It looked strange to see this hideous creature, in shape between a
lizard and a dragon, twisting and turning in the light of the fire; and its disgusting appearance
might have taken away some people's appetites; but we knew by experience that there is no better
eating than a roasted iguana. We made a hearty meal off this one, concluding it with a pull
at the rum flask, and then clambered into our hammocks; the Mexicans stretched themselves on
the ground with their heads upon the saddles of the mules, and both masters and men were soon
asleep.

It was somewhere about midnight when I was awakened by an indescribable sensation of oppression
from the surrounding atmosphere. The air seemed to be no longer air, but some poisonous exhalation
that had suddenly arisen and enveloped us. From the rear of the ravine in which we lay, billows
of dark mephitic mist were rolling forward, surrounding us with their baleful influence. It
was the _vomito prieto_, the fever itself, embodied in the shape of a fog. At the same moment,
and while I was gasping for breath, a sort of cloud seemed to settle upon me, and a thousand
stings, like redhot needles, were run into my hands, face, neck--into every part of my limbs
and body that was not triply guarded by clothing. I instinctively stretched forth my hands
and closed them, clutching by the action hundreds of enormous musquittoes, whose droning, singing
noise how almost deafened me. The air was literally filled by a dense swarm of these insects;
and the agony caused by their repeated and venomous stings was indescribable. It was a perfect
plague of Egypt.

Rowley, whose hammock was slung some ten yards from mine, soon gave tongue: I heard him kicking
and plunging, spluttering and swearing, with a vigour and energy that would have been ludicrous
under any other circumstances; but matters were just then too serious for a laugh. With the
torture, for such it was, of the musquitto bites, and the effect of the insidious and poisonous
vapours that were each moment thickening around me, I was already in a high state of fever,
alternately glowing with heat and shivering with cold, my tongue parched, my eyelids throbbing,
my brain seemingly on fire.

There was a heavy thump upon the ground. It was Rowley jumping out of his hammock. "Damnation"
roared he, "Where are we? On the earth, or under the earth?--We must be--we are--in their Mexican
purgatory. We are, or there's no snakes in Virginny. Hallo, arrieros! Pablo! Matteo!"

At that moment a scream--but a scream of such terror and anguish as I never heard before or
since--a scream as of women in their hour of agony and extreme peril, sounded within a few
paces of us. I sprang out of my hammock; and as I did so, two white and graceful female figures
darted or rather flew by me, shrieking--and oh! in what heart-rending tones--for "_Socorro!
Socorro! Por Dios_! Help! Help!" Close upon the heels of the fugitives, bounding and leaping
along with enormous strides and springs, came three or four dark objects which resembled nothing
earthly. The human form they certainly possessed; but so hideous and horrible, so unnatural
and spectre-like was their aspect, that their sudden encounter in that gloomy ravine, and in
the almost darkness that surrounded us, might well have shaken the strongest nerves. We stood
for a second, Rowley and myself, paralysed with astonishment at these strange appearances;
but another piercing scream restored to us our presence of mind. One of the women had either
tripped or fallen from fatigue, and she lay a white heap, upon the ground. The drapery of the
other was in the clutch of one of the spectres, or devils, or whatever they were, when Rowley,
with a cry of horror, rushed forward and struck a furious blow at the monster with his _machetto_.
At the same time, and almost without knowing how, I found myself engaged with another of the
creatures. But the contest was no equal one. In vain did we stab and strike with our machettos;
our antagonists were covered and defended with a hard bristly hide, which our knives, although
keen and pointed, had great difficulty in penetrating; and on the other hand we found ourselves
clutched in long sinewy arms, terminating in hands and fingers, of which the nails were as
sharp and strong as an eagle's talons. I felt these horrible claws strike into my shoulders
as the creature seized me, and, drawing me towards him, pressed me as in the hug of a bear;
while his hideous half man half brute visage was grinning and snarling at me, and his long
keen white teeth were snapping and gnashing within six inches of my face.

"God of heaven! This is horrible! Rowley! Help me!"

But Rowley, in spite of his gigantic strength, was powerless as an infant in the grasp of these
terrible opponents. He was within a few paces of me, struggling with two of them, and making
superhuman efforts to regain possession of his knife, which had dropped or been wrenched from
his hand. And all this time, where were our arrieros? Were they attacked likewise? Why didn't
they come and help us? All this time!--pshaw! it was no time: it all passed in the space of
a few seconds, in the circumference of a few yards, and in the feeble glimmering light of the
stars, and of the smouldering embers of our fire, which was at some distance from us.

"Ha! That has told!" A stab, dealt with all the energy of despair, had entered my antagonist's
side. But I was like to pay dearly for it. Uttering a deafening yell of pain and fury, the
monster clasped me closer to his foul and loathsome body; his sharp claws, dug deeper into
my back, seemed to tear up my flesh: the agony was insupportable--my eyes began to swim, and
my senses to leave me. Just then--Crack! crack! Two--four--a dozen musket and pistol shots,
followed by such a chorus of yellings and howlings and unearthly laughter! The creature that
held me seemed startled--relaxed his grasp slightly. At that moment a dark arm was passed before
my face, there was a blinding flash, a yell, and I fell to the ground released from the clutch
of my opponent. I remember nothing more. Overcome by pain, fatigue, terror, and the noxious
vapors of that vile ravine, my senses abandoned me, and I swooned away.

When consciousness returned, I found myself lying upon some blankets, under a sort of arbour
of foliage and flowers. It was broad day; the sun shone brightly, the blossoms smelled sweet,
the gay-plumaged hummingbirds were darting and shooting about in the sunbeams like so many
animated fragments of a prism. A Mexican Indian, standing beside my couch, and whose face was
unknown to me, held out a cocoa-nutshell containing some liquid, which I eagerly seized, and
drank off the contents. The draught (it was a mixture of citron juice and water) revived me
greatly; and raising myself on my elbow, although with much pain and difficulty, I looked around,
and beheld a scene of bustle and life which to me was quite unintelligible. Upon the shelving
hillside on which I was lying, a sort of encampment was established. A number of mules and
horses were wandering about at liberty, or fastened to trees and bushes, and eating the forage
that had been collected and laid before them. Some were provided with handsome and commodious
saddles, while others had pack-saddles, intended apparently for the conveyance of numerous
sacks, cases, and wallets, that were scattered about on the ground. Several muskets and rifles
were leaning here and there against the trees; and a dozen or fifteen men were occupied in
various ways--some filling up saddle-bags or fastening luggage on the mules, others lying on
the ground smoking, one party surrounding a fire at which cooking was going on. At a short
distance from my bed was another similarly composed couch, occupied by a man muffled up in
blankets, and having his back turned towards me, so that I was unable to obtain a view of his
features.

"What is all this? Where am I? Where is Rowley--our guide--where are they all?"

"_Non entiendo_," answered my brown-visaged Ganymede, shaking his head, and with a good-humoured
smile.

"_Adonde estamos?_"

"_In el valle de Chihuatan, in el gran valle de Oaxaca y Guatimala; diez leguas de Tarifa_.
In the valley of Chihuatan; ten leagues from Tarifa."

The figure lying on the bed near me now made a movement, and turned round. What could it be?
Its face was like a lump of raw flesh streaked and stained with blood. No features were distinguishable.

"Who are you? What are you?" cried I.

"Rowley," it answered: "Rowley I was, at least, if those devils haven't changed me."

"Then changed you they have," cried I, with a wild laugh. "Good God! have they scalped him
alive, or what? That is not Rowley."

The Mexican, who had gone to give some drink to the creature claiming to be Rowley, now opened
a valise that lay on the ground a short distance off, and took out a small looking-glass, which
he brought and held before my face. It was then only that I began to call to mind all that
had occurred, and understood how it was that the mask of human flesh lying near me might indeed
be Rowley. He was, if any thing, less altered than myself. My eyes were almost closed; my lips,
nose, and whole face swollen to an immense size, and perfectly unrecognisable. I involuntarily
recoiled in dismay and disgust at my own appearance. The horrible night passed in the ravine,
the foul and suffocating vapours, the furious attack of the musquittoes--the bites of which,
and the consequent fever and inflammation, had thus disfigured us--all recurred to our memory.
But the women, the fight with the monsters--beasts--Indians--whatever they were, that was still
incomprehensible. It was no dream: my back and shoulders were still smarting from the wounds
that had been inflicted on them by the claws of those creatures, and I now felt that various
parts of my limbs and body were swathed in wet bandages. I was mustering my Spanish to ask
the Mexican who still stood by me for an explanation of all this, when I suddenly became aware
of a great bustle in the encampment, and saw every body crowding to meet a number of persons
who just then emerged from the high fern, and amongst whom I recognized our arrieros and servants.
The new-comers were grouped around something which they seemed to be dragging along the ground;
several women--for the most part young and graceful creatures, their slender supple forms muffled
in the flowing picturesque _reboxos_ and _frazadas_--preceded the party, looking back occasionally
with an expression of mingled horror and triumph; all with rosaries in their hands, the beads
of which ran rapidly through their fingers, while they occasionally kissed the cross, or made
the sign on their breasts or in the air.

"_Un Zambo muerto! Un Zambo Muerto!_" shouted they as they drew near.

"_Han matado un Zambo!_ They have killed a Zambo!" repeated my attendant in a tone of exultation.

The party came close up to where Rowley and I were lying; the women stood aside, jumping and
laughing, and crossing themselves, and crying out "_Un Zambo! Un Zambo Muerto!_" the group
opened, and we saw, lying dead upon the ground, one of our horrible antagonists of the preceding
night.

"Good God, what is that?" cried Rowley and I, with one breath. "_Un demonio!_ a devil!"

"_Perdonen vos, Senores--Un Zambo mono--muy terribles los Zambos._ Terrible monkeys these Zambos."

"Monkeys!" cried I.

"Monkeys!" repeated poor Rowley, raising himself up into a sitting posture by the help of his
hands. "Monkeys--apes--by Jove! We've been fighting with monkeys, and it's they who have mauled
us in this way. Well, Jonathan Rowley, think of your coming from old Virginny to Mexico to
be whipped by a monkey. It's gone goose with _your_ character. You can never show your face
in the States again. Whipped by an ape!--an ape, with a tail and a hairy--O Lord! Whipped by
a monkey!"

And the ludicrousness of the notion overcoming his mortification, and the pain of his wounds
and bites, he sank back upon the bed of blankets and banana leaves, laughing as well as his
swollen face and sausage-looking lips would allow him.

It was as much as I could do to persuade myself, that the carcass lying before me had never
been inhabited by a human soul. It was humiliating to behold the close affinity between this
huge ape and our own species. Had it not been for the tail, I could have fancied I saw the
dead body of some prairie hunter dressed in skins. It was exactly like a powerful, well-grown
man; and even the expression of the face had more of bad human passions than of animal instinct.
The feet and thighs were those of a muscular man: the legs rather too curved and calfless,
though I have seen Negroes who had scarcely better ones; the tendons of the hands stood out
like whipcords; the nails were as long as a tiger's claws. No wonder that we had been overmatched
in our struggle with the brutes. No man could have withstood them. The arms of this one were
like packets of cordage, all muscle, nerve, and sinew; and the hands were clasped together
with such force, that the efforts of eight or ten Mexicans and Indians were insufficient to
disunite them.

Whatever remained to be cleared up in our night's adventures was now soon explained. Our guide,
through ignorance or thoughtlessness, had allowed us to take up our bivouac within a very unsafe
distance of one of the most pestiferous swamps in the whole province. Shortly after we had
fallen asleep, a party of Mexican travellers had arrived, and established themselves within
a few hundred yards of us, but on a rising ground, where they avoided the mephitic vapours
and the musquittoes which had so tortured Rowley and myself. In the night two of the women,
having ventured a short distance from the encampment, were surprised by the zambos, or huge
man-apes, common in some parts of Southern Mexico; and finding themselves cut off from their
friends, had fled they knew not whither, fortunately for them taking the direction of our bivouac.
Their screams, our shouts, and the yellings and diabolical laughter of the zambos, had brought
the Mexicans to our assistance. The monkeys showed no fight after the first volley; several
of then must have been wounded, but only the one now lying before us had remained upon the field.

The Mexicans we had fallen amongst were on the Tzapoteca, principally cochineal gatherers,
and kinder-hearted people there could not well be. They seemed to think they never could do
enough for us; the women especially, and more particularly the two whom we had endeavoured
to rescue from the power of the apes. These latter certainly had cause to be grateful. It made
us shudder to think of their fate had they not met with us. It was the delay caused by our
attacking the brutes that had given the Mexicans time to come up.

Every attention was shown to us. We were fanned with palm leaves, refreshed with cooling drinks,
our wounds carefully dressed and bandaged, our heated, irritated, musquitto-bitten limbs and
faces washed with balsam and the juice of herbs: more tender and careful nurses it would be
impossible to find. We soon began to feel better, and were able to sit up and look about us;
carefully avoiding, however, to look at each other, for we could not get reconciled to the
horrible appearance of our swollen, bloody, and disgusting features. From our position on the
rising ground, we had a full view over the frightful swamp at the entrance of which all our
misfortunes had happened. There it lay, steaming like a great kettle; endless mists rising
from it, out of which appeared here and there the crown of some mighty tree towering above
the banks of vapour. To the left, cliffs and crags were to be seen which had the appearance
of being baseless, and of swimming on the top of the mist. The vultures and carrion-birds circled
screaming above the huge caldron, or perched on the tops of the tall palms, which looked like
enormous umbrellas, or like the roofs of Chinese summer-houses. Out of the swamp itself proceeded
the yellings, snarlings, and growlings of the alligators, bull-frogs, and myriads of unclean
beasts that it harboured.

The air was unusually sultry and oppressive: from time to time the rolling of distant thunder
was audible. We could hear the Mexicans consulting amongst themselves as to the propriety of
continuing their journey, to which our suffering state seemed to be the chief obstacle. From
what we could collect of their discourse, they were unwilling to leave us in this dangerous
district, and in our helpless condition, with a guide and attendants who were either untrustworthy
or totally incompetent to lead us aright. Yet there seemed to be some pressing necessity for
continuing the march; and presently some of the older Mexicans, who appeared to have the direction
of the caravan, came up to us and enquired how we felt, and if we thought we were able to travel;
adding, that from the signs on the earth and in the air, they feared a storm, and that the
nearest habitation or shelter was at many leagues' distance. Thanks to the remedies that had
been applied, our sufferings were much diminished. We felt weak and hungry, and telling the
Mexicans we should be ready to proceed in half an hour, we desired our servants to get us something
to eat. But our new friends forestalled them, and brought us a large piece of iguana, with
roasted bananas, and cocoa-nutshell cups full of coffee, to all of which Rowley and I applied
ourselves with much gusto. Meanwhile our muleteers and the Tzapotecans were busy packing their
beasts and making ready for the start.

We had not eaten a dozen mouthfuls when we say a man running down the hill with a branch in
each hand. As soon as he appeared, a number of the Mexicans left their occupations and hurried
to meet him.

"_Siete horas!_" shouted the man. "Seven hours, and no more!"

"No more than seven hours!" echoed the Tzapotecans, in tones of the wildest terror and alarm.
"_La Santissima nos guarde!_ It will take more than ten to reach the village."

"What's all that about?" said I with my mouth full, to Rowley.

"Don't know--some of their Indian tricks, I suppose."

"_Que es esto_?" asked I carelessly. "What's the matter?"

"_Que es esto_!" repeated an old Tzapotecan, with long grey hair curling from under his _sombrero_,
and a withered but finely marked countenance. "_Las aguas! El ouracan!_ In seven hours the
deluge and the hurricane!"

"_Vamos, por la Santissima!_ For the blessed Virgin's sake let us be gone!" cried a dozen of
the Mexicans, pushing two green boughs into our very faces.

"What are those branches?"

"From the tempest-tree--the prophet of the storm," was the reply.

And Tzapotecans and women, arrieros and servants, ran about in the utmost terror and confusion,
with cries of "_Vamos, paso redoblado_! Off with us, or we are all lost, man and beast," and
saddling, packing, and scrambling on their mules. And before Rowley and I knew where we were,
they tore us away from our iguana and coffee, and hoisted and pushed us into our saddles. Such
a scene of bustle and desperate hurry I never beheld. The place where the encampment had been
was alive with men and women, horses and mules, shouting, shrieking and talking, neighing and
kicking; but with all the confusion there was little time lost, and in less than three minutes
from the first alarm being given, we were scampering away over stock and stone, in a long,
wild, irregular sort of train.

The rapidity and excitement of our ride seemed to have the effect of calming our various sufferings,
or of making us forget them; and we soon thought no more of the fever, or of stings or musquitto
bites. It was a ride for life or death, and our horses stepped out as if they knew how much
depended on their exertions.

In the hurry and confusion we had been mounted on horses instead of our our own mules; and
splendid animals they were. I doubt if our Virginians could beat them, and that is saying a
great deal. There was no effort or straining in their movements; it seemed mere play to them
to surmount the numerous difficulties we encountered on our road. Over mountain and valley,
swamp and barranca, always the same steady surefootedness--crawling like cats over the soft
places, gliding like snakes up the steep rocky ascents, and stretching out with prodigious
energy when the ground was favourable; yet with such easy action that we scarcely felt the
motion. We should have sat in the roomy Spanish saddles as comfortably as in arm-chairs, had
it not been for the numerous obstacles in our path, which was strewed with fallen trees and
masses of rock. We were obliged to be perpetually stooping and bowing our heads to avoid the
creeping plants that swung and twined and twisted across the track, intermingled often with
huge thorns as long as a man's arm. These latter stuck out from the trees on which they grew
like so many brown bayonets; and a man who had run up against one of them, would have been
transfixed by it as surely as though it had been of steel. We pushed on, however, in Indian
file, following the two guides, who kept at the head of the party, and making our way through
places where a wild-cat would have difficulty in passing; through thickets of mangroves, mimosas,
and tall fern, and cactuses with their thorny leaves full twenty feet long; the path turning
and winding all the while. Now and then a momentary improvement in the nature of the ground
enabled us to catch a glimpse of the whole column of march. We were struck by its picturesque
appearance, the guides in front acting as pioneers, and looking out on all sides as cautiously
and anxiously as though they had been soldiers expecting an ambuscade; the graceful forms of
the women bowing and bending over their horses' manes, and often leaving fragments of their
mantillas and rebozas on the branches and thorns of the labyrinth through which we were struggling.
But it was no time to indulge in contemplation of the picturesque, and of this we were constantly
made aware by the anxious vociferations of the Mexicans. "_Vamos! Por Dios, vamos!_" cried
they, if the slightest symptom of flagging became visible in the movements of any one of the
party; and at the words, our horses, as though gifted with understanding, pushed forward with
renewed vigour and alacrity.

On we went--up hill and down, in the depths of the valley and over the soft fetid swamp. That
valley of Oaxaca has just as much right to be called a valley as our Alleghanies would have
to be called bottoms. In the States we should call it a chain of mountains. Out of it rise
at every step hills a good two thousand feet above the level of the valley, and four or five
thousand above that of the sea; but these are lost sight of, and become flat ground by the
force of comparison; that is, when compared with the gigantic mountains that surround the valley
on all sides like a frame. And what a splendid frame they do compose, those colossal mountains,
in their rich variety of form and colouring! here shining out like molten gold, there changing
to a dark bronze; covered lower down with various shades of green, and with the crimson and
purple, and violet and bright yellow, and azure and dazzling white, of the millions of paulinias
and convolvoluses and other flowering plants, from amongst which rise the stately palm-trees,
full a hundred feet high, their majestic green turbans towering like sultans' heads above the
luxuriance of the surrounding flower and vegetable world. Then the mahogany-trees, the chicozapotes,
and again in the barrancas the candelabra-like cactuses, and higher up the knotted and majestic
live oak. An incessant change of plants, trees, and climate. We had been five hours in the
saddle, and had already changed our climate three times; passed from the temperate zone, the
_tierra templada_, into the torrid heat of the _tierra muy caliente_. It was in the latter
temperature that we found ourselves at the expiration of the above-named time, dripping with
perspiration, roasting and stewing in the heat. We were surrounded by a new world of plants
and animals. The borax and mangroves and fern were here as lofty as forest-trees, whilst the
trees themselves shot up like church steeples. In the thickets around us were numbers of black
tigers--we saw dozens of those cowardly sneaking beasts--iguanas full three feet long, squirrels
double the size of any we had ever seen, and panthers, and wild pigs, and jackals, and apes
and monkeys of every tribe and description, who threatened and grinned and chattered at us
from the branches of the trees. But what is that yonder to the right, that stands out so white
against the dark blue sky and the bronze-coloured rocks? A town--Quidricovi, d'ye call it?

We had now ridden a good five or six leagues, and begun to think we had escaped the _aguas_
or deluge, of which the prospect had so terrified our friends the Tzapotecans. Rowley calculated,
as he went puffing and grumbling along, that it wouldn't do any harm to let our beasts draw
breath for a minute or two. The scrambling and constant change of pace rendered necessary by
the nature of the road, or rather track, that we followed, was certainly dreadfully fatiguing
both to man and beast. As for conversation it was out of the question. We had plenty to do
to avoid getting our necks broken, or our teeth knocked out, as we struggled along, up and
down barrancas, through marshes and thickets, over rocks and fallen trees, and through mimosas
and bushes laced and twined together with thorns and creeping plants--all of which would have
been beautiful in a picture, but was most infernally unpoetical in reality.

"_Vamos! Por la Santissima Madre, vamos!_" yelled our guides, and the cry was taken up by the
Mexicans, in a shrill wild tone that jarred strangely upon our ears, and made the horses start
and strain forward. Hurra! on we go, through thorns and bushes, which scratch and flog us,
and tear our clothes to rags. We shall be naked if this lasts long. It is a regular race. In
front the two guides, stooping, nodding, bowing, crouching down, first to one side, then to
the other, like a couple of mandarins or Indian idols--behind them a Tzapotecan in his picturesque
capa, then the women, then more Tzapotecans. There is little thought about precedence or ceremony;
and Rowley and I, having been in the least hurry to start, find ourselves bringing up the rear
of the whole column.

"_Vamos! Por la Santissima! Las aguas, las aguas!_" is again yelled by twenty voices. Hang
the fools! Can't they be quiet with their eternal _vamos_? We can have barely two leagues more
to go to reach the _rancho_, or village, they were talking of, and appearances are not as yet
very alarming. It is getting rather thick to be sure; but that's nothing, only the exhalations
from the swamp, for we are again approaching one of those cursed swamps, and can hear the music
of the alligators and bullfrogs. There they are, the beauties; a couple of them are taking
a peep at us, sticking their elegant heads and long delicate snouts out of the slime and mud.
The neighbourhood is none of the best; but luckily the path is firm and good, carefully made,
evidently by Indian hands. None but Indians could live and labour and travel habitually, in
such a pestilential atmosphere. Thank God! we are out of it at last. Again on firm forest ground,
amidst the magnificent monotony of the eternal palms and mahogany-trees. But--see there!

A new and surpassingly beautiful landscape burst suddenly upon our view, seeming to dance in
the transparent atmosphere. On either side mountains, those on the left in deep shadow, those
on the right standing forth like colossal figures of light, in a beauty and splendour that
seemed really supernatural, every tree, every branch shining in its own vivid and glorious
colouring. There lay the valley in its tropical luxuriance and beauty, one sheet of bloom and
blossom up to the topmost crown of the palm-trees, that shot up, some of them, a hundred and
fifty and a hundred and eighty feet high. Thousands and millions of convolvoluses, paulinias,
bignonias, dendrobiums, climbing from the fern to the tree trunks, from the trunks to the branches
and summits of the trees, and thence again falling gracefully down, and catching and clinging
to the mangroves and blocks of granite. It burst upon us like a scene of enchantment, as we
emerged from the darkness of the forest into the dazzling light and colouring of that glorious
valley.

"_Misericordia, misericordia! Audi nos peccadores! Misericordia, las aquas!_" suddenly screamed
and exclaimed the Mexicans in various intonations of terror and despair. We looked around us.
What can be the matter? We see nothing. Nothing, except that from just behind those two mountains,
which project like mighty promontories into the valley, a cloud is beginning to rise. "What
is it? What is wrong?" A dozen voices answered us--

"_Por la Santa Virgen_, for the holy Virgin's sake, on, on! _No hay tiempo para hablar_. We
have still two leagues to go, and in one hour comes the flood."

And they recommenced their howling, yelling chorus of "_Misericordia! Audi nos peccadores!_"
and "_Santissima Virgen_, and _Todos santos y angeles!_"

"Are the fellows mad?" shouted Rowley, "What if the water does come? It won't swallow you.
A ducking more or less is no such great matter. You are not made of sugar or salt. Many's the
drenching I've had in the States, and none the worse for it. Yet our rains are no child's play
neither."

On looking round us, however, we were involuntarily struck with the sudden change in the appearance
of the heavens. The usual golden black blue colour of the sky was gone, and had been replaced
by a dull gloomy grey. The quality of the air appeared also to have changed; it was neither
very warm nor very cold, but it had lost its lightness and elasticity, and seemed to oppress
and weigh us down. Presently we saw the dark cloud rise gradually from behind the hills, completely
clearing their summits, and then sweeping along until it hung over the valley, in form and
appearance like some monstrous night-moth, resting the tips of its enormous wings on the mountains
on either side. To our right we still saw the roofs and walls of Quidricovi, apparently at
a very short distance.

"Why not go to Quidricovi?" shouted I to the guides, "we cannot be far off."

"More than five leagues," answered the men, shaking their heads and looking up anxiously at
the huge moth, which was still creeping and crawling on, each moment darker and more threatening.
It was like some frightful monster, or the fabled Kraken, working itself along by its claws,
which were struck deep into the mountain-wall on either side of its line of progress, and casting
its hideous shadow over hill and dale, forest and valley, clothing them in gloom and darkness.
To our right hand and behind us, the mountains were still of a glowing golden red, lighted
up by the sun, but to the left and in our front all was black and dark. With the same glance
we beheld the deepest gloom and the brightest day, meeting each other but not mingling. It
was a strange and ominous sight.

Ominous enough; and the brute creation seem to feel it so as well as ourselves. The chattering
parrots, the hopping, gibbering, quarrelsome apes, all the birds and beasts, scream and cry
and flutter and spring about, as though seeking a refuge from some impending danger. Even our
horses begin to tremble and groan--refuse to go on, start and snort. The whole animal world
is in commotion, as if seized with an overwhelming panic. The forest is teeming with inhabitants.
Whence come they, all these living things? On every side is heard the howling and snarling
of beasts, the frightened cries and chirpings of birds. The vultures and turkey-buzzards, that
a few minutes before were circling high in the air, are now screaming amidst the branches of
the mahogany-trees; every creature that has life is running, scampering, flying--apes and tigers,
birds and creeping things.

"_Vamos, por la Santissima!_ On! or we are all lost."

And we ride, we rush along--neither masses of rock, nor fallen trees, nor thorns and brambles,
check our wild career. Over every thing we go, leaping, scrambling, plunging, riding like desperate
men, flying from a danger of which the nature is not clearly defined, but which we feel to
be great and imminent. It is a frightful terror-striking foe, that huge night-moth, which comes
ever nearer, growing each moment bigger and blacker. Looking behind us, we catch one last glimpse
of the red and bloodshot sun, which the next instant disappears behind the edge of the mighty
cloud.

Still we push on. Hosts of tigers, and monkeys both large and small, and squirrels and jackals,
come close up to us as if seeking shelter, and then finding none, retreat howling into the
forest. There is not a breath of air stirring, yet all nature--plants and trees, men and beasts--seem
to quiver and tremble with apprehension. Our horses pant and groan as they bound along with
dilated nostrils and glaring eyes, trembling in every limb, sweating at every pore, half wild
with terror; giving springs and leaps that more resemble those of a hunted tiger than of a horse.

The prayer and exclamations of the terrified Mexicans, continued without intermission, whispered
and shrieked and groaned in every variety of intonation. The earthy hue of intense terror was
upon every countenance. For some moments a death-like stillness, an unnatural calm, reigned
around us: it was as though the elements were holding in their breath, and collecting their
energies for some mighty outbreak. Then came a low indistinct moaning sound, that seemed to
issue from the bowels of the earth. The warning was significant.

"Halt! stop" shouted we to the guides. "Stop! and let us seek shelter from the storm."

"On! for God's sake, on! or we are lost," was the reply.

Thank Heaven! the path is getting wider--we come to a descent--they are leading us out of the
forest. If the storm had come on while we were among the trees, we might be crushed to death
by the falling branches. We are close to a barranca.

"_Alerto! Alerto!_" shrieked the Mexicans. "_Madre de Dios! Dios! Dios!"_

And well might they call to God for help in that awful moment. The gigantic night-moth gaped
and shot forth tongues of fire--a ghastly white flame, that contrasted strangely and horribly
with the dense black cloud from which it issued. There was a peal of thunder that seemed to
shake the earth, then a pause during which nothing was heard but the panting of our horses
as they dashed across the barranca, and began straining up the steep side of a knoll or hillock.
The cloud again opened: for a second every thing was lighted up. Another thunder clap, and
then, as though the gates of its prison had been suddenly burst open, the tempest came forth
in its might and fury, breaking, crushing, and sweeping away all that opposed it. The trees
of the forest staggered and tottered for a moment, as if making an effort to bear up against
the storm; but it was in vain: the next instant, with a report like that of ten thousand cannon,
whole acres of mighty trees were snapped off, their branches shivered, their roots torn up;
it was no longer a forest but a chaos; an ocean of boughs and tree-trunks, that were tossed
about like the waves of the sea, or thrown into the air like straws. The atmosphere was darkened
with dust, and leaves, and branches.

"God be merciful to us! Rowley! where are ye?--No answer. What is become of them all?"

A second blast more furious than the first. Can the mountains resist it? will they stand? By
the Almighty! they do not. The earth trembles; the hillock, on the leeside of which we are,
rocks and shakes; and the air grows thick and suffocating--full of dust and saltpetre and sulphur.
We are like to choke. All around is dark as night. We can see nothing, hear nothing but the
howling of the hurricane, and the thunder and rattle of falling trees and shivered branches.

Suddenly the hurricane ceases, and all is hushed; but so suddenly that the charge is startling
and unnatural. No sound is audible save the creaking and moaning of the trees with which the
ground is cumbered. It is like a sudden pause in a battle, when the roar of the cannon and
clang of charging squadrons cease, and nought is heard but the groaning of the wounded, the
agonized sobs and gasps of the dying.

The report of a pistol is heard; then another, a third, hundreds, thousands of them. It is
the flood, _las aguas_; the shots are drops of rain; but such drops! each as big as a hen's
egg. They strike with the force of enormous hailstones--stunning and blinding us. The next
moment there is no distinction of drops, the windows of heaven are opened; it is no longer
rain nor flood, but a sea, a cataract, a Niagara. The hillock on which I am standing, undermined
by the waters, gives way and crumbles under me; in ten seconds' time I find myself in the barranca,
which is converted into a river, off my horse, which is gone I know not whither. The only person
I see near me is Rowley, also dismounted and struggling against the stream, which is already
up to our waists, and sweeps along with it huge branches and entire trees, that threaten each
moment to carry us away with them, or to crush us against the rocks. We avoid these dangers,
God knows how, make violent efforts to stem the torrent and gain the side of the barranca;
although, even should we succeed, it is so steep that we can scarcely hope to climb it without
assistance. And whence is that assistance to come? Of the Mexicans we see or hear nothing.
They are doubtless all drowned or dashed to pieces. They were higher up on the hillock than
we were, must consequently have been swept down with more force, and were probably carried
away by the torrent. Nor can we hope for a better fate. Wearied by our ride, weakened by the
fever and sufferings of the preceding night, we are in no condition to strive much longer with
the furious elements. For one step that we gain, we lose two. The waters rise; already they
are nearly up to our armpits. It is in vain to resist any longer. Our fate is sealed.

"Rowley, all is over--let us die like men. God have mercy on our souls!"

Rowley was a few paces higher up the barranca. He made me no answer, but looked at me with
a calm, cold, and yet somewhat regretful smile upon his countenance. Then all at once he ceased
the efforts he was making to resist the stream and gain the bank, folded his arms on his breast
and gave a look up and around him as though to bid farewell to the world he was about to leave.
The current was sweeping him rapidly down towards me, when suddenly a wild hurra burst from
his lips, and he recommenced his struggles against the waters, striving violently to retain
a footing on the slippery, uneven bed of the stream.

"_Tenga! Tenga!_" screamed a dozen voices, that seemed to proceed from spirits of the air;
and at the same moment something whistled about my ears and struck me a smart blow across the
face. With the instinct of a drowning man, I clutched the _lasso_ that had been thrown to me.
Rowley was at my elbow and seized it also. It was immediately drawn tight, and by its aid we
gained the bank, and began ascending the side of the barranca, composed of rugged, declivitous
rocks, affording but scanty foot-hold. God grant the lasso may prove tough! The strain on it
is fearful. Rowley is a good fifteen stone, and I am no feather; and in some parts of our perilous
ascent the rocks are almost as perpendicular and smooth as a wall of masonry, and we are obliged
to cling with our whole weight to the lasso, which seems to stretch, and crack, and grow visibly
thinner. Nothing but a strip of twisted cow-hide between us and a frightful agonizing death
on the sharp rocks and in the foaming waters below. But the lasso holds good, and now the chief
peril is past: we get some sort of footing--a point of rock, or a tree-root to clutch at. Another
strain up this rugged slope of granite, another pull at the lasso; a leap, a last violent effort,
and--_Viva_!--we are seized under the arms, dragged up, held upon our feet for a moment, and
then--we sink exhausted to the ground in the midst of the Tzapotecans, mules, arrieros, guides,
and women, who are sheltered from the storm in a sort of natural cavern. At the moment at which
the hillock had given way under Rowley and myself, who were a short distance in rear of the
party, the Mexicans had succeeded in attaining firm footing on a broad rocky ledge, a shelf
of the precipice that flanked the barranca. Upon this ledge, which gradually widened into a
platform, they found themselves in safety under some projecting crags that sheltered them completely
from the tempest. Thence they looked down upon the barranca, where they descried Rowley and
myself struggling for our lives in the roaring torrent; and thence, by knotting several lassos
together, they were able to give us the opportune aid which had rescued us from our desperate
situation. But whether this aid had come soon enough to save our lives was still a question,
or at least for some time appeared to be so. The life seemed driven out of our bodies by all
we had gone through: we were unable to move a finger, and lay helpless and motionless, with
only a glimmering indistinct perception, not amounting to consciousness, of what was going
on around us. Fatigue, the fever, the immersion in cold water when reeking with perspiration,
the sufferings of all kinds we had endured in the course of the last twenty hours, had completely
exhausted and broken us down.

The storm did not last long in its violence, but swept onwards, leaving a broad track of desolation
behind it. The Mexicans recommenced their journey, with the exception of four or five who remained
with us and our arrieros and servants. The village to which we were proceeding was not above
a league off; but even that short distance Rowley and myself were in no condition to accomplish.
The kind-hearted Tzapotecans made us swallow cordials, stripped off our drenched and tattered
garments, and wrapped us in an abundance of blankets. We fell into a deep sleep, which lasted
all that evening and the greater part of the night, and so much refreshed us that about an
hour before daybreak we were able to resume our march--at a slow pace, it is true, and suffering
grievously in every part of our bruised and wounded limbs and bodies, at each jolt or rough
motion of the mules on which we were clinging, rather than sitting.

Our path lay over hill and dale, perpetually rising and falling. We soon got out of the district
or zone that had been swept by the preceding day's hurricane, and after nearly an hour's ride,
we paused on the crest of a steep descent, at the foot of which, as our guides informed us,
lay the land of promise, the long looked-for _rancho_. While the muleteers were seeing to the
girths of their beasts, and giving the due equilibrium to the baggage, before commencing the
downward march, Rowley and I sat upon our mules, wrapped in large Mexican _capas_, gazing at
the morning-star as it sank down and grew gradually paler and fainter. Suddenly the eastern
sky began to brighten, and a brilliant beam appeared in the west, a point of light no bigger
than a star--but yet not a star; it was of a far rosier hue. The next moment a second sparkling
spot appeared, near to the first, which now swelled out into a sort of fiery tongue, that seemed
to lick round the silvery summit of the snow-clad mountain. As we gazed, five--ten--twenty
hill tops were tinged with the same rose-coloured glow; in another moment they became like
fiery banners spread out against the heavens, while sparkling tongues and rays of golden light
flashed and flamed round them, springing like meteors from one mountain summit to another,
lighting them up like a succession of beacons. Scarcely five minutes had elapsed since the
distant pinnacles of the mountains had appeared to us as huge phantom-like figures of a silvery
white, dimly marked out upon a dark star-spangled ground; now the whole immense chain blazed
like volcanoes covered with glowing lava, rising out of the darkness that still lingered on
their flanks and bases, visible and wonderful witnesses to the omnipotence of _him_ who said,
"Let there be light, and there was light."

Above, all was broad day, flaming sunlight; below, all black night. Here and there streams
of light burst through clefts and openings in the mountains, and then ensued an extraordinary
kind of conflict. The shades of darkness seemed to live and move, to struggle against the bright
beams that fell amongst them and broke their masses, forcing them down the wooded heights,
tearing them asunder and dispersing them like tissues of cobwebs; so that successively, and
as if by a stroke of enchantment, there appeared, first the deep indigo blue of the tamarinds
and chicozapotes, then the bright green of the sugar-canes, lower down the darker green of
the nopal-trees, lower still the white and green and gold and bright yellow of the orange and
citron groves, and lowest of all, the stately fan-palms, and date-palms, and bananas; all glittering
with millions of dewdrops, that covered them like a ganze veil embroidered with diamonds and
rubies. And still in the very next valley all was utter darkness.

We sat silent and motionless, gazing at this scene of enchantment.

Presently the sun rose higher, and a flood of light illumined the whole valley, which lay some
few hundred feet below us--a perfect garden, such as no northern imagination could picture
forth; a garden of sugar-canes, cotton, and nopal-trees, intermixed with thickets of pomegranate
and strawberry-trees, and groves of orange, fig, and lemon, giants of their kind, shooting
up to a far greater height than the oak attains in the States--every tree a perfect hothouse,
a pyramid of flowers, covered with bloom and blossom to its topmost spray. All was light, and
freshness, and beauty; every object seemed to dance and rejoice in the clear elastic golden
atmosphere. It was an earthly paradise, fresh from the hand of its Creator, and at first we
could discover no sign of man or his works. Presently, however, we discerned the village lying
almost at our feet, the small stone houses overgrown with flowers and embedded in trees; so
that scarcely a square foot of roof or wall was to be seen. Even the church was concealed in
a garland of orange-trees, and had lianas and star-flowered creepers climbing over and dangling
on it, up as high as the slender cross that surmounted its square white tower. As we gazed,
the first sign of life appeared in the village. A puff of blue smoke rose curling and spiral
from a chimney, and the matin bell rang out its summons to prayer. Our Mexicans fell on their
knees and crossed themselves, repeating their Ave-marias. We involuntarily took off our hats,
and whispered a thanksgiving to the God who had been with us in the hour of peril, and was
now so visible to us in his works.

The Mexicans rose from their knees.

"_Vamos! Senores,_" said one of them, laying his hand on the bridle of my mule. "To the _rancho_,
to breakfast."

We rode slowly down into the valley.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BRITISH FLEET[26].

    [26] Memoirs of Admiral Earl St Vincent. By T.S. TUCKER. 2 vols.

Were the question proposed to us, What is the most extraordinary, complete, and effective instance
of skill, contrivance, science, and power, ever combined by man? we should unhesitatingly answer,
an English line-of-battle ship. Take the model of a 120 gun ship--large as it may be for a
floating body, its space is not great. For example, it is not half the ordinary size of a nobleman's
mansion; yet that ship carries a thousand men with convenience, and lodges them day and night,
with sufficient room for the necessary distinctions of obedience and command--has separate
apartments for the admiral and the captain, for the different ranks of officers, and even for
the different ranks of seamen--separate portions below decks for the sleeping of the crew,
the dining of the officers, and the receptacle for the sick and wounded. Those thousand men
are to be fed three times a-day, and provisions for four months are to be stowed. One hundred
and twenty cannon, some of them of the heaviest metal, are to be carried; and room is to be
found for all the weight of shot and quantities of powder, with other missiles, rockets, and
signal fires, necessary for service. Besides this, room is to be provided for the stowage of
fresh rigging, sails, ropes, cables, and yards, to replace those lost by accident, battle,
or wear and tear. Besides this, too, there is to be a provision for the hospital. So far for
the mere necessaries of the ship. Then we are to regard the science; for nothing can be more
essential than the skill and the instruments of the navigator, as nothing can be more fatal
than a scientific error, a false calculation, or a remission of vigilance. We shall do no more
than allude to the habits of command essential to keep a thousand of these rough and daring
spirits in order, and that, too, an order of the most implicit, steady, and active kind; nor
to their knowledge of tactics, and conduct in battle. The true definition of the line-of-battle
ship being, a floating regiment of artillery in a barrack, which, at the beat of a drum, may
be turned into a field of battle, or, at the command of government, may be sent flying on the
wings of the wind round the world. We think that we have thus established our proposition.
If not, let any thing else be shown which exhibits the same quantity of power _packed_ within
the same space; and that power, too, increasing daily by new contrivances of stowage and building,
by new models of guns, and new inventions in machinery. England is at this moment building
two hundred steam-ships, with guns of a calibre to which all the past were trifling, with room
for a regiment of land troops besides their crews, and with the known power of defying wind
and wave, and throwing an army in full equipment for the field, within a few days, on any coast
of Europe.

It is remarkable that the use of the navy, as a great branch of the military power of England,
had been scarcely contemplated until the last century. Though the sea-coast of England, the
largest of any European state, and the national habits of an insular country, might have pointed
out this direction for the national energies from the earliest period, yet England was a kingdom
for five hundred years before she seems to have thought of the use of ships as an instrument
of public power. In the long war with France during the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries,
the ships were almost wholly mercantile; and, when employed in wars, were chiefly employed
as transports to throw our troops on the French soil. It was the reign of Elizabeth, that true
birth of the progress of England, that first developed the powers of an armed navy. The Spanish
invasion forced the country to meet the Armada by means like its own; and the triumph, though
won by a higher agency, and due to the winds and waves, or rather to the Supreme Providence
which watched over the land of Protestantism, awoke the nation to the true faculty of defence;
and from that period alone could the burden of the fine national song be realized, and Britain
was to "rule the main." The expeditions against the Spanish West Indies, and the new ardour
of discovery in regions where brilliant fable lent its aid to rational curiosity, carried on
the process of naval power. The war against Holland, under Charles II., though disastrous and
impolitic, showed at least that the fleet of England was the true arm of its strength; and
the humiliation of the only rival of her commerce at once taught her where the sinews of war
lay, and by what means the foundations of naval empire were to be laid. But it was not until
the close of the last century that the truth came before the nation in its full form. The American
war--a war of skirmishes--had its direct effect, perhaps its providential purpose, in compelling
England to prepare for the tremendous collision which was so soon to follow, and which was
to be the final security of the Continent itself. It was then, for the first time, that the
nation was driven to the use of a navy on a great scale. The war, lying on the western shore
of an ocean, made the use of naval armaments necessary to every operation. The treacherous
hostility of the French cabinet, and the unfortunate subserviency of Spain to that treachery,
made corresponding energy on the part of England a matter of public demand; and when France
and Spain sent out fleets of a magnitude till then unknown, England was urged to follow their
example. The defeats of the combined navies excited the nation to still more vigorous efforts;
and the war closed with so full a demonstration of the matchless importance of a great navy
to England, that the public feeling was fixed on giving it the largest contribution of the
national confidence.

The time was at hand when the trial was to involve every interest of England and mankind. The
first grand struggle of revolutionary France with England was to be on the seas; and the generation
of naval officers who had been reared in the American war, then rising into vigour, trained
by its experience, and stimulated by its example, gallantly maintained the honour of their
country. A succession of sanguinary battles followed, each on the largest scale, and each closing
in British victory; until the republic, in despair, abandoned the fatal element, and tied her
fortunes in the easier conflicts of the land. The accession of Napoleon renewed the struggle
for naval supremacy, until one vast blow extinguished his hopes and his navy at Trafalgar.
Peace now exists, and long may it exist! but France is rapidly renewing her navy, taking every
opportunity of exercising its strength, and especially patronising the policy of founding those
colonies which it idly imagines to be the source of British opulence. But whether the wisdom
of Louis Philippe limits the protection of French trade to the benefits which commerce may
confer on his vast kingdom, or looks forward to the support which a mercantile navy may give
to a warlike one, we must not sleep on our posts. The life of any individual is brief on a
national scale; and his successor, whether regent or republican, may be as hot-headed, rash,
and ambitious, as this great monarch has shown himself rational, prudent, and peaceful. We
must prepare for all chances; and our true preparation must be, a fleet that may defy all.

It is a remarkable instance of the slowness with which science advances, that almost the whole
scientific portion of seamanship has grown up since the middle of the seventeenth century,
though America had been reached in 1492, and India in 1496; and thus the world had been nearly
rounded before what would now be regarded as the ordinary knowledge of a navigator had been
acquired. England has the honour of making the first advances. It was an Englishman, Norwood,
who made the first measurement of a degree between London and York, and fixed it at 122,399
English yards. The attention of the world thus once awakened, Huygens and Cassini applied themselves
to ascertain the figure of the earth. The first experiments of the French _savans_ were in
contradiction to Newton's theory of the flattening of the poles; but the controversy was the
means of exciting new interest. The eyes of the scientific world were turned more intently
on the subject. New experiments were made, which corrected the old; and finally, on the measurement
of the arc in Peru, and in the north, truth and Newton triumphed, and the equatorial diameter
was found to exceed the polar by a two hundred and fourth part of the whole. This was perhaps
the finest problem ever solved by science; the most perplexing in its early state--exhibiting
for a while the strongest contradiction of experiment and theory, occupying in a greater degree
the attention of philosophers than any before or since, and finally established with a certainty
which every subsequent observation has only tended to confirm. And this triumph belonged to
an Englishman.

The investigation by measurements has since been largely adopted. In 1787, joint commissions
were issued by England and France to connect the Greenwich and Parisian observations. Arcs
of the meridian have since been measured across the whole breadth of France and Spain, and
also near the Arctic circle, and in the Indian peninsula.

In navigation, the grand point for the sailor is to ascertain his latitude and longitude; in
other words, to know where he is. The discovery of the latitude is easily effected by the quadrant,
but the longitude is the difficulty. Any means which ascertained the hour at Greenwich, at
the instant of making a celestial observation in any other part, would answer the difficulty;
for the difference in quarters of an hour would give the difference of the degrees. But clocks
could not be used on shipboard, and the best watches failed to keep the time. In the reign
of Anne, Parliament offered a reward of L. 5000, perhaps not far from the value of twice the
sum in the present day, for a watch within a certain degree of accuracy. Harrison, a watchmaker,
sent in a watch which came within the limits, losing but two minutes in a voyage to the West
Indies; yet even this was an error of thirty miles.

But, though chronometers have since been considerably improved, there are difficulties in their
preservation in good order which have made it expedient to apply to other means; and the lunar
tables of Mayer of Gottingen, formed in 1755, and subsequently improved by Dr Maskelyne and
others, have brought the error within seven miles and a half.

Improvements of a very important order have also taken place in the mariner's compass; the
variation of the needle has been reduced to rules, and some anomalies arising from the metallic
attraction of the ship itself, have been corrected by Professor Barlow's experiments. The use
of the marine barometer and thermometer have also largely assisted to give notice of tempests;
and some ingenious theories have been lately formed, which, promising to give a knowledge of
the origin and nature of tempests, are obviously not unlikely to assist the navigator in stemming
their violence, or escaping them altogether.

The construction of ships for both the merchant and the public service has undergone striking
improvements within this century. Round sterns, for the defence of a vessel engaged with several
opponents at once; compartments in the hold, for security against leaks; iron tanks for water,
containing twice the quantity, and keeping it free from the impurities of casks; a better general
stowage; provisions prepared so as to remain almost fresh during an East Indian voyage; every
means of preserving health, suggested by science, and succeeding to the most remarkable degree;
a more intelligent system of shipbuilding, and a constant series of experiments on the shape,
stowage, and sailing of ships, are among the beneficial changes of later times. But the one
great change--steam--will probably swallow up all the rest, and form a new era in shipbuilding,
in navigation, in the power and nature of a navy, and in the comfort, safety, and protection
of the crews in actual engagement. The use of steam is still so palpably in its infancy, yet
that infancy is so gigantic, that it is equally difficult to say what it may yet become, and
to limit its progress. It will have the one obvious advantage to mankind in general, of making
the question of war turn more than ever on the financial and mechanical resources of a people;
and thus increasing the necessity for commercial opulence and intellectual exertion. It may
expose nations more to each other's attacks; but it will render hostility more dreaded, because
more dangerous. On the whole, like the use of gunpowder, which made a Tartar war impossible,
and which rapidly tended to civilize Europe, steam appears to be intended as a further step
in the same high process, in which force is to be put down by intelligence, and success, even
in war, is to depend on the industry of peace; thus, in fact, providing a perpetual restriction
on the belligerent propensities of nations, and urging the uncivilized, by necessity, to own
the superiority, and follow the example of the civilized, by knowledge, habit, and principle.

It is not to be forgotten, even in this general and brief view of the values of the British
fleet, that it has, within these few years, assumed a new character as an instrument of war.
The Syrian campaign, the shortest, and, beyond all comparison, the most brilliant on record,
if we are to estimate military distinction, not only by the gallantry of the conflict, but
by the results of the victory--this campaign, which at once finished the war in Syria, gave
peace to Turkey, reduced Egypt to obedience, rescued the sultan from Russian influence, and
Egypt from French; or rather rescued all Europe from the collision of England, France, and
Russia; and even, by the evidence of our naval capabilities, taught American faction the wisdom
of avoiding hostilities--this grand operation was effected by a small portion of the British
navy, well commanded, directed to the right point, and acting with national energy. The three
hours' cannonade of Acre, the most effective achievement in the annals of war, exhibited a
new use of a ship's broadside; for, though ships' guns had often battered forts before, it
was the first instance of a _fleet_ employed in attack, and fully overpowering all opposition.
The attack on Algiers was the only exploit of a similar kind; but its success was limited,
and the result was so far disastrous, that it at once fixed the eye of France on the invasion
of Algiers, and disabled and disheartened the native government from vigorous resistance. The
victory of the fleet at Acre will also have the effect of changing the whole system of defence
in fortresses and cities exposed to the sea.

But a still further advance in the employment of fleets as an instrument of hostilities, has
since occurred in the Chinese war--their simultaneous operation with troops. In former assaults
of fortresses, the troops and ships attacked the same line of defence, and the consequence
was the waste of force. From the moment when the troops approached the land, the fire of the
ships necessarily ceased, and the fleet then remained spectators of the assault. But in this
war, while the troops attacked on the land side, the fleet ran up to the sea batteries, and
both attacks went on together--of course dividing the attention of the enemy, thus having a
double chance of success, and employing both arms of the service in full energy. This masterly
combination the Duke of Wellington, the highest military authority in Europe, pronounced to
be a new principle in war; and even this is, perhaps, only the beginning of a system of combination
which will lead to new victories, if war should ever unhappily return.

We now revert to the history of a naval hero.

John Jervis, the second son of Swynfen Jervis, Esq., was born on the 20th of January 1735.
He was descended, on both the paternal and maternal side, from families which had figured in
the olden times of England. The family of Jervis possessed estates in Staffordshire as far
back as the reign of Edward III. The family of Swynfen was also long established in Worcestershire.
John Swynfen was a public character during the troubled times of Charles I. and Cromwell, and
until a late period in the reign of Charles II. He had been originally a strong Parliamentarian;
but, thinking that the party went too far, he was turned out of parliament for tardiness by
the Protector. But his original politics adhered to him still; for, even after the restoration,
he was joined with Hampden, the grandson of the celebrated patriot, in drawing up the Bill
of Exclusion. Among his ancestors by the mother's side was Sir John Turton, a judge in the
Court of King's Bench, married to a daughter of the brave Colonel Samuel Moore, who made the
memorable defence of Hopton Castle in the Civil War.

But no man less regarded ancestry than the subject of the present pages, who, in writing with
reference to his pedigree, observed, in his usual frank and straightforward language--"They
were all highly respectable; but, _et genus et proavos_, nearly all the Latin I now recollect,
always struck my ear as the sound maxim for officers and statesmen."

His first school was at Burton-upon-Trent, where a slight incident seemed to designate his
future politics and fortitude. In 1745, when the Pretender marched into the heart of the kingdom,
without being joined by his friends or opposed by his enemies, as Gibbon antithetically observed,
all the boys at the school, excepting young Jervis and Dick Meux, (afterwards the eminent brewer,)
wore plaid ribands sent to them from home, and they pelted their two constitutional playmates,
calling them Whigs.

His father designed young Jervis for the law; but, in 1747, removing to Greenwich on being
appointed Counsel to the Admiralty and Auditor to the Hospital, naval sights were too near
not to prove a strong temptation to the mind of an animated and vigorous boy. His parents were
still strongly for the adoption of his father's profession; but there was another authority
on the subject, the family coachman, one Pinkhorne, who, saying that it was a shame to go into
a profession where all were rogues, determined the future hero; and, before the year was over,
he ran away, to commence life as a sailor. He was reclaimed, however, by his family, and was
regularly entered in the navy, in January 1748, on board the Gloucester, fifty guns, Commodore
Townshend--twenty pounds being all that was given to him by his father for his equipment. The
Gloucester sailed for the West Indies; and thus, at the age of thirteen, young Jervis began
the world. It appears that the rigid economy of his father, combined with the singular good
sense of this mere child, urged him to every means of acquiring the knowledge of his profession.
The monotonous life of a guard-ship already seemed to him a waste of time, while the expenses
on shore must have been ruinous to his slender finances. He therefore volunteered into whatever
ship was going to sea. He thus writes to his sister from on board the Sphinx, 1753:--"There
are many entertainments and public assemblies here, but they are rather above my sphere, many
inconveniences and expenses attending them; so that my chief employ, when from my duty, is
reading, studying navigation, and perusing my own letters, of which I have almost enough to
make an octavo volume."

At length, however, his twenty pounds were exhausted; and, at the end of three years, he drew
for twenty pounds more. It is vexatious to say that his bill was dishonoured; and he never
received another shilling from any one. It is scarcely possible to conceive that so harsh a
measure could have been the result of intention; but it subjected this extraordinary boy to
the severest privations. To take up the dishonoured bill, he was obliged to effect his discharge
from one ship into another, so as to obtain his pay tickets, which he sold at forty per cent
discount. His remaining six years on the station were spent in the exercise of a severe economy,
and the endurance even of severe suffering. He was compelled to sell all his bedding, and sleep
on the bare deck. He had no other resource than, generally, to make and mend, and always to
wash, his own clothes. He never afforded himself any fresh meat; and even the fruit and vegetables,
which are so necessary and so cheap, he could obtain only by barter from the negroes, for the
small share of provisions which he could subduct from his own allowance. True as all this doubtless
is, it reflects more severely on the captain and officers of his own ship, than even upon his
parents. The latter, on the other side of the Atlantic, might have no knowledge of his difficulties;
but that those who saw his sufferings from day to day could have allowed them to continue,
argues a degree of negligence and inhumanity, of which we hope that no present instance occurs
in our navy, and which at any period would appear incomprehensible. In 1754, young Jervis returned
to England, and passed his examination for lieutenant with great credit.

The commencement of the war with France was, like the commencement of English wars in general,
disastrous. We seldom make due preparation. Fleets inferior to the enemy in equipment and number,
are sent out on the emergency; detachments of troops are sent where armies should have gone;
and thus victory itself is without effect. Thus for a year or two we continue blundering if
not beaten, and angry with our generals and admirals for failing to do impossibilities. At
last the nation becomes fairly roused; the success of the enemy makes exertion necessary; their
insolence inflames the popular indignation; a great effort is made; a triumph is obtained,
and a peace follows, which might have been accomplished half a dozen years before, at a tenth
part of the expense in blood and treasure which it cost to consummate the war. Our troops under
Braddock, a brave fool, were beaten by the French and Indians in America. Our Mediterranean
fleet was baffled under the unfortunate command of Byng. Minorca was taken before our eyes,
and the naval and military stars of England seem to have gone down together. Yet this era of
national dishonour and public disgust was followed by the three years of Chatham's administration,
a period of triumph that equaled the campaigns of Marlborough at the commencement of the century,
and was scarcely eclipsed even by the splendours that followed its close.

The skill and talent of young Jervis had already given him distinction among the rising officers
of the feet. He had become a favourite with Admiral Saunders, was taken with him from ship
to ship; and when the admiral was recalled from the Mediterranean to take the command of the
naval force destined to co-operate in the attack on Quebec, by the heroic and lamented General
Wolfe, young Jervis was selected to be first lieutenant of the Prince, which bore the admiral's
flag. On the passage out, the general and his aide-de-camp, Captain, afterwards the well-known
Colonel Barré, were guests on board the Prince, and of course Jervis had the advantage of their
intelligent society. In February 1759, the fleet sailed from England, and in June proceeded
from Louisburg to the St Lawrence. Lieutenant Jervis was now appointed to the command of the
Porcupine sloop; and on the general requesting a naval force to escort his transports past
Quebec, the Porcupine was ordered by the admiral to lead. The service was one of extreme difficulty;
for the attempt to sound the channel the day before had failed, though it was made by the master
of the fleet, Cook, afterwards the celebrated navigator. The winds suddenly falling calm, prevented
the Porcupine from reaching her station. A heavy fire was instantly opened upon her from every
gun that could be brought to bear, and the army were in terror of her being destroyed, for
the general was on board. But Jervis's skill was equal to his gallantry; he hoisted out his
boats, cheered his men through the fire, and brought his ship to her station.

A little incident occurred on the night before the memorable engagement, which even at this
distance of time is of painful interest, but which shows the confidence reposed in the young
naval officer by the hero of Quebec. After the orders for the assault next day were given,
Wolfe requested a private interview with him; and saying that he had the strongest presentiment
of falling on the field, yet that he should fall in victory, he took from his bosom the miniature
of a young lady to whom he was attached, gave it to Jervis, desiring that, if the foreboding
came to pass, he should return it to her on his arrival in England. Wolfe's gallant fate and
brilliant victory are known: the picture was delivered to Miss Lowther.

After the capture of Quebec, Jervis was dispatched to England; and was appointed to the Scorpion,
to carry out important despatches to General Amherst. On this occasion, he gave an instance
of that remarkable promptitude which characterised him throughout his whole career. The Scorpion
was in such a crazy state that she had nearly foundered between Spithead and Plymouth. On reaching
the latter port, and representing at once the condition of the vessel and the importance of
the despatches, the port-admiral instantly ordered him to proceed to sea in the Albany, a sloop
in the Sound. But the Albany had been a long time in commission; her people claimed arrears
of pay; and by no means relishing a voyage across the Atlantic in such weather, they absolutely
refused to heave the anchor. Their young commander first tried remonstrance, but in vain; he
then took a more effectual means--he ordered his boat's crew, whom he had brought from the
Scorpion, to take their hatchets and cut the cables, and then go aloft to loosen the foresail.
Perceiving the kind of man with whom they had to do, the crew submitted, and the Albany instantly
proceeded to sea: the ringleaders were punished; and the service was performed. The Albany
made New York in twenty-four days.

In October 1761, Commander Jervis was made Post, into the Gosport of 60 guns. Among his midshipmen
was the afterwards Admiral Lord Keith. In 1762, peace was made. The Gosport was paid off next
year, and Captain Jervis did not serve again until 1769, when he commanded the Alarm of 32
guns for the next three years.

A striking incident occurred during the cruise of this vessel in the Mediterranean, exhibiting
not only the spirit of her captain, but the historic recollections by which that spirit was
sustained. One Sunday afternoon, the day after her arrival at Genoa, two Turkish slaves, in
enjoyment of the holiday's rest from labour, sauntered from their galley near the mole. Seeing
the Alarm's boat, they jumped into her, wrapped themselves in the British colours, and exclaimed,
"We are free!" The Genoese officer on duty, however, ordered them to be dragged out, which
was done, though one of them tore away in his struggle a piece of the boat's pendant. On the
circumstance reaching the captain's ears he was indignant, and demanded instant reparation.
To use his own language:--"I required," said he, "of the Doge and Senate, that both the slaves
should be brought on board, with the part of the torn pendant which the slave carried off with
him; the officer of the guard punished; and an apology made on the quarterdeck of the Alarm,
under the king's colours, for the outrage offered to the British nation."

On the following Tuesday this was complied with in all the particulars; but, unhappily, the
government at home did not exhibit the spirit of their gallant officer abroad; and in a letter
which he addressed to his brother he says:--"_I had an opportunity of carrying the British
flag, in relation to two Turkish slaves, as high as Blake had ever done_, for which I am publicly
censured; though I hope we have too much virtue left, for me not to be justified in private."

The result, however, of this transaction was, that for many years afterwards, in the Barbary
states, if a slave could but touch the British colours, which all our men-of-war's boats carry
in foreign ports, he could of right demand his release. This, however, was counteracted as
far as possible by the renewed vigilance of the Moors, who kept all their slaves out of sight
while a British flag flew in the harbour. The allusion to the famous Blake shows with what
studies the young officer fed his mind, and in how high a spirit he was prepared to adopt them.

Another instance of his skill and intrepidity soon followed. In March 1770, the frigate, after
a tempestuous cruise, came to anchor at Marseilles. An equinoctial gale came on, and after
two days of desperate exertion, and throwing many of the guns overboard, the frigate was driven
from her anchors, stranded on a reef of rocks, and the crew in such peril that they were saved
only by the most extraordinary exertions, and the assistance of the people on shore. The port
officer, M. de Peltier, exhibited great kindness and activity, and the ship was rapidly repaired,
but with such an exact economy, that its complete refit, with the expense of the crew for three
months, amounted only to £1415.

The first act of this excellent son was to write to his father:--"Do not be alarmed, my dear
sir, at the newspaper accounts which you will hear of the Alarm. The interposition of Divine
Providence has miraculously preserved her. The same Providence will, I hope, give long life
to my dear father, mother, and brother."

In July he wrote to his sister from Mahon, after the repairs of the vessel:--"The Alarm is
the completest thing I ever saw on the water, insomuch that I forgot she was the other day,
in the opinion of most beholders, her own officers and crew not excepted, a miserable sunken
wreck. Such is the reward of perseverance. Happily for my reputation, my health at that period
happened to be equal to the task, or I had been lost for ever, instead of receiving continual
marks of public and private approbation of my conduct; but this is _entre nous_. I never speak
or write on the subject except to those I most love. You will easily believe Barrington to
be one; his goodness to me is romantic."

It is gratifying to state, that the English Admiralty, on the young captain's warm representation
of the French superintendent, M. de Peltier's hospitality and kindness, sent a handsome piece
of plate in public acknowledgment to that officer; and, as if to make the compliment perfect
in all its parts, as it arrived before the frigate had left the station, the captain had the
indulgence of presenting it in person; thus making, as his letter to his father mentioned,
"the family of Pleville de Peltier happy beyond description."

The frigate was soon after paid off, and as there was no probability of his being speedily
employed, he applied himself to gain every species of knowledge connected with his profession.
We strongly doubt whether the example of this rising officer is not even more important when
we regard him in peace than in the activity and daring of war. There is no want of courage
and conduct in the British fleet; but life on shore offers too many temptations to indolence,
to be always turned to the use of which it is capable. Captain Jervis, on the contrary, appears
always to have regarded life on shore preparatory to life afloat, and to be constantly employed
in laying up knowledge for those emergencies which so often occur in the bold and perilous
life of the sailor. There is often something like a predictive spirit in the early career of
great men, which urges them to make provision for greatness; and remote as is the condition
of a captain of a smart frigate from the commander of fleets, yet the captain of the Alarm,
though the least ostentatious of men, seems always to have had a glance towards the highest
duties of the British admiral. "Time," says Franklin, "is the stuff that life is made of;"
and as France is the antagonist with which the power of England naturally expects to struggle,
his first object was to acquire all possible knowledge of the naval means of France. The primary
step was to acquire a knowledge of the language. Accordingly, he went to France, and placed
himself in a _pension_. There he applied himself so closely to the study of the language, that
his health became out of order, and his family requested him to return. But this he declined,
and in his answer said that he had adopted this pursuit on the best view a military man in
his situation could form. "For it will always," said he, "be useful to have a general idea
of this prevalent language, and a knowledge of the country with which we have so long contended,
and which must ever be our rival in arms and commerce."

Having accomplished his object of acquiring sufficient fluency in speaking French, his next
excursion was to St Petersburg. He and Captain Barrington went in a merchant vessel, and reached
Cronstadt. While at sea, Captain Jervis kept a regular log. During the voyage, all the headlands
are described, all the soundings noted, and every opportunity to test and correct the charts
adopted. As an example, he remarks on the castle of Cronenburg, which guards the entrance into
the Sound, that it may be overlooked by a line-of-battle ship, which may anchor in good ground
as near the beach as she pleases. He remarks the two channels leading to Copenhagen, puts all
the lighthouses down on his own chart, and lays down all the approaches to St Petersburg accurately;
"because," said he, "I find all the charts are incorrect, and it may be useful." And he actually
did find it useful; for when he was at the head of the Admiralty, this knowledge enabled him,
while his colleagues hesitated, to give his orders confidently to Sir Charles Pole, in command
of the Baltic fleet. His sojourn at St Petersburg was but brief; but it was at a time of remarkable
excitement. The Empress Catharine was at the height of her splendour, a legislator and a conqueror,
and surrounded by a court exhibiting all the daring and dashing characters of her vast empire.
His description of this celebrated woman's character on one public occasion, shows the exactness
with which he observed every thing:--"When she entered the cathedral, Catharine mingled her
salutations to the saints and the people, showing at once her compliance with religious ceremonials,
and her attentions to her servants and the foreign ambassadors. But she showed no devotion,
in which she was not singular, old people and Cossack officers excepted. During the sermon
she took occasion to smile and nod to those whom she meant to gratify; and surely no sovereign
ever possessed the power of pleasing all within her eye to the degree she did. She was dressed
in the Guards' uniform, which was a scarlet pelisse, and a green silk robe lapelled from top
to bottom. Her hair was combed neatly, and boxed _en militaire_, with a small cap, and an ornament
of diamonds in front; a blue riband, and the order of St Andrew on her right shoulder."

He speaks of the empress excelling in that inclination of the body which the Russian ladies
substitute for the curtsy, and which he justly regards as very becoming, the empress adding
dignity and grace. He describes Orloff as an herculean figure, finely proportioned, with a
cheerful eye, and, for a Russian, a good complexion: Potemkin as having stature and shoulders,
but being ill limbed and of a most forbidding countenance. His examination of the Russian dockyards,
naval armament, and general style of shipbuilding, was most exact; and he records in his notes
his having seen, in the naval arsenals of Norway, sheds to cover ships on the stocks--an important
arrangement, which was afterwards claimed as an invention at home.

After inspecting the harbours of Sweden and Norway, the travellers returned by Holland, where
they made similar investigations. In the following year they renewed their tour of inspection,
and traversed the western parts of France. And this active pursuit of knowledge was carried
on without any pecuniary assistance beyond his half-pay. He had hitherto made no prize-money.
"To be sure," he said in after days, "we sometimes did fare rather roughly; but what signifies
that now? my object was attained."

His character was now high, but it is to be presumed that he had some powerful interest; for
on his return he was appointed to two line-of-battle ships in succession, the Kent, 74, and
the Foudroyant, 84, a French prize, and reckoned the finest two-decker in the navy.

From this period a new scene opened before him, and his career became a part of the naval history
of England. In 1778 he joined the Channel fleet, and his ship was placed by the celebrated
Keppel as one of his seconds in the order of battle, and immediately astern of the admiral's
ship, the Victory, on the 27th of July, in the drawn battle off Ushant with the French fleet
commanded by D'Orvilliers. The people of England are not content with drawn battles, and the
result of this action produced a general uproar. Keppel threw the blame on the tardiness of
Sir Hugh Palliser, the second in command. Palliser retorted, and the result was a court-martial
on the commander of the fleet; which, however, ended in a triumphant acquittal. It was not
generally known that Keppel's defence, which was admired as a model of intelligence, and even
of eloquence, was drawn up by Captain Jervis. The transaction, though so long passed away,
is not yet beyond discussion; and there is still some interest in knowing the opinion of so
powerful a mind on the general subject. It was thus given in a private letter to his friend
Jackson:--"I do not agree that we were outwitted. The French, I am convinced, never would have
fought us if they had not been surprised into it by a sudden flow of wind; and when they formed
their inimitable line after our brush, it was merely to cover their intention of flight."

He then gives one of those comprehensive maxims which already show the experienced "admiral:"--"I
have often told you that two fleets of equal force can never produce decisive events, unless
they are equally determined to fight it out, or the commander-in-chief of one of them misconducts
his line." We have then an instance of that manly feeling which is one of the truest characteristics
of greatness, and yet which has been deficient in some very remarkable men.

"I perceive," says he, "it is the fashion of people to puff themselves. For my part, I forbade
my officers to write by the frigate that carried the despatches. I did not write a syllable
myself, except touching my health; nor shall I, but to state the intrepidity of the officers
and people under my command, (through the most infernal fire I ever saw or heard,) to Lord
Sandwich," (first lord of the Admiralty.) But one cannot feel the merit of this self-denial
without a glance at his actual hazards and services during the battle.

"In justice to the Foudroyant," he thus ends his letter, "I must observe to you, that though
she received the fire of seventeen sail, and had the Bretagne, Ville de Paris, and a seventy-four
on her at the same time, and appeared more disabled in her masts and rigging than any other
ship, she was the first in the line of battle, and truly fitter for business, in essentials,
(because her people were cool,) than when she began. _Keep this to yourself_, unless you hear
too much said in praise of others.

"J.J."

The national wrath was poured on Sir Hugh Palliser, Keppel's second in command, whose tardiness
in obeying signals was charged as the cause of the French escape; so strong had already become
the national assurance that a British fleet could go forth only to victory. But the succession
of courts-martial cleared up nothing except the characters of the two admirals. Palliser was
enabled to show that his ship had suffered so much from the enemy's fire as to be at least
(plausibly) unfit for close action, and the whole dispute on land closed, like the naval conflict,
in a drawn battle. Jervis was the chief witness for Keppel, as serving next his ship; and his
testimony was of the highest order to the gallantry, skill, and perseverance of the admiral.
But Palliser was acknowledged to be brave; and it is evident from Jervis's personal opinion,
that when it was once the object of the enemy's commander to get away, it was next to impossible
to have prevented his escape.

But these were trying times for the British navy: it was scarcely acquainted with its own strength;
the nation, disgusted with the nature of the American war, refused its sympathy; without that
sympathy ministers could do nothing effectual, and never can do any thing effectual. The character
of the cabinet was feebleness, the spirit of the metropolis was faction; the king, though one
of the best of men, was singularly unpopular; and the war became a system of feeble defence
against arrogant and increasing hostilities. France, powerful as she was, became more powerful
by the national exultation--the frenzied rejoicing in the success of American revolt--and the
revived hope of European supremacy in a nation which had been broken down since the days of
Marlborough; a crush which had been felt in every sinew of France for a hundred angry years.
Spain, always strong, but unable to use her strength, had now given it in to the training of
discipline; and the combined fleets presented a display of force, which, in the haughty language
of the Tuileries, was formed to sweep the seas.

The threat was put in rapid and unexpected execution. The combined fleet moved up the Channel;
and to the surprise, the sorrow, and the indignation of England, the British fleet, under Sir
Charles Hardy, was seen making, what could only be called "a dignified retreat." The Foudroyant,
on that melancholy occasion, had been astern of the Victory, the admiral's ship. If Jervis
had been admiral, he would have tried the fate of battle--and he would have done right. No
result of a battle could have been so painful to the national feelings, or so injurious in
its effects on the feelings of Europe, as that retreat. If the whole British fleet on that
occasion had perished, its gallantry would have only raised a new spirit of worth and power
in the nation; and England has resources that, when once fully called into exertion, are absolutely
unconquerable. But that was a dishonour; and even now we can echo the feelings of the brave
and high-minded young officer, who was condemned to share in the disgrace. He writes to his
sister, as if to relieve the fulness of his heart at the moment--"I am in the most humbled
state of mind I ever experienced, from the retreat we have made before the combined fleets
all _yesterday_ and _this morning_." The Admiralty ultimately gave the retreating admiral an
official certificate of good behaviour, "their high approbation of Sir Charles Hardy's wise
and prudent conduct;" but "gallant and bold conduct" would have been a better testimonial.
The truth seems to be, that the Admiralty, blamable themselves in sending him to sea with an
inadequate force, and scarcely expecting to escape if they had suffered him to lie under the
charge, were glad to avail themselves of his personal character as a man of known bravery;
and thus quash a process which must finally have brought them before the tribunal. But let
naval officers remember, that the officer who fights is the officer of the nation. Nelson's
maxim is unanswerable--"The captain cannot be mistaken who lays his ship alongside the enemy."

This, too, was a period of cabinet revolutions. No favouritism can sustain a ministry which
has become disgustful to the nation. Lord North, though ingenious, dexterous, and long enough
in possession of power to have filled all its offices with his dependents, was driven from
the premiership with such a storm of national contempt, that he could scarcely be sheltered
by the curtains of the throne. Lord Rockingham, a dull minister, was transformed into a brilliant
one by his contrast with the national weariness of Lord North; and it fell to the lot of Captain
Jervis to give the country the first omen of returning victory. France had already combined
Holland in her alliance, and the French minister, already made insolent by his triumph in the
Channel, had determined on a blow in a quarter where English interests were most vulnerable,
and where the assault was least expected. A squadron of French line-of-battle ships, convoying
a fleet of transports, were prepared for an expedition to the East Indies.

The preparations for the combined movement were on an immense scale. The fleets of France,
Spain, and Holland were again to sweep the Channel; and while the attention of the British
fleets was thus engrossed, the Eastern expedition was to sail from Brest. The Admiralty, in
order to counteract, or at least delay, this formidable movement, immediately dispatched Admiral
Barrington, with twelve sail of the line, to cruise in the bay of Biscay. On the 18th of April
the French expedition sailed, and on the 20th, when Admiral Barrington had reached a few leagues
beyond Ushant, the Artois frigate signaled a hostile fleet, but could not discover their flag
or numbers. The signal being made for a general chase, the Foudroyant, Jervis's ship, soon
left the rest of the fleet behind; and before night she had so much gained upon the enemy as
to ascertain that they were six French ships of war, with eighteen sail of convoy. The whole
of the British fleet, being several leagues astern, was now lost sight of, and did not come
up till the following day. In the mean time Jervis was left alone. At ten at night, the French
ships of war separating, Jervis, selecting the largest for pursuit, prepared to attack: at
twelve, he had approached near enough to see that the chase was a ship of the line. The Foudroyant's
superior manoeuvring enabled her to commence the engagement by a raking fire. Its effect was
so powerful, that the enemy was thrown into extreme disorder, and was carried by boarding,
after an action of only three quarters of an hour. The prize was the Pégase, seventy-four.
The loss of life on board the enemy was great; but by an extraordinary piece of good fortune,
on board the Foudroyant not a man was killed, Captain Jervis and five seamen being the only
wounded.

To the gallantry which produced this striking success, the young officer added extreme delicacy
with respect to his prisoners. He would not allow the first boat to be sent on board the prize,
until he had given written orders for the particular preservation of every thing in the shape
of property belonging to the French officers, adding at the bottom of his memorandum,--"For
though I have the highest opinion of my officers, we must not be suspected of designs to plunder."

The result of the action was, that sixteen transports out of twenty were taken, according to
the letter of young Ricketts, the captain's nephew. It must be owned, that brave as the French
are, their admiral made but a bad figure in this business: why the sight of one vessel should
have been sufficient to disperse a fleet of six men-of-war, and of course ruin an expedition
which must thus be left without convoy, is not easily to be accounted for; or why, when the
admiral saw that his pursuer was but a single ship, he should not have turned upon him and
crushed him, it is equally difficult to say. It only shows that his court wanted common sense
as much as he wanted discretion. The expedition was destroyed, and the Foudroyant had the whole
honour of the victory.

An action between single ships of this force is rare at any period, and nothing could be nearer
a match in point of equipment then the two ships. The Foudroyant had the larger tonnage, and
carried three more guns on her broadside; but the Pégase threw a greater weight of shot, had
a more numerous crew, and a large proportion of soldiers on board. The English ship, however,
had the incomparable advantage of a crew which had sailed together for six years, and been
disciplined by such an officer as Jervis.

The ministry and the king were equally rejoiced at this return of the naval distinctions of
the country, and the immediate consequence was, the conferring of a baronetcy and the order
of the Bath upon the gallant officer. Congratulations of all kinds were poured upon him by
the ministry, his admiral, and his brother officers. The admiral writes, in speaking of the
squadron's cruise, "but the Pégase is every thing, and does the highest honour to Jervis."

