London was quite unlike the great metropolis which we now inhabit. Its extent was confined
to what is now termed "the city," then surrounded by a wall, built, as it is supposed, about
the age of Constantine, and of which a few fragments are existing. All around was open country.
Towards the north-east a deep marsh,--the name is yet preserved in Moorfields,--extended to
the foot of the Roman ramparts. On the western side of the city, and at the distance of nearly
two miles, the branches of a small river which fell into the Thames formed an island, so overgrown
with thickets and brushwood, that the Saxons called it "_Thorney_," or the "Isle of Thorns."
The river surrounding Thorney crept sullenly along the plashy soil; and the spot was so wild
and desolate, that it is described as a fearful and terrible place, which no one could approach
after nightfall without great danger. In this island there had been an ancient Roman temple,
consecrated to Apollo. And Sebert, perhaps on account of the seclusion which Thorney afforded,
resolved to build a church on the site, and he dedicated the fabric to St. Peter the Apostle.
This church is now Westminster Abbey; the busy city of Westminster is old Thorney Island, that
seat of desolation; and the bones of Sebert yet rest in the structure which he founded. Another
great church was built by Sebert, in the city of London, upon the ruins of the heathen temple
of Diana. This church is now St. Paul's Cathedral; and Mellitus being appointed the first Bishop
by Ethelbert and Sebert, the succession has continued to the present day.

_Influence of Christianity._

Before a century had elapsed, Christianity was firmly and sincerely believed throughout Anglo-Saxon
Britain; and, in the state of society which then prevailed, the establishment of the true religion
became the means of conferring the greatest temporal advantages upon the community. A large
proportion of the population consisted either of slaves or of churls or of villains, who were
compelled to till the ground for the benefit of their masters. These classes immediately gained
the comfort of rest, one day in seven; and they whose labour had hitherto been unremitted,
without any pause, except when fainting nature sunk under incessant toil, could now expect
the Sabbath of the Lord, as a day of holiness and of repose. So strictly did the temporal laws
protect the observance of the seventh day, the right and privilege of the poor, that the master
who compelled his slave to work on the Sunday, was deprived of the means of abusing his power,--the
slave obtained his freedom.

A tenth part of the produce of the land was set apart for the maintenance of the clergy, and
the support of the destitute. Charity, when resulting from the unaided impulses of humanity,
has no permanence. Bestowed merely to relieve ourselves from the painful sight of misery, the
virtue blesses neither the giver nor the receiver. But proceeding from the love of God, it
is steady and uniform in its operation, not wayward, not lukewarm, not affected by starts and
fancies, and ministering to more than the bodily wants of those who are in need.

