"A strange legend has got abroad that after the deed was done, the figure rose, took the head
from the basket, walked forth through the garden, and by the screaming porters at the gate,
and went and laid itself down at the Morgue. But for this I will not vouch. Only of this be
sure. 'There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, than are dreamed of in your philosophy.'
More and more the light peeps through the chinks. Soon, amidst music ravishing, the curtain
will rise, and the glorious scene be displayed. Adieu! Remember me. Ha! 'tis dawn," Pinto said.
And he was gone.

I am ashamed to say that my first movement was to clutch the cheque which he had left with
me, and which I was determined to present the very moment the bank opened. I know the importance
of these things, and that men CHANGE THEIR MIND sometimes. I sprang through the streets to
the great banking house of Manasseh in Duke Street. It seemed to me as if I actually flew as
I walked. As the clock struck ten I was at the counter and laid down my cheque.

The gentleman who received it, who was one of the Hebrew persuasion, as were the other two
hundred clerks of the establishment, having looked at the draft with terror in his countenance,
then looked at me, then called to himself two of his fellow-clerks, and queer it was to see
all their aquiline beaks over the paper.

"Come, come!" said I, "don't keep me here all day. Hand me over the money, short, if you please!"
for I was, you see, a little alarmed, and so determined to assume some extra bluster.

"Will you have the kindness to step into the parlor to the partners?" the clerk said, and I
followed him.

"What, AGAIN?" shrieked a bald-headed, red-whiskered gentleman, whom I knew to be Mr. Manasseh.
"Mr. Salathiel, this is too bad! Leave me with this gentleman, S." And the clerk disappeared.

"Sir," he said, "I know how you came by this; the Count de Pinto gave it you. It is too bad!
I honor my parents; I honor THEIR parents; I honor their bills! But this one of grandma's is
too bad--it is, upon my word now! She've been dead these five-and-thirty years. And this last
four months she has left her burial-place and took to drawing on our 'ouse! It's too bad, grandma;
it is too bad!" and he appealed to me, and tears actually trickled down his nose.

"Is it the Countess Sidonia's cheque or not?" I asked, haughtily.

"But, I tell you, she's dead! It's a shame!--it's a shame!--it is, grandmamma!" and he cried,
and wiped his great nose in his yellow pocket-handkerchief. "Look year--will you take pounds
instead of guineas? She's dead, I tell you! It's no go! Take the pounds--one tausend pound!--ten
nice, neat, crisp hundred-pound notes, and go away vid you, do!"

"I will have my bond, sir, or nothing," I said; and I put on an attitude of resolution which
I confess surprised even myself.

"Wery vell," he shrieked, with many oaths, "then you shall have noting--ha, ha, ha!--noting
but a policeman! Mr. Abednego, call a policeman! Take that, you humbug and impostor!" and here,
with an abundance of frightful language which I dare not repeat, the wealthy banker abused
and defied me.

Au bout du compte, what was I to do, if a banker did not choose to honor a cheque drawn by
his dead grandmother? I began to wish I had my snuff-box back. I began to think I was a fool
for changing that little old-fashioned gold for this slip of strange paper.

Meanwhile the banker had passed from his fit of anger to a paroxysm of despair. He seemed to
be addressing some person invisible, but in the room: "Look here, ma'am, you've really been
coming it too strong. A hundred thousand in six months, and now a thousand more! The 'ouse
can't stand it; it WON'T stand it, I say! What? Oh! mercy, mercy!"

As he uttered these words, A Hand fluttered over the table in the air! It was a female hand:
that which I had seen the night before. That female hand took a pen from the green baize table,
dipped it in a silver inkstand, and wrote on a quarter of a sheet of foolscap on the blotting-book,
"How about the diamond robbery? If you do not pay, I will tell him where they are."

What diamonds? what robbery? what was this mystery? That will never be ascertained, for the
wretched man's demeanor instantly changed. "Certainly, sir;--oh, certainly," he said, forcing
a grin. "How will you have the money, sir? All right, Mr. Abednego. This way out."

"I hope I shall often see you again," I said; on which I own poor Manasseh gave a dreadful
grin, and shot back into his parlor.

I ran home, clutching the ten delicious, crisp hundred pounds, and the dear little fifty which
made up the account. I flew through the streets again. I got to my chambers. I bolted the outer
doors. I sank back in my great chair, and slept. . . .

My first thing on waking was to feel for my money. Perdition! Where was I? Ha!--on the table
before me was my grandmother's snuff-box, and by its side one of those awful--those admirable--sensation
novels, which I had been reading, and which are full of delicious wonder.

But that the guillotine is still to be seen at Mr. Gale's, No. 47, High Holborn, I give you
MY HONOR. I suppose I was dreaming about it. I don't know. What is dreaming? What is life?
Why shouldn't I sleep on the ceiling?--and am I sitting on it now, or on the floor? I am puzzled.
But enough. If the fashion for sensation novels goes on, I tell you I will write one in fifty
volumes. For the present, DIXI. But between ourselves, this Pinto, who fought at the Colosseum,
who was nearly being roasted by the Inquisition, and sang duets at Holyrood, I am rather sorry
to lose him after three little bits of Roundabout Papers. Et vous?

DE FINIBUS.

When Swift was in love with Stella, and despatching her a letter from London thrice a month
by the Irish packet, you may remember how he would begin letter No. XXIII., we will say, on
the very day when XXII. had been sent away, stealing out of the coffee-house or the assembly
so as to be able to prattle with his dear; "never letting go her kind hand, as it were," as
some commentator or other has said in speaking of the Dean and his amour. When Mr. Johnson,
walking to Dodsley's, and touching the posts in Pall Mall as he walked, forgot to pat the head
of one of them, he went back and imposed his hands on it,--impelled I know not by what superstition.
I have this I hope not dangerous mania too. As soon as a piece of work is out of hand, and
before going to sleep, I like to begin another: it may be to write only half a dozen lines:
but that is something towards Number the Next. The printer's boy has not yet reached Green
Arbor Court with the copy. Those people who were alive half an hour since, Pendennis, Clive
Newcome, and (what do you call him? what was the name of the last hero? I remember now!) Philip
Firmin, have hardly drunk their glass of wine, and the mammas have only this minute got the
children's cloaks on, and have been bowed out of my premises--and here I come back to the study
again: tamen usque recurro. How lonely it looks now all these people are gone! My dear good
friends, some folks are utterly tired of you, and say, "What a poverty of friends the man has!
He is always asking us to meet those Pendennises, Newcomes, and so forth. Why does he not introduce
us to some new characters? Why is he not thrilling like Twostars, learned and profound like
Threestars, exquisitely humorous and human like Fourstars? Why, finally, is he not somebody
else?" My good people, it is not only impossible to please you all, but it is absurd to try.
The dish which one man devours, another dislikes. Is the dinner of to-day not to your taste?
Let us hope to-morrow's entertainment will be more agreeable. . . . I resume my original subject.
What an odd, pleasant, humorous, melancholy feeling it is to sit in the study, alone and quiet,
now all these people are gone who have been boarding and lodging with me for twenty months!
They have interrupted my rest: they have plagued me at all sorts of minutes: they have thrust
themselves upon me when I was ill, or wished to be idle, and I have growled out a "Be hanged
to you, can't you leave me alone now?" Once or twice they have prevented my going out to dinner.
Many and many a time they have prevented my coming home, because I knew they were there waiting
in the study, and a plague take them! and I have left home and family, and gone to dine at
the Club, and told nobody where I went. They have bored me, those people. They have plagued
me at all sorts of uncomfortable hours. They have made such a disturbance in my mind and house,
that sometimes I have hardly known what was going on in my family, and scarcely have heard
what my neighbor said to me. They are gone at last; and you would expect me to be at ease?
Far from it. I should almost be glad if Woolcomb would walk in and talk to me; or Twysden reappear,
take his place in that chair opposite me, and begin one of his tremendous stories.

Madmen, you know, see visions, hold conversations with, even draw the likeness of, people invisible
to you and me. Is this making of people out of fancy madness? and are novel-writers at all
entitled to strait-waistcoats? I often forget people's names in life; and in my own stories
contritely own that I make dreadful blunders regarding them; but I declare, my dear sir, with
respect to the personages introduced into your humble servant's fables, I know the people utterly--I
know the sound of their voices. A gentleman came in to see me the other day, who was so like
the picture of Philip Firmin in Mr. Walker's charming drawings in the cornhill Magazine, that
he was quite a curiosity to me. The same eyes, beard, shoulders, just as you have seen them
from month to month. Well, he is not like the Philip Firmin in my mind. Asleep, asleep in the
grave, lies the bold, the generous, the reckless, the tender-hearted creature whom I have made
to pass through those adventures which have just been brought to an end. It is years since
I heard the laughter ringing, or saw the bright blue eyes. When I knew him both were young.
I become young as I think of him. And this morning he was alive again in this room, ready to
laugh, to fight, to weep. As I write, do you know, it is the gray of evening; the house is
quiet; everybody is out; the room is getting a little dark, and I look rather wistfully up
from the paper with perhaps ever so little fancy that HE MAY COME IN.--No? No movement. No
gray shade, growing more palpable, out of which at last look the well-known eyes. No, the printer
came and took him away with the last page of the proofs. And with the printer's boy did the
whole cortege of ghosts flit away, invisible? Ha! stay! what is this? Angels and ministers
of grace! The door opens, and a dark form--enters, bearing a black--a black suit of clothes.
It is John. He says it is time to dress for dinner.

*****

Every man who has had his German tutor, and has been coached through the famous "Faust" of
Goethe (thou wert my instructor, good old Weissenborn, and these eyes beheld the great master
himself in dear little Weimar town!) has read those charming verses which are prefixed to the
drama, in which the poet reverts to the time when his work was first composed, and recalls
the friends now departed, who once listened to his song. The dear shadows rise up around him,
he says; he lives in the past again. It is to-day which appears vague and visionary. We humbler
writers cannot create Fausts, or raise up monumental works that shall endure for all ages;
but our books are diaries, in which our own feelings must of necessity be set down. As we look
to the page written last month, or ten years ago, we remember the day and its events; the child
ill, mayhap, in the adjoining room, and the doubts and fears which racked the brain as it still
pursued its work; the dear old friend who read the commencement of the tale, and whose gentle
hand shall be laid in ours no more. I own for my part that, in reading pages which this hand
penned formerly, I often lose sight of the text under my eyes. It is not the words I see; but
that past day; that bygone page of life's history; that tragedy, comedy it may be, which our
little home company was enacting; that merry-making which we shared; that funeral which we
followed; that bitter, bitter grief which we buried.

And, such being the state of my mind, I pray gentle readers to deal kindly with their humble
servant's manifold shortcomings, blunders, and slips of memory. As sure as I read a page of
my own composition, I find a fault or two, half a dozen. Jones is called Brown. Brown, who
is dead, is brought to life. Aghast, and months after the number was printed, I saw that I
had called Philip Firmin, Clive Newcome. Now Clive Newcome is the hero of another story by
the reader's most obedient writer. The two men are as different, in my mind's eye, as--as Lord
Palmerston and Mr. Disraeli let us say. But there is that blunder at page 990, line 76, volume
84 of the Cornhill Magazine, and it is past mending; and I wish in my life I had made no worse
blunders or errors than that which is hereby acknowledged.

Another Finis written. Another mile-stone passed on this journey from birth to the next world!
Sure it is a subject for solemn cogitation. Shall we continue this story-telling business and
be voluble to the end of our age? Will it not be presently time, O prattler, to hold your tongue,
and let younger people speak? I have a friend, a painter, who, like other persons who shall
be nameless, is growing old. He has never painted with such laborious finish as his works now
show. This master is still the most humble and diligent of scholars. Of Art, his mistress,
he is always an eager, reverent pupil. In his calling, in yours, in mine, industry and humility
will help and comfort us. A word with you. In a pretty large experience I have not found the
men who write books superior in wit or learning to those who don't write at all. In regard
of mere information, non-writers must often be superior to writers. You don't expect a lawyer
in full practice to be conversant with all kinds of literature; he is too busy with his law;
and so a writer is commonly too busy with his own books to be able to bestow attention on the
works of other people. After a day's work (in which I have been depicting, let us say, the
agonies of Louisa on parting with the Captain, or the atrocious behavior of the wicked Marquis
to Lady Emily) I march to the Club, proposing to improve my mind and keep myself "posted up,"
as the Americans phrase it, with the literature of the day. And what happens? Given, a walk
after luncheon, a pleasing book, and a most comfortable armchair by the fire, and you know
the rest. A doze ensues. Pleasing book drops suddenly, is picked up once with an air of some
confusion, is laid presently softly in lap: head falls on comfortable arm-chair cushion: eyes
close: soft nasal music is heard. Am I telling Club secrets? Of afternoons, after lunch, I
say, scores of sensible fogies have a doze. Perhaps I have fallen asleep over that very book
to which "Finis" has just been written. "And if the writer sleeps, what happens to the readers?"
says Jones, coming down upon me with his lightning wit. What? You DID sleep over it? And a
very good thing too. These eyes have more than once seen a friend dozing over pages which this
hand has written. There is a vignette somewhere in one of my books of a friend so caught napping
with "Pendennis," or the "Newcomes," in his lap and if a writer can give you a sweet soothing,
harmless sleep, has he not done you a kindness? So is the author who excites and interests
you worthy of your thanks and benedictions. I am troubled with fever and ague, that seizes
me at odd intervals and prostrates me for a day. There is cold fit, for which, I am thankful
to say, hot brandy-and-water is prescribed, and this induces hot fit, and so on. In one or
two of these fits I have read novels with the most fearful contentment of mind. Once, on the
Mississippi, it was my dearly beloved "Jacob Faithful:" once at Frankfort O. M., the delightful
"Vingt Ans Apres" of Monsieur Dumas: once at Tunbridge wells, the thrilling "Woman in White:"
and these books gave me amusement from morning till sunset. I remember those ague fits with
a great deal of pleasure and gratitude. Think of a whole day in bed, and a good novel for a
companion! No cares: no remorse about idleness: no visitors: and the Woman in White or the
Chevalier d'Artagnan to tell me stories from dawn to night! "Please, ma'am, my master's compliments,
and can he have the third volume?" (This message was sent to an astonished friend and neighbor
who lent me, volume by volume, the W. in W.) How do you like your novels? I like mine strong,
"hot with," and no mistake: no love-making: no observations about society: little dialogue,
except where the characters are bullying each other: plenty of fighting: and a villain in the
cupboard, who is to suffer tortures just before Finis. I don't like your melancholy Finis.
I never read the history of a consumptive heroine twice. If I might give a short hint to an
impartial writer (as the Examiner used to say in old days), it would be to act, NOT a la mode
le pays de Pole (I think that was the phraseology), but ALWAYS to give quarter. In the story
of Philip, just come to an end, I have the permission of the author to state, that he was going
to drown the two villains of the piece--a certain Doctor F---- and a certain Mr. T. H---- on
board the "President," or some other tragic ship--but you see I relented. I pictured to myself
Firmin's ghastly face amid the crowd of shuddering people on that reeling deck in the lonely
ocean, and thought, "Thou ghastly lying wretch, thou shalt not be drowned: thou shalt have
a fever only; a knowledge of thy danger; and a chance--ever so small a chance--of repentance."
I wonder whether he DID repent when he found himself in the yellow-fever, in Virginia? The
probability is, he fancied that his son had injured him very much, and forgave him on his death-bed.
Do you imagine there is a great deal of genuine right-down remorse in the world? Don't people
rather find excuses which make their minds easy; endeavor to prove to themselves that they
have been lamentably belied and misunderstood; and try and forgive the persecutors who WILL
present that bill when it is due; and not bear malice against the cruel ruffian who takes them
to the police-office for stealing the spoons? Years ago I had a quarrel with a certain well-known
person (I believed a statement regarding him which his friends imparted to me, and which turned
out to be quite incorrect). To his dying day that quarrel was never quite made up. I said to
his brother, "Why is your brother's soul still dark against me? It is I who ought to be angry
and unforgiving: for I was in the wrong." In the region which they now inhabit (for Finis has
been set to the volumes of the lives of both here below), if they take any cognizance of our
squabbles, and tittle-tattles, and gossips on earth here, I hope they admit that my little
error was not of a nature unpardonable. If you have never committed a worse, my good sir, surely
the score against you will not be heavy. Ha, dilectissimi fratres! It is in regard of sins
NOT found out that we may say or sing (in an undertone, in a most penitent and lugubrious minor
key), Miserere nobis miseris peccatoribus.

Among the sins of commission which novel-writers not seldom perpetrate, is the sin of grandiloquence,
or tall-talking, against which, for my part, I will offer up a special libera me. This is the
sin of schoolmasters, governesses, critics, sermoners, and instructors of young or old people.
Nay (for I am making a clean breast, and liberating my soul), perhaps of all the novel-spinners
now extant, the present speaker is the most addicted to preaching. Does he not stop perpetually
in his story and begin to preach to you? When he ought to be engaged with business, is he not
for ever taking the Muse by the sleeve, and plaguing her with some of his cynical sermons?
I cry peccavi loudly and heartily. I tell you I would like to be able to write a story which
should show no egotism whatever--in which there should be no reflections, no cynicism, no vulgarity
(and so forth), but an incident in every other page, a villain, a battle, a mystery in every
chapter. I should like to be able to feed a reader so spicily as to leave him hungering and
thirsting for more at the end of every monthly meal.

Alexandre Dumas describes himself, when inventing the plan of a work, as lying silent on his
back for two whole days on the deck of a yacht in a Mediterranean port. At the end of the two
days he arose and called for dinner. In those two days he had built his plot. He had moulded
a mighty clay, to be cast presently in perennial brass. The chapters, the characters, the incidents,
the combinations were all arranged in the artist's brain ere he set a pen to paper. My Pegasus
won't fly, so as to let me survey the field below me. He has no wings, he is blind of one eye
certainly, he is restive, stubborn, slow; crops a hedge when he ought to be galloping, or gallops
when he ought to be quiet. He never will show off when I want him. Sometimes he goes at a pace
which surprises me. Sometimes, when I most wish him to make the running, the brute turns restive,
and I am obliged to let him take his own time. I wonder do other novel-writers experience this
fatalism? They MUST go a certain way, in spite of themselves. I have been surprised at the
observations made by some of my characters. It seems as if an occult Power was moving the pen.
The personage does or says something, and I ask, how the dickens did he come to think of that?
Every man has remarked in dreams, the vast dramatic power which is sometimes evinced; I won't
say the surprising power, for nothing does surprise you in dreams. But those strange characters
you meet make instant observations of which you never can have thought previously. In like
manner, the imagination foretells things. We spake anon of the inflated style of some writers.
What also if there is an AFFLATED style,--when a writer is like a Pythoness on her oracle tripod,
and mighty words, words which he cannot help, come blowing, and bellowing, and whistling, and
moaning through the speaking pipes of his bodily organ? I have told you it was a very queer
shock to me the other day when, with a letter of introduction in his hand, the artist's (not
my) Philip Firmin walked into this room, and sat down in the chair opposite. In the novel of
"Pendennis," written ten years ago, there is an account of a certain Costigan, whom I had invented
(as I suppose authors invent their personages out of scraps, heel-taps, odds and ends of characters).
I was smoking in a tavern parlor one night--and this Costigan came into the room alive--the
very man:--the most remarkable resemblance of the printed sketches of the man, of the rude
drawings in which I had depicted him. He had the same little coat, the same battered hat, cocked
on one eye, the same twinkle in that eye. "Sir," said I, knowing him to be an old friend whom
I had met in unknown regions, "sir," I said, "may I offer you a glass of brandy-and-water?"
"Bedad, ye may," says he, "and I'll sing ye a song tu." Of course he spoke with an Irish brogue.
Of course he had been in the army. In ten minutes he pulled out an Army Agent's account, whereon
his name was written. A few months after we read of him in a police court. How had I come to
know him, to divine him? Nothing shall convince me that I have not seen that man in the world
of spirits. In the world of spirits and water I know I did: but that is a mere quibble of words.
I was not surprised when he spoke in an Irish brogue. I had had cognizance of him before somehow.
Who has not felt that little shock which arises when a person, a place, some words in a book
(there is always a collocation) present themselves to you, and you know that you have before
met the same person, words, scene, and so forth?

They used to call the good Sir Walter the "Wizard of the North." What if some writer should
appear who can write so ENCHANTINGLY that he shall be able to call into actual life the people
whom he invents? What if Mignon, and Margaret, and Goetz von Berlichingen are alive now (though
I don't say they are visible), and Dugald Dalgetty and Ivanhoe were to step in at that open
window by the little garden yonder? Suppose Uncas and our noble old Leather Stocking were to
glide silent in? Suppose Athos, Porthos, and Aramis should enter with a noiseless swagger,
curling their moustaches? And dearest Amelia Booth, on Uncle Toby's arm; and Tittlebat Titmouse,
with his hair dyed green; and all the Crummles company of comedians, with the Gil Blas troop;
and Sir Roger de Coverley; and the greatest of all crazy gentlemen, the Knight of La Mancha,
with his blessed squire? I say to you, I look rather wistfully towards the window, musing upon
these people. Were any of them to enter, I think I should not be very much frightened. Dear
old friends, what pleasant hours I have had with them! We do not see each other very often,
but when we do, we are ever happy to meet. I had a capital half-hour with Jacob Faithful last
night; when the last sheet was corrected, when "Finis" had been written, and the printer's
boy, with the copy, was safe in Green Arbor Court.

So you are gone, little printer's boy, with the last scratches and corrections on the proof,
and a fine flourish by way of Finis at the story's end. The last corrections? I say those last
corrections seem never to be finished. A plague upon the weeds! Every day, when I walk in my
own little literary garden-plot, I spy some, and should like to have a spud, and root them
out. Those idle words, neighbor, are past remedy. That turning back to the old pages produces
anything but elation of mind. Would you not pay a pretty fine to be able to cancel some of
them? Oh, the sad old pages, the dull old pages! Oh, the cares, the ennui, the squabbles, the
repetitions, the old conversations over and over again! But now and again a kind thought is
recalled, and now and again a dear memory. Yet a few chapters more, and then the last: after
which, behold Finis itself come to an end, and the Infinite begun.

ON A PEAL OF BELLS.

As some bells in a church hard by are making a great holiday clanging in the summer afternoon,
I am reminded somehow of a July day, a garden, and a great clanging of bells years and years
ago, on the very day when George IV. was crowned. I remember a little boy lying in that garden
reading his first novel. It was called the "Scottish Chiefs." The little boy (who is now ancient
and not little) read this book in the summer-house of his great grandmamma. She was eighty
years of age then. A most lovely and picturesque old lady, with a long tortoise-shell cane,
with a little puff, or tour, of snow-white (or was it powdered?) hair under her cap, with the
prettiest little black-velvet slippers and high heels you ever saw. She had a grandson, a lieutenant
in the navy; son of her son, a captain in the navy; grandson of her husband, a captain in the
navy. She lived for scores and scores of years in a dear little old Hampshire town inhabited
by the wives, widows, daughters of navy captains, admirals, lieutenants. Dear me! Don't I remember
Mrs. Duval, widow of Admiral Duval; and the Miss Dennets, at the Great House at the other end
of the town, Admiral Dennet's daughters; and the Miss Barrys, the late Captain Barry's daughters;
and the good old Miss Maskews, Admiral Maskew's daughter; and that dear little Miss Norval,
and the kind Miss Bookers, one of whom married Captain, now Admiral Sir Henry Excellent, K.C.B.?
Far, far away into the past I look and see the little town with its friendly glimmer. That
town was so like a novel of Miss Austen's that I wonder was she born and bred there? No, we
should have known, and the good old ladies would have pronounced her to be a little idle thing,
occupied with her silly books and neglecting her housekeeping. There were other towns in England,
no doubt, where dwelt the widows and wives of other navy captains; where they tattled, loved
each other, and quarrelled; talked about Betty the maid, and her fine ribbons indeed! took
their dish of tea at six, played at quadrille every night till ten, when there was a little
bit of supper, after which Betty came with the lanthorn; and next day came, and next, and next,
and so forth, until a day arrived when the lanthorn was out, when Betty came no more: all that
little company sank to rest under the daisies, whither some folks will presently follow them.
How did they live to be so old, those good people? Moi qui vous parle, I perfectly recollect
old Mr. Gilbert, who had been to sea with Captain Cook; and Captain Cook, as you justly observe,
dear Miss, quoting out of your "Mangnall's Questions," was murdered by the natives of Owhyhee,
anno 1779. Ah! don't you remember his picture, standing on the seashore, in tights and gaiters,
with a musket in his hand, pointing to his people not to fire from the boats, whilst a great
tattooed savage is going to stab him in the back? Don't you remember those houris dancing before
him and the other officers at the great Otaheite ball? Don't you know that Cook was at the
siege of Quebec, with the glorious Wolfe, who fought under the Duke of Cumberland, whose royal
father was a distinguished officer at Ramillies, before he commanded in chief at Dettingen?
Huzza! Give it them, my lads! My horse is down? Then I know I shall not run away. Do the French
run? then I die content. Stop. Wo! Quo me rapis? My Pegasus is galloping off, goodness knows
where, like his Majesty's charger at Dettingen.

How do these rich historical and personal reminiscences come out of the subject at present
in hand? What IS that subject, by the way? My dear friend, if you look at the last essaykin
(though you may leave it alone, and I shall not be in the least surprised or offended), if
you look at the last paper, where the writer imagines Athos and Porthos, Dalgetty and Ivanhoe,
Amelia and Sir Charles Grandison, Don Quixote and Sir Roger, walking in at the garden-window,
you will at once perceive that NOVELS and their heroes and heroines are our present subject
of discourse, into which we will presently plunge. Are you one of us, dear sir, and do you
love novel-reading? To be reminded of your first novel will surely be a pleasure to you. Hush!
I never read quite to the end of my first, the "Scottish Chiefs." I couldn't. I peeped in an
alarmed furtive manner at some of the closing pages. Miss Porter, like a kind dear tender-hearted
creature, would not have Wallace's head chopped off at the end of Vol. V. She made him die
in prison,* and if I remember right (protesting I have not read the book for forty-two or three
years), Robert Bruce made a speech to his soldiers, in which he said, "And Bannockburn shall
equal Cambuskenneth."** But I repeat I could not read the end of the fifth volume of that dear
delightful book for crying. Good heavens! It was as sad, as sad as going back to school.

     * I find, on reference to the novel, that Sir William died
     on the scaffold, not in prison.  His last words were, "'My
     prayer is heard. Life's cord is cut by heaven.  Helen!
     Helen!  May heaven preserve my country, and--'  He stopped.
     He fell.  And with that mighty shock the scaffold shook to
     its foundations."

     ** The remark of Bruce (which I protest I had not read for
     forty-two years), I find to be as follows:--"When this was
     uttered by the English heralds, Bruce turned to Ruthven,
     with an heroic smile, 'Let him come, my brave barons! and he
     shall find that Bannockburn shall page with Cambuskenneth!'"
     In the same amiable author's famous novel of "Thaddeus of
     Warsaw," there is more crying than in any novel I ever
     remember to have read.  See, for example, the last page. . . .
     "Incapable of speaking, Thaddeus led his wife back to her
     carriage. . . .  His tears gushed out in spite of himself,
     and mingling with hers, poured those thanks, those
     assurances, of animated approbation through her heart, which
     made it even ache with excess of happiness." . . .  And a
     sentence or two further. "Kosciusko did bless him, and
     embalmed the benediction with a shower of tears."

The glorious Scott cycle of romances came to me some four or five years afterwards; and I think
boys of our year were specially fortunate in coming upon those delightful books at that special
time when we could best enjoy them. Oh, that sunshiny bench on half-holidays, with Claverhouse
or Ivanhoe for a companion! I have remarked of very late days some little men in a great state
of delectation over the romances of Captain Mayne Reid, and Gustave Aimard's Prairie and Indian
Stories, and during occasional holiday visits, lurking off to bed with the volume under their
arms. But are those Indians and warriors so terrible as our Indians and warriors were? (I say,
are they? Young gentlemen, mind, I do not say they are not.) But as an oldster I can be heartily
thankful for the novels of the 1-10 Geo. IV., let us say, and so downward to a period not unremote.
Let us see there is, first, our dear Scott. Whom do I love in the works of that dear old master?
Amo--

The Baron of Bradwardine and Fergus. (Captain Waverley is certainly very mild.)

Amo Ivanhoe; LOCKSLEY; the Templar.

Amo Quentin Durward, and especially Quentin's uncle, who brought the boar to bay. I forget
the gentleman's name.

I have never cared for the Master of Ravenswood, or fetched his hat out of the water since
he dropped it there when I last met him (circa 1825).

Amo SALADIN and the Scotch knight in the "Talisman." The Sultan best.

Amo CLAVERHOUSE.

Amo MAJOR DALGETTY. Delightful Major. To think of him is to desire to jump up, run to the book,
and get the volume down from the shelf. About all those heroes of Scott, what a manly bloom
there is, and honorable modesty! They are not at all heroic. They seem to blush somehow in
their position of hero, and as it were to say, "Since it must be done, here goes!" They are
handsome, modest, upright, simple, courageous, not too clever. If I were a mother (which is
absurd), I should like to be mother-in-law to several young men of the Walter-Scott-hero sort.

Much as I like those most unassuming, manly, unpretending gentlemen, I have to own that I think
the heroes of another writer, viz.--

LEATHER-STOCKING,

UNCAS,

HARDHEART,

TOM COFFIN,

are quite the equals of Scott's men; perhaps Leather-stocking is better than any one in "Scott's
lot." La Longue Carabine is one of the great prize-men of fiction. He ranks with your Uncle
Toby, Sir Roger de Coverley, Falstaff--heroic figures, all--American or British, and the artist
has deserved well of his country who devised them.

At school, in my time, there was a public day, when the boys' relatives, an examining bigwig
or two from the universities, old schoolfellows, and so forth, came to the place. The boys
were all paraded; prizes were administered; each lad being in a new suit of clothes--and magnificent
dandies, I promise you, some of us were. Oh, the chubby cheeks, clean collars, glossy new raiment,
beaming faces, glorious in youth--fit tueri coelum--bright with truth, and mirth, and honor!
To see a hundred boys marshalled in a chapel or old hall; to hear their sweet fresh voices
when they chant, and look in their brave calm faces; I say, does not the sight and sound of
them smite you, somehow, with a pang of exquisite kindness? . . . Well. As about boys, so about
Novelists. I fancy the boys of Parnassus School all paraded. I am a lower boy myself in that
academy. I like our fellows to look well, upright, gentlemanlike. There is Master Fielding--he
with the black eye. What a magnificent build of a boy! There is Master Scott, one of the heads
of the school. Did you ever see the fellow more hearty and manly? Yonder lean, shambling, cadaverous
lad, who is always borrowing money, telling lies, leering after the house-maids, is Master
Laurence Sterne--a bishop's grandson, and himself intended for the Church; for shame, you little
reprobate! But what a genius the fellow has! Let him have a sound flogging, and as soon as
the young scamp is out of the whipping-room give him a gold medal. Such would be my practice
if I were Doctor Birch, and master of the school.

Let us drop this school metaphor, this birch and all pertaining thereto. Our subject, I beg
leave to remind the reader's humble servant, is novel heroes and heroines. How do you like
your heroes, ladies? Gentlemen, what novel heroines do you prefer? When I set this essay going,
I sent the above question to two of the most inveterate novel-readers of my acquaintance. The
gentleman refers me to Miss Austen; the lady says Athos, Guy Livingston, and (pardon my rosy
blushes) Colonel Esmond, and owns that in youth she was very much in love with Valancourt.

"Valancourt? and who was he?" cry the young people. Valancourt, my dears, was the hero of one
of the most famous romances which ever was published in this country. The beauty and elegance
of Valancourt made your young grandmammas' gentle hearts to beat with respectful sympathy.
He and his glory have passed away. Ah, woe is me that the glory of novels should ever decay;
that dust should gather round them on the shelves; that the annual cheques from Messieurs the
publishers should dwindle, dwindle! Inquire at Mudie's, or the London Library, who asks for
the "Mysteries of Udolpho" now? Have not even the "Mysteries of Paris" ceased to frighten?
Alas, our novels are but for a season; and I know characters whom a painful modesty forbids
me to mention, who shall go to limbo along with "Valancourt" and "Doricourt" and "Thaddeus
of Warsaw."

A dear old sentimental friend, with whom I discoursed on the subject of novels yesterday, said
that her favorite hero was Lord Orville, in "Evelina," that novel which Dr. Johnson loved so.
I took down the book from a dusty old crypt at a club, where Mrs. Barbauld's novelists repose:
and this is the kind of thing, ladies and gentlemen, in which your ancestors found pleasure:--

"And here, whilst I was looking for the books, I was followed by Lord Orville. He shut the
door after he came in, and, approaching me with a look of anxiety, said, 'Is this true, Miss
Anville--are you going?'

"'I believe so, my lord,' said I, still looking for the books.

"'So suddenly, so unexpectedly: must I lose you?'

"'No great loss, my lord,' said I, endeavoring to speak cheerfully.

"'Is it possible,' said he, gravely, 'Miss Anville can doubt my sincerity?'

"'I can't imagine,' cried I, 'what Mrs. Selwyn has done with those books.'

"'Would to heaven,' continued he, 'I might flatter myself you would allow me to prove it!'

"'I must run up stairs,' cried I, greatly confused, 'and ask what she has done with them.'

"'You are going then,' cried he, taking my hand, 'and you give me not the smallest hope of
any return! Will you not, my too lovely friend, will you not teach me, with fortitude like
your own, to support your absence?'

"'My lord,' cried I, endeavoring to disengage my hand, 'pray let me go!'

"'I will,' cried he, to my inexpressible confusion, dropping on one knee, 'if you wish me to
leave you.'

"'Oh, my lord,' exclaimed I, 'rise, I beseech you; rise. Surely your lordship is not so cruel
as to mock me.'

"'Mock you!' repeated he earnestly, 'no, I revere you. I esteem and admire you above all human
beings! You are the friend to whom my soul is attached, as to its better half. You are the
most amiable, the most perfect of women; and you are dearer to me than language has the power
of telling.'

"I attempt not to describe my sensations at that moment; I scarce breathed; I doubted if I
existed; the blood forsook my cheeks, and my feet refused to sustain me. Lord Orville hastily
rising supported me to a chair upon which I sank almost lifeless.

"I cannot write the scene that followed, though every word is engraven on my heart; but his
protestations, his expressions, were too flattering for repetition; nor would he, in spite
of my repeated efforts to leave him, suffer me to escape; in short, my dear sir, I was not
proof against his solicitations, and he drew from me the most sacred secret of my heart!"*

     * Contrast this old perfumed, powdered D'Arblay conversation
     with the present modern talk.  If the two young people
     wished to hide their emotions now-a-days, and express
     themselves in modest language, the story would run:--

     "Whilst I was looking for the books, Lord Orville came in.
     He looked uncommonly down in the mouth, as he said: 'Is this
     true, Miss Anville; are you going to cut?'

     "'To absquatulate, Lord Orville,' said I, still pretending
     that I was looking for the books.

     "'You are very quick about it,' said he.

     "'Guess it's no great loss,' I remarked, as cheerfully as I
     could.

     "'You don't think I'm chaffing?' said Orville, with much
     emotion.

     "'What has Mrs. Selwyn done with the books?' I went on.

     "'What, going' said he, 'and going for good?  I wish I was
     such a good-plucked one as you, Miss Anville,'" &c.

     The conversation, you perceive, might be easily written down
     to this key; and if the hero and heroine were modern, they
     would not be suffered to go through their dialogue on
     stilts, but would converse in the natural graceful way at
     present customary.  By the way, what a strange custom that
     is in modern lady novelists to make the men bully the women!
     In the time of Miss Porter and Madame D'Arblay, we have
     respect, profound bows and curtsies, graceful courtesy, from
     men to women.  In the time of Miss Bronte, absolute
     rudeness.  Is it true, mesdames, that you like rudeness, and
     are pleased at being ill-used by men?  I could point to more
     than one lady novelist who so represents you.

Other people may not much like this extract, madam, from your favorite novel, but when you
come to read it, YOU will like it. I suspect that when you read that book which you so love,
you read it a deux. Did you not yourself pass a winter at Bath, when you were the belle of
the assembly? Was there not a Lord Orville in your case too? As you think of him eleven lustres
pass away. You look at him with the bright eyes of those days, and your hero stands before
you, the brave, the accomplished, the simple, the true gentleman; and he makes the most elegant
of bows to one of the most beautiful young women the world ever saw; and he leads you out to
the cotillon, to the dear unforgotten music. Hark to the horns of Elfand, blowing, blowing!
Bonne vieille, you remember their melody, and your heart-strings thrill with it still.

Of your heroic heroes, I think our friend Monseigneur Athos, Count de la Fere, is my favorite.
I have read about him from sunrise to sunset with the utmost contentment of mind. He has passed
through how many volumes? Forty? Fifty? I wish for my part there were a hundred more, and would
never tire of him reselling prisoners, punishing ruffians, and running scoundrels through the
midriff with his most graceful rapier. Ah, Athos, Porthos, and Aramis, you are a magnificent
trio. I think I like d'Artagnan in his own memoirs best. I bought him years and years ago,
price fivepence, in a little parchment-covered Cologne-printed volume, at a stall in Gray's
Inn Lane. Dumas glorifies him and makes a Marshal of him; if I remember rightly, the original
d'Artagnan was a needy adventurer, who died in exile very early in Louis XIV.'s reign. Did
you ever read the "Chevalier d'Harmenthal?" Did you ever read the "Tulipe Noire," as modest
as a story by Miss Edgeworth? I think of the prodigal banquets to which this Lucullus of a
man has invited me, with thanks and wonder. To what a series of splendid entertainments he
has treated me! Where does he find the money for these prodigious feasts? They say that all
the works bearing Dumas's name are not written by him. Well? Does not the chief cook have aides
under him? Did not Rubens's pupils paint on his canvases? Had not Lawrence assistants for his
backgrounds? For myself, being also du metier, I confess I would often like to have a competent,
respectable, and rapid clerk for the business part of my novels; and on his arrival, at eleven
o'clock, would say, "Mr. Jones, if you please, the archbishop must die this morning in about
five pages. Turn to article 'Dropsy' (or what you will) in Encyclopaedia. Take care there are
no medical blunders in his death. Group his daughters, physicians, and chaplains round him.
In Wales's 'London,' letter B, third shelf, you will find an account of Lambeth, and some prints
of the place. Color in with local coloring. The daughter will come down, and speak to her lover
in his wherry at Lambeth Stairs," &c., &c. Jones (an intelligent young man) examines the medical,
historical, topographical books necessary; his chief points out to him in Jeremy Taylor (fol.,
London, M.DCLV.) a few remarks, such as might befit a dear old archbishop departing this life.
When I come back to dress for dinner, the archbishop is dead on my table in five pages; medicine,
topography, theology, all right, and Jones has gone home to his family some hours. Sir Christopher
is the architect of St. Paul's. He has not laid the stones or carried up the mortar. There
is a great deal of carpenter's and joiner's work in novels which surely a smart professional
hand might supply. A smart professional hand? I give you my word, there seem to me parts of
novels--let us say the love-making, the "business," the villain in the cupboard, and so forth,
which I should like to order John Footman to take in hand, as I desire him to bring the coals
and polish the boots. Ask ME indeed to pop a robber under a bed, to hide a will which shall
be forthcoming in due season, or at my time of life to write a namby-pamby love conversation
between Emily and Lord Arthur! I feel ashamed of myself, and especially when my business obliges
me to do the love-passages, I blush so, though quite alone in my study, that you would fancy
I was going off in an apoplexy. Are authors affected by their own works? I don't know about
other gentlemen, but if I make a joke myself I cry; if I write a pathetic scene I am laughing
wildly all the time--at least Tomkins thinks so. You know I am such a cynic!

The editor of the Cornhill Magazine (no soft and yielding character like his predecessor, but
a man of stern resolution) will only allow these harmless papers to run to a certain length.
But for this veto I should gladly have prattled over half a sheet more, and have discoursed
on many heroes and heroines of novels whom fond memory brings back to me. Of these books I
have been a diligent student from those early days, which are recorded at the commencement
of this little essay. Oh, delightful novels, well remembered! Oh, novels, sweet and delicious
as the raspberry open-tarts of budding boyhood! Do I forget one night after prayers (when we
under-boys were sent to bed) lingering at my cupboard to read one little half-page more of
my dear Walter Scott--and down came the monitor's dictionary upon my head! Rebecca, daughter
of Isaac of York, I have loved thee faithfully for forty years! Thou wert twenty years old
(say) and I but twelve, when I knew thee. At sixty odd, love, most of the ladies of thy Orient
race have lost the bloom of youth, and bulged beyond the line of beauty; but to me thou art
ever young and fair, and I will do battle with any felon Templar who assails thy fair name.

ON A PEAR-TREE.

A gracious reader no doubt has remarked that these humble sermons have for subjects some little
event which happens at the preacher's own gate, or which falls under his peculiar cognizance.
Once, you may remember, we discoursed about a chalk-mark on the door. This morning Betsy, the
housemaid, comes with a frightened look, and says, "Law, mum! there's three bricks taken out
of the garden wall, and the branches broke, and all the pears taken off the pear-tree!" Poor
peaceful suburban pear-tree! Gaol-birds have hopped about thy branches, and robbed them of
their smoky fruit. But those bricks removed; that ladder evidently prepared, by which unknown
marauders may enter and depart from my little Englishman's castle; is not this a subject of
thrilling interest, and may it not BE CONTINUED IN A FUTURE NUMBER?--that is the terrible question.
Suppose, having escaladed the outer wall, the miscreants take a fancy to storm the castle?
Well--well! we are armed; we are numerous; we are men of tremendous courage, who will defend
our spoons with our lives; and there are barracks close by (thank goodness!) whence, at the
noise of our shouts and firing, at least a thousand bayonets will bristle to our rescue.

What sound is yonder? A church bell. I might go myself, but how listen to the sermon? I am
thinking of those thieves who have made a ladder of my wall, and a prey of my pear-tree. They
may be walking to church at this moment, neatly shaved, in clean linen, with every outward
appearance of virtue. If I went, I know I should be watching the congregation, and thinking,
"Is that one of the fellows who came over my wall?" If, after the reading of the eighth Commandment,
a man sang out with particular energy, "Incline our hearts to keep this law," I should think,
"Aha, Master Basso, did you have pears for breakfast this morning?" Crime is walking round
me, that is clear. Who is the perpetrator? . . . What a changed aspect the world has, since
these last few lines were written! I have been walking round about my premises, and in consultation
with a gentleman in a single-breasted blue coat, with pewter buttons, and a tape ornament on
the collar. He has looked at the holes in the wall, and the amputated tree. We have formed
our plan of defence--PERHAPS OF ATTACK. Perhaps some day you may read in the papers, "DARING
ATTEMPT AT BURGLARY--HEROIC VICTORY OVER THE VILLAINS," &c. &c. Rascals as yet unknown! perhaps
you, too, may read these words, and may be induced to pause in your fatal intention. Take the
advice of a sincere friend, and keep off. To find a man writhing in my man-trap, another mayhap
impaled in my ditch, to pick off another from my tree (scoundrel! as though he were a pear)
will give me no pleasure; but such things may happen. Be warned in time, villains! Or, if you
MUST pursue your calling as cracksmen, have the goodness to try some other shutters. Enough!
subside into your darkness, children of night! Thieves! we seek not to have YOU hanged--you
are but as pegs whereon to hang others.

I may have said before, that if I were going to be hanged myself, I think I should take an
accurate note of my sensations, request to stop at some Public-house on the road to Tyburn
and be provided with a private room and writing-materials, and give an account of my state
of mind. Then, gee up, carter! beg your reverence to continue your apposite, though not novel,
remarks on my situation;--and so we drive up to Tyburn turnpike, where an expectant crowd,
the obliging sheriffs, and the dexterous and rapid Mr. Ketch are already in waiting.

A number of laboring people are sauntering about our streets and taking their rest on this
holiday--fellows who have no more stolen my pears than they have robbed the crown jewels out
of the Tower--and I say I cannot help thinking in my own mind, "Are you the rascal who got
over my wall last night?" Is the suspicion haunting my mind written on my countenance? I trust
not. What if one man after another were to come up to me and say, "How dare you, sir, suspect
me in your mind of stealing your fruit? Go be hanged, you and your jargonels!" You rascal thief!
it is not merely three-halfp'orth of sooty fruit you rob me of, it is my peace of mind--my
artless innocence and trust in my fellow-creatures, my childlike belief that everything they
say is true. How can I hold out the hand of friendship in this condition, when my first impression
is, "My good sir, I strongly suspect that you were up my pear-tree last night?" It is a dreadful
state of mind. The core is black; the death-stricken fruit drops on the bough, and a great
worm is within--fattening, and feasting, and wriggling! WHO stole the pears? I say. Is it you,
brother? Is it you, madam? Come! are you ready to answer--respondere parati et cantare pares?
(O shame! shame!)

Will the villains ever be discovered and punished who stole my fruit? Some unlucky rascals
who rob orchards are caught up the tree at once. Some rob through life with impunity. If I,
for my part, were to try and get up the smallest tree, on the darkest night, in the most remote
orchard, I wager any money I should be found out--be caught by the leg in a man-trap, or have
Towler fastening on me. I always am found out; have been; shall be. It's my luck. Other men
will carry off bushels of fruit, and get away undetected, unsuspected; whereas I know woe and
punishment would fall upon me were I to lay my hand on the smallest pippin. So be it. A man
who has this precious self-knowledge will surely keep his hands from picking and stealing,
and his feet upon the paths of virtue.

I will assume, my benevolent friend and present reader, that you yourself are virtuous, not
from a fear of punishment, but from a sheer love of good: but us you and I walk through life,
consider what hundreds of thousands of rascals we must have met, who have not been found out
at all. In high places and low, in Clubs and on 'Change, at church or the balls and routs of
the nobility and gentry, how dreadful it is for benevolent beings like you and me to have to
think these undiscovered though not unsuspected scoundrels are swarming! What is the difference
between you and a galley-slave? Is yonder poor wretch at the hulks not a man and a brother
too? Have you ever forged, my dear sir? Have you ever cheated your neighbor? Have you ever
ridden to Hounslow Heath and robbed the mail? Have you ever entered a first-class railway carriage,
where an old gentleman sat alone in a sweet sleep, daintily murdered him, taken his pocket-book,
and got out at the next station? You know that this circumstance occurred in France a few months
since. If we have travelled in France this autumn we may have met the ingenious gentleman who
perpetrated this daring and successful coup. We may have found him a well-informed and agreeable
man. I have been acquainted with two or three gentlemen who have been discovered after--after
the performance of illegal actions. What? That agreeable rattling fellow we met was the celebrated
Mr. John Sheppard? Was that amiable quiet gentleman in spectacles the well-known Mr. Fauntleroy?
In Hazlitt's admirable paper, "Going to a Fight," he describes a dashing sporting fellow who
was in the coach, and who was no less a man than the eminent destroyer of Mr. William Weare.
Don't tell me that you would not like to have met (out of business) Captain Sheppard, the Reverend
Doctor Dodd, or others rendered famous by their actions and misfortunes, by their lives and
their deaths. They are the subjects of ballads, the heroes of romance. A friend of mine had
the house in May Fair, out of which poor Doctor Dodd was taken handcuffed. There was the paved
hall over which he stepped. That little room at the side was, no doubt, the study where he
composed his elegant sermons. Two years since I had the good fortune to partake of some admirable
dinners in Tyburnia--magnificent dinners indeed; but rendered doubly interesting from the fact
that the house was that occupied by the late Mr. Sadleir. One night the late Mr. Sadleir took
tea in that dining-room, and, to the surprise of his butler, went out, having put into his
pocket his own cream-jug. The next morning, you know, he was found dead on Hampstead Heath,
with the cream-jug lying by him, into which he had poured the poison by which he died. The
idea of the ghost of the late gentleman flitting about the room gave a strange interest to
the banquet. Can you fancy him taking his tea alone in the dining-room? He empties that cream-jug
and puts it in his pocket; and then he opens yonder door, through which he is never to pass
again. Now he crosses the hall: and hark! the hall-door shuts upon him, and his steps die away.
They are gone into the night. They traverse the sleeping city. They lead him into the fields,
where the gray morning is beginning to glimmer. He pours something from a bottle into a little
silver jug. It touches his lips, the lying lips. Do they quiver a prayer ere that awful draught
is swallowed? When the sun rises they are dumb.

I neither knew this unhappy man, nor his countryman--Laertes let us call him--who is at present
in exile, having been compelled to fly from remorseless creditors. Laertes fled to America,
where he earned his bread by his pen. I own to having a kindly feeling towards this scapegrace,
because, though an exile, he did not abuse the country whence he fled. I have heard that he
went away taking no spoil with him, penniless almost; and on his voyage he made acquaintance
with a certain Jew; and when he fell sick, at New York, this Jew befriended him, and gave him
help and money out of his own store, which was but small. Now, after they had been awhile in
the strange city, it happened that the poor Jew spent all his little money, and he too fell
ill, and was in great penury. And now it was Laertes who befriended that Ebrew Jew. He fee'd
doctors; he fed and tended the sick and hungry. Go to, Laertes! I know thee not. It may be
thou art justly exul patriae. But the Jew shall intercede for thee, thou not, let us trust,
hopeless Christian sinner.

Another exile to the same shore I knew: who did not? Julius Caesar hardly owed more money than
Cucedicus: and, gracious powers! Cucedicus, how did you manage to spend and owe so much? All
day he was at work for his clients; at night he was occupied in the Public Council. He neither
had wife nor children. The rewards which he received for his orations were enough to maintain
twenty rhetoricians. Night after night I have seen him eating his frugal meal, consisting but
of a fish, a small portion of mutton, and a small measure of Iberian or Trinacrian wine, largely
diluted with the sparkling waters of Rhenish Gaul. And this was all he had; and this man earned
and paid away talents upon talents; and fled, owing who knows how many more! Does a man earn
fifteen thousand pounds a year, toiling by day, talking by night, having horrible unrest in
his bed, ghastly terrors at waking, seeing an officer lurking at every corner, a sword of justice
for ever hanging over his head--and have for his sole diversion a newspaper, a lonely mutton-chop,
and a little sherry and seltzer-water? In the German stories we read how men sell themselves
to--a certain Personage, and that Personage cheats them. He gives them wealth; yes, but the
gold-pieces turn into worthless leaves. He sets them before splendid banquets yes, but what
an awful grin that black footman has who lifts up the dish-cover; and don't you smell a peculiar
sulphurous odor in the dish? Faugh! take it away; I can't eat. He promises them splendors and
triumphs. The conqueror's ear rolls glittering through the city, the multitude shout and huzza.
Drive on, coachman. Yes, but who is that hanging on behind the carriage? Is this the reward
of eloquence, talents, industry? Is this the end of a life's labor? Don't you remember how,
when the dragon was infesting the neighborhood of Babylon, the citizens used to walk dismally
out of evenings, and look at the valleys round about strewed with the bones of the victims
whom the monster had devoured? O insatiate brute, and most disgusting, brazen, and scaly reptile!
Let us be thankful, children, that it has not gobbled us up too. Quick. Let us turn away, and
pray that we may be kept out of the reach of his horrible maw, jaw, claw!

When I first came up to London, as innocent as Monsieur Gil Blas, I also fell in with some
pretty acquaintances, found my way into several caverns, and delivered my purse to more than
one gallant gentleman of the road. One I remember especially--one who never eased me personally
of a single maravedi--one than whom I never met a bandit more gallant, courteous, and amiable.
Rob me? Rolando feasted me; treated me to his dinner and his wine; kept a generous table for
his friends, and I know was most liberal to many of them. How well I remember one of his speculations!
It was a great plan for smuggling tobacco. Revenue officers were to be bought off; silent ships
were to ply on the Thames; cunning depots were to be established, and hundreds of thousands
of pounds to be made by the coup. How his eyes kindled as he propounded the scheme to me! How
easy and certain it seemed! It might have succeeded, I can't say: but the bold and merry, the
hearty and kindly Rolando came to grief--a little matter of imitated signatures occasioned
a Bank persecution of Rolando the Brave. He walked about armed, and vowed he would never be
taken alive: but taken he was; tried, condemned, sentenced to perpetual banishment; and I heard
that for some time he was universally popular in the colony which had the honor to possess
him. What a song he could sing! 'Twas when the cup was sparkling before us, and heaven gave
a portion of its blue, boys, blue, that I remember the song of Roland at the "Old Piazza Coffee-house."
And now where is the "Old Piazza Coffee-house?" Where is Thebes? where is Troy? where is the
Colossus of Rhodes? Ah, Rolando, Rolando! thou wert a gallant captain, a cheery, a handsome,
a merry. At ME thou never presentedst pistol. Thou badest the bumper of Burgundy fill, fill
for me, giving those who preferred it champagne. Caelum non animum, &c. Do you think he has
reformed now that he has crossed the sea, and changed the air? I have my own opinion. Howbeit,
Rolando, thou wert a most kind and hospitable bandit. And I love not to think of thee with
a chain at thy shin.

Do you know how all these memories of unfortunate men have come upon me? When they came to
frighten me this morning by speaking of my robbed pears, my perforated garden wall, I was reading
an article in the Saturday Review about Rupilius. I have sat near that young man at a public
dinner, and beheld him in a gilded uniform. But yesterday he lived in splendor, had long hair,
a flowing beard, a jewel at his neck, and a smart surtout. So attired, he stood but yesterday
in court; and to-day he sits over a bowl of prison cocoa, with a shaved head, and in a felon's
jerkin.

That beard and head shaved, that gaudy deputy-lieutenant's coat exchanged for felon uniform,
and your daily bottle of champagne for prison cocoa, my poor Rupilius, what a comfort it must
be to have the business brought to an end! Champagne was the honorable gentleman's drink in
the House of Commons dining-room, as I am informed. What uncommonly dry champagne that must
have been! When we saw him outwardly happy, how miserable he must have been! when we thought
him prosperous, how dismally poor! When the great Mr. Harker, at the public dinners, called
out--"Gentlemen, charge your glasses, and please silence for the Honorable Member for Lambeth!"
how that Honorable Member must have writhed inwardly! One day, when there was a talk of a gentleman's
honor being questioned, Rupilius said, "If any man doubted mine, I would knock him down." But
that speech was in the way of business. The Spartan boy, who stole the fox, smiled while the
beast was gnawing him under his cloak: I promise you Rupilius had some sharp fangs gnashing
under his. We have sat at the same feast, I say: we have paid our contribution to the same
charity. Ah! when I ask this day for my daily bread, I pray not to be led into temptation,
and to be delivered from evil.

DESSEIN'S.

I arrived by the night-mail packet from Dover. The passage had been rough, and the usual consequences
had ensued. I was disinclined to travel farther that night on my road to Paris, and knew the
Calais hotel of old as one of the cleanest, one of the dearest, one of the most comfortable
hotels on the continent of Europe. There is no town more French than Calais. That charming
old "Hotel Dessein," with its court, its gardens, its lordly kitchen, its princely waiter--a
gentleman of the old school, who has welcomed the finest company in Europe--have long been
known to me. I have read complaints in The Times, more than once, I think, that the Dessein
bills are dear. A bottle of soda-water certainly costs--well, never mind how much. I remember
as a boy, at the "Ship" at Dover (imperante Carolo Decimo), when, my place to London being
paid, I had but 12s. left after a certain little Paris excursion (about which my benighted
parents never knew anything), ordering for dinner a whiting, a beefsteak, and a glass of negus,
and the bill was, dinner 7s., glass of negus 2s., waiter 6d., and only half a crown left, as
I was a sinner, for the guard and coachman on the way to London! And I WAS a sinner. I had
gone without leave. What a long, dreary, guilty forty hours' journey it was from Paris to Calais,
I remember! How did I come to think of this escapade, which occurred in the Easter vacation
of the year 1830? I always think of it when I am crossing to Calais. Guilt, sir, guilt remains
stamped on the memory, and I feel easier in my mind now that it is liberated of this old peccadillo.
I met my college tutor only yesterday. We were travelling, and stopped at the same hotel. He
had the very next room to mine. After he had gone into his apartment, having shaken me quite
kindly by the hand, I felt inclined to knock at his door and say, "Doctor Bentley, I beg your
pardon, but do you remember, when I was going down at the Easter vacation in 1830, you asked
me where I was going to spend my vacation? And I said, With my friend Slingsby, in Huntingdonshire.
Well, sir, I grieve to have to confess that I told you a fib. I had got 20L. and was going
for a lark to Paris, where my friend Edwards was staying." There, it is out. The Doctor will
read it, for I did not wake him up after all to make my confession, but protest he shall have
a copy of this Roundabout sent to him when he returns to his lodge.

They gave me a bedroom there; a very neat room on the first floor, looking into the pretty
garden. The hotel must look pretty much as it did a hundred years ago when HE visited it. I
wonder whether he paid his bill? Yes: his journey was just begun. He had borrowed or got the
money somehow. Such a man would spend it liberally enough when he had it, give generously--nay,
drop a tear over the fate of the poor fellow whom he relieved. I don't believe a word he says,
but I never accused him of stinginess about money. That is a fault of much more virtuous people
than he. Mr. Laurence is ready enough with his purse when there are anybody's guineas in it.
Still when I went to bed in the room, in HIS room; when I think how I admire, dislike, and
have abused him, a certain dim feeling of apprehension filled my mind at the midnight hour.
What if I should see his lean figure in the black-satin breeches, his sinister smile, his long
thin finger pointing to me in the moonlight (for I am in bed, and have popped my candle out),
and he should say, "You mistrust me, you hate me, do you? And you, don't you know how Jack,
Tom, and Harry, your brother authors, hate YOU?" I grin and laugh in the moonlight, in the
midnight, in the silence. "O you ghost in black-satin breeches and a wig! I like to be hated
by some men," I say. "I know men whose lives are a scheme, whose laughter is a conspiracy,
whose smile means something else, whose hatred is a cloak, and I had rather these men should
hate me than not."

"My good sir," says he, with a ghastly grin on his lean face, "you have your wish."

"Apres?" I say. "Please let me go to sleep. I shan't sleep any the worse because--"

"Because there are insects in the bed, and they sting you?" (This is only by way of illustration,
my good sir; the animals don't bite me now. All the house at present seems to me excellently
clean.) "'Tis absurd to affect this indifference. If you are thin-skinned, and the reptiles
bite, they keep you from sleep."

"There are some men who cry out at a flea-bite as loud as if they were torn by a vulture," I growl.

"Men of the genus irritabile, my worthy good gentleman!--and you are one."

"Yes, sir, I am of the profession, as you say; and I dare say make a great shouting and crying
at a small hurt."

"You are ashamed of that quality by which you earn your subsistence, and such reputation as
you have? Your sensibility is your livelihood, my worthy friend. You feel a pang of pleasure
or pain? It is noted in your memory, and some day or other makes its appearance in your manuscript.
Why, in your last Roundabout rubbish you mention reading your first novel on the day when King
George IV. was crowned. I remember him in his cradle at St. James's, a lovely little babe;
a gilt Chinese railing was before him, and I dropped the tear of sensibility as I gazed on
the sleeping cherub."

"A tear--a fiddlestick, MR. STERNE," I growled out, for of course I knew my friend in the wig
and satin breeches to be no other than the notorious, nay, celebrated Mr. Laurence Sterne.

"Does not the sight of a beautiful infant charm and melt you, mon ami? If not, I pity you.
Yes, he was beautiful. I was in London the year he was born. I used to breakfast at the 'Mount
Coffee-house.' I did not become the fashion until two years later, when my 'Tristram' made
his appearance, who has held his own for a hundred years. By the way, mon bon monsieur, how
many authors of your present time will last till the next century? Do you think Brown will?"

I laughed with scorn as I lay in my bed (and so did the ghost give a ghastly snigger).

"Brown!" I roared. "One of the most over-rated men that ever put pen to paper!"

"What do you think of Jones?"

I grew indignant with this old cynic. "As a reasonable ghost, come out of the other world,
you don't mean," I said, "to ask me a serious opinion of Mr. Jones? His books may be very good
reading for maid-servants and school-boys, but you don't ask ME to read them? As a scholar
yourself you must know that--"

"Well, then, Robinson?"

"Robinson, I am told, has merit. I dare say; I never have been able to read his books, and
can't, therefore, form any opinion about Mr. Robinson. At least you will allow that I am not
speaking in a prejudiced manner about HIM."

"Ah! I see you men of letters have your cabals and jealousies, as we had in my time. There
was an Irish fellow by the name of Gouldsmith, who used to abuse me; but he went into no genteel
company--and faith! it mattered little, his praise or abuse. I never was more surprised than
when I heard that Mr. Irving, an American gentleman of parts and elegance, had wrote the fellow's
life. To make a hero of that man, my dear sir, 'twas ridiculous! You followed in the fashion,
I hear, and chose to lay a wreath before this queer little idol. Preposterous! A pretty writer,
who has turned some neat couplets. Bah! I have no patience with Master Posterity, that has
chosen to take up this fellow, and make a hero of him! And there was another gentleman of my
time, Mr. Thiefcatcher Fielding, forsooth! a fellow with the strength, and the tastes, and
the manners of a porter! What madness has possessed you all to bow before that Calvert Butt
of a man?--a creature without elegance or sensibility! The dog had spirits, certainly. I remember
my Lord Bathurst praising them: but as for reading his books--ma foi, I would as lief go and
dive for tripe in a cellar. The man's vulgarity stifles me. He wafts me whiffs of gin. Tobacco
and onions are in his great coarse laugh, which choke me, pardi; and I don't think much better
of the other fellow--the Scots' gallipot purveyor--Peregrine Clinker, Humphrey Random--how
did the fellow call his rubbish? Neither of these men had the bel air, the bon ton, the je
ne scais quoy. Pah! If I meet them in my walks by our Stygian river, I give them a wide berth,
as that hybrid apothecary fellow would say. An ounce of civet, good apothecary; horrible, horrible!
The mere thought of the coarseness of those men gives me the chair de poule. Mr. Fielding,
especially, has no more sensibility than a butcher in Fleet Market. He takes his heroes out
of ale-house kitchens, or worse places still. And this is the person whom Posterity has chosen
to honor along with me--ME! Faith, Monsieur Posterity, you have put me in pretty company, and
I see you are no wiser than we were in our time. Mr. Fielding, forsooth! Mr. Tripe and Onions!
Mr. Cowheel and Gin! Thank you for nothing. Monsieur Posterity!"

"And so," thought I, "even among these Stygians this envy and quarrelsomeness (if you will
permit me the word) survive? What a pitiful meanness! To be sure, I can understand this feeling
to a certain extent; a sense of justice will prompt it. In my own case, I often feel myself
forced to protest against the absurd praises lavished on contemporaries. Yesterday, for instance,
Lady Jones was good enough to praise one of my works. Tres bien. But in the very next minute
she began, with quite as great enthusiasm, to praise Miss Hobson's last romance. My good creature,
what is that woman's praise worth who absolutely admires the writings of Miss Hobson? I offer
a friend a bottle of '44 claret, fit for a pontifical supper. 'This is capital wine,' says
he; 'and now we have finished the bottle, will you give me a bottle of that ordinaire we drank
the other day?' Very well, my good man. You are a good judge--of ordinaire, I dare say. Nothing
so provokes my anger, and rouses my sense of justice, as to hear other men undeservedly praised.
In a word, if you wish to remain friends with me, don't praise anybody. You tell me that the
Venus de' Medici is beautiful, or Jacob Omnium is tall. Que diable! Can't I judge for myself?
Haven't I eyes and a foot-rule? I don't think the Venus IS so handsome, since you press me.
She is pretty, but she has no expression. And as for Mr. Omnium, I can see much taller men
in a fair for twopence."

"And so," I said, turning round to Mr. Sterne, "you are actually jealous of Mr. Fielding? O
you men of letters, you men of letters! Is not the world (your world, I mean) big enough for
all of you?"

I often travel in my sleep. I often of a night find myself walking in my night-gown about the
gray streets. It is awkward at first, but somehow nobody makes any remark. I glide along over
the ground with my naked feet. The mud does not wet them. The passers-by do not tread on them.
I am wafted over the ground, down the stairs, through the doors. This sort of travelling, dear
friends, I am sure you have all of you indulged.

Well, on the night in question (and, if you wish to know the precise date, it was the 31st
of September last), after having some little conversation with Mr. Sterne in our bedroom, I
must have got up, though I protest I don't know how, and come down stairs with him into the
coffee-room of the "Hotel Dessein," where the moon was shining, and a cold supper was laid
out. I forget what we had--"vol-au-vent d'oeufs de Phenix--agneau aux pistaches a la Barmecide,"--what
matters what we had?

"As regards supper this is certain, the less you have of it the better."

That is what one of the guests remarked,--a shabby old man, in a wig, and such a dirty, ragged,
disreputable dressing-gown that I should have been quite surprised at him, only one never IS
surprised in dr---- under certain circumstances.

"I can't eat 'em now," said the greasy man (with his false old teeth, I wonder he could eat
anything). "I remember Alvanley eating three suppers once at Carlton House--one night de petite
comite."

"Petit comite, sir," said Mr. Sterne.

"Dammy, sir, let me tell my own story my own way. I say, one night at Carlton house, playing
at blind hookey with York, Wales, Tom Raikes, Prince Boothby, and Dutch Sam the boxer, Alvanley
ate three suppers, and won three and twenty hundred pounds in ponies. Never saw a fellow with
such an appetite, except Wales in his GOOD time. But he destroyed the finest digestion a man
ever had with maraschino, by Jove--always at it."

"Try mine," said Mr. Sterne.

"What a doosid queer box," says Mr. Brummell.

"I had it from a Capuchin friar in this town. The box is but a horn one; but to the nose of
sensibility Araby's perfume is not more delicate."

"I call it doosid stale old rappee," says Mr. Brummell--(as for me I declare I could not smell
anything at all in either of the boxes.) "Old boy in smock-frock, take a pinch?"

The old boy in the smock-frock, as Mr. Brummell called him, was a very old man, with long white
beard, wearing, not a smock-frock, but a shirt; and he had actually nothing else save a rope
round his neck, which hung behind his chair in the queerest way.

"Fair sir," he said, turning to Mr. Brummell, "when the Prince of Wales and his father laid
siege to our town--"

"What nonsense are you talking, old cock?" says Mr. Brummell; "Wales was never here. His late
Majesty George IV. passed through on his way to Hanover. My good man, you don't seem to know
what's up at all. What is he talkin' about the siege of Calais? I lived here fifteen years!
Ought to know. What's his old name?"

"I am Master Eustace of Saint Peter's," said the old gentleman in the shirt. "When my Lord
King Edward laid siege to this city--"

"Laid siege to Jericho!" cries Mr. Brummell. "The old man is cracked--cracked, sir!"

"--Laid siege to this city," continued the old man, "I and five more promised Messire Gautier
de Mauny that we would give ourselves up as ransom for the place. And we came before our Lord
King Edward, attired as you see, and the fair queen begged our lives out of her gramercy."

"Queen, nonsense! you mean the Princess of Wales--pretty woman, petit nez retrousse, grew monstrous
stout!" suggested Mr. Brummell, whose reading was evidently not extensive. "Sir Sidney Smith
was a fine fellow, great talker, hook nose, so has Lord Cochrane, so has Lord Wellington. She
was very sweet on Sir Sidney."

"Your acquaintance with the history of Calais does not seem to be considerable," said Mr. Sterne
to Mr. Brummell, with a shrug.

"Don't it, bishop?--for I conclude you are a bishop by your wig. I know Calais as well as any
man. I lived here for years before I took that confounded consulate at Caen. Lived in this
hotel, then at Leleux's. People used to stop here. Good fellows used to ask for poor George
Brummell; Hertford did, so did the Duchess of Devonshire. Not know Calais indeed! That is a
good joke. Had many a good dinner here: sorry I ever left it."

"My Lord King Edward," chirped the queer old gentleman in the shirt, "colonized the place with
his English, after we had yielded it up to him. I have heard tell they kept it for nigh three
hundred years, till my Lord de Guise took it from a fair Queen, Mary of blessed memory, a holy
woman. Eh, but Sire Gautier of Mauny was a good knight, a valiant captain, gentle and courteous
withal! Do you remember his ransoming the ----?"

"What is the old fellow twaddlin' about?" cries Brummell. "He is talking about some knight?--I
never spoke to a knight, and very seldom to a baronet. Firkins, my butterman, was a knight--a
knight and alderman. Wales knighted him once on going into the City."

"I am not surprised that the gentleman should not understand Messire Eustace of St. Peter's,"
said the ghostly individual addressed as Mr. Sterne. "Your reading doubtless has not been very
extensive?"

"Dammy, sir, speak for yourself!" cries Mr. Brummell, testily. "I never professed to be a reading
man, but I was as good as my neighbors. Wales wasn't a reading man; York wasn't a reading man;
Clarence wasn't a reading man; Sussex was, but he wasn't a man in society. I remember reading
your 'Sentimental Journey,' old boy: read it to the Duchess at Beauvoir, I recollect, and she
cried over it. Doosid clever amusing book, and does you great credit. Birron wrote doosid clever
books, too; so did Monk Lewis. George Spencer was an elegant poet, and my dear Duchess of Devonshire,
if she had not been a grande dame, would have beat 'em all, by George. Wales couldn't write:
he could sing, but he couldn't spell."

"Ah, you know the great world? so did I in my time, Mr. Brummell. I have had the visiting tickets
of half the nobility at my lodgings in Bond Street. But they left me there no more cared for
than last year's calendar," sighed Mr. Sterne. "I wonder who is the mode in London now? One
of our late arrivals, my Lord Macaulay, has prodigious merit and learning, and, faith, his
histories are more amusing than any novels, my own included."

"Don't know, I'm sure not in my line. Pick this bone of chicken," says Mr. Brummell, trifling
with a skeleton bird before him.

"I remember in this city of Calais worse fare than you bird," said old Mr. Eustace of Saint
Peter's. "Marry, sirs, when my Lord King Edward laid siege to us, lucky was he who could get
a slice of horse for his breakfast, and a rat was sold at the price of a hare."

"Hare is coarse food, never tasted rat," remarked the Beau. "Table-d'hote poor fare enough
for a man like me, who has been accustomed to the best of cookery. But rat--stifle me! I couldn't
swallow that: never could bear hardship at all."

"We had to bear enough when my Lord of England pressed us. 'Twas pitiful to see the faces of
our women as the siege went on, and hear the little ones asking for dinner."

"Always a bore, children. At dessert, they are bad enough, but at dinner they're the deuce
and all," remarked Mr. Brummell.

Messire Eustace of St. Peter's did not seem to pay much attention to the Beau's remarks, but
continued his own train of thought as old men will do.

"I hear," said he, "that there has actually been no war between us of France and you men of
England for wellnigh fifty year. Ours has ever been a nation of warriors. And besides her regular
found men-at-arms, 'tis said the English of the present time have more than a hundred thousand
of archers with weapons that will carry for half a mile. And a multitude have come amongst
us of late from a great Western country, never so much as heard of in my time--valiant men
and great drawers of the long bow, and they say they have ships in armor that no shot can penetrate.
Is it so? Wonderful; wonderful! The best armor, gossips, is a stout heart."

"And if ever manly heart beat under shirt-frill, thine is that heart, Sir Eustace!" cried Mr.
Sterne, enthusiastically.

"We, of France, were never accused of lack of courage, sir, in so far as I know," said Messire
Eustace. "We have shown as much in a thousand wars with you English by sea and land; and sometimes
we conquered, and sometimes, as is the fortune of war, we were discomfited. And notably in
a great sea-fight which befell off Ushant on the first of June -- Our Admiral, messire Villaret
de Joyeuse, on board his galleon named the 'Vengeur,' being sore pressed by an English bombard,
rather than yield the crew of his ship to mercy, determined to go down with all on board of
her: and to the cry of Vive la Repub--or, I would say, of Notre Dame a la Rescousse, he and
his crew all sank to an immortal grave--"

"Sir," said I, looking with amazement at the old gentleman, "surely, surely, there is some
mistake in your statement. Permit me to observe that the action of the first of June took place
five hundred years after your time, and--"

"Perhaps I am confusing my dates," said the old gentleman, with a faint blush. "You say I am
mixing up the transactions of my time on earth with the story of my successors? It may be so.
We take no count of a few centuries more or less in our dwelling by the darkling Stygian river.
Of late, there came amongst us a good knight, Messire de Cambronne, who fought against you
English in the country of Flanders, being captain of the guard of my Lord the King of France,
in a famous battle where you English would have been utterly routed but for the succor of the
Prussian heathen. This Messire de Cambronne, when bidden to yield by you of England, answered
this, 'The guard dies but never surrenders;' and fought a long time afterwards, as became a
good knight. In our wars with you of England it may have pleased the Fates to give you the
greater success, but on our side, also, there has been no lack of brave deeds performed by
brave men."

"King Edward may have been the victor, sir, as being the strongest, but you are the hero of
the siege of Calais!" cried Mr. Sterne. "Your story is sacred, and your name has been blessed
for five hundred years. Wherever men speak of patriotism and sacrifice, Eustace of Saint Pierre
shall be beloved and remembered. I prostrate myself before the bare feet which stood before
King Edward. What collar of chivalry is to be compared to that glorious order which you wear?
Think, sir, how out of the myriad millions of our race, you, and some few more, stand forth
as exemplars of duty and honor. Fortunati nimium!"

"Sir," said the old gentleman, "I did but my duty at a painful moment; and 'tis matter of wonder
to me that men talk still, and glorify such a trifling matter. By our Lady's grace, in the
fair kingdom of France, there are scores of thousands of men, gentle and simple, who would
do as I did. Does not every sentinel at his post, does not every archer in the front of battle,
brave it, and die where his captain bids him? Who am I that I should be chosen out of all France
to be an example of fortitude? I braved no tortures, though these I trust I would have endured
with a good heart. I was subject to threats only. Who was the Roman knight of whom the Latin
clerk Horatius tells?"

"A Latin clerk? Faith, I forget my Latin," says Mr. Brummell. "Ask the parson, here."

"Messire Regulus, I remember, was his name. Taken prisoner by the Saracens, he gave his knightly
word, and was permitted to go seek a ransom among his own people. Being unable to raise the
sum that was a fitting ransom for such a knight, he returned to Afric, and cheerfully submitted
to the tortures which the Paynims inflicted. And 'tis said he took leave of his friends as
gayly as though he were going to a vilage kermes, or riding to his garden house in the suburb
of the city."

"Great, good, glorious man!" cried Mr. Sterne, very much moved. "Let me embrace that gallant
hand, and bedew it with my tears! As long as honor lasts thy name shall be remembered. See
this dew-drop twinkling on my check! 'Tis the sparkling tribute that Sensibility pays to Valor.
Though in my life and practice I may turn from Virtue, believe me, I never have ceased to honor
her! Ah, Virtue! Ah, Sensibility! Oh--"

Here Mr. Sterne was interrupted by a monk of the Order of St. Francis, who stepped into the
room, and begged us all to take a pinch of his famous old rappee. I suppose the snuff was very
pungent, for, with a great start, I woke up; and now perceived that I must have been dreaming
altogether. "Dessein's" of now-a-days is not the "Dessein's" which Mr. Sterne, and Mr. Brummell,
and I recollect in the good old times. The town of Calais has bought the old hotel, and "Dessein"
has gone over to "Quillacq's." And I was there yesterday. And I remember old diligences, and
old postilions in pigtails and jack-boots, who were once as alive as I am, and whose cracking
whips I have heard in the midnight many and many a time. Now, where are they? Behold they have
been ferried over Styx, and have passed away into limbo.

I wonder what time does my boat go? Ah! Here comes the waiter bringing me my little bill.

ON SOME CARP AT SANS SOUCI.

We have lately made the acquaintance of an old lady of ninety, who has passed the last twenty-five
years of her old life in a great metropolitan establishment, the workhouse, namely, of the
parish of Saint Lazarus. Stay--twenty-three or four years ago, she came out once, and thought
to earn a little money by hop-picking; but being overworked, and having to lie out at night,
she got a palsy which has incapacitated her from all further labor, and has caused her poor
old limbs to shake ever since.

An illustration of that dismal proverb which tells us how poverty makes us acquainted with
strange bed-fellows, this poor old shaking body has to lay herself down every night in her
workhouse bed by the side of some other old woman with whom she may or may not agree. She herself
can't be a very pleasant bed-fellow, poor thing! with her shaking old limbs and cold feet.
She lies awake a deal of the night, to be sure, not thinking of happy old times, for hers never
were happy; but sleepless with aches, and agues, and rheumatism of old age. "The gentleman
gave me brandy-and-water," she said, her old voice shaking with rapture at the thought. I never
had a great love for Queen Charlotte, but I like her better now from what this old lady told
me. The Queen, who loved snuff herself, has left a legacy of snuff to certain poorhouses; and,
in her watchful nights, this old woman takes a pinch of Queen Charlotte's snuff, "and it do
comfort me, sir, that it do!" Pulveris exigui munus. Here is a forlorn aged creature, shaking
with palsy, with no soul among the great struggling multitude of mankind to care for her, not
quite trampled out of life, but past and forgotten in the rush, made a little happy, and soothed
in her hours of unrest by this penny legacy. Let me think as I write. (The next month's sermon,
thank goodness! is safe to press.) This discourse will appear at the season when I have read
that wassail-bowls make their appearance; at the season of pantomime, turkey and sausages,
plum-puddings, jollifications for schoolboys; Christmas bills, and reminiscences more or less
sad and sweet for elders. If we oldsters are not merry, we shall be having a semblance of merriment.
We shall see the young folks laughing round the holly-bush. We shall pass the bottle round
cosily as we sit by the fire. That old thing will have a sort of festival too. Beef, beer,
and pudding will be served to her for that day also. Christmas falls on a Thursday. Friday
is the workhouse day for coming out. Mary, remember that old Goody Twoshoes has her invitation
for Friday, 26th December! Ninety is she, poor old soul? Ah! what a bonny face to catch under
a mistletoe! "Yes, ninety, sir," she says, "and my mother was a hundred, and my grandmother
was a hundred and two."

Herself ninety, her mother a hundred, her grandmother a hundred and two? What a queer calculation!

Ninety! Very good, granny: you were born, then, in 1772.

Your mother, we will say, was twenty-seven when you were born, and was born therefore in 1745.

Your grandmother was thirty when her daughter was born, and was born therefore in 1715.

We will begin with the present granny first. My good old creature, you can't of course remember,
but that little gentleman for whom your mother was laundress in the Temple was the ingenious
Mr. Goldsmith, author of a "History of England," the "Vicar of Wakefield," and many diverting
pieces. You were brought almost an infant to his chambers in Brick Court, and he gave you some
sugar-candy, for the doctor was always good to children. That gentleman who wellnigh smothered
you by sitting down on you as you lay in a chair asleep was the learned Mr. S. Johnson, whose
history of "Rasselas" you have never read, my poor soul; and whose tragedy of "Irene" I don't
believe any man in these kingdoms ever perused. That tipsy Scotch gentleman who used to come
to the chambers sometimes, and at whom everybody laughed, wrote a more amusing book than any
of the scholars, your Mr. Burke and your Mr. Johnson, and your Doctor Goldsmith. Your father
often took him home in a chair to his lodgings; and has done as much for Parson Sterne in Bond
Street, the famous wit. Of course, my good creature, you remember the Gordon Riots, and crying
No Popery before Mr. Langdale's house, the Popish distiller's, and, that bonny fire of my Lord
Mansfield's books in Bloomsbury Square? Bless us, what a heap of illuminations you have seen!
For the glorious victory over the Americans at Breed's Hill; for the peace in 1814, and the
beautiful Chinese bridge in St. James's Park; for the coronation of his Majesty, whom you recollect
as Prince of Wales, Goody, don't you? Yes; and you went in a procession of laundresses to pay
your respects to his good lady, the injured Queen of England, at Brandenburg House; and you
remember your mother told you how she was taken to see the Scotch lords executed at the Tower.
And as for your grandmother, she was born five years after the battle of Malplaquet, she was;
where her poor father was killed, fighting like a bold Briton for the Queen. With the help
of a "Wade's Chronology," I can make out ever so queer a history for you, my poor old body,
and a pedigree as authentic as many in the peerage-books.

Peerage-books and pedigrees? What does she know about them? Battles and victories, treasons,
kings, and beheadings, literary gentlemen, and the like, what have they ever been to her? Granny,
did you ever hear of General Wolfe? Your mother may have seen him embark, and your father may
have carried a musket under him. Your grandmother may have cried huzza for Marlborough but
what is the Prince Duke to you, and did you ever, so much as hear tell of his name? How many
hundred or thousand of years had that toad lived who was in the coal at the defunct Exhibition?--and
yet he was not a bit better informed than toads seven or eight hundred years younger.

"Don't talk to me your nonsense about Exhibitions, and Prince Dukes, and toads in coals, or
coals in toads, or what is it?" says granny. "I know there was a good Queen Charlotte, for
she left me snuff; and it comforts me of a night when I lie awake."

To me there is something very touching in the notion of that little pinch of comfort doled
out to granny, and gratefully inhaled by her in the darkness. Don't you remember what traditions
there used to be of chests of plate, bulses of diamonds, laces of inestimable value, sent out
of the country privately by the old Queen, to enrich certain relations in M-ckl-nb-rg Str-l-tz?
Not all the treasure went. Non omnis moritur. A poor old palsied thing at midnight is made
happy sometimes as she lifts her shaking old hand to her nose. Gliding noiselessly among the
beds where lie the poor creatures huddled in their cheerless dormitory, I fancy an old ghost
with a snuff-box that does not creak. "There, Goody, take of my rappee. You will not sneeze,
and I shall not say 'God bless you.' But you will think kindly of old Queen Charlotte, won't
you? Ah! I had a many troubles, a many troubles. I was a prisoner almost so much as you are.
I had to eat boiled mutton every day: entre nous, I abominated it. But I never complained.
I swallowed it. I made the best of a hard life. We have all our burdens to bear. But hark!
I hear the cock-crow, and snuff the morning air." And with this the royal ghost vanishes up
the chimney--if there be a chimney in that dismal harem, where poor old Twoshoes and her companions
pass their nights--their dreary nights, their restless nights, their cold long nights, shared
in what glum companionship, illumined by what a feeble taper!

"Did I understand you, my good Twoshoes, to say that, your mother was seven-and-twenty years
old when you were born, and that she married your esteemed father when she herself was twenty-five?
1745, then, was the date of your dear mother's birth. I dare say her father was absent in the
Low Countries, with his Royal Highness the Duke of Cumberland, under whom he had the honor
of carrying a halberd at the famous engagement of Fontenoy--or if not there, he may have been
at Preston Pans, under General Sir John Cope, when the wild highlanders broke through all the
laws of discipline and the English lines; and, being on the spot, did he see the famous ghost
which didn't appear to Colonel Gardiner of the Dragoons? My good creature, is it possible you
don't remember that Doctor Swift, Sir Robert Walpole (my Lord Orford, as you justly say), old
Sarah Marlborough, and little Mr. Pope, of Twitnam, died in the year of your birth? What a
wretched memory you have! What? haven't they a library, and the commonest books of reference
at the old convent of Saint Lazarus, where you dwell?"

"Convent of Saint Lazarus, Prince William, Dr. Swift, Atossa, and Mr. Pope, of Twitnam! What
is the gentleman talking about?" says old Goody, with a "Ho! ho!" and a laugh like an old parrot--you
know they live to be as old as Methuselah, parrots do, and a parrot of a hundred is comparatively
young (ho! ho! ho!). Yes, and likewise carps live to an immense old age. Some which Frederick
the Great fed at Sans Souci are there now, with great humps of blue mould on their old backs;
and they could tell all sorts of queer stories, if they chose to speak--but they are very silent,
carps are--of their nature peu communicatives. Oh! what has been thy long life, old Goody,
but a dole of bread and water and a perch on a cage; a dreary swim round and round a Lethe
of a pond? What are Rossbach or Jena to those mouldy ones, and do they know it is a grandchild
of England who brings bread to feed them?

No! Those Sans Souci carps may live to be a thousand years old and have nothing to tell but
that one day is like another; and the history of friend Goody Twoshoes has not much more variety
than theirs. Hard labor, hard fare, hard bed, numbing cold all night, and gnawing hunger most
days. That is her lot. Is it lawful in my prayers to say, "Thank heaven, I am not as one of
these?" If I were eighty, would I like to feel the hunger always gnawing, gnawing? to have
to get up and make a bow when Mr. Bumble the beadle entered the common room? to have to listen
to Miss Prim, who came to give me her ideas of the next world? If I were eighty, I own I should
not like to have to sleep with another gentleman of my own age, gouty, a bad sleeper, kicking
in his old dreams, and snoring; to march down my vale of years at word of command, accommodating
my tottering old steps to those of the other prisoners in my dingy, hopeless old gang; to hold
out a trembling hand for a sicky pittance of gruel, and say, "Thank you, ma'am," to Miss Prim,
when she has done reading her sermon. John! when Goody Twoshoes comes next Friday, I desire
she may not be disturbed by theological controversies. You have a very fair voice, and I heard
you and the maids singing a hymn very sweetly the other night, and was thankful that our humble
household should be in such harmony. Poor old Twoshoes is so old and toothless and quaky, that
she can't sing a bit; but don't be giving yourself airs over her, because she can't sing and
you can. Make her comfortable at our kitchen hearth. Set that old kettle to sing by our hob.
Warm her old stomach with nut-brown ale and a toast laid in the fire. Be kind to the poor old
school-girl of ninety, who has had leave to come out for a day of Christmas holiday. Shall
there be many more Christmases for thee? Think of the ninety she has seen already; the four-score
and ten cold, cheerless, nipping New Years!

If you were in her place, would you like to have a remembrance of better early days, when you
were young, and happy, and loving, perhaps; or would you prefer to have no past on which your
mind could rest? About the year 1788, Goody, were your cheeks rosy, and your eyes bright, and
did some young fellow in powder and a pigtail look in them? We may grow old, but to us some
stories never are old. On a sudden they rise up, not dead, but living--not forgotten, but freshly
remembered. The eyes gleam on us as they used to do. The dear voice thrills in our hearts.
The rapture of the meeting, the terrible, terrible parting, again and again the tragedy is
acted over. Yesterday, in the street, I saw a pair of eyes so like two which used to brighten
at my coming once, that the whole past came back as I walked lonely, in the rush of the Strand,
and I was young again in the midst of joys and sorrows, alike sweet and sad, alike sacred and
fondly remembered.

If I tell a tale out of school, will any harm come to my old school-girl? Once, a lady gave
her a half-sovereign, which was a source of great pain and anxiety to Goody Twoshoes. She sewed
it away in her old stays somewhere, thinking here at least was a safe investment--(vestis--a
vest--an investment,--pardon me, thou poor old thing, but I cannot help the pleasantry). And
what do you think? Another pensionnaire of the establishment cut the coin out of Goody's stays--AN
OLD WOMAN WHO WENT UPON TWO CRUTCHES! Faugh, the old witch! What! Violence amongst these toothless,
tottering, trembling, feeble ones? Robbery amongst the penniless? Dogs coming and snatching
Lazarus's crumbs out of his lap? Ah, how indignant Goody was as she told the story! To that
pond at Potsdam where the carps live for hundreds of hundreds of years, with hunches of blue
mould on their back, I dare say the little Prince and Princess of Preussen-Britannien come
sometimes with crumbs and cakes to feed the mouldy ones. Those eyes may have goggled from beneath
the weeds at Napoleon's jack-boots: they have seen Frederick's lean shanks reflected in their
pool; and perhaps Monsieur de Voltaire has fed them--and now, for a crumb of biscuit they will
fight, push, hustle, rob, squabble, gobble, relapsing into their tranquillity when the ignoble
struggle is over. Sans souci, indeed! It is mighty well writing "Sans souci" over the gate;
but where is the gate through which Care has not slipped? She perches on the shoulders of the
sentry in the sentry-box: she whispers the porter sleeping in his arm-chair: she glides up
the staircase, and lies down between the king and queen in their bed-royal: this very night
I dare say she will perch upon poor old Goody Twoshoes's meagre bolster, and whisper, "Will
the gentleman and those ladies ask me again? No, no; they will forget poor old Twoshoes." Goody!
For shame of yourself! Do not be cynical. Do not mistrust your fellow-creatures. What? Has
the Christmas morning dawned upon thee ninety times? For four-score and ten years has it been
thy lot to totter on this earth, hungry and obscure? Peace and good-will to thee, let us say
at this Christmas season. Come, drink, eat, rest awhile at our hearth, thou poor old pilgrim!
And of the bread which God's bounty gives us, I pray, brother reader, we may not forget to
set aside a part for those noble and silent poor, from whose innocent hands war has torn the
means of labor. Enough! As I hope for beef at Christmas, I vow a note shall be sent to Saint
Lazarus Union House, in which Mr. Roundabout requests the honor of Mrs. Twoshoes's company
on Friday, 26th December.

AUTOUR DE MON CHAPEAU.

Never have I seen a more noble tragic face. In the centre of the forehead there was a great
furrow of care, towards which the brows rose piteously. What a deep solemn grief in the eyes!
They looked blankly at the object before them, but through it, as it were, and into the grief
beyond. In moments of pain, have you not looked at some indifferent object so? It mingles dumbly
with your grief, and remains afterwards connected with it in your mind. It may be some indifferent
thing--a book which you were reading at the time when you received her farewell letter (how
well you remember the paragraph afterwards--the shape of the words, and their position on the
page); the words you were writing when your mother came in, and said it was all over--she was
MARRIED--Emily married--to that insignificant little rival at whom you have laughed a hundred
times in her company. Well, well; my friend and reader, whoe'er you be--old man or young, wife
or maiden--you have had your grief-pang. Boy, you have lain awake the first night at school,
and thought of home. Worse still, man, you have parted from the dear ones with bursting heart:
and, lonely boy, recall the bolstering an unfeeling comrade gave you; and, lonely man, just
torn from your children--their little tokens of affection yet in your pocket--pacing the deck
at evening in the midst of the roaring ocean, you can remember how you were told that supper
was ready, and how you went down to the cabin and had brandy-and-water and biscuit. You remember
the taste of them. Yes; for ever. You took them whilst you and your Grief were sitting together,
and your Grief clutched you round the soul. Serpent, how you have writhed round me, and bitten
me. Remorse, Remembrance, &c., come in the night season, and I feel you gnawing, gnawing! .
. . I tell you that man's face was like Laocoon's (which, by the way, I always think over-rated.
The real head is at Brussels, at the Duke Daremberg's, not at Rome).

That man! What man? That man of whom I said that his magnificent countenance exhibited the
noblest tragic woe. He was not of European blood, he was handsome, but not of European beauty.
His face white--not of a Northern whiteness; his eyes protruding somewhat, and rolling in their
grief. Those eyes had seen the Orient sun, and his beak was the eagle's. His lips were full.
The beard, curling round them, was unkempt and tawny. The locks were of a deep, deep coppery
red. The hands, swart and powerful, accustomed to the rough grasp of the wares in which he
dealt, seemed unused to the flimsy artifices of the bath. He came from the Wilderness, and
its sands were on his robe, his cheek, his tattered sandal, and the hardy foot it covered.

And his grief--whence came his sorrow? I will tell you. He bore it in his hand. He had evidently
just concluded the compact by which it became his. His business was that of a purchaser of
domestic raiment. At early dawn nay, at what hour when the city is alive--do we not all hear
the nasal cry of "Clo?" In Paris, Habits Galons, Marchand d'habits, is the twanging signal
with which the wandering merchant makes his presence known. It was in Paris I saw this man.
Where else have I not seen him? In the Roman Ghetto--at the Gate of David, in his fathers'
once imperial city. The man I mean was an itinerant vender and purchaser of wardrobes--what
you call an . . . Enough! You know his name.

On his left shoulder hung his bag; and he held in that hand a white hat, which I am sure he
had just purchased, and which was the cause of the grief which smote his noble features. Of
course I cannot particularize the sum, but he had given too much for that hat. He felt he might
have got the thing for less money. It was not the amount, I am sure; it was the principle involved.
He had given fourpence (let us say) for that which threepence would have purchased. He had
been done: and a manly shame was upon him, that he, whose energy, acuteness, experience, point
of honor, should have made him the victor in any mercantile duel in which he should engage,
had been overcome by a porter's wife, who very likely sold him the old hat, or by a student
who was tired of it. I can understand his grief. Do I seem to be speaking of it in a disrespectful
or flippant way? Then you mistake me. He had been outwitted. He had desired, coaxed, schemed,
haggled, got what he wanted, and now found he had paid too much for his bargain. You don't
suppose I would ask you to laugh at that man's grief? It is you, clumsy cynic, who are disposed
to sneer, whilst it may be tears of genuine sympathy are trickling down this nose of mine.
What do you mean by laughing? If you saw a wounded soldier on the field of battle, would you
laugh? If you saw a ewe robbed of her lamb, would you laugh, you brute? It is you who are the
cynic, and have no feeling: and you sneer because that grief is unintelligible to you which
touches my finer sensibility. The OLD-CLOTHES'-MAN had been defeated in one of the daily battles
of his most interesting, chequered, adventurous life.

Have you ever figured to yourself what such a life must be? The pursuit and conquest of twopence
must be the most eager and fascinating of occupations. We might all engage in that business
if we would. Do not whist-players, for example, toil, and think, and lose their temper over
sixpenny points? They bring study, natural genius, long forethought, memory, and careful historical
experience to bear upon their favorite labor. Don't tell me that it is the sixpenny points,
and five shillings the rub, which keeps them for hours over their painted pasteboard. It is
the desire to conquer. Hours pass by. Night glooms. Dawn, it may be, rises unheeded; and they
sit calling for fresh cards at the "Portland," or the "Union," while waning candles splutter
in the sockets, and languid waiters snooze in the ante-room. Sol rises. Jones has lost four
pounds: Brown has won two; Robinson lurks away to his family house and (mayhap indignant) Mrs.
R. Hours of evening, night, morning, have passed away whilst they have been waging this sixpenny
battle. What is the loss of four pounds to Jones, the gain of two to Brown? B. is, perhaps,
so rich that two pounds more or less are as naught to him; J. is so hopelessly involved that
to win four pounds cannot benefit his creditors, or alter his condition; but they play for
that stake: they put forward their best energies: they ruff, finesse (what are the technical
words, and how do I know?) It is but a sixpenny game if you like; but they want to win it.
So as regards my friend yonder with the hat. He stakes his money: he wishes to win the game,
not the hat merely. I am not prepared to say that he is not inspired by a noble ambition. Caesar
wished to be first in a village. If first of a hundred yokels, why not first of two? And my
friend the old-clothes'-man wishes to win his game, as well as to turn his little sixpence.

Suppose in the game of life--and it is but a twopenny game after all--you are equally eager
of winning. Shall you be ashamed of your ambition, or glory in it? There are games, too, which
are becoming to particular periods of life. I remember in the days of our youth, when my friend
Arthur Bowler was an eminent cricketer. Slim, swift, strong, well-built, he presented a goodly
appearance on the ground in his flannel uniform. Militasti non sine gloria, Bowler my boy!
Hush! We tell no tales. Mum is the word. Yonder comes Chancy his son. Now Chancy his son has
taken the field and is famous among the eleven of his school. Bowler senior, with his capacious
waistcoat, &c., waddling after a ball, would present an absurd object, whereas it does the
eyes good to see Bowler junior scouring the plain--a young exemplar of joyful health, vigor,
activity. The old boy wisely contents himself with amusements more becoming his age and waist;
takes his sober ride; visits his farm soberly--busies himself about his pigs, his ploughing,
his peaches, or what not! Very small routinier amusements interest him; and (thank goodness!)
nature provides very kindly for kindly-disposed fogies. We relish those things which we scorned
in our lusty youth. I see the young folks of an evening kindling and glowing over their delicious
novels. I look up and watch the eager eye flashing down the page, being, for my part, perfectly
contented with my twaddling old volume of "Howel's Letters," or the Gentleman's Magazine. I
am actually arrived at such a calm frame of mind that I like batter-pudding. I never should
have believed it possible; but it is so. Yet a little while, and I may relish water-gruel.
It will be the age of mon lait de poule et mon bonnet de nuit. And then--the cotton extinguisher
is pulled over the old noddle, and the little flame of life is popped out.

Don't you know elderly people who make learned notes in Army Lists, Peerages, and the like?
This is the batter-pudding, water-gruel of old age. The worn-out old digestion does not care
for stronger food. Formerly it could swallow twelve-hours' tough reading, and digest an encyclopaedia.

If I had children to educate, I would, at ten or twelve years of age, have a professor, or
professoress, of whist for them, and cause them to be well grounded in that great and useful
game. You cannot learn it well when you are old, any more than you can learn dancing or billiards.
In our house at home we youngsters did not play whist because we were dear obedient children,
and the elders said playing at cards was "a waste of time." A waste of time, my good people!
Allons! What do elderly home-keeping people do of a night after dinner? Darby gets his newspaper;
my dear Joan her Missionary Magazine or her volume of Cumming's Sermons--and don't you know
what ensues? Over the arm of Darby's arm-chair the paper flutters to the ground unheeded, and
he performs the trumpet obligato que vous savez on his old nose. My dear old Joan's head nods
over her sermon (awakening though the doctrine may be). Ding, ding, ding: can that be ten o'clock?
It is time to send the servants to bed, my dear--and to bed master and mistress go too. But
they have not wasted their time playing at cards. Oh, no! I belong to a Club where there is
whist of a night, and not a little amusing is it to hear Brown speak of Thompson's play, and
vice versa. But there is one man--Greatorex let us call him--who is the acknowledged captain
and primus of all the whist-players. We all secretly admire him. I, for my part, watch him
in private life, hearken to what he says, note what he orders for dinner, and have that feeling
of awe for him that I used to have as a boy for the cock of the school. Not play at whist?
"Quelle triste vieillesse vous vous preparez!" were the words of the great and good Bishop
of Autun. I can't. It is too late now. Too late! too late! Ah! humiliating confession! That
joy might have been clutched, but the life-stream has swept us by it--the swift life-stream
rushing to the nearing sea. Too late! too late! Twentystone my boy! when you read in the papers
"Valse a deux temps," and all the fashionable dances taught to adults by "Miss Lightfoots,"
don't you feel that you would like to go in and learn? Ah, it is too late! You have passed
the choreas, Master Twentystone, and the young people are dancing without you.

I don't believe much of what my Lord Byron the poet says; but when he wrote, "So for a good
old gentlemanly vice, I think I shall put up with avarice," I think his lordship meant what
he wrote, and if he practised what he preached, shall not quarrel with him. As an occupation
in declining years, I declare I think saving is useful, amusing, and not unbecoming. It must
be a perpetual amusement. It is a game that can be played by day, by night, at home and abroad,
and at which you must win in the long run. I am tired and want a cab. The fare to my house,
say, is two shillings. The cabman will naturally want half a crown. I pull out my book. I show
him the distance is exactly three miles and fifteen hundred and ninety yards. I offer him my
card--my winning card. As he retires with the two shillings, blaspheming inwardly, every curse
is a compliment to my skill. I have played him and beat him; and a sixpence is my spoil and
just reward. This is a game, by the way, which women play far more cleverly than we do. But
what an interest it imparts to life! During the whole drive home I know I shall have my game
at the journey's end; am sure of my hand, and shall beat my adversary. Or I can play in another
way. I won't have a cab at all, I will wait for the omnibus: I will be one of the damp fourteen
in that steaming vehicle. I will wait about in the rain for an hour, and 'bus after 'bus shall
pass, but I will not be beat. I WILL have a place, and get it at length, with my boots wet
through, and an umbrella dripping between my legs. I have a rheumatism, a cold, a sore throat,
a sulky evening,--a doctor's bill to-morrow perhaps? Yes, but I have won my game, and am gainer
of a shilling on this rubber.

If you play this game all through life it is wonderful what daily interest it has, and amusing
occupation. For instance, my wife goes to sleep after dinner over her volume of sermons. As
soon as the dear soul is sound asleep, I advance softly and puff out her candle. Her pure dreams
will be all the happier without that light; and, say she sleeps an hour, there is a penny gained.

As for clothes, parbleu! there is not much money to be saved in clothes, for the fact is, as
a man advances in life--as he becomes an Ancient Briton (mark the pleasantry)--he goes without
clothes. When my tailor proposes something in the way of a change of raiment, I laugh in his
face. My blue coat and brass buttons will last these ten years. It is seedy? What then? I don't
want to charm anybody in particular. You say that my clothes are shabby? What do I care? When
I wished to look well in somebody's eyes, the matter may have been different. But now, when
I receive my bill of 10L. (let us say) at the year's end, and contrast it with old tailors'
reckonings, I feel that I have played the game with master tailor, and beat him; and my old
clothes are a token of the victory.

I do not like to give servants board-wages, though they are cheaper than household bills: but
I know they save out of board-wages, and so beat me. This shows that it is not the money but
the game which interests me. So about wine. I have it good and dear. I will trouble you to
tell me where to get it good and cheap. You may as well give me the address of a shop where
I can buy meat for fourpence a pound, or sovereigns for fifteen shillings apiece. At the game
of auctions, docks, shy wine-merchants, depend on it there is no winning; and I would as soon
think of buying jewellery at an auction in Fleet Street as of purchasing wine from one of your
dreadful needy wine-agents such as infest every man's door. Grudge myself good wine? As soon
grudge my horse corn. Merci! that would be a very losing game indeed, and your humble servant
has no relish for such.

But in the very pursuit of saving there must be a hundred harmless delights and pleasures which
we who are careless necessarily forego. What do you know about the natural history of your
household? Upon your honor and conscience, do you know the price of a pound of butter? Can
you say what sugar costs, and how much your family consumes and ought to consume? How much
lard do you use in your house? As I think on these subjects I own I hang down the head of shame.
I suppose for a moment that you, who are reading this, are a middle-aged gentleman, and paterfamilias.
Can you answer the above questions? You know, sir, you cannot. Now turn round, lay down the
book, and suddenly ask Mrs. Jones and your daughters if THEY can answer? They cannot. They
look at one another. They pretend they can answer. They can tell you the plot and principal
characters of the last novel. Some of them know something about history, geology, and so forth.
But of the natural history of home--Nichts, and for shame on you all! Honnis soyez! For shame
on you? for shame on us!

In the early morning I hear a sort of call or jodel under my window: and know 'tis the matutinal
milkman leaving his can at my gate. O household gods! have I lived all these years and don't
know the price or the quantity of the milk which is delivered in that can? Why don't I know?
As I live, if I live till to-morrow morning, as soon as I hear the call of Lactantius, I will
dash out upon him. How many cows? How much milk, on an average, all the year round? What rent?
What cost of food and dairy servants? What loss of animals, and average cost of purchase? If
I interested myself properly about my pint (or hogshead, whatever it be) of milk, all this
knowledge would ensue; all this additional interest in life. What is this talk of my friend,
Mr. Lewes, about objects at the seaside, and so forth?* Objects at the seaside? Objects at
the area-bell: objects before my nose: objects which the butcher brings me in his tray: which
the cook dresses and puts down before me, and over which I say grace! My daily life is surrounded
with objects which ought to interest me. The pudding I eat (or refuse, that is neither here
nor there; and, between ourselves, what I have said about batter-pudding may be taken cum grano--we
are not come to that yet, except for the sake of argument or illustration)--the pudding, I
say, on my plate, the eggs that made it, the fire that cooked it, the tablecloth on which it
is laid, and so forth--are each and all of these objects a knowledge of which I may acquire--a
knowledge of the cost and production of which I might advantageously learn? To the man who
DOES know these things, I say the interest of life is prodigiously increased. The milkman becomes,
a study to him; the baker a being he curiously and tenderly examines. Go, Lewes, and clap a
hideous sea-anemone into a glass: I will put a cabman under mine, and make a vivisection of
a butcher. O Lares, Penates, and gentle household gods, teach me to sympathize with all that
comes within my doors! Give me an interest in the butcher's book. Let me look forward to the
ensuing number of the grocer's account with eagerness. It seems ungrateful to my kitchen-chimney
not to know the cost of sweeping it; and I trust that many a man who reads this, and muses
on it, will feel, like the writer, ashamed of himself, and hang down his head humbly.

     * "Seaside Studies."  By G. H. Lewes.

Now, if to this household game you could add a little money interest, the amusement would be
increased far beyond the mere money value, as a game at cards for sixpence is better than a
rubber for nothing. If you can interest yourself about sixpence, all life is invested with
a new excitement. From sunrise to sleeping you can always be playing that game--with butcher,
baker, coal-merchant, cabman, omnibus man--nay, diamond merchant and stockbroker. You can bargain
for a guinea over the price of a diamond necklace, or for a sixteenth per cent in a transaction
at the Stock Exchange. We all know men who have this faculty who are not ungenerous with their
money. They give it on great occasions. They are more able to help than you and I who spend
ours, and say to poor Prodigal who comes to us out at elbow, "My dear fellow, I should have
been delighted: but I have already anticipated my quarter, and am going to ask Screwby if he
can do anything for me."

In this delightful, wholesome, ever-novel twopenny game, there is a danger of excess, as there
is in every other pastime or occupation of life. If you grow too eager for your twopence, the
acquisition or the loss of it may affect your peace of mind, and peace of mind is better than
any amount of twopences. My friend, the old-clothes'-man, whose agonies over the hat have led
to this rambling disquisition, has, I very much fear, by a too eager pursuit of small profits,
disturbed the equanimity of a mind that ought to be easy and happy. "Had I stood out," he thinks,
"I might have had the hat for threepence," and he doubts whether, having given fourpence for
it, he will ever get back his money. My good Shadrach, if you go through life passionately
deploring the irrevocable, and allow yesterday's transactions to embitter the cheerfulness
of to-day and to-morrow--as lief walk down to the Seine, souse in, hats, body, clothes-bag
and all, and put an end to your sorrow and sordid cares. Before and since Mr. Franklin wrote
his pretty apologue of the Whistle have we not all made bargains of which we repented, and
coveted and acquired objects for which we have paid too dearly! Who has not purchased his hat
in some market or other? There is General M'Clellan's cocked hat for example: I dare say he
was eager enough to wear it, and he has learned that it is by no means cheerful wear. There
were the military beavers of Messeigneurs of Orleans:* they wore them gallantly in the face
of battle; but I suspect they were glad enough to pitch them into the James River and come
home in mufti. Ah, mes amis! A chacun son schakot! I was looking at a bishop the other day,
and thinking, "My right reverend lord, that broad-brim and rosette must bind your great broad
forehead very tightly, and give you many a headache. A good easy wideawake were better for
you, and I would like to see that honest face with a cutty-pipe in the middle of it." There
is my Lord Mayor. My once dear lord, my kind friend, when your two years' reign was over, did
not you jump for joy and fling your chapeau-bras out of window: and hasn't that hat cost you
a pretty bit of money? There, in a splendid travelling chariot, in the sweetest bonnet, all
trimmed with orange-blossoms and Chantilly lace, sits my Lady Rosa, with old Lord Snowden by
her side. Ah, Rosa! what a price have you paid for that hat which you wear; and is your ladyship's
coronet not purchased too dear! Enough of hats. Sir, or Madam, I take off mine, and salute
you with profound respect.

     * Two cadets of the House of Orleans who served as Volunteers under
     General M'Clellan in his campaign against Richmond.

ON ALEXANDRINES.*

A LETTER TO SOME COUNTRY COUSINS.

     * This paper, it is almost needless to say, was written just
     after the marriage of the Prince and Princess of Wales in
     March, 1863.

DEAR COUSINS,--Be pleased to receive herewith a packet of Mayall's photographs and copies of
Illustrated News, Illustrated Times, London Review, Queen, and Observer, each containing an
account of the notable festivities of the past week. If, besides these remembrances of home,
you have a mind to read a letter from an old friend, behold here it is. When I was at school,
having left my parents in India, a good-natured captain or colonel would come sometimes and
see us Indian boys, and talk to us about papa and mamma, and give us coins of the realm, and
write to our parents, and say, "I drove over yesterday and saw Tommy at Dr. Birch's. I took
him to the 'George,' and gave him a dinner. His appetite is fine. He states that he is reading
'Cornelius Nepos,' with which he is much interested. His masters report," &c. And though Dr.
Birch wrote by the same mail a longer, fuller, and official statement, I have no doubt the
distant parents preferred the friend's letter, with its artless, possibly ungrammatical, account
of their little darling.

I have seen the young heir of Britain. These eyes have beheld him and his bride, on Saturday
in Pall Mall, and on Tuesday in the nave of St. George's Chapel at Windsor, when the young
Princess Alexandra of Denmark passed by with her blooming procession of bridesmaids; and half
an hour later, when the Princess of Wales came forth from the chapel, her husband by her side
robed in the purple mantle of the famous Order which his forefather established here five hundred
years ago. We were to see her yet once again, when her open carriage passed out of the Castle
gate to the station of the near railway which was to convey her to Southampton.

Since womankind existed, has any woman ever had such a greeting? At ten hours' distance, there
is a city far more magnificent than ours. With every respect for Kensington turnpike, I own
that the Arc de l'Etoile at Paris is a much finer entrance to an imperial capital. In our black,
orderless, zigzag streets, we can show nothing to compare with the magnificent array of the
Rue de Rivoli, that enormous regiment of stone stretching for five miles and presenting arms
before the Tuileries. Think of the late Fleet Prison and Waithman's Obelisk, and of the Place
de la Concorde and the Luxor Stone! "The finest site in Europe," as Trafalgar Square has been
called by some obstinate British optimist, is disfigured by trophies, fountains, columns, and
statues so puerile, disorderly, and hideous that a lover of the arts must hang the head of
shame as he passes, to see our dear old queen city arraying herself so absurdly; but when all
is said and done, we can show one or two of the greatest sights in the world. I doubt if any
Roman festival was as vast or striking as the Derby day, or if any Imperial triumph could show
such a prodigious muster of faithful people as our young Princess saw on Saturday, when the
nation turned out to greet her. The calculators are squabbling about the numbers of hundreds
of thousands, of millions, who came forth to see her and bid her welcome. Imagine beacons flaming,
rockets blazing, yards manned, ships and forts saluting with their thunder, every steamer and
vessel, every town and village from Ramsgate to Gravesend, swarming with happy gratulation;
young girls with flowers, scattering roses before her; staid citizens and aldermen pushing
and squeezing and panting to make the speech, and bow the knee, and bid her welcome! Who is
this who is honored with such a prodigious triumph, and received with a welcome so astonishing?
A year ago we had never heard of her. I think about her pedigree and family not a few of us
are in the dark still, and I own, for my part, to be much puzzled by the allusions of newspaper
genealogists and bards and skalds to Vikings, Berserkers, and so forth. But it would be interesting
to know how many hundreds of thousands of photographs of the fair bright face have by this
time made it beloved and familiar in British homes. Think of all the quiet country nooks from
Land's End to Caithness, where kind eyes have glanced at it. The farmer brings it home from
market; the curate from his visit to the Cathedral town; the rustic folk peer at it in the
little village shop-window; the squire's children gaze on it round the drawing-room table:
every eye that beholds it looks tenderly on its bright beauty and sweet artless grace, and
young and old pray God bless her. We have an elderly friend, (a certain Goody Twoshoes,) who
inhabits, with many other old ladies, the Union House of the parish of St. Lazarus in Soho.
One of your cousins from this house went to see her, and found Goody and her companion crones
all in a flutter of excitement about the marriage. The whitewashed walls of their bleak dormitory
were ornamented with prints out of the illustrated journals, and hung with festoons and true-lovers'
knots of tape and colored paper; and the old bodies had had a good dinner, and the old tongues
were chirping and clacking away, all eager, interested, sympathizing; and one very elderly
and rheumatic Goody, who is obliged to keep her bed, (and has, I trust, an exaggerated idea
of the cares attending on royalty,) said, "Pore thing, pore thing! I pity her." Yes, even in
that dim place there was a little brightness and a quavering huzza, a contribution of a mite
subscribed by those dozen poor old widows to the treasure of loyalty with which the nation
endows the Prince's bride.

Three hundred years ago, when our dread Sovereign Lady Elizabeth came to take possession of
her realm and capital city, Holingshed, if you please (whose pleasing history of course you
carry about with you), relates in his fourth volume folio, that--"At hir entring the citie,
she was of the people received maruellous intierlie, as appeared by the assemblies, praiers,
welcommings, cries, and all other signes which argued a woonderfull earnest loue:" and at various
halting-places on the royal progress children habited like angels appeared out of allegoric
edifices and spoke verses to her--

        "Welcome, O Queen, as much as heart can think,
           Welcome again, as much as tongue can tell,
         Welcome to joyous tongues and hearts that will not shrink.
           God thee preserve, we pray, and wish thee ever well!

Our new Princess, you may be sure, has also had her Alexandrines, and many minstrels have gone
before her singing her praises. Mr. Tupper, who begins in very great force and strength, and
who proposes to give her no less than eight hundred thousand welcomes in the first twenty lines
of his ode, is not satisfied with this most liberal amount of acclamation, but proposes at
the end of his poem a still more magnificent subscription. Thus we begin, "A hundred thousand
welcomes, a hundred thousand welcomes." (In my copy the figures are in the well-known Arabic
numerals, but let us have the numbers literally accurate:)--

         "A hundred thousand welcomes!
          A hundred thousand welcomes!
            And a hundred thousand more!
          O happy heart of England,
          Shout aloud and sing, laud,
          As no land sang before;
          And let the paeans soar
          And ring from shore to shore,
          A hundred thousand welcomes,
          And a hundred thousand more;
            And let the cannons roar
            The joy-stunned city o'er.
          And let the steeples chime it
          A hundred thousand welcomes
          And a hundred thousand more;
            And let the people rhyme it
            From neighbor's door to door,
            From every man's heart's core,
          A hundred thousand welcomes
          And a hundred thousand more."

This contribution, in twenty not long lines, of 900,000 (say nine hundred thousand) welcomes
is handsome indeed; and shows that when our bard is inclined to be liberal, he does not look
to the cost. But what is a sum of 900,000 to his further proposal?--

         "O let all these declare it,
          Let miles of shouting swear it,
            In all the years of yore,
            Unparalleled before!
          And thou, most welcome Wand'rer
            Across the Northern Water,
          Our England's ALEXANDRA,
            Our dear adopted daughter--     Lay to thine heart,
          conned o'er and o'er,
            In future years remembered well,
            The magic fervor of this spell
          That shakes the land from shore to shore,
          And makes all hearts and eyes brim o'er;
            Our hundred thousand welcomes,
            Our fifty million welcomes,
          And a hundred million more!"

Here we have, besides the most liberal previous subscription, a further call on the public
for no less than one hundred and fifty million one hundred thousand welcomes for her Royal
Highness. How much is this per head for all of us in the three kingdoms? Not above five welcomes
apiece, and I am sure many of us have given more than five hurrahs to the fair young Princess.

Each man sings according to his voice, and gives in proportion to his means. The guns at Sheerness
"from their adamantine lips" (which had spoken in quarrelsome old times a very different language,)
roared a hundred thundering welcomes to the fair Dane. The maidens of England strewed roses
before her feet at Gravesend when she landed. Mr. Tupper, with the million and odd welcomes,
may be compared to the thundering fleet; Mr. Chorley's song, to the flowerets scattered on
her Royal Highness's happy and carpeted path:--

         "Blessings on that fair face!
            Safe on the shore
          Of her home-dwelling place,
            Stranger no more.
          Love, from her household shrine,
            Keep sorrow far!
          May for her hawthorn twine,
          June bring sweet eglantine,
          Autumn, the golden vine,
            Dear Northern Star!"

Hawthorn for May, eglantine for June, and in autumn a little tass of the golden vine for our
Northern Star. I am sure no one will grudge the Princess these simple enjoyments, and of the
produce of the last-named pleasing plant, I wonder how many bumpers were drunk to her health
on the happy day of her bridal? As for the Laureate's verses, I would respectfully liken his
Highness to a giant showing a beacon torch on "a windy headland." His flaring torch is a pine-tree,
to be sure, which nobody can wield but himself. He waves it: and four times in the midnight
he shouts mightily, "Alexandra!" and the Pontic pine is whirled into the ocean and Enceladus
goes home.

Whose muse, whose cornemuse, sounds with such plaintive sweetness from Arthur's Seat, while
Edinburgh and Musselburgh lie rapt in delight, and the mermaids come flapping up to Leith shore
to hear the exquisite music? Sweeter piper Edina knows not than Aytoun, the Bard of the Cavaliers,
who has given in his frank adhesion to the reigning dynasty. When a most beautiful, celebrated
and unfortunate princess whose memory the Professor loves--when Mary, wife of Francis the Second,
King of France, and by her own right proclaimed Queen of Scotland and England (poor soul!),
entered Paris with her young bridegroom, good Peter Ronsard wrote of her--

     "Toi qui as veu l'excellence de celle
     Qui rend le ciel de l'Escosse envieux,
     Dy hardiment, contentez vous mes yeux,
     Vous ne verrez jamais chose plus belle."*

     * Quoted in Mignet's "Life of Mary."

"Vous ne verrez jamais chose plus belle." Here is an Alexandrine written three hundred years
ago, as simple as bon jour. Professor Aytoun is more ornate. After elegantly complimenting
the spring, and a description of her Royal Highness's well-known ancestors the "Berserkers,"
he bursts forth--

     "The Rose of Denmark comes, the Royal Bride!
     O loveliest Rose! our paragon and pride--
     Choice of the Prince whom England holds so dear--
     What homage shall we pay
     To one who has no peer?
     What can the bard or wildered minstrel say
     More than the peasant who on bended knee
     Breathes from his heart an earnest prayer for thee?
     Words are not fair, if that they would express
     Is fairer still; so lovers in dismay
     Stand all abashed before that loveliness
     They worship most, but find no words to pray.
     Too sweet for incense! (bravo!)  Take our loves instead--
     Most freely, truly, and devoutly given;
     Our prayer for blessings on that gentle head,
     For earthly happiness and rest in Heaven!
     May never sorrow dim those dove-like eyes,
     But peace as pure as reigned in Paradise,
     Calm and untainted on creation's eve,
     Attend thee still!  May holy angels," &c.

This is all very well, my dear country cousins. But will you say "Amen" to this prayer? I won't.
Assuredly our fair Princess will shed many tears out of the "dovelike eyes," or the heart will
be little worth. Is she to know no parting, no care, no anxious longing, no tender watches
by the sick, to deplore no friends and kindred, and feel no grief? Heaven forbid! When a bard
or wildered minstrel writes so, best accept his own confession, that he is losing his head.
On the day of her entrance into London who looked more bright and happy than the Princess?
On the day of the marriage, the fair face wore its marks of care already, and looked out quite
grave, and frightened almost, under the wreaths and lace and orange-flowers. Would you have
had her feel no tremor? A maiden on the bridegroom's threshold, a Princess led up to the steps
of a throne? I think her pallor and doubt became her as well as her smiles. That, I can tell
you, was OUR vote who sat in X compartment, let us say, in the nave of St. George's Chapel
at Windsor, and saw a part of one of the brightest ceremonies ever performed there.

My dear cousin Mary, you have an account of the dresses; and I promise you there were princesses
besides the bride whom it did the eyes good to behold. Around the bride sailed a bevy of young
creatures so fair, white, and graceful that I thought of those fairy-tale beauties who are
sometimes princesses, and sometimes white swans. The Royal Princesses and the Royal Knights
of the Garter swept by in prodigious robes and trains of purple velvet, thirty shillings a
yard, my dear, not of course including the lining, which, I have no doubt, was of the richest
satin, or that costly "miniver" which we used to read about in poor Jerrold's writings. The
young princes were habited in kilts; and by the side of the Princess Royal trotted such a little
wee solemn Highlander! He is the young heir and chief of the famous clan of Brandenburg. His
eyrie is amongst the Eagles, and I pray no harm may befall the dear little chieftain.

The heralds in their tabards were marvellous to behold, and a nod from Rouge Croix gave me
the keenest gratification. I tried to catch Garter's eye, but either I couldn't or he wouldn't.
In his robes, he is like one of the Three Kings in old missal illuminations. Goldstick in waiting
is even more splendid. With his gold rod and robes and trappings of many colors, he looks like
a royal enchanter, and as if he had raised up all this scene of glamour by a wave of his glittering
wand. The silver trumpeters wear such quaint caps, as those I have humbly tried to depict on
the playful heads of children. Behind the trumpeters came a drum-bearer, on whose back a gold-laced
drummer drubbed his march.

When the silver clarions had blown, and under a clear chorus of white-robed children chanting
round the organ, the noble procession passed into the chapel, and was hidden from our sight
for a while, there was silence, or from the inner chapel ever so faint a hum. Then hymns arose,
and in the lull we knew that prayers were being said, and the sacred rite performed which joined
Albert Edward to Alexandra his wife. I am sure hearty prayers were offered outside the gate
as well as within for that princely young pair, and for their Mother and Queen. The peace,
the freedom, the happiness, the order which her rule guarantees, are part of my birthright
as an Englishman, and I bless God for my share. Where else shall I find such liberty of action,
thought, speech, or laws which protect me so well? Her part of her compact with her people,
what sovereign ever better performed? If ours sits apart from the festivities of the day, it
is because she suffers from a grief so recent that the loyal heart cannot master it as yet,
and remains treu und fest to a beloved memory. A part of the music which celebrates the day's
service was composed by the husband who is gone to the place where the just and pure of life
meet the reward promised by the Father of all of us to good and faithful servants who have
well done here below. As this one gives in his account, surely we may remember how the Prince
was the friend of all peaceful arts and learning; how he was true and fast always to duty,
home, honor; how, through a life of complicated trials, he was sagacious, righteous, active
and self-denying. And as we trace in the young faces of his many children the father's features
and likeness, what Englishman will not pray that, they may have inherited also some of the
great qualities which won for the Prince Consort the love and respect of our country?

The papers tell us how, on the night of the marriage of the Prince of Wales, all over England
and Scotland illuminations were made, the poor and children were feasted, and in village and
city thousands of kindly schemes were devised to mark the national happiness and sympathy.
"The bonfire on Coptpoint at Folkestone was seen in France," the Telegraph says, "more clearly
than even the French marine lights could be seen at Folkestone." Long may the fire continue
to burn! There are European coasts (and inland places) where the liberty light has been extinguished,
or is so low that you can't see to read by it--there are great Atlantic shores where it flickers
and smokes very gloomily. Let us be thankful to the honest guardians of ours, and for the kind
sky under which it burns bright and steady.

ON A MEDAL OF GEORGE THE FOURTH.

Before me lies a coin bearing the image and superscription of King George IV., and of the nominal
value of two-and-sixpence. But an official friend at a neighboring turnpike says the piece
is hopelessly bad; and a chemist tested it, returning a like unfavorable opinion. A cabman,
who had brought me from a Club, left it with the Club porter, appealing to the gent who gave
it a pore cabby, at ever so much o'clock of a rainy night, which he hoped he would give him
another. I have taken that cabman at his word. He has been provided with a sound coin. The
bad piece is on the table before me, and shall have a hole drilled through it, as soon as this
essay is written, by a loyal subject who does not desire to deface the Sovereign's image, but
to protest against the rascal who has taken his name in vain. Fid. Def. indeed! Is this what
you call defending the faith? You dare to forge your Sovereign's name, and pass your scoundrel
pewter as his silver? I wonder who you are, wretch and most consummate trickster? This forgery
is so complete that even now I am deceived by it--I can't see the difference between the base
and sterling metal. Perhaps this piece is a little lighter;--I don't know. A little softer:--is
it? I have not bitten it, not being a connoisseur in the tasting of pewter or silver. I take
the word of three honest men, though it goes against me: and though I have given two-and-sixpence
worth of honest consideration for the counter, I shall not attempt to implicate anybody else
in my misfortune, or transfer my ill-luck to a deluded neighbor.

I say the imitation is so curiously successful, the stamping, milling of the edges, lettering,
and so forth, are so neat, that even now, when my eyes are open, I cannot see the cheat. How
did those experts, the cabman, and pikeman, and tradesman, come to find it out? How do they
happen to be more familiar with pewter and silver than I am? You see, I put out of the question
another point which I might argue without fear of defeat, namely, the cabman's statement that
I gave him this bad piece of money. Suppose every cabman who took me a shilling fare were to
drive away and return presently with a bad coin and an assertion that I had given it to him!
This would be absurd and mischievous; an encouragement of vice amongst men who already are
subject to temptations. Being homo, I think if I were a cabman myself, I might sometimes stretch
a furlong or two in my calculation of distance. But don't come TWICE, my man, and tell me I
have given you a bad half-crown. No, no! I have paid once like a gentleman, and once is enough.
For instance, during the Exhibition time I was stopped by an old country-woman in black, with
a huge umbrella, who, bursting into tears, said to me, "Master, be this the way to Harlow,
in Essex?" "This the way to Harlow? This is the way to Exeter, my good lady, and you will arrive
there if you walk about 170 miles in your present direction," I answered courteously, replying
to the old creature. Then she fell a-sobbing as though her old heart would break. She had a
daughter a-dying at Harlow. She had walked already "vifty dree mile that day." Tears stopped
the rest of her discourse, so artless, genuine, and abundant that--I own the truth--I gave
her, in I believe genuine silver, a piece of the exact size of that coin which forms the subject
of this essay. Well. About a month since, near to the very spot where I had met my old woman,
I was accosted by a person in black, a person in a large draggled cap, a person with a huge
umbrella, who was beginning, "I say, Master, can you tell me if this be the way to Har--" but
here she stopped. Her eyes goggled wildly. She started from me, as Macbeth turned from Macduff.
She would not engage with me. It was my old friend of Harlow, in Essex. I dare say she has
informed many other people of her daughter's illness, and her anxiety to be put upon the right
way to Harlow. Not long since a very gentleman-like man, Major Delamere let us call him (I
like the title of Major very much), requested to see me, named a dead gentleman who he said
had been our mutual friend, and on the strength of this mutual acquaintance, begged me to cash
his cheque for five pounds!

It is these things, my dear sir, which serve to make a man cynical. I do conscientiously believe
that had I cashed the Major's cheque there would have been a difficulty about payment on the
part of the respected bankers on whom he drew. On your honor and conscience, do you think that
old widow who was walking from Tunbridge Wells to Harlow had a daughter ill, and was an honest
woman at all? The daughter couldn't always, you see, be being ill, and her mother on her way
to her dear child through Hyde Park. In the same way some habitual sneerers may be inclined
to hint that the cabman's story was an invention--or at any rate, choose to ride off (so to
speak) on the doubt. No. My opinion, I own, is unfavorable as regards the widow from Tunbridge
Wells, and Major Delamere; but, believing the cabman was honest, I am glad to think he was
not injured by the reader's most humble servant.

What a queer, exciting life this rogue's march must be: this attempt of the bad half-crowns
to get into circulation! Had my distinguished friend the Major knocked at many doors that morning,
before operating on mine? The sport must be something akin to the pleasure of tiger or elephant
hunting. What ingenuity the sportsman must have in tracing his prey--what daring and caution
in coming upon him! What coolness in facing the angry animal (for, after all, a man on whom
you draw a cheque a bout portant will be angry). What a delicious thrill of triumph, if you
can bring him down! If I have money at the banker's and draw for a portion of it over the counter,
that is mere prose--any dolt can do that. But, having no balance, say I drive up in a cab,
present a cheque at Coutts's, and, receiving the amount, drive off? What a glorious morning's
sport that has been! How superior in excitement to the common transactions of every-day life!
. . . I must tell a story; it is against myself, I know, but it WILL out, and perhaps my mind
will be the easier.

More than twenty years ago, in an island remarkable for its verdure, I met four or five times
one of the most agreeable companions with whom I have passed a night. I heard that evil times
had come upon this gentleman; and, overtaking him in a road near my own house one evening,
I asked him to come home to dinner, In two days, he was at my door again. At breakfast-time
was this second appearance. He was in a cab (of course he was in a cab, they always are, these
unfortunate, these courageous men). To deny myself was absurd. My friend could see me over
the parlor blinds, surrounded by my family, and cheerfully partaking of the morning meal. Might
he have a word with me? and can you imagine its purport? By the most provoking delay, his uncle
the admiral not being able to come to town till Friday--would I cash him a cheque? I need not
say it would be paid on Saturday without fail. I tell you that man went away with money in
his pocket, and I regret to add that his gallant relative has not COME TO TOWN YET!

Laying down the pen, and sinking back in my chair, here, perhaps, I fall into a five minutes'
reverie, and think of one, two, three, half a dozen cases in which I have been content to accept
that sham promissory coin in return for sterling money advanced. Not a reader, whatever his
age, but could tell a like story. I vow and believe there are men of fifty, who will dine well
today, who have not paid their school debts yet, and who have not taken up their long-protested
promises to pay. Tom, Dick, Harry, my boys, I owe you no grudge, and rather relish that wince
with which you will read these meek lines and say, "He means me." Poor Jack in Hades! Do you
remember a certain pecuniary transaction, and a little sum of money you borrowed "until the
meeting of Parliament?" Parliament met often in your lifetime: Parliament has met since: but
I think I should scarce be more surprised if your ghost glided into the room now, and laid
down the amount of our little account, than I should have been if you had paid me in your lifetime
with the actual acceptances of the Bank of England. You asked to borrow, but you never intended
to pay. I would as soon have believed that a promissory note of Sir John Falstaff (accepted
by Messrs. Bardolph and Nym, and payable in Aldgate,) would be as sure to find payment, as
that note of the departed--nay, lamented--Jack Thriftless.

He who borrows, meaning to pay, is quite a different person from the individual here described.
Many--most, I hope--took Jack's promise for what it was worth--and quite well knew that when
he said, "Lend me," he meant "Give me" twenty pounds. "Give me change for this half-crown,"
said Jack; "I know it's a pewter piece;" and you gave him the change in honest silver, and
pocketed the counterfeit gravely.

What a queer consciousness that must be which accompanies such a man in his sleeping, in his
waking, in his walk through life, by his fireside with his children round him! "For what we
are going to receive," &c.--he says grace before his dinner. "My dears! Shall I help you to
some mutton? I robbed the butcher of the meat. I don't intend to pay him. Johnson my boy, a
glass of champagne? Very good, isn't it? Not too sweet. Forty-six. I get it from So-and-so,
whom I intend to cheat." As eagles go forth and bring home to their eaglets the lamb or the
pavid kid, I say there are men who live and victual their nests by plunder. We all know highway
robbers in white neck-cloths, domestic bandits, marauders, passers of bad coin. What was yonder
cheque which Major Delamere proposed I should cash but a piece of bad money? What was Jack
Thriftless's promise to pay? Having got his booty, I fancy Jack or the Major returning home,
and wife and children gathering round about him. Poor wife and children! They respect papa
very likely. They don't know he is false coin. Maybe the wife has a dreadful inkling of the
truth, and, sickening, tries to hide it from the daughters and sons. Maybe she is an accomplice:
herself a brazen forgery. If Turpin and Jack Sheppard were married, very likely Mesdames Sheppard
and Turpin did not know, at first, what their husbands' real profession was, and fancied, when
the men left home in the morning, they only went away to follow some regular and honorable
business. Then a suspicion of the truth may have come: then a dreadful revelation; and presently
we have the guilty pair robbing together, or passing forged money each on his own account.
You know Doctor Dodd? I wonder whether his wife knows that he is a forger, and scoundrel? Has
she had any of the plunder, think you, and were the darling children's new dresses bought with
it? The Doctor's sermon last Sunday was certainly charming, and we all cried. Ah, my poor Dodd!
Whilst he is preaching most beautifully, pocket-handkerchief in hand, he is peering over the
pulpit cushions, looking out piteously for Messrs. Peachum and Lockit from the police-office.
By Doctor Dodd you understand I would typify the rogue of respectable exterior, not committed
to gaol yet, but not undiscovered. We all know one or two such. This very sermon perhaps will
be read by some, or more likely--for, depend upon it, your solemn hypocritic scoundrels don't
care much for light literature--more likely, I say, this discourse will be read by some of
their wives, who think, "Ah mercy! does that horrible cynical wretch know how my poor husband
blacked my eye, or abstracted mamma's silver teapot, or forced me to write So-and-so's name
on that piece of stamped paper, or what not?" My good creature, I am not angry with YOU. If
your husband has broken your nose, you will vow that he had authority over your person, and
a right to demolish any part of it: if he has conveyed away your mamma's teapot, you will say
that she gave it to him at your marriage, and it was very ugly, and what not? if he takes your
aunt's watch, and you love him, you will carry it ere long to the pawnbroker's, and perjure
yourself--oh, how you will perjure yourself--in the witness-box! I know this is a degrading
view of woman's noble nature, her exalted mission, and so forth, and so forth. I know you will
say this is bad morality. Is it? Do you, or do you not, expect your womankind to stick by you
for better or for worse? Say I have committed a forgery, and the officers come in search of
me, is my wife, Mrs. Dodd, to show them into the dining-room and say, "Pray step in, gentlemen!
My husband has just come home from church. That bill with my Lord Chesterfield's acceptance,
I am bound to own, was never written by his lordship, and the signature is in the doctor's
handwriting?" I say, would any man of sense or honor, or fine feeling, praise his wife for
telling the truth under such circumstances? Suppose she made a fine grimace, and said, "Most
painful as my position is, most deeply as I feel for my William, yet truth must prevail, and
I deeply lament to state that the beloved partner of my life DID commit the flagitious act
with which he is charged, and is at this present moment located in the two-pair back, up the
chimney, whither it is my duty to lead you." Why, even Dodd himself, who was one of the greatest
humbugs who ever lived, would not have had the face to say that he approved of his wife telling
the truth in such a case. Would you have had Flora Macdonald beckon the officers, saying, "This
way, gentlemen! You will find the young chevalier asleep in that cavern." Or don't you prefer
her to be splendide mendax, and ready at all risks to save him? If ever I lead a rebellion,
and my women betray me, may I be hanged but I will not forgive them: and if ever I steal a
teapot, and MY women don't stand up for me, pass the article under their shawls, whisk down
the street with it, outbluster the policeman, and utter any amount of fibs before Mr. Beak,
those beings are not what I take them to be, and--for a fortune--I won't give them so much
as a bad half-crown.

Is conscious guilt a source of unmixed pain to the bosom which harbors it? Has not your criminal,
on the contrary, an excitement, an enjoyment within quite unknown to you and me who never did
anything wrong in our lives? The housebreaker must snatch a fearful joy as he walks unchallenged
by the policeman with his sack full of spoons and tankards. Do not cracksmen, when assembled
together, entertain themselves with stories of glorious old burglaries which they or bygone
heroes have committed? But that my age is mature and my habits formed, I should really just
like to try a little criminality. Fancy passing a forged bill to your banker; calling on a
friend and sweeping his sideboard of plate, his hall of umbrellas and coats; and then going
home to dress for dinner, say--and to meet a bishop, a judge, and a police magistrate or so,
and talk more morally than any man at table! How I should chuckle (as my host's spoons clinked
softly in my pocket) whilst I was uttering some noble speech about virtue, duty, charity! I
wonder do we meet garroters in society? In an average tea-party, now, how many returned convicts
are there? Does John Footman, when he asks permission to go and spend the evening with some
friends, pass his time in thuggee; waylay and strangle an old gentleman, or two; let himself
into your house, with the house-key of course, and appear as usual with the shaving-water when
you ring your bell in the morning? The very possibility of such a suspicion invests John with
a new and romantic interest in my mind. Behind the grave politeness of his countenance I try
and read the lurking treason. Full of this pleasing subject, I have been talking thief-stories
with a neighbor. The neighbor tells me how some friends of hers used to keep a jewel-box under
a bed in their room; and, going into the room, they thought they heard a noise under the bed.
They had the courage to look. The cook was under the bed--under the bed with the jewel-box.
Of course she said she had come for purposes connected with her business; but this was absurd.
A cook under a bed is not there for professional purposes. A relation of mine had a box containing
diamonds under her bed, which diamonds she told me were to be mine. Mine! One day, at dinner-time,
between the entrees and the roast, a cab drove away from my relative's house containing the
box wherein lay the diamonds. John laid the dessert, brought the coffee, waited all the evening--and
oh, how frightened he was when he came to learn that his mistress's box had been conveyed out
of her own room, and it contained diamonds--"Law bless us, did it now?" I wonder whether John's
subsequent career has been prosperous? Perhaps the gentlemen from Bow Street were all in the
wrong when they agreed in suspecting John as the author of the robbery. His noble nature was
hurt at the suspicion. You conceive he would not like to remain in a family where they were
mean enough to suspect him of stealing a jewel-box out of a bedroom--and the injured man and
my relatives soon parted. But, inclining (with my usual cynicism) to think that he did steal
the valuables, think of his life for the month or two whilst he still remains in the service!
He shows the officers over the house, agrees with them that the coup must have been made by
persons familiar with it; gives them every assistance; pities his master and mistress with
a manly compassion; points out what a cruel misfortune it is to himself as an honest man, with
his living to get and his family to provide for, that this suspicion should fall on him. Finally
he takes leave of his place, with a deep, though natural melancholy that ever he had accepted
it. What's a thousand pounds to gentle-folks! A loss, certainly, but they will live as well
without the diamonds as with them. But to John his Hhhonor was worth more than diamonds, his
Hhonor was. Whohever is to give him back his character? Who is to prevent hany one from saying,
"Ho yes. This is the footman which was in the family where the diamonds was stole?" &c.

I wonder has John prospered in life subsequently? If he is innocent he does not interest me
in the least. The interest of the case lies in John's behavior supposing him to be guilty.
Imagine the smiling face, the daily service, the orderly performance of duty, whilst within
John is suffering pangs lest discovery should overtake him. Every bell of the door which he
is obliged to open may bring a police officer. The accomplices may peach. What an exciting
life John's must have been for a while. And now, years and years after, when pursuit has long
ceased, and detection is impossible, does he ever revert to the little transaction? Is it possible
those diamonds cost a thousand pounds? What a rogue the fence must have been who only gave
him so and so! And I pleasingly picture to myself an old ex-footman and an ancient receiver
of stolen goods meeting and talking over this matter, which dates from times so early that
her present Majesty's fair image could only just have begun to be coined or forged.

I choose to take John at the time when his little peccadillo is suspected, perhaps, but when
there is no specific charge of robbery against him. He is not yet convicted: he is not even
on his trial; how then can we venture to say he is guilty? Now think what scores of men and
women walk the world in a like predicament; and what false coin passes current! Pinchbeck strives
to pass off his history as sound coin. He knows it is only base metal, washed over with a thin
varnish of learning. Poluphloisbos puts his sermons in circulation: sounding brass, lacquered
over with white metal, and marked with the stamp and image of piety. What say you to Drawcansir's
reputation as a military commander? to Tibbs's pretensions to be a fine gentleman? to Sapphira's
claims as a poetess, or Rodoessa's as a beauty? His bravery, his piety, high birth, genius,
beauty--each of these deceivers would palm his falsehood on us, and have us accept his forgeries
as sterling coin. And we talk here, please to observe, of weaknesses rather than crimes. Some
of us have more serious things to hide than a yellow cheek behind a raddle of rouge, or a white
poll under a wig of jetty curls. You know, neighbor, there are not only false teeth in this
world, but false tongues: and some make up a bust and an appearance of strength with padding,
cotton, and what not? while another kind of artist tries to take you in by wearing under his
waistcoat, and perpetually thumping, an immense sham heart. Dear sir, may yours and mine be
found, at the right time, of the proper size and in the right place.

And what has this to do with half-crowns, good or bad? Ah, friend! may our coin, battered,
and clipped, and defaced though it be, be proved to be Sterling Silver on the day of the Great
Assay!

"STRANGE TO SAY, ON CLUB PAPER."

Before the Duke of York's column, and between the "Athenaeum" and "United Service" Clubs, I
have seen more than once, on the esplanade, a preacher holding forth to a little congregation
of badauds and street-boys, whom he entertains with a discourse on the crimes of a rapacious
aristocracy, or warns of the imminent peril of their own souls. Sometimes this orator is made
to "move on" by brutal policemen. Sometimes, on a Sunday, he points to a white head or two
visible in the windows of the Clubs to the right and left of him, and volunteers a statement
that those quiet and elderly Sabbath-breakers will very soon be called from this world to another,
where their lot will by no means be so comfortable as that which the reprobates enjoy here,
in their arm-chairs by their snug fires.

At the end of last month, had I been a Pall Mall preacher, I would have liked to send a whip
round to all the Clubs in St. James's, and convoke the few members remaining in London to hear
a discourse sub Dio on a text from the Observer newspaper. I would have taken post under the
statue of Fame, say, where she stands distributing wreaths to the three Crimean Guardsmen.
(The crossing-sweeper does not obstruct the path, and I suppose is away at his villa on Sundays.)
And, when the congregation was pretty quiet, I would have begun:--

In the Observer of the 27th September, 1863, in the fifth page and the fourth column, it is
thus written:--

"The codicil appended to the will of the late Lord Clyde, executed at Chatham, and bearing
the signature of Clyde, F. M., is written, strange to say, on a sheet of paper BEARING THE
'ATHENAEUM CLUB' MARK."

What the codicil is, my dear brethren, it is not our business to inquire. It conveys a benefaction
to a faithful and attached friend of the good Field-Marshal. The gift may be a lakh of rupees,
or it may be a house and its contents--furniture, plate, and wine-cellar. My friends, I know
the wine-merchant, and, for the sake of the legatee, hope heartily that the stock is large.

Am I wrong, dear brethren, in supposing that you expect a preacher to say a seasonable word
on death here? If you don't, I fear you are but little familiar with the habits of preachers,
and are but lax hearers of sermons. We might contrast the vault where the warrior's remains
lie shrouded and coffined, with that in which his worldly provision of wine is stowed away.
Spain and Portugal and France--all the lands which supplied his store--as hardy and obedient
subaltern, as resolute captain, as colonel daring but prudent--he has visited the fields of
all. In India and China he marches always unconquered; or at the head of his dauntless Highland
brigade he treads the Crimean snow; or he rides from conquest to conquest in India once more;
succoring his countrymen in the hour of their utmost need; smiting down the scared mutiny,
and trampling out the embers of rebellion; at the head of an heroic army, a consummate chief.
And now his glorious old sword is sheathed, and his honors are won: and he has bought him a
house, and stored it with modest cheer for his friends (the good old man put water in his own
wine, and a glass or two sufficed him)--behold the end comes, and his legatee inherits these
modest possessions by virtue of a codicil to his lordship's will, written, "strange to say,
upon a sheet of paper, bearing the 'Athenaeum Club' mark."

It is to this part of the text, my brethren, that I propose to address myself particularly,
and if the remarks I make are offensive to any of you, you know the doors of our meeting-house
are open, and you can walk out when you will. Around us are magnificent halls and palaces frequented
by such a multitude of men as not even the Roman Forum assembled together. Yonder are the Martium
and the Palladium. Next to the Palladium is the elegant Viatorium, which Barry gracefully stole
from Rome. By its side is the massive Reformatorium: and the--the Ultratorium rears its granite
columns beyond. Extending down the street palace after palace rises magnificent, and under
their lofty roofs warriors and lawyers, merchants and nobles, scholars and seamen, the wealthy,
the poor, the busy, the idle assemble. Into the halls built down this little street and its
neighborhood the principal men of all London come to hear or impart the news; and the affairs
of the state or of private individuals, the quarrels of empires or of authors, the movements
of the court, or the splendid vagaries of fashion, the intrigues of statesmen or of persons
of another sex yet more wily, the last news of battles in the great occidental continents,
nay, the latest betting for the horse-races, or the advent of a dancer at the theatre--all
that men do is discussed in these Pall Mall agorae, where we of London daily assemble.

Now among so many talkers, consider how many false reports must fly about: in such multitudes
imagine how many disappointed men there must be; how many chatterboxes; how many feeble and
credulous (whereof I mark some specimens in my congregation); how many mean, rancorous, prone
to believe ill of their betters, eager to find fault; and then, my brethren, fancy how the
words of my text must have been read and received in Pall Mall! (I perceive several of the
congregation looking most uncomfortable. One old boy with a dyed moustache turns purple in
the face, and struts back to the Martium: another, with a shrug of the shoulder and a murmur
of "Rubbish," slinks away in the direction of the Togatorium, and the preacher continues.)
The will of Field-Marshal Lord Clyde--signed AT CHATHAM, mind, where his lordship died--is
written, STRANGE TO SAY, on a sheet of paper bearing the "Athenaeum Club" mark!

The inference is obvious. A man cannot get Athenaeum paper except at the "Athenaeum." Such
paper is not sold at Chatham, where the last codicil to his lordship's will is dated. And so
the painful belief is forced upon us, that a Peer, a Field-Marshal, wealthy, respected, illustrious,
could pocket paper at his Club, and carry it away with him to the country. One fancies the
hall-porter conscious of the old lord's iniquity, and holding down his head as the Marshal
passes the door. What is that roll which his lordship carries? Is it his Marshal's baton gloriously
won? No; it is a roll of foolscap conveyed from the Club. What has he on his breast, under
his greatcoat? Is it his Star of India? No; it is a bundle of envelopes, bearing the head of
Minerva, some sealing-wax, and a half-score of pens.

Let us imagine how in the hall of one or other of these Clubs this strange anecdote will be
discussed.

"Notorious screw," says Sneer. "The poor old fellow's avarice has long been known."

"Suppose he wishes to imitate the Duke of Marlborough," says Simper.

"Habit of looting contracted in India, you know; ain't so easy to get over, you know," says
Snigger.

"When officers dined with him in India," remarks Solemn, "it was notorious that the spoons
were all of a different pattern."

"Perhaps it isn't true. Suppose he wrote his paper at the Club?" interposes Jones.

"It is dated at Chatham, my good man," says Brown. "A man if he is in London says he is in
London. A man if he is in Rochester says he is in Rochester. This man happens to forget that
he is using the Club paper; and he happens to be found out: many men DON'T happen to be found
out. I've seen literary fellows at Clubs writing their rubbishing articles; I have no doubt
they take away reams of paper. They crib thoughts: why shouldn't they crib stationery? One
of your literary vagabonds who is capable of stabbing a reputation, who is capable of telling
any monstrous falsehood to support his party, is surely capable of stealing a ream of paper."

"Well, well, we have all our weaknesses," sighs Robinson. "Seen that article, Thompson, in
the Observer about Lord Clyde and the Club paper? You'll find it up stairs. In the third column
of the fifth page towards the bottom of the page. I suppose he was so poor he couldn't afford
to buy a quire of paper. Hadn't fourpence in the world. Oh, no!"

"And they want to get up a testimonial to this man's memory--a statue or something!" cries
Jawkins. "A man who wallows in wealth and takes paper away from his Club! I don't say he is
not brave. Brutal courage most men have. I don't say he was not a good officer: a man with
such experience MUST have been a good officer unless he was a born fool. But to think of this
man loaded with honors--though of a low origin--so lost to self-respect as actually to take
away the 'Athenaeum' paper! These parvenus, sir, betray their origin--betray their origin.
I said to my wife this very morning, 'Mrs. Jawkins,' I said, 'there is talk of a testimonial
to this man. I will not give one shilling. I have no idea of raising statues to fellows who
take away Club paper. No, by George, I have not. Why, they will be raising statues to men who
take Club spoons next! Not one penny of MY money shall they have!'"

And now, if you please, we will tell the real story which has furnished this scandal to a newspaper,
this tattle to Club gossips and loungers. The Field-Marshal, wishing to make a further provision
for a friend, informed his lawyer what he desired to do. The lawyer, a member of the "Athenaeum
Club," there wrote the draft of such a codicil as he would advise, and sent the paper by the
post to Lord Clyde at Chatham. Lord Clyde finding the paper perfectly satisfactory, signed
it and sent it back: and hence we have the story of "the codicil bearing the signature of Clyde,
F. M., and written, strange to say, upon paper bearing the 'Athenaeum Club' mark."

Here I have been imagining a dialogue between a half-dozen gossips such as congregate round
a Club fireplace of an afternoon. I wonder how many people besides--whether any chance reader
of this very page has read and believed this story about the good old lord? Have the country
papers copied the anecdote, and our "own correspondents" made their remarks on it? If, my good
sir, or madam, you have read it and credited it, don't you own to a little feeling of shame
and sorrow, now that the trumpery little mystery is cleared? To "the new inhabitant of light,"
passed away and out of reach of our censure, misrepresentation, scandal, dulness, malice, a
silly falsehood matters nothing. Censure and praise are alike to him--

     "The music warbling to the deafened ear,
     The incense wasted on the funeral bier,"

the pompous eulogy pronounced over the gravestone, or the lie that slander spits on it. Faithfully
though this brave old chief did his duty, honest and upright though his life was, glorious
his renown--you see he could write at Chatham on London paper; you see men can be found to
point out how "strange" his behavior was.

And about ourselves? My good people, do you by chance know any man or woman who has formed
unjust conclusions regarding his neighbor? Have you ever found yourself willing, nay, eager
to believe evil of some man whom you hate? Whom you hate because he is successful, and you
are not: because he is rich, and you are poor: because he dines with great men who don't invite
you: because he wears a silk gown, and yours is still stuff: because he has been called in
to perform the operation though you lived close by: because his pictures have been bought and
yours returned home unsold: because he fills his church, and you are preaching to empty pews?
If your rival prospers have you ever felt a twinge of anger? If his wife's carriage passes
you and Mrs. Tomkins, who are in a cab, don't you feel that those people are giving themselves
absurd airs of importance? If he lives with great people, are you not sure he is a sneak? And
if you ever felt envy towards another, and if your heart has ever been black towards your brother,
if you have been peevish at his success, pleased to hear his merit depreciated, and eager to
believe all that is said in his disfavor--my good sir, as you yourself contritely own that
you are unjust, jealous, uncharitable, so, you may be sure, some men are uncharitable, jealous,
and unjust regarding YOU.

The proofs and manuscript of this little sermon have just come from the printer's, and as I
look at the writing, I perceive, not without a smile, that one or two of the pages bear, "strange
to say," the mark of a Club of which I have the honor to be a member. Those lines quoted in
a foregoing page are from some noble verses written by one of Mr. Addison's men, Mr. Tickell,
on the death of Cadogan, who was amongst the most prominent "of Marlborough's captains and
Eugenio's friends." If you are acquainted with the history of those times, you have read how
Cadogan had his feuds and hatreds too, as Tickell's patron had his, as Cadogan's great chief
had his. "The Duke of Marlborough's character has been so variously drawn" (writes a famous
contemporary of the duke's), "that it is hard to pronounce on either side without the suspicion
of flattery or detraction. I shall say nothing of his military accomplishments, which the opposite
reports of his friends and enemies among the soldiers have rendered problematical. Those maligners
who deny him personal valor, seem not to consider that this accusation is charged at a venture,
since the person of a general is too seldom exposed, and that fear which is said sometimes
to have disconcerted him before action might probably be more for his army than himself." If
Swift could hint a doubt of Marlborough's courage, what wonder that a nameless scribe of our
day should question the honor of Clyde?

THE LAST SKETCH.

Not many days since I went to visit a house where in former years I had received many a friendly
welcome. We went into the owner's--an artist's--studio. Prints, pictures, and sketches hung
on the walls as I had last seen and remembered them. The implements of the painter's art were
there. The light which had shone upon so many, many hours of patient and cheerful toil, poured
through the northern window upon print and bust, lay figure and sketch, and upon the easel
before which the good, the gentle, the beloved Leslie labored. In this room the busy brain
had devised, and the skilful hand executed, I know not how many of the noble works which have
delighted the world with their beauty and charming humor. Here the poet called up into pictorial
presence, and informed with life, grace, beauty, infinite friendly mirth and wondrous naturalness
of expression, the people of whom his dear books told him the stories,--his Shakspeare, his
Cervantes, his Moliere, his Le Sage. There was his last work on the easel--a beautiful fresh
smiling shape of Titania, such as his sweet guileless fancy imagined the Midsummer Night's
queen to be. Gracious, and pure, and bright, the sweet smiling image glimmers on the canvas.
Fairy elves, no doubt, were to have been grouped around their mistress in laughing clusters.
Honest Bottom's grotesque head and form are indicated as reposing by the side of the consummate
beauty. The darkling forest would have grown around them, with the stars glittering from the
midsummer sky: the flowers at the queen's feet, and the boughs and foliage about her, would
have been peopled with gambolling sprites and fays. They were dwelling in the artist's mind
no doubt, and would have been developed by that patient, faithful, admirable genius: but the
busy brain stopped working, the skilful hand fell lifeless, the loving, honest heart ceased
to beat. What was she to have been--that fair Titania--when perfected by the patient skill
of the poet, who in imagination saw the sweet innocent figure, and with tender courtesy and
caresses, as it were, posed and shaped and traced the fair form? Is there record kept anywhere
of fancies conceived, beautiful, unborn? Some day will they assume form in some yet undeveloped
light? If our bad unspoken thoughts are registered against us, and are written in the awful
account, will not the good thoughts unspoken, the love and tenderness, the pity, beauty, charity,
which pass through the breast, and cause the heart to throb with silent good, find a remembrance
too? A few weeks more, and this lovely offspring of the poet's conception would have been complete--to
charm the world with its beautiful mirth. May there not be some sphere unknown to us where
it may have an existence? They say our words, once out of our lips, go travelling in omne oevum,
reverberating for ever and ever. If our words, why not our thoughts? If the Has Been, why not
the Might Have Been?

Some day our spirits may be permitted to walk in galleries of fancies more wondrous and beautiful
than any achieved works which at present we see, and our minds to behold and delight in masterpieces
which poets' and artists' minds have fathered and conceived only.

With a feeling much akin to that with which I looked upon the friend's--the admirable artist's--unfinished
work, I can fancy many readers turning to the last pages which were traced by Charlotte Bronte's
hand. Of the multitude that have read her books, who has not known and deplored the tragedy
of her family, her own most sad and untimely fate? Which of her readers has not become her
friend? Who that has known her books has not admired the artist's noble English, the burning
love of truth, the bravery, the simplicity, the indignation at wrong, the eager sympathy, the
pious love and reverence, the passionate honor, so to speak, of the woman? What a story is
that of that family of poets in their solitude yonder on the gloomy northern moors! At nine
o'clock at night, Mrs. Gaskell tells, after evening prayers, when their guardian and relative
had gone to bed, the three poetesses--the three maidens, Charlotte, and Emily, and Anne--Charlotte
being the "motherly friend and guardian to the other two"--"began, like restless wild animals,
to pace up and down their parlor, 'making out' their wonderful stories, talking over plans
and projects, and thoughts of what was to be their future life."

One evening, at the close of 1854, as Charlotte Nicholls sat with her husband by the fire,
listening to the howling of the wind about the house, she suddenly said to her husband, "If
you had not been with me, I must have been writing now." She then ran up stairs, and brought
down, and read aloud, the beginning of a new tale. When she had finished, her husband remarked,
"The critics will accuse you of repetition." She replied, "Oh! I shall alter that. I always
begin two or three times before I can please myself." But it was not to be. The trembling little
hand was to write no more. The heart newly awakened to love and happiness, and throbbing with
maternal hope, was soon to cease to beat; that intrepid outspeaker and champion of truth, that
eager, impetuous redresser of wrong, was to be called out of the world's fight and struggle,
to lay down the shining arms, and to be removed to a sphere where even a noble indignation
cor ulterius nequit lacerare, and where truth complete, and right triumphant, no longer need
to wage war.

I can only say of this lady, vidi tantum. I saw her first just as I rose out of an illness
from which I had never thought to recover. I remember the trembling little frame, the little
hand, the great honest eyes. An impetuous honesty seemed to me to characterize the woman. Twice
I recollect she took me to task for what she held to be errors in doctrine. Once about Fielding
we had a disputation. She spoke her mind out. She jumped too rapidly to conclusions. (I have
smiled at one or two passages in the "Biography," in which my own disposition or behavior forms
the subject of talk.) She formed conclusions that might be wrong, and built up whole theories
of character upon them. New to the London world, she entered it with an independent, indomitable
spirit of her own; and judged of contemporaries, and especially spied out arrogance or affectation,
with extraordinary keenness of vision. She was angry with her favorites if their conduct or
conversation fell below her ideal. Often she seemed to me to be judging the London folk prematurely:
but perhaps the city is rather angry at being judged. I fancied an austere little Joan of Arc
marching in upon us, and rebuking our easy lives, our easy morals. She gave me the impression
of being a very pure, and lofty, and high-minded person. A great and holy reverence of right
and truth seemed to be with her always. Such, in our brief interview, she appeared to me. As
one thinks of that life so noble, so lonely--of that passion for truth--of those nights and
nights of eager study, swarming fancies, invention, depression, elation, prayer; as one reads
the necessarily incomplete, though most touching and admirable history of the heart that throbbed
in this one little frame--of this one amongst the myriads of souls that have lived and died
on this great earth--this great earth?--this little speck in the infinite universe of God,--with
what wonder do we think of to-day, with what awe await to-morrow, when that which is now but
darkly seen shall be clear! As I read this little fragmentary sketch, I think of the rest.
Is it? And where is it? Will not the leaf be turned some day, and the story be told? Shall
the deviser of the tale somewhere perfect the history of little EMMA'S griefs and troubles?
Shall TITANIA come forth complete with her sportive court, with the flowers at her feet, the
forest around her, and all the stars of summer glittering overhead?

How well I remember the delight, and wonder, and pleasure with which I read "Jane Eyre," sent
to me by an author whose name and sex were then alike unknown to me; the strange fascinations
of the book; and how with my own work pressing upon me, I could not, having taken the volumes
up, lay them down until they were read through! Hundreds of those who, like myself, recognized
and admired that master-work of a great genius, will look with a mournful interest and regard
and curiosity upon the last fragmentary sketch from the noble hand which wrote "Jane Eyre."

