_Sir Philip_, who has formerly loved _Lady Blanche_ without success, now tries his fortune
with _Lady Anne_; and at this point, dramatic invention ends; for, excepting the mock-marriage
of _John Blount_ with a lady's-maid, the rest of the play is occupied by the vicissitudes the
two pair of lovers go through--all of their own contrivance, on purpose to make themselves
as wretched as possible--till the grand clearing up, which always takes place in every last
scene, from the "Adelphi" of Terence (or Yates), down to the "Old Maids" of Mr. Sheridan Knowles.

       *       *       *       *       *

COCORICO, OR MY AUNT'S BANTAM.

Since playwrights have left off plotting and under-plotting on their own account, and depend
almost entirely upon the "French," managers have added a new member to their establishments,
and, like the morning papers, employ a Paris correspondent, that French plays, as well as French
eggs, may be brought over quite fresh; though from the slovenly manner in which they (the pieces,
not the eggs) are too often prepared for the English market, they are seldom _neat_ as imported.

The gentleman who "does" the Parisian correspondence for the Adelphi Theatre, has supplied
it with a vaudeville bearing the above title; the fable, of which, like some of Æsop's, principally
concerns a hen, that, however, does not speak, and a smart cockscomb who does--an innocent
little fair who has charge of the fowl--a sort of _Justice Woodcock_, and a bombardier who,
because he is in the uniform of a drum or bugle-major, calls himself a serjeant. To these may
be added, Mr. Yates in his own private character, and a few sibilants in the pit, who completed
the poultry-nature of the piece by playing the part of geese.

The plot would have been without interest, but for the accidental introduction of the last
two characters,--or the geese and the cock-of-the-walk. The pittites, affronted at the extreme
puerility of some of the incidents, and the inanity of all the dialogue, hissed. This raffled
the feathers of the cock-of-the-walk, who was already on, or rather at, the wing; and he flew
upon the stage in a tantrum, to silence the geese. Mr. Yates spoke--we need not say how or
what. Everybody knows how he of the Adelphi shrugs his shoulders, and squeezes his hat, and
smiles, and frowns, and "appeals" and "declares upon his honour" while agitating the buttons
on the left side of his coat, and "entreats" and "throws himself upon the candour of a British
public," and puts the stamp upon all he has said by an impressive thump of the foot, a final
flourish of the arms, and a triumphal exit to poean-sounding "bravoes!" and to the utter confusion
of all dis--or to be more correct, hiss--sentients.

In the end, however, the latter triumphed; and _Cocorico_ deserved its fate in spite of the
actors. Mrs. Grattan played the chief character with much tact and cleverness, singing the
vaudevilles charmingly--a most difficult task, we should say, on account of the adapter, in
putting English words to French music, having ignorantly mis-accentuated a large majority of
them. Miss Terrey infused into a simple country girl a degree of character which shews that
she has not yet fallen into the vampire-trap of too many young performers--stage conventionalism,
and that she copies from Nature. It is unfortunate for both these clever actresses that they
have been thrust into a piece, which not even their talents could save from partial ----, but
it is a naughty word, and Mrs. Judy has grown very strict. The piece wants _cur_-tailment;
which, if previously applied, will increase the interest, and make it, perhaps, an endurable
dramatic

[Illustration: FRENCH "TAIL"--WITH CUTS.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PROMENADE CONCERTS.

The conductor of these concerts has not a single requisite for his office--he is several degrees
less personable than M. Jullien--he does not even wear moustaches! and to suppose that a man
can beat time properly without them is ridiculous. He looks a great deal more like a modest,
respectable grocer, than a man of genius; for he neither turns up his eyes nor his cuffs, and
has the indecency to appear without white gloves! His manners, too, are an insult to the lovers
of the thunder and lightning school of music; he neither conducts himself, nor his band, with
the least grace or _éclat_. He does not spread out both arms like a goose that wants to fly,
while hushing down a _diminuendo_; nor gesticulate like a madman during the fortes; in short,
he only gives out the time in passages where the players threaten unsteadiness; and as that
is very seldom, those amateurs who pay their money only for the pleasure of seeing the _bâton_
flourished about, are defrauded of half their amusement. M. Musard takes them in--for it must
be evident, even to them, that what we have said is true, and that he possesses scarcely a
qualification for the office he holds--if we make one trifling exception (hardly worth mentioning)--for
he is nothing more than, merely, a first-rate musician. With this single accomplishment, it
is like his impudence to try and foist himself upon the Cockney _dilettanti_ after M. Jullien,
who possessed every other requisite for a conductor _but_ a knowledge of the science; which
is, after all, a paltry acquirement, and purely mechanical.

On the evening PUNCH was present, the usual dose of quadrilles and waltzes was administered,
with an admixture from the dull scores of Beethoven. Disgusted as we were at the humbug of
performing the works of this master without blue-fire, and an artificial storm in the flies,
yet--may we confess it?--we were nearly as much charmed by the "Andante" from his Symphonia
in A, as if the lights had been put out to give it effect. We blush for our taste, but thank
our _stars_ (Jullien included) that we have the courage to own the soft impeachment in the
face of an enlightened Concert d'Eté patronising public. In sober truth, we were ravished!
The pianos of this movement were so exquisitely kept, the _ensemble_ of them was so complete,
the wind instruments were blown so exactly in tune, so evenly in tone, that the whole passion
of that touching andante seemed to be felt by the entire band, which _went_ as one instrument.
The subject--breaking in as it does, when least expected, and worked about through nearly every
part of the score, so as to produce the most delicious effects--was played with equal delicacy
and feeling by every performer who had to take it up; while the under-current of accompaniment
was made to blend with it with a masterly command and unanimity of tone, that we cannot remember
to have heard equalled.

Of course, this piece, though it enchanted the musical part of the audience, disgusted the
promenaders, and was received but coldly. This, however, was made up for when the drumming,
smashing, and brass-blurting of the overture to "Zampa" was noised forth: this was encored
with ecstacies, and so were some of the quadrilles. Happy musical taste! Beethoven's septour,
arranged as a set of quadrilles, is a desecration unworthy of Musard. For this piece of bad
taste he ought to be condemned to arrange the sailor's hornpipe, as

[Illustration: A SLOW MOVEMENT IN C (SEA).]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WAR WITH CHINA.

The celebrated pranks of the "Bull in the China Shop" are likely to be repeated on a grand
scale--the part of the Bull being undertaken, on this occasion, by the illustrious John who
is at the head of the family.

