Now in the constitution of a modern state, because of the conflict and confusion of ideas,
all or most of these five sub-classes may usually be found intertwined. The British constitution,
for instance, is a complicated tangle of arrangements, due to a struggle between the ideas
of Class I.(2), Class II.(3), tending to become Class II.(1) and Class II.(2) in both its aristocratic
and monarchist forms. The American constitution is largely dominated by Class I.(2), from which
it breaks away in the case of the President to a short-term monarchist aspect of Class II.(1).
I will not elaborate this classification further. I have made it here in order to render clear
first, that what we moderns mean by democracy is not what the Greeks meant at all, that is
to say, direct government by the assembly of all the citizens, and secondly and more important,
that the word "democracy" is being used very largely in current discussion, so that it is impossible
to say in any particular case whether the intention is Class I.(2) or Class II.(1), and that
we have to make up our minds whether we mean, if I may coin two phrases, "delegate democracy"
or "selective democracy," or some definite combination of these two, when we talk about "democracy,"
before we can get on much beyond a generous gesture of equality and enfranchisement towards
our brother man. The word is being used, in fact, confusingly for these two quite widely different
things.

Now, it seems to me that though there has been no very clear discussion of the issue between
those two very opposite conceptions of democracy, largely because of the want of proper distinctive
terms, there has nevertheless been a wide movement of public opinion away from "delegate democracy"
and towards "selective democracy." People have gone on saying "democracy," while gradually
changing its meaning from the former to the latter. It is notable in Great Britain, for example,
that while there has been no perceptible diminution in our faith in democracy, there has been
a growing criticism of "party" and "politicians," and a great weakening in the power and influence
of representatives and representative institutions. There has been a growing demand for personality
and initiative in elected persons. The press, which was once entirely subordinate politically
to parliamentary politics, adopts an attitude towards parliament and party leaders nowadays
which would have seemed inconceivable insolence in the days of Lord Palmerston. And there has
been a vigorous agitation in support of electoral methods which are manifestly calculated to
subordinate "delegated" to "selected" men.

The movement for electoral reform in Great Britain at the present time is one of quite fundamental
importance in the development of modern democracy. The case of the reformers is that heretofore
modern democracy has not had a fair opportunity of showing its best possibilities to the world,
because the methods of election have persistently set aside the better types of public men,
or rather of would-be public men, in favour of mere party hacks. That is a story common to
Britain and the American democracies, but in America it was expressed in rather different terms
and dealt with in a less analytical fashion than it has been in Great Britain. It was not at
first clearly understood that the failure of democracy to produce good government came through
the preference of "delegated" over "selected" men, the idea of delegation did in fact dominate
the minds of both electoral reformers and electoral conservatives alike, and the earlier stages
of the reform movement in Great Britain were inspired not so much by the idea of getting a
better type of representative as by the idea of getting a fairer representation of minorities.
It was only slowly that the idea that sensible men do not usually belong to any political "party"
took hold. It is only now being realized that what sensible men desire in a member of parliament
is honour and capacity rather than a mechanical loyalty to a "platform." They do not want to
dictate to their representative; they want a man they can trust as their representative. In
the fifties and sixties of the last century, in which this electoral reform movement began
and the method of Proportional Representation was thought out, it was possible for the reformers
to work untroubled upon the assumption that if a man was not necessarily born a

     "... little Liber-al,
     or else a little Conservative,"

he must at least be a Liberal-Unionist or a Conservative Free-Trader. But seeking a fair representation
for party minorities, these reformers produced a system of voting at once simple and incapable
of manipulation, that leads straight, not to the representation of small parties, but to a
type of democratic government by selected best men.

Before giving the essential features of that system, it may be well to state in its simplest
form the evils at which the reform aims. An election, the reformers point out, is not the simple
matter it appears to be at the first blush. Methods of voting can be manipulated in various
ways, and nearly every method has its own liability to falsification. We may take for illustration
the commonest, simplest case--the case that is the perplexity of every clear-thinking voter
under British or American conditions--the case of a constituency in which every elector has
one vote, and which returns one representative to Parliament. The naive theory on which people
go is that all the possible candidates are put up, that each voter votes for the one he likes
best, and that the best man wins. The bitter experience is that hardly ever are there more
than two candidates, and still more rarely is either of these the best man possible. Suppose,
for example, the constituency is mainly Conservative. A little group of pothouse politicians,
wire-pullers, busybodies, local journalists, and small lawyers, working for various monetary
interests, have "captured" the local Conservative organization. They have time and energy to
capture it, because they have no other interest in life except that. It is their "business,"
and honest men are busy with other duties. For reasons that do not appear these local "workers"
put up an unknown Mr. Goldbug as the official Conservative candidate. He professes a generally
Conservative view of things, but few people are sure of him and few people trust him. Against
him the weaker (and therefore still more venal) Liberal organization now puts up a Mr. Kentshire
(formerly Wurstberg) to represent the broader thought and finer generosities of the English
mind. A number of Conservative gentlemen, generally too busy about their honest businesses
to attend the party "smokers" and the party cave, realize suddenly that they want Goldbug hardly
more than they want Wurstberg. They put up their long-admired, trusted, and able friend Mr.
Sanity as an Independent Conservative.

