Is the word, of all others, that Irish--men, women, and children--least understand; and the
calmness, or rather indifference, with which they submit to dependence, bitter and miserable
as it is, must be a source of deep regret to all "who love the land," or feel anxious to uphold
the dignity of human kind. Let us select a few cases from our Irish village--such as are abundant
in every neighbourhood. Shane Thurlough, "as dacent a boy," and Shane's wife, as "clane-skinned
a girl," as any in the world. There is Shane, an active, handsome-looking fellow, leaning over
the half-door of his cottage, kicking a hole in the wall with his brogue, and picking up all
the large gravel within his reach to pelt the ducks with--those useful Irish scavengers. Let
us speak to him. "Good morrow, Shane!" "Och! the bright bames of heaven on ye every day! and
kindly welcome, my lady--and won't ye step in and rest--it's powerful hot, and a beautiful
summer, sure--the Lord be praised!" "Thank you, Shane. I thought you were going to cut the
hayfield to-day--if a heavy shower comes, it will be spoil'd; it has been fit for the sithe
these two days." "Sure, it's all owing to that thief o' the world, Tom Parrel, my lady. Didn't
he promise me the loan of his sithe; and, by the same token, I was to pay him for it; and _depinding_
on that, I didn't buy one, which I have been threatening to do for the last two years." "But
why don't you go to Carrick and purchase one?" "To Carrick!--Och, 'tis a good step to Carrick,
and my toes are on the ground (saving your presence,) for I _depindid_ on Tim Jarvis to tell
Andy Cappler, the brogue-maker, to do my shoes; and, bad luck to him, the spalpeen! he forgot
it." "Where's your pretty wife, Shane?" "She's in all the woe o' the world, Ma'am, dear. And
she puts the blame of it on me, though I'm not in the faut this time, any how: the child's
taken the small pock, and she _depindid_ on me to tell the doctor to cut it for the cow-pock,
and I _depindid_ on Kitty Cackle, the limmer, to tell the doctor's own man, and thought she
would not forget it, becase the boy's her bachelor--but out o' sight out o' mind--the never
a word she tould him about it, and the babby has got it nataral, and the woman's in heart trouble
(to say nothing o' myself;) and it the first, and all." "I am very sorry, indeed, for you have
got a much better wife than most men." "That's a true word, my lady--only she's fidgetty like
sometimes, and says I don't hit the nail on the head quick enough; and she takes a dale more
trouble than she need about many a thing." "I do not think I ever saw Ellen's wheel without
flax before, Shane?" "Bad cess to the wheel;--I got it this morning about that too--I _depinded_
on John Williams to bring the flax from O'Flaharty's this day week, and he forgot it; and she
says I ought to have brought it myself, and I close to the spot: but where's the good? says
I, sure he'll bring it next time." "I suppose, Shane, you will soon move into the new cottage,
at Clurn Hill. I passed it to-day, and it looked so cheerful; and when you get there, you must
take Ellen's advice, and _depend_ solely on yourself." "Och Ma'am, dear, don't mintion it--sure
it's that makes me so down in the mouth, this very minit. Sure I saw that born blackguard,
Jack Waddy, and he comes in here, quite innocent like"--"Shane, you've an eye to 'Squire's
new lodge," says he. "Maybe I have," says I. "I am y'er man," says he. "How so?" says I. "Sure
I'm as good as married to my lady's maid," said he; "and I'll spake to the 'Squire for you,
my own self.

