The cost of all these works may exceed $100,000,000, but the admirable financial system of
Mr. Secretary Chase, would soon supply abundant means for their construction. Already the price
of gold has fallen largely, our legal tenders are being funded, by millions, in the Secretary's
favorite 5-20 sixes, and we shall soon have, under his system, a sound, uniform national currency,
binding every State and citizen to the Union, and fraught ultimately with advantages to the
nation, equal to the whole expense of the war.

In passing down the Susquehanna canal, at Middletown, commences the canal which, by way of
Reading and the Schuylkill, connects Philadelphia with the Susquehanna and the lakes. Most
of this work is already six feet deep, but the whole route, if practicable, should be enlarged
to the dimensions of the Erie canal.

I have met in the British Museum some documents showing the original project (absurdly abandoned)
for a large canal from the Schuylkill to the Susquehanna. A slight change will restore this
work, and give to Philadelphia a complete seven-foot canal, via the Schuylkill and Susquehanna
to the lakes, as short as from New York, and through a richer country, both mineral and agricultural.
It appears that Washington and Franklin both favored this route.

1. Gunboats, and large commercial steamers, could then pass, without interruption, through
all the lakes, to the St. Lawrence, the Hudson, the Delaware, Susquehanna, Chesapeake Bay,
Albemarle Sound, the Ohio, and Mississippi.

2. In case of war, foreign or domestic, the saving to the Government in prices of articles
they must buy, and in transportation of men, munitions of war, supplies, and coal, would be
enormous. It is believed that the excess of cost in prices and transportation during this rebellion,
occasioned by the want of these works, WOULD MORE THAN PAY FOR THEIR CONSTRUCTION. Nor is this
the only loss, but victories no doubt have often been turned into defeats, for the want of
proper facilities for the movement of gunboats, of supplies, and munitions, and the rapid concentration
of troops and reënforcements.

3. The ability to obtain supplies, and coals, and vessels, from so many points, and especially
gunboats, where the coal, iron, and fluxes are in justaposition, would hasten construction,
and cheapen prices to the Government.

The enormous naval and military power, gained by such works, would tend greatly to prevent
wars, foreign or domestic; or, if they did occur, would enable us to conduct them with more
economy and success. It is said such vessels can be built on the lakes, and so they can, for
lake defence, but they would be liable to capture or destruction there, before completed, by
the enemy, and iron vessels, and iron-clads, could not be constructed so cheaply, where there
is neither coal nor iron, as in regions like the Delaware, Susquehanna, Alleghany, and Ohio,
where these great articles abound, and can be used on the spot, with so much economy.

It must be remembered, also, that, if these iron steamers and iron-clads are constructed on
the seaboard or the lakes, still, the iron and coal for building them, and the coal for running
them, could be supplied much more cheaply, if these enlarged canals were finished. Besides,
events are now occurring, and may again, in our history, requiring the immediate construction
of hundreds of iron vessels, rams, iron-clads, and mortar boats, calling for all the works
on the seaboard, the lakes, the Western rivers, and enlarged canals, to furnish, in time, the
requisite number. Rapid concentration of forces, naval and military, and prompt movements,
are among the greatest elements of success in war. It will be conceded, that the ability to
run gunboats, iron-clads, rams, and mortar boats, through all our lakes, to and from them to
all our great rivers, and to connect from both, through such enlarged canals, with the seaboard,
and the Gulf, would vastly increase our naval and military power.

Is it not clear, then, that if such a movement, with such resources and communications, had
been made, in sufficient force, the first year of the war, so as to seize, or effectully blockade,
all the rebel ports, to occupy, by an upward and downward movement, the whole Mississippi and
all its tributaries, isolating and cutting rebeldom in two, and thus preventing supplies from
Texas, Louisiana, and Arkansas, that the contest must have been closed long ere this, and thus
saved five or six times the cost of these works. As indicating the consequence of our occupation
and command of the Mississippi and the Gulf, let us see its effect on the supply of the single
indispensable article of _beef_ to the rebel army and people.

By the census of 1860, table 36, the number of cattle that year in the loyal States was 7,674,000;
in Texas alone, 2,733,267; in Louisiana, 329,855; and in Arkansas, 318,355;--in those parts
of the rebel States east of the Mississippi, not commanded by our troops and gunboats, 2,558,000,
and in the parts of those States thus commanded by us, 1,087,000. Thus it will be seen, that
the cattle in Texas alone (whence the rebels, heretofore, have derived their main supplies),
raised on their boundless prairies, and rich perennial grass, have largely exceeded all the
cattle in those parts of the rebel States east of the Mississippi, commanded by them. But that
commanded by us, of the Mississippi and its tributaries, and the Gulf, as is now the case,
cuts off the above supplies from Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas, west and north Mississippi, north
Alabama, and west and middle Tennessee. Hence the cries of starvation from the South; hence,
mainly, the rise there in the price of beef, from a few cents to a dollar a pound. Controlled,
as the Gulf and Mississippi and its tributaries now are by us, so as to prevent any Western
supplies of beef, and the desolation and inundation which have swept over so much of the rest
of rebeldom since 1860, their army and people cannot be supplied with beef throughout this
year. Nor would running the blockade help them in this respect, for Europe has no supplies
of beef to spare, requiring large amounts from us every year. The revolt, then, is doomed this
year by starvation, if not, as we believe, by victories. Indeed, I imagine, if our Secretaries
of War and of the Navy were called on for official reports, they could clearly show, that with
ample appropriations in July, 1861, and all these works _then_ completed, they could have crushed
the revolt in the fall of 1861 and winter of 1862. All, then, that has been expended since
of blood and treasure, and all the risks to which the Union may have been exposed, result from
the want of these works. Surely, these are momentous considerations, appealing, with irresistible
force, to the heart and judgment of every true American statesman, and patriot.

Great, however, as are the advantages in war to be derived from the construction of these works,
it is still more in peace, and as arteries of trade, that the benefit would be greatest. If
iron steamers are to control the commerce of the world, the cheap construction and running
of such vessels may decide this great question in our favor. Now, whether these steamers are
to be built on the seaboard or interior, the coal, and iron, and timber, with which to make
them, and the coal and supplies with which to run them, could be furnished much more cheaply
by these enlarged canals. And even if the vessels be of timber, the engines, boilers, anchors,
&c., must be of iron, and they must be run with coal, all which would be furnished cheaper
at our lakes and seaboard, by these enlarged canals. Nor is it only for the construction of
engines and boilers for steamers, or coal to run them, that these works would be important,
but the cheapening of transportation of coal, iron, timber, and supplies would be greatly beneficial
in all industrial pursuits. It is, however, in cheapening the transportation of our immense
agricultural products to the East, South, seaboard, and the return cargoes, that these works
would confer the greatest benefits. The value of the freight transported on these canals, last
year, was over $500,000,000; but, when all should be enlarged, as herein proposed, the value
of their freight, in a few years, would exceed SEVERAL BILLIONS OF DOLLARS. They would draw
from a vastly extended area, from augmented population and products, and with greater celerity
and economy of movements, from the increased distances that freight could be carried, and additional
articles. With these improvements, millions of bales of cotton would be carried annually on
these enlarged canals. All of Missouri, Iowa, Kentucky, Minnesota, Kansas, and the Northwestern
Territories, up the Missouri and its tributaries, with large portions of Tennessee, Alabama,
Arkansas, Louisiana, and even of Texas, on the Red river, would be added to the region from
which supplies would be sent, and return cargoes proceed by these works. Our exports abroad
would soon reach a BILLION of dollars, of which at least one third would consist of breadstuffs
and provisions. Corn was consumed, last year, in some of the Western States, as fuel, in consequence
of high freights. But this could never recur with these enlarged canals. Indeed, the products
to be carried on these canals would include the whole valley of the lakes, the Ohio, Mississippi,
and Missouri; and many articles, thus reaching there, thence be carried, on our great imperial
railway, to the Pacific, bringing back return cargoes for the same routes. Breadstuffs and
provisions and cotton would be carried more cheaply through these canals to the manufacturing
States, and their fabrics return, the same way, in vastly augmented amounts, to the West.

Last year, even during a war, breadstuffs and provisions, reaching $109,676,875 in value, were
exported abroad, from the loyal States alone; but, with these enlarged canals, the amount could
be more than tripled, the augmented exports bringing in increased imports, and vast additional
revenue. Can we not realize the certainty of these great results, and have we not the energy
and patriotism to insure their accomplishment? Assuredly we have.

Nor is it only our revenue from duties that would be increased to an extent sufficient of itself,
in a few years, to pay the principal and interest of the debt incurred in the construction
of these works, but our internal revenue, also, would be prodigiously augmented.

The census of 1860 shows our increase of wealth, from 1850 to 1860, to have been 126.45 per
cent. (Table 35). Now, if we would increase our wealth only one tenth, in the next ten years,
by the construction of these works, then (our wealth being now $16,159,616,068) such increase
would make our wealth, in 1870, instead of $36,593,450,585, more than sixteen hundred millions
_greater_, or more than _ten times_ the cost of these works; and, in 1880, instead of $82,865,868,849,
over three billions six hundred millions more, or more than twenty times the cost of those
works. The same percentage, then, of our present internal tax, on this augmented wealth, estimated
at only one per cent., would be $16,000,000 (annually) in 1870, and $36,000,000 (annually)
in 1880, and constantly increasing. Add this to the great increase of our revenue from duties,
as the result of these works, and the addition would not only soon liquidate their cost, but
yield a sum which, in a few years, would pay the principal and interest of our public debt.

With such works, we would certainly soon be the first military, naval, and commercial power
of the world. The West, with these reduced freights, would secure immense additional markets
for her products, and the East send a much larger amount of manufactures, in return cargoes,
to the West.

A new and great impulse would be given to the coal and iron interest. If the Delaware, Susquehanna,
and their tributaries, and the Ohio and its tributaries, especially the Youghiogheny, Monongahela,
and Alleghany had the benefit of low freight, afforded by these canals, they could supply not
only the seaboard at reduced rates, but also central and western New York, the Canadas, and
the whole lake region, with coal and iron. Indeed, the increased demand, thus caused for these
great articles, would soon bring our make of iron, and consumption of coal, up to that of England,
and ultimately much larger. Freight is a much greater element in the cost of coal and iron,
than of agricultural products, but the increased exchange would be mutually advantageous.

With this system completed, the Mississippi might communicate by large steamers with all the
lakes, and eastward, by the enlarged canals, to Chicago or Green Bay, or pass up the Ohio,
by the Wabash or from Lawrenceburg or Cincinnati to Toledo, or by Portsmouth or Bridgeport
to Cleveland or by Bridgeport to Erie city, or by Pittsburg, up the Alleghany, to Olean and
Rochester, on the Erie canal, or by ship canal, from Buffalo to Ontario, thence, by the St.
Lawrence, to Lake Champlain and the Hudson, or by Oswego to Syracuse, or by the Erie canal
from Buffalo to the Hudson, or by the Chenango or Chemung route, down the Susquehanna, to Philadelphia,
or Baltimore, or down the Chesapeake to Norfolk, and on through Albemarle Sound south. Or,
going from the East, or South, westward by these routes, the steamer could proceed west, and
up the Missouri, to the points where they would meet the great railway leading to the Pacific.
Indeed, if we do our duty now, the next generation may carry similar canals from the head of
Lake Superior to the Mississippi and Missouri, and up the Kansas or Platte to the gold mines
of Colorado, or, from the great falls of the Missouri, to the base of the Rocky mountains,
with railroad connection thence to the mouth of the Oregon and Puget's sound. There would be
connected with this system, the lakes, and all the Eastern waters, the Ohio and all its tributaries,
including the Youghiogheny, Monongahela, Alleghany, Kanawa, Guyandotte, Big Sandy, Muskingum,
Scioto, Miami, Wabash, Licking, Kentucky, Green river, Barren, Cumberland, and Tennessee, the
upper Mississippi and its tributaries, especially the Illinois and Wisconsin, the Desmoines
and St. Peter's, the lower Mississippi and all its vast tributaries, the St. Francis, White
river, Arkansas, Red river, and Yazoo. These are no dreams of an enthusiast, but advancing
realities, if _now_, _now_ we will only do our duty in crushing this rebellion, and exorcise
the foul fiend of slavery, that called it into being. We may best judge of what we may do in
the future, by what we have done in the past. We have constructed 4,650 miles of canals (including
slackwater), at a cost of $132,000,000. We have constructed (including city roads) 31,898 miles
of railroad, at a cost of $1,203,285,569, making an aggregate, for railroads and canals, of
$1,335,285,569. Now, one tenth of this sum will probably make all the works proposed now to
be executed, for they are all only enlargements of existing canals, except the ship canal round
the falls of Niagara, and a similar canal from Lake Champlain to the St. Lawrence, a work of
vast importance, but that can only be accomplished with the aid and consent of Canada, and
is not now estimated.

These improvements would be truly national, especially as provision would be made for deepening
the mouth of the Mississippi. We propose to make or enlarge no mere local works, but only such
as connect the Atlantic and the Gulf with the lakes, Ohio, Mississippi, Missouri, Hudson, Delaware,
Susquehanna, Chesapeake bay, and Albemarle sound. There local routes must be constructed or
enlarged by local or State expenditures.

The canals in New York, constituting so large a portion of the system, have already (mostly)
the requisite width and depth, and only need an enlargement of the locks. The great Delaware
and Raritan canal, connecting New York with Philadelphia, has a depth of 8 feet, and the Delaware
and Chesapeake, uniting them with the Susquehanna and the lakes, Baltimore, Norfolk, and Albemarle
sound, has a depth of ten feet. No doubt the enlightened proprietors of the Delaware and Raritan
canal would, on fair terms to themselves and the Government, enlarge that canal (if practicable)
to the depth of the Delaware and Chesapeake, which would be of incalculable benefit to the
whole country, but especially to New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Norfolk.

The Pennsylvania canals proposed to be enlarged are the Schuylkill, leading by the Union from
Philadelphia, through Reading to Middleton on the Susquehanna, and thence up that river to
the Erie and the lakes. The Schuylkill canal, 70 miles to Reading, has a depth of 6 feet, and
from Reading to Middleton, 4 feet. The Susquehanna canal, from Havre de Grace, Maryland, at
the head of tidewater, and the Chesapeake bay to the New York line, and system, has a uniform
depth of 5 feet, and is about 300 miles long. This canal, leading through Maryland and Pennsylvania
along the Susquehanna, can readily and cheaply be enlarged to the dimensions of the Erie canal,
and will then furnish Norfolk, Baltimore, and Philadelphia a direct route to the lakes by the
enlarged system, fully equal to that of New York. Western Pennsylvania and Pittsburg would
have the route, by the enlarged system, up the Alleghany and Olean to Rochester on the Erie
canal, and thence to the Hudson or the lakes, and from Bridgeport to Cleveland or Erie city.
Ohio would have the benefit of the routes (enlarged) to and from Cleveland to Bridgeport or
Portsmouth on the Ohio, and to and from Toledo to the mouth of the Wabash or Miami or to Cincinnati.
These canals are 40 feet wide and 4 feet deep. Indiana would have the benefit of the Wabash
and Erie canal to Evansville, on the Ohio, from Toledo, and to and from the same point to the
mouth of the Miami at Lawrenceburg and to Cincinnati, and would also largely participate in
the benefit of the Chicago and Illinois canal of the whole system. Wisconsin would have the
benefit of all these canals, but especially of that connecting the Wisconsin river with Green
Bay, and the rest of the lakes with Lake Superior. Illinois would have the benefit of the Wabash
and Erie, the Chicago and Illinois, and of the entire system. Indeed, with a thorough-cut canal
from the Illinois river to Chicago, fact will outstrip fancy as regards the progress of that
great city. And here a strong argument in favor of the whole of these works is presented to
every true American, by the fact that the vast and increasing heavy and bulky products of the
West demand the enlarged works, and if she cannot have them by the Hudson, the Delaware, and
Susquehanna, she will have them by the Canada canals, and the St. Lawrence to its outlet in
the Gulf. Minnesota would have the benefit of the improvement of the upper Mississippi, and
of the canals uniting the Wisconsin with Green Bay, and Superior with the other lakes. Iowa,
Missouri, Kansas, and the whole Western Territories would have the benefit of the improvement
of the Mississippi, of the routes by Chicago, Green Bay, the Ohio, and the whole system. The
glorious new free State of Western Virginia would have the benefit of all the routes up and
down the Ohio and Mississippi to the lakes, the Hudson, Delaware, Susquehanna, and the Gulf.
So would Kentucky, and the enlargement of the Louisville canal would be within her own limits.
When we reflect that Kentucky borders for nearly a thousand miles on the Ohio and Mississippi,
with her streams, the Big Sandy, Licking, Kentucky, Green river, and Barren (which last four
have 766 miles of slackwater navigation), Cumberland, and Tennessee, all tributaries of the
Ohio, the benefits to her would be prodigious. The interest of the States of Tennessee, Arkansas,
Mississippi, Louisiana, North Alabama, on the Tennessee river, and Texas, on the Red river,
would be greatly promoted. They would all have improved routes to and from the mouth of the
Mississippi, and to and from the Ohio, the lakes, and the Atlantic. Eastern Virginia and North
Carolina would derive great advantages by the enlarged routes, connecting Albemarle sound and
the Chesapeake with New York, Philadelphia, the Hudson, the Delaware, the Susquehanna, and
the lakes. Delaware and Maryland could avail themselves most beneficially of all these routes,
and Baltimore would derive immense advantages from the enlarged route by the Susquehanna to
the lakes, having then as good a route there as New York, and the difference of distance being
only 30 miles. New Jersey, by her route from the Delaware and Raritan to the Hudson, and by
her rising cities near or opposite Philadelphia and New York, and by the enlarged system to
the lakes, would find all her interests greatly advanced, and the business on her canals and
railroads vastly increased. Michigan, with a larger lake shore than any other State, fronting
on Lakes Superior, Michigan, Huron, St. Clair, the connecting straits and rivers, and Lake
Erie, would derive immense advantages. By her immediate connection with the whole New York
and Eastern system, and by Toledo, Cleveland or Erie city, to the Ohio river, and by the Chicago
or Green Bay routes to the Mississippi and the Gulf, her vast agricultural products in the
peninsula would find new and augmented markets; while, with the ship canal to Lake Superior,
her magnificent iron and copper mines on that immense inland sea, as well as those in Wisconsin,
and the splendid pineries and fisheries of both States, would receive an immense development.
Pennsylvania has no large available through route now from the Delaware and Susquehanna to
the lakes, nor from Pittsburg. The proposed system would give her those routes, as well from
the East as from the West. This would give to her coal and iron, her vast agricultural products,
her immense manufactures, and all her industrial pursuits a new impulse, while her two great
cities, Philadelphia and Pittsburg, would be greatly advanced in wealth and population. When
we reflect that coal and iron have mainly contributed to make England what she is, and how
superior, in this respect, are the natural advantages of Pennsylvania with her bituminous and
anthracite coal and iron and fluxes in juxtaposition, with a _continent_ surrounding her to
furnish a market, with her central location, fronting on the deep tidewater of the Delaware,
and upon the lakes and the Ohio, with its two great confluents at Pittsburg, the Alleghany
and Monongahela, we cannot fully realize the immense advantages which she would derive from
these enlarged communications. But what of New York? With all her routes, as well as that of
the Erie canal, enlarged as proposed, with her mighty system extending to the lakes and St.
Lawrence, from Lake Champlain to Superior, south by the Delaware and Susquehanna, west by the
Alleghany, Ohio, Missouri, and Mississippi, and her great city with an unrivalled location,
what an imperial destiny lies before her, with the Union preserved? Oh! if she would only fully
realize these great truths, and spurn from her embrace the wretched traitors who, while falsely
professing peace, mean the degradation of the North and the dissolution of this Union, who
can assign limits to her wealth and commerce?

Let us now examine the relations of New England to these proposed works. Vermont, upon Lake
Champlain, by the enlarged system, connecting her with the Hudson, the St. Lawrence, and the
lakes, would be greatly advanced in wealth and population. But with cheapened transportation
to and from Lake Champlain or the Hudson, not only Vermont, but all New England, in receiving
her coal and iron, and her supplies from the West, and in sending them her manufactures, will
enjoy great advantages, and the business of her railroads be vastly increased. So, also, New
England, on the Sound, and, in fact, the whole seaboard and all its cities. Bridgeport, New
Haven, New London, Providence, Fall River, New Bedford, Boston, Portland, Bangor, Belfast,
and Eastport will all transact an immense increased business with New York, Philadelphia, Baltimore,
and the West. As the greatest American consumer of Western breadstuffs and provisions, and
of our iron and coal, and the principal seat of domestic manufactures, the augmented reciprocal
trade of New England with the South and West will be enormous. Her shipping and shipbuilding
interests, her cotton, woollen, worsted, and textile fabrics, her machinery, engines, and agricultural
implements, boots and shoes, hats and caps, her cabinet furniture, musical instruments, paper,
clothing, fisheries, soap, candles, and chandlery, in which she has excelled since the days
of Franklin, and, in fact, all her industrial pursuits, will be greatly benefited. The products
of New England in 1860, exclusive of agriculture and the earnings of commerce, were of the
value of $494,075,498. But, in a few years after the completion of these works, this amount
will be doubled. Such is the skilled and educated industry of New England, and such the inventive
genius of her people, that there is no limit to her products, except markets and consumers.
As New York increases, the swelling tide of the great city will flow over to a vast extent
into the adjacent shores of Connecticut and New Jersey, and Hoboken, West Hoboken, Weehawken,
Hudson City, Jersey City, and Newark will meet in one vast metropolis. Philadelphia will also
flow over in the same way into Camden and adjacent portions of New Jersey, whose farms already
greatly exceed in value those of any other State. The farms of New Jersey in 1860 were of the
average value of $60.38 per acre, while those of South Carolina, the great leader of the rebellion,
with all her boasted cotton, rice, and tobacco, and her 402,406 slaves, were then of the average
value of $8.61 per acre. (Census Table 36.) And yet there are those in New Jersey who would
drag her into the rebel confederacy, cover her with the dismal pall of slavery, and who cry
_Peace! peace!_ when there is no peace, except in crushing this wicked rebellion. The States
of the Pacific, as the enlarged canals reached the Mississippi and Missouri, and ultimately
the base of the Rocky mountains, would be greatly advanced in all their interests. Agricultural
products and other bulky and heavy articles that could not bear transportation all the way
by the great Pacific railroad, could be carried by such enlarged canals to the Mississippi
and Missouri, and ultimately to the base of the Rocky mountains, and thence, by railroad, a
comparatively short distance to the Pacific, and westward to China and Japan. In order to make
New York and San Francisco great depots of interoceanic commerce for America, Europe, Asia,
and the world, these enlarged canals, navigated by large steamers, and ultimately toll free,
are indispensable.

We have named, then, all the Territories, and all the thirty-five States, except three, as
deriving great and special advantages from this system. These three are Georgia, South Carolina,
and Florida, with a white population, in 1860, of 843,338. These States, however, would not
only participate in the increased prosperity of the whole country, and in augmented markets
for their cotton, rice, sugar, tobacco, and timber, and in cheaper supplies of Eastern manufactures,
coal, iron, and Western products, but they would derive, also, special advantages. They have
a large trade with New Orleans, which they would reach more cheaply by deepening the mouth
of the Mississippi. They could pass up Albemarle sound, by the interior route, to Baltimore,
Philadelphia, New York, or the West, and take back return cargoes by the same route. Georgia,
also, by her location on the Tennessee river, together with South Carolina, connected with
that river at Chattanooga, would derive great benefits from this connection with the enlarged
canals and improved navigation of the West, sending their own and receiving Western products
more cheaply.

Thus, every State and every Territory in the Union would be advanced in all their interests
by these great weeks, and lands, farms, factories, town and city property, all be improved
in value.

But there is another topic, connected with this subject, of vast importance, particularly at
this juncture, to which I must now refer. It is our public lands, the homestead bill, and immigration.
On reference to an article on this subject, published by me in the November number of THE CONTINENTAL
MONTHLY, it will be found that our unsold public lands embraced 1,649,861 square miles, being
1,055,911,288 acres, extending to fifteen States and all the Territories, and exceeding half
the area of the whole Union. The area of New York, being 47,000 square miles, is less than
a thirty-fifth of this public domain. England (proper), 50,922 square miles; France, 203,736;
Prussia, 107,921; and Germany, 80,620 square miles. Our public domain, then, is more than eight
times as large as France, more than fifteen times as large as Prussia, more than twenty times
as large as Germany, more than thirty-two times as large as England, and larger (excluding
Russia) than all Europe, containing more than 200,000,000 of people. As England proper contained,
in 1861, 18,949,916 inhabitants, if our public domain were as densely settled, its population
would exceed 606,000,000, and it would be 260,497,561, if numbering as many to the square mile
as Massachusetts. These lands embrace every variety of soil, products, and climate, from that
of St. Petersburg to the tropics.

After commenting on the provisions of our homestead bill, which gives to every settler, American
or European, 160 acres of this land for ten dollars (the cost of survey, etc.), I then said:

     'The homestead privilege will largely increase immigration. Now,
     besides the money brought here by immigrants, the Census proves
     that the average annual value of the labor of Massachusetts _per
     capita_ was, in 1860, $220 for each man, woman, and child,
     independent of the gains of commerce--very large, but not given.
     Assuming that of the immigrants at an average annual value of only
     $100 each, or less than thirty-three cents a day, it would make, in
     ten years, at the rate of 100,000 each year, the following
     aggregate:

     1st year 100,000 = $10,000,000
     2d   "   200,000 =  20,000,000
     3d   "   300,000 =  30,000,000
     4th  "   400,000 =  40,000,000
     5th  "   500,000 =  50,000,000
     6th  "   600,000 =  60,000,000
     7th  "   700,000 =  70,000,000
     8th  "   800,000 =  80,000,000
     9th  "   900,000 =  90,000,000
     10th " 1,000,000 = 100,000,000
                       ------------
                Total, $550,000,000

     'In this table the labor of all immigrants each year is properly
     added to those arriving the succeeding year, so as to make the
     aggregate the last year 1,000,000. This would make the value of the
     labor of this million of immigrants in ten years, $550,000,000,
     independent of the annual accumulation of capital, and the labor of
     the children of the immigrants (born here) after the first ten
     years, which, with their descendants, would go on constantly
     increasing.

     'But, by the official returns (p. 14, Census), the number of alien
     immigrants to the United States, from December, 1850, to December,
     1860, was 2,598,216, or an annual average of 260,000.

     'The effect, then, of this immigration, on the basis of the last
     table, upon the increase of national wealth, was as follows:

     1st year 260,000 = $26,000,000
     2d   "   520,000 =  52,000,000
     3d   "   780,000 =  78,000,000
     4th  " 1,040,000 = 104,000,000
     5th  " 1,300,000 = 130,000,000
     6th  " 1,560,000 = 156,000,000
     7th  " 1,820,000 = 182,000,000
     8th  " 2,080,000 = 208,000,000
     9th  " 2,340,000 = 234,000,000
     10th " 2,600,000 = 260,000,000
                     --------------
              Total, $1,430,000,000

     'Thus, the value of the labor of the immigrants, from 1850 to 1860,
     was $1,430,000,000, making no allowance for the accumulation of
     capital, by annual reinvestment, nor for the natural increase of
     this population, amounting, by the Census, in ten years, to about
     twenty-four per cent. This addition to our wealth, by the labor of
     the children, in the first ten years, would be small; but in the
     second and each succeeding decade, when we count children, and
     their descendants, it would be large and constantly augmenting. But
     the Census shows that our wealth increases each ten years at the
     rate of 126.45 per cent. (Census Table 35.) Now, then, take our
     increase of wealth, in consequence of immigration, as before
     stated, and compound it at the rate of 126.45 per cent. every ten
     years, and the result is largely over $3,000,000,000 in 1870, and
     over $7,000,000,000 in 1880, independent of the effect of any
     immigration succeeding 1860. If these results are astonishing, we
     must remember that immigration here is augmented population, and
     that it is population and labor that create wealth. Capital,
     indeed, is but the accumulation of labor. Immigration, then, from
     1850 to 1860, added to our national products a sum more than double
     our whole debt on the 1st of July last, and augmenting in a ratio
     much more rapid than its increase, and thus enabling us to bear the
     war expenses.'

As the homestead privilege must largely increase immigration, and add especially to the cultivation
of our soil, it will contribute vastly to increase our population, wealth, and power, and augment
our revenues from duties and taxes.

