These data, though slender, when combined with the apparent similarity between the name Tallegwi
and Cherokee or Chellakee, and the character of the works and traditions of the latter, furnish
some ground for assuming that the two were one and the same people. But this assumption necessitates
the further inference that the pressure which drove them southward is to be attributed to some
other people than the Iroquois as known to history, as this movement must have taken place
previous to the time the latter attained their ascendancy. It is probable that Mr. Hale is
correct in deciding that the "Namaesi Sipu" of the tradition was not the Mississippi. [Footnote:
Am. Antiquarian, vol. 5, 1883, p. 117.] His suggestion that it was that portion of the great
river of the North (the St. Lawrence) which connects Lake Huron with Lake Erie, seems also
to be more in conformity with the tradition and other data than any other which has been offered.
If this supposition is accepted it would lead to the inference that the Talamatau, the people
who joined the Delawares in their war on the Tallegwi, were Hurons or Huron-Iroquois previous
to separation. That the reader may have the benefit of Mr. Hale's views on this question, the
following quotation from the article mentioned is given:

The country from which the Lenape migrated was Shinaki, the "land of fir trees," not in the
West but in the far North, evidently the woody region north of Lake Superior. The people who
joined them in the war against the Allighewi (or Tallegwi, as they are called in this record),
were the Talamatan, a name meaning "not of themselves," whom Mr. Squier identities with the
Hurons, and no doubt correctly, if we understand by this name the Huron-Iroquois people, as
they existed before their separation. The river which they crossed was the Messusipu, the Great
River, beyond which the Tallegwi were found "possessing the East." That this river was not
our Mississippi is evident from the fact that the works of the mound-builders extended far
to the westward of the latter river, and would have been encountered by the invading nations,
if they had approached it from the west, long before they arrived at its banks. The "Great
River" was apparently the upper St. Lawrence, and most probably that portion of it which flows
from Lake Huron to Lake Erie, and which is commonly known as the Detroit River. Near this river,
according to Heckewelder, at a point west of Lake St. Clair, and also at another place just
south of Lake Erie, some desperate conflicts took place. Hundreds of the slain Tallegwi, as
he was told, were buried under mounds in that vicinity. This precisely accords with Cusick's
statement that the people of the great southern empire had "almost penetrated to Lake Erie"
at the time when the war began. Of course in coming to the Detroit River from the region north
of Lake Superior, the Algonquins would be advancing from the west to the east. It is quite
conceivable that, after many generations and many wanderings, they may themselves have forgotten
which was the true Messusipu, or Great River, of their traditionary tales.

The passage already quoted from Cusick's narrative informs us that the contest lasted "perhaps
one hundred years." In close agreement with this statement the Delaware record makes it endure
during the terms of four head-chiefs, who in succession presided in the Lenape councils. From
what we know historically of Indian customs the average terms of such chiefs may be computed
at about twenty- five years. The following extract from the record [Footnote: The Bark Record
of the Leni Lenape.] gives their names and probably the fullest account of the conflict which
we shall ever possess:

"Some went to the East, and the Tallegwi killed a portion.

"Then all of one mind exclaimed, War! War!

