_Fifth._ The durability of the ships constructed from iron. If well manned and piloted, they
will seldom need repairs; and instead of failing, as many ships do in the sixth year, and requiring
vast expenditures to discharge and dismantle them for the renewal of the decaying timber, plank,
copper, and other materials, often amounting in the aggregate to more than their original cost,
the mail-clad steamers built of American iron will outlive successive races of wooden steamships.
The iron such a navy would require will put many idle hands in motion, which would otherwise
be unproductive during war,--the miners of Michigan, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New York, the
colliers of Ohio and Pennsylvania, the mariners of the Lakes, the navigators of canals, and
the operatives of railways, down to the brawny smiths who fashion the metal into shapes,--until
their combined efforts launch it upon the deep, and send it forth to

  "dare the very elements to strife."

How much better would it be to create such an iron navy than to expend million after million
on wooden walls that must soon perish by decay or the shells of the enemy, or to lavish three
or four millions upon the conversion of our superannuated ships-of-the-line into steamships!
These, when converted, will still retain their age and constant tendency to decay, their models
long since abandoned, their original design, height of decks, and other proportions adapted
to the eighteen- and twenty-four-pounders formerly in use, which are now giving place to Dahlgren
and rifled cannon carrying balls of sixty-four to one hundred pounds weight. Such an expenditure
would be like an essay to convert a Yankee shingle-palace, such as Irving described half a
century ago, into a modern villa, and reminds one of a proposition made to an assembly some
twenty centuries since, which still has its significance.

An orator had proposed to convert an old politician into a general; but a citizen moved an
amendment to convert donkeys into horses, and when the possibility of doing so was questioned,
argued that the horses were necessary for the war, and that his measure was as feasible as
the other.

To prepare our nation for war, let us select the Enfield rifle, the Colt revolver, the rifled
and cast-steel cannon, the mail-clad steamer, and not resort to flint arrow-heads and tomahawks,
or to any other fossil remains of antiquity. The policy of creating an iron navy has been repeatedly
urged of late in the foreign journals. It has also been advocated with signal ability by Donald
McKay of Boston, one of our most eminent naval constructors, who, after building the Great
Republic, the Flying Cloud, and a fleet of other celebrated clippers, has visited the dockyards
of France and England, examined their mail-clad ships upon the stocks and those already finished.
Although himself accustomed to work on wood, and a candidate for employment as builder of some
of our wooden gun-boats, with great frankness as well as boldness he urges the construction
of mail-clad steamers. We trust Congress will no longer neglect so important a means of protecting
our national prosperity.

PARTING HYMN.

"_Dundee_."

  Father of Mercies, Heavenly Friend,
    We seek Thy gracious throne;
  To Thee our faltering prayers ascend,
    Our fainting hearts are known!

  From blasts that chill, from suns that smite,
    From every plague that harms;
  In camp and march, in siege and fight,
    Protect our men-at-arms!

  Though from our darkened lives they take
    What makes our life most dear,
  We yield them for their country's sake
    With no relenting tear.

  Our blood their flowing veins will shed,
    Their wounds our breasts will share;
  Oh, save us from the woes we dread,
    Or grant us strength to bear!

  Let each unhallowed cause that brings
    The stern destroyer cease,
  Thy flaming angel fold his wings,
    And seraphs whisper Peace!

  Thine are the sceptre and the sword,
    Stretch forth Thy mighty hand,--
  Reign Thou our kingless nation's Lord,
    Rule Thou our throneless land!

WHERE WILL THE REBELLION LEAVE US?

"The United States are bounded, North, by the British Possessions; South, by the Gulf of Mexico;
East, by the Atlantic Ocean; and West, by the Pacific." So the school-books told us which we
studied in our childhood; and so, in every school throughout the land, the children are taught
to-day. The armed hosts whose tread resounds through thy Continent are marching Southward to
teach this simple lesson in geography. They all know it by heart. "This they are ready to verify,"
as the lawyers say. Wherever, in any benighted region, this elementary proposition shall be
henceforth denied or doubted, schools for adults are to be established, and the needful instruction
given. By regiments, battalions, and brigades, with all necessary apparatus, the teachers go
forth to their work. The proposition is a very simple one, easily expressed and easily understood;
but it tells the whole story. It is the substance of all men's thoughts, and of all men's speech.
Mr. Lincoln states it in his inaugural. Mr. Douglas impresses it upon the Illinois legislature.
Mr. Seward announces it, briefly and with emphasis, to the governments of Europe. Sentimental
talk about "our country, however bounded," is obsolete; and how the country is bounded is now
the point to be settled, once and forever. "This territory, from the Great Lakes to the Gulf,
belongs to the people of the United States, and they mean to hold and keep it. We shall neither
alter our school-books nor revise our maps." So say the American people, rising in their wrath.

The practical question with which Mr. Lincoln's administration had to deal in the first place
was, Whether a popular government is strong enough to suppress a military rebellion? And that
may be regarded as already settled. But the grounds upon which that rebellion is justified
involve the vital facts of national unity, and even of national existence. As a people, we
have always been extremely tolerant of theories, however absurd. There is hardly a doctrine
of constitutional law so clear and well settled, that it is not, from time to time, discussed
and disputed among us. But when it comes to reducing mischievous speculations to practice,
the case is altered, and the practical genius of the people begins to manifest itself. Thus,
the Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions of '98 and '99 declared the Federal Constitution to be
merely a compact between sovereign States, created for a special and limited purpose; and that
each party to the compact was the exclusive and final judge for itself of the construction
of the contract, with a right to determine for itself when it was violated, and the measure
and mode of redress. As a theory, this doctrine has been very extensively accepted. Great parties
have adopted it as their platform, and elections have been carried upon it. Its value as a
support to the dignity and self-importance of local politicians was readily apprehended by
them; and it was in perfect harmony with the tone of bluster which pervaded our politics. The
thorough refutation which it always encountered, whenever it was seriously considered, never
seemed to do its popularity any harm. In truth, mere vaporing hurt nobody, and caused no great
alarm. But when the Hartford Convention was suspected of covering a little actual heat under
the smoke of the customary resolutions and protests, a bucket of cold water was thrown over
it. When, in 1832, South Carolina developed a spark of real fire, the nation put its foot on
it. And now, when the torch of rebellion has been circulating among very inflammable materials,
until a serious conflagration is threatened, the instinct of self-preservation has roused the
energies of the whole people for its immediate, complete, and final extinction.

The present insurrection has been so long meditated, the approaches to its final consummation
have been so steadily made, and the schemes of the principal traitors have been so well planned
and carefully matured, that they have almost succeeded in making the vocabulary of treason
a part of the vernacular of the country. We all talk of the States which have seceded or are
going to secede,--of a fratricidal war,--of the measures which this or the other State is determined
or likely to adopt; and a great deal has been said about State sovereignty, and coercion of
a State, and the invasion of the soil of one State and another. There has been large discussion
in times past of the danger of a dissolution of the Union. Indeed, this danger has been so
often held up as a threat by one section, and so persistently used as a scarecrow by timid
or profligate men in the other, that it has become one of the commonplaces of political contests.
Our ears have hardly ceased to be tormented with projects of reconstruction, and with suggestions
of guaranties, and pacifications, and mediation, and neutrality, armed or otherwise. Border-State
Conventions are projected, and well-meaning governors have been arranging interviews or conducting
correspondence with governors who talked of Southern rights, and undertook to say what their
States would or would not permit the United States Government to do. Even a Cabinet officer,
of whom better things might have been expected, and by whom better things are now nobly said
and done, allowed himself to fall into the error of explaining to the vacillating Governor
of Maryland that the intentions of the National Administration were purely defensive. While
such language is current at home, it is not strange that foreigners should find themselves
in a state of hopeless confusion about us. Few European writers, except De Tocqueville, have
ever shown a clear comprehension of our political system; and the speeches of British statesmen
on American affairs are perhaps rather to be accounted for and excused from want of information,
than resented as hostile or insulting. But it is time that this whole pernicious dialect should
be exploded, and the ideas which it represents be eradicated from the minds of intelligent
men everywhere.

The right of revolution it is needless to discuss. Resistance, in any practicable method, to
intolerable oppression, is the natural right of every human being, and of course of every community.
But such a right is never included in the framework of organized civil society. From its nature,
it can form no part of a plan of government. The only formula which embraces it is the famous
one of "Monarchy tempered by Regicide"; and where that prevails, it seems to be adopted as
a practical expedient, rather than recognized as an established constitutional maxim. But as
a question of revolution the issue is not presented. If it were, it would be easy to deal with.
The only embarrassment in our present condition, so far as reasoning goes, arises from confused
notions of constitutional law, and the inaccuracy of language which necessarily attends them.
In order, therefore, to know what is before us, let us first see where we stand.

The London "Times" informs the people of England, that "the resolution of the North to crush
Secession by force involves a denial of the right of each one of the seceding States to determine
the conditions of its own national existence." Precisely so. It involves all that; but the
whole fact comprehends a great deal more. Not one of the States of the American Union has any
national existence, or ever had any, in the sense in which the "Times" uses the phrase. Not
one of them has any of the functions or qualities of a nation. In the case of the greater part
of the States in which the rebellion exists, the United States bought and paid for the territory
which they occupy, made States of them under its own Constitution and laws, upon certain conditions
made irrevocable by the act which created them, and reserved the forts, arsenals, and custom-houses
which their treasonable citizens have since undertaken to steal. The fundamental idea of the
American system is local self-government for local purposes, and national unity for national
purposes. Our national union is synonymous with our national existence. When we speak of sovereign
and independent States, the phrase has no other just meaning than that each State is independent
of every other in all matters exclusively appertaining to its own powers and duties, and sovereign
upon all subjects which have not been committed exclusively to the jurisdiction of the Federal
Government. Any encroachment by the Government of the United States upon the lawful jurisdiction
of the several States would be resisted as a usurpation; but the "reserved rights" of the States,
_ex vi termini_, cannot include any of the attributes of power which the people of the whole
country have conferred upon the Union. But further,--and this is a point of great practical
importance,--the Federal Government has no relation to the several States as States, and they
have no relations to it, or to each other, except so far as these relations are expressly defined
and specified in the National Constitution. Beyond these, the authority and jurisdiction of
the nation address themselves and are applied to the individual citizens of all the States
alike. "The king can do no wrong," is the maxim of English law. A State of the American Union
cannot secede, or commit treason, or make war upon the United States. So the United States
cannot, and do not, make war upon any State. Virginia, for all national purposes, belongs to
the United States,--exactly as it belongs to the State, for the purposes of local administration.
In theory, and in practice, the State of Virginia is at this moment a peaceful and faithful
member of the American Union. Her Senators and Representatives, except so far as individuals
among them may have disqualified themselves by resignation, or, what may be held to be equivalent,
by deserting their posts to array themselves in active hostility to their country, are still
entitled to their seats in Congress. The State may be overrun by armed insurgents, resisting
the Federal authority; but so it might be by a foreign army. The peaceful citizens, who remain
faithful to their constitutional obligations, are entitled to the aid of the national power
to suppress domestic insurrection, whatever proportions that insurrection may assume. The soldiers
of the United States, lawfully mustered to resist invasion or put down rebellion, have nothing
to do with State lines, and act in perfect harmony with all legitimate State action. They can
no more invade a State than if they were in it to resist a foreign enemy, or than a United
States marshal invades it when he goes to arrest a counterfeiter. The "Times" would have little
difficulty in understanding a denial of the right of the Isle of Man, or of Lancashire, or
of Ireland, "to determine the conditions of its own national existence."

There is another fallacy in speaking of the resolution of the North to crush Secession by force.
It is the resolution of the nation,--of all that is faithful and loyal in it, wherever found.
The people of the Southern States have not had any fair opportunity to express their opinions.
The military usurpers have allowed nothing to be submitted to the test of a popular vote, except
where they were able to take such measures of precaution, in the way of hanging, confiscation,
banishment, disarming opponents, and the presence of an armed force which should overawe dissenters,
as might secure the unanimity they desired. There is undoubtedly much more loyalty in the Northern
than in the Southern States of the Union, as there is less of passion, and more of intelligence
and principle,--although treason has, till very lately, found more than enough apologists or
abettors even in the Free States. But the spirit which now actuates our people has little that
is sectional in it, and the principles at issue have the same application to Maine that they
have to Florida.

When we ask, then, where this rebellion will leave us, and what will be the condition of the
United States when the authority of the Government has been vindicated and reëstablished, the
answer must be sought in the considerations already suggested. The rebellion cannot be ended,
until we have settled as a principle of constitutional law for our own citizens, and as a fact
of which all other nations must take notice, that this whole country belongs to the people
of the United States. No foreign power shall possess a foot of it. If the majority of the people
of a State can throw off their allegiance to the Union, they can transfer their allegiance
to England or Spain at their pleasure, as well as to a new confederacy of their own devising.
The battles of the Revolution which secured our independence were fought by the whole country,
and for the whole country, without reference to local majorities. The accessions to our territory
were made by the nation as a unit, and belong to it as such. We did not acquire Texas, and
pay the millions of its debt, with the reservation that it might sell itself again the next
day to the highest bidder. That no foreign dominion shall interpose between the Northwest and
the Atlantic, or between the Valley of the Mississippi and the Gulf, is a geographical necessity.
But that, the American Union is indissoluble is essential to our national existence. If that
be not so, we have neither a flag nor a country,--we can neither contract a debt nor make a
treaty,--we have neither honor abroad nor strength at home,--our experiment of free government
is a blunder and a failure, and for us, "Chaos has come again."

But the further question remains, In what way is it possible that harmony shall be restored
between the parts of the country through which the rebellion has spread and those which have
remained faithful to the Constitution and the Union? When we have dispersed the armies of the
rebels, and demolished their batteries, and retaken our forts and arsenals, our navy-yards
and armories, our mints and custom-houses,--when we have visited their leaders with retributive
justice, and made Richmond and Charleston and New Orleans as submissive to lawful authority
as Baltimore or Washington or Boston,--what then? Will a people we have subjugated ever live
with us again on terms of equality and friendship? Can the wounded pride of the Ancient Dominion
be so far soothed that she can allow us again to bask in the sunshine of her favor? Will she
ever consent to resume her old superiority, and furnish our audacious army and navy with officers,
our committees with chairmen, and our departments with clerks? Or must we, for a generation,
hold the States we have subdued by military occupation? Must we make Territories of them, and
blot out those malignant stars from our glorious and triumphant banner?

In all seriousness, there seems but one solution to the problem; and it must be found, if at
all, in the proposition already stated, that treason is an individual act. A State cannot rebel,
as it cannot secede. A governor of a State may rebel, and a majority of a legislature may join
an insurrection, as a governor or legislators may commit larceny or join a piratical expedition.
But whoever arrays himself in armed opposition to the Government of the United States, or gives
aid and comfort to its enemies, becomes thereby merely a private rebel and traitor. Whatever
office he may fill, with whatever functions of local government he may be intrusted, by whatever
name he may be called, governor or judge, senator or representative, it is the treason of the
citizen, and not of the officer. And as a State has no legal existence except as a member of
the Union, and has no constitutional powers or functions or capacities but those which it exercises
in harmony with and subordination to the rightful authority of the Federal Government, so the
loyal and faithful inhabitants of a State, and they only, constitute the State. Mr. Mason tells
the people of Virginia, that those of them who, in their consciences, cannot vote to separate
Virginia from the United States, if they retain such opinions, must leave the State. We thank
him for teaching us that word. When the tables are turned, it will form a valuable theme for
his private meditation. The unconditional Union men, who are of and for their country against
all comers, who neither commit treason openly nor disguise their cowardly treachery under the
shallow cover of neutrality, are to wield the power of their respective States, and to be the
only recognized inhabitants. All others must submit or fly. If the Governor and Legislature
of Virginia have renounced their allegiance to the United States, and undertaken to establish
a foreign jurisdiction in a portion of our territory, their relation to that State becomes
substantially the same as if they had gone on board a British fleet in the Chesapeake, or enlisted
under the standard of an invading army. They have abdicated their offices, which thereby become
vacant. It was for "having endeavored to subvert the constitution of the kingdom by breaking
the original contract between king and people, violated the fundamental laws, and having withdrawn
himself out of the kingdom," that James II. was declared by the House of Commons to have abdicated
the government. Would it have been less an abdication, if he had remained within the realm,
and attempted to hold it as the viceroy of France? When, in June, 1775, Governor Dunmore and
his Council took refuge on board a British man-of-war, the Virginians of that day proceeded
to meet in convention, and provide new officers to manage the affairs of their State. Let this
historical precedent be followed now. Wherever, in either of the States which the rebels have
sought to appropriate, the loyal citizens can find a spot in which they can meet in safety,
let them meet by their delegates in convention, and adopt the necessary measures to elect new
officers under their present constitutions. The only irregularity will be what results from
the fact that treason in such high places and on so large a scale was not contemplated, nor
was a remedy furnished for it, in their frame of government. It is merely a case not provided
for, and the omission must be supplied in the most practicable way. The new organization should
and undoubtedly would be recognized by the National Government, and by the other States, as,
_de facto_ and _de jure_, the State. It was settled in the Rhode Island case, under Tyler's
administration, that, where different portions of the people claim to hold and exercise the
powers of a State government, it presents a political question which the National Executive
and Congress must decide; and that judicial recognition must follow and conform to the political
decision.

When, by such a course, the proper relations and functions of each State should be resumed,
there would no longer be any matter of State pride to interfere with the absolute assertion
of national authority. The new State governments would be protected against armed assailants
at home and invasion from abroad; they would apply for and obtain assistance to suppress domestic
insurrection; every misguided insurgent would have opportunity to return to his duty under
the protection of his own local authorities; appropriations for the army and navy could be
passed with the aid of Tennessee and Alabama votes in Congress; and Davis, and Tyler, and Mason
be hung upon the verdict of a jury of the vicinage.

In Virginia, a movement based upon this principle has been already inaugurated. From Western
Virginia, the progress toward Eastern Tennessee and Northern Alabama is natural and certain.
The worst case to deal with, unquestionably, is South Carolina. Hers is a peculiar people,
and zealous, though scarcely of good works. That fiery little Commonwealth is remarkably constituted.
The State is inhabited principally by negroes; and the remaining minority may be divided into
two classes,--whites who are dependent upon negroes for a subsistence, and whites whose chief
distinction in life and great consolation is that they are not negroes. The former and much
the smaller class possess all the wealth, all the cultivation, and all the political power,
which they are enabled to retain by an ingenious and systematic use of the prejudices and passions
of the latter. They are reputed to have much earnestness of conviction, and claim an unusual
amount of gallantry and courage for their soldiers; though it is noticeable that their principal
exploits in our time have been the seizure of friendless colored sailors, and selling them
into slavery,--the achievement of that knight of the bludgeon, the representative whose noble
deed his constituents could hardly admire enough, but the better part of whose valor was the
discretion that preferred to encounter his antagonist sitting and incapable of resistance,--and
lastly, that heroic and bloodless victory at Fort Sumter, where imperishable glory was won
by the ten thousand who conquered the seventy. They seem now to be united, and substantially
unanimous. What elements a little adversity would develop in them, time must determine. Whether
there is any reserve of patriotism and fidelity, overawed and silenced now, but which will
come forth to serve as the nucleus of reconstruction when it can find protection and security,
or whether we must wait for a new generation to grow up, remains to be tried. Their leaders
are subtle reasoners, and it has been shrewdly observed of them that "they never shrink from
following their logic to its consequences because the conclusion is _immoral_." Perhaps they
will find no more difficulty in accepting the arguments we shall address to them because the
conclusion is a little humiliating. In their case, we shall have little need to concern ourselves
about the wishes of a local majority. The fact that a majority are blacks, to begin with, must
deprive that consideration of all its force, even to their own apprehension. It will not be
the first time that they have received a benefit which did not agree with the wishes of the
greater part of those upon whom it was bestowed. The men of Rhode Island and Massachusetts
who achieved the independence of South Carolina did not stop to consider whether a majority
of her white inhabitants were Tories.

When we hear that the colonel of a regiment of Secessionists sends a flag of truce to Fort
Monroe to ask for the return of his fugitive slaves under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, a painful doubt must be suggested whether such gentlemen really believe themselves
to be so wholly and utterly out of the Union as the theory of Secession would indicate. And
when the novel, but very sensible doctrine with which that singular demand was met, that slaves
are to be regarded as articles contraband of war, chattels capable of a military use, a kind
of locomotive gun-carriages and intrenching-tools, and as such to be taken and confiscated
when found belonging to armed rebels, shall have been practically applied for a time, with
its natural and obvious result, it may be that even the Palmetto State will exhibit some general
symptoms of returning reason.

THEODORE WINTHROP.

Theodore Winthrop's life, like a fire long smouldering, suddenly blazed up into a clear, bright
flame, and vanished. Those of us who were his friends and neighbors, by whose firesides he
sat familiarly, and of whose life upon the pleasant Staten Island, where he lived, he was so
important a part, were so impressed by his intense vitality, that his death strikes us with
peculiar strangeness, like sudden winter-silence falling upon these humming fields of June.

As I look along the wooded brook-side by which he used to come, I should not be surprised,
if I saw that knit, wiry, light figure moving with quick, firm, leopard tread over the grass,--the
keen gray eye, the clustering fair hair, the kind, serious smile, the mien of undaunted patience.
If you did not know him, you would have found his greeting a little constrained,--not from
shyness, but from genuine modesty and the habit of society. You would have remarked that he
was silent and observant rather than talkative; and whatever he said, however gay or grave,
would have had the reserve of sadness upon which his whole character was drawn. If it were
a woman who saw him for the first time, she would inevitably see him through a slight cloud
of misapprehension; for the man and his manner were a little at variance. The chance is that
at the end of five minutes she would have thought him conceited. At the end of five months
she would have known him as one of the simplest and most truly modest of men.

And he had the heroic sincerity which belongs to such modesty. Of a noble ambition, and sensitive
to applause,--as every delicate nature veined with genius always is,--he would not provoke
the applause by doing anything which, although it lay easily within his power, was yet not
wholly approved by him as worthy. Many men are ambitious and full of talent, and when the prize
does not fairly come they snatch at it unfairly. This was precisely what he could not do. He
would strive and deserve; but if the crown were not laid upon his head in the clear light of
day and by confession of absolute merit, he could ride to his place again and wait, looking
with no envy, but in patient wonder and with critical curiosity upon the victors. It is this
which he expresses in the paper in the July number of this magazine, "Washington as a Camp,"
when he says,--"I have heretofore been proud of my individuality, and resisted, so far as one
may, all the world's attempts to merge me in the mass."

It was this which made many who knew him much, but not truly, feel that he was purposeless
and restless. They knew his talent, his opportunities. Why does he not concentrate? Why does
he not bring himself to bear? He did not plead his ill-health; nor would they have allowed
the plea. The difficulty was deeper. He felt that he had shown his credentials, and they were
not accepted. "I can wait, I can wait," was the answer his life made to the impatience of his
friends.

We are all fond of saying that a man of real gifts will fit himself to the work of any time;
and so he will. But it is not necessarily to the first thing that offers. There is always latent
in civilized society a certain amount of what may be called Sir Philip Sidney genius, which
will seem elegant and listless and aimless enough until the congenial chance appears. A plant
may grow in a cellar; but it will flower only under the due sun and warmth. Sir Philip Sidney
was but a lovely possibility, until he went to be Governor of Flushing. What else was our friend,
until he went to the war?

The age of Elizabeth did not monopolize the heroes, and they are always essentially the same.
When, for instance, I read in a letter of Hubert Languet's to Sidney, "You are not over-cheerful
by nature," or when, in another, he speaks of the portrait that Paul Veronese painted of Sidney,
and says, "The painter has represented you sad and thoughtful," I can believe that he is speaking
of my neighbor. Or when I remember what Sidney wrote to his younger brother,--"Being a gentleman
born, you purpose to furnish yourself with the knowledge of such things as may be serviceable
to your country and calling," or what he wrote to Languet,--"Our Princes are enjoying too deep
a slumber: I cannot think there is any man possessed of common understanding who does not see
to what these rough storms are driving by which all Christendom has been agitated now these
many years,"--I seem to hear my friend, as he used to talk on the Sunday evenings when he sat
in this huge cane-chair at my side, in which I saw him last, and in which I shall henceforth
always see him.

Nor is it unfair to remember just here that he bore one of the few really historic names in
this country. He never spoke of it; but we should all have been sorry not to feel that he was
glad to have sprung straight from that second John Winthrop who was the first Governor of Connecticut,
the younger sister colony of Massachusetts Bay,--the John Winthrop who obtained the charter
of privileges for his colony. How clearly the quality of the man has been transmitted! How
brightly the old name shines out again!

He was born in New Haven on the 22d of September, 1828, and was a grave, delicate, rather precocious
child. He was at school only in New Haven, and entered Yale College just as he was sixteen.
The pure, manly morality which was the substance of his character, and his brilliant exploits
of scholarship, made him the idol of his college, friends, who saw in him the promise of the
splendid career which the fond faith of students allots to the favorite classmate. He studied
for the Clark scholarship, and gained it; and his name, in the order of time, is first upon
the roll of that foundation. He won the Townshend prize for the best composition on History.
For the Berkeleian scholarship he and another were judged equal, and, drawing lots, the other
gained the scholarship; but they divided the honor.

In college his favorite studies were Greek and mental philosophy. He never lost the scholarly
taste and habit. A wide reader, he retained knowledge with little effort, and often surprised
his friends by the variety of his information. Yet it was not strange, for he was born a scholar.
His mother was the great-granddaughter of old President Edwards; and among his ancestors upon
the maternal side, Winthrop counted seven Presidents of Yale. Perhaps also in this learned
descent we may find the secret of his early seriousness. Thoughtful and self-criticizing, he
was peculiarly sensible to religious influences, under which his criticism easily became self-accusation,
and his sensitive seriousness grew sometimes morbid. He would have studied for the ministry
or a professorship, upon leaving college, except for his failing health.

In the later days, when I knew him, the feverish ardor of the first religious impulse was past.
It had given place to a faith much too deep and sacred to talk about, yet holding him always
with serene, steady poise in the purest region of life and feeling. There was no franker or
more sympathetic companion for young men of his own age than he; but his conversation fell
from his lips as unsullied as his soul.

He graduated in 1848, when he was twenty years old; and for the sake of his health, which was
seriously shattered,--an ill-health that colored all his life, he set out upon his travels.
He went first to England, spending much time at Oxford, where he made pleasant acquaintances,
and walking through Scotland. He then crossed over to France and Germany, exploring Switzerland
very thoroughly upon foot,--once or twice escaping great dangers among the mountains,--and
pushed on to Italy and Greece, still walking much of the way. In Italy he made the acquaintance
of Mr. W.H. Aspinwall, of New York, and upon his return became tutor to Mr. Aspinwall's son.
He presently accompanied his pupil and a nephew of Mr. Aspinwall, who were going to a school
in Switzerland; and after a second short tour of six months in Europe he returned to New York,
and entered Mr. Aspinwall's counting-house. In the employ of the Pacific Steamship Company
he went to Panama and resided for about two years, travelling, and often ill of the fevers
of the country. Before his return he travelled through California and Oregon,--went to Vancouver's
Island, Puget Sound, and the Hudson Bay Company's station there. At the Dalles he was smitten
with the small-pox, and lay ill for six weeks. He often spoke with the warmest gratitude of
the kind care that was taken of him there. But when only partially recovered he plunged off
again into the wilderness. At another time he fell very ill upon the Plains, and lay down,
as he supposed, to die; but after some time struggled up and on again.

He returned to the counting-room, but, unsated with adventure, joined the disastrous expedition
of Lieutenant Strain, during which his health was still more weakened, and he came home again
in 1854. In the following year he studied law and was admitted to the bar. In 1856 he entered
heartily into the Fremont campaign, and from the strongest conviction. He went into some of
the dark districts of Pennsylvania and spoke incessantly. The roving life and its picturesque
episodes, with the earnest conviction which inspired him, made the summer and autumn exciting
and pleasant. The following year he went to St. Louis to practise law. The climate was unkind
to him, and he returned and began the practice in New York. But he could not be a lawyer. His
health was too uncertain, and his tastes and ambition allured him elsewhere. His mind was brimming
with the results of observation. His fancy was alert and inventive, and he wrote tales and
novels. At the same time he delighted to haunt the studio of his friend Church, the painter,
and watch day by day the progress of his picture, the Heart of the Andes. It so fired his imagination
that he wrote a description of it, in which, as if rivalling the tropical and tangled richness
of the picture, he threw together such heaps and masses of gorgeous words that the reader was
dazzled and bewildered.

The wild campaigning life was always a secret passion with him. His stories of travel were
so graphic and warm, that I remember one evening, after we had been tracing upon the map a
route he had taken, and he had touched the whole region into life with his description, my
younger brother, who had sat by and listened with wide eyes all the evening, exclaimed with
a sigh of regretful satisfaction, as the door closed upon our story-teller, "It's as good as
Robinson Crusoe!" Yet, with all his fondness and fitness for that kind of life, or indeed any
active administrative function, his literary ambition seemed to be the deepest and strongest.

He had always been writing. In college and upon his travels he kept diaries; and he has left
behind him several novels, tales, sketches of travel, and journals. The first published writing
of his which is well known is his description, in the June number of this magazine, of the
March of the Seventh Regiment of New York to Washington. It was charming by its graceful, sparkling,
crisp, off-hand dash and ease. But it is only the practised hand that can "dash off" effectively.
Let any other clever member of the clever regiment, who has never written, try to dash off
the story of a day or a week in the life of the regiment, and he will see that the writer did
that little thing well because he had done large things carefully. Yet, amid all the hurry
and brilliant bustle of the articles, the author is, as he was in the most bustling moment
of the life they described, a spectator, an artist. He looks on at himself and the scene of
which he is part. He is willing to merge his individuality; but he does not merge it, for he
could not.

So, wandering, hoping, trying, waiting, thirty-two years of his life went by, and they left
him true, sympathetic, patient. The sharp private griefs that sting the heart so deeply, and
leave a little poison behind, did not spare him. But he bore everything so bravely, so silently,--often
silent for a whole evening in the midst of pleasant talkers, but not impertinently sad, nor
ever sullen,--that we all loved him a little more at such times. The ill-health from which
he always suffered, and a flower-like delicacy of temperament, the yearning desire to be of
some service in the world, coupled with the curious, critical introspection which marks every
sensitive and refined nature and paralyzes action, overcast his life and manner to the common
eye with pensiveness and even sternness. He wrote verses in which his heart seems to exhale
in a sigh of sadness. But he was not in the least a sentimentalist. The womanly grace of temperament
merely enhanced the unusual manliness of his character and impression. It was like a delicate
carnation upon the cheek of a robust man. For his humor was exuberant. He seldom laughed loud,
but his smile was sweet and appreciative. Then the range of his sympathies was so large, that
he enjoyed every kind of life and person, and was everywhere at home. In walking and riding,
in skating and running, in games out of doors and in, no one of us all in the neighborhood
was so expert, so agile as he. For, above all things, he had what we Yankees call faculty,--the
knack of doing everything. If he rode with a neighbor who was a good horseman, Theodore, who
was a Centaur, when he mounted, would put any horse at any gate or fence; for it did not occur
to him that he could not do whatever was to be done. Often, after writing for a few hours in
the morning, he stepped out of doors, and, from pure love of the fun, leaped and turned summersaults
on the grass, before going up to town. In walking about the island, he constantly stopped by
the roadside fences, and, grasping the highest rail, swung himself swiftly and neatly over
and back again, resuming the walk and the talk without delay.

I do not wish to make him too much a hero. "Death," says Bacon, "openeth the gate to good fame."
When a neighbor dies, his form and quality appear clearly, as if he had been dead a thousand
years. Then we see what we only felt before. Heroes in history seem to us poetic because they
are there. But if we should tell the simple truth of some of our neighbors, it would sound
like poetry. Winthrop was one of the men who represent the manly and poetic qualities that
always exist around us,--not great genius, which is ever salient, but the fine fibre of manhood
that makes the worth of the race.

Closely engaged with his literary employments, and more quiet than ever, he took less active
part in the last election. But when the menace of treason became an aggressive act, he saw
very clearly the inevitable necessity of arms. We all talked of it constantly,--watching the
news,--chafing at the sad necessity of delay, which was sure to confuse foreign opinion and
alienate sympathy, as has proved to be the case. As matters advanced and the war-cloud rolled
up thicker and blacker, he looked at it with the secret satisfaction that war for such a cause
opened his career both as thinker and actor. The admirable coolness, the promptness, the cheerful
patience, the heroic ardor, the intelligence, the tough experience of campaigning, the profound
conviction that the cause was in truth "the good old cause," which was now to come to the death-grapple
with its old enemy, Justice against Injustice, Order against Anarchy,--all these should now
have their turn, and the wanderer and waiter "settle himself" at last.

We took a long walk together on the Sunday that brought the news of the capture of Fort Sumter.
He was thoroughly alive with a bright, earnest forecast of his part in the coming work. Returning
home with me, he sat until late in the evening talking with an unwonted spirit, saying playfully,
I remember, that, if his friends would only give him a horse, he would ride straight to victory.

Especially he wished that some competent person would keep a careful record of events as they
passed; "for we are making our history," he said, "hand over hand." He sat quietly in the great
chair while he spoke, and at last rose to go. We went together to the door, and stood for a
little while upon the piazza, where we had sat peacefully through so many golden summer-hours.
The last hour for us had come, but we did not know it. We shook hands, and he left me, passing
rapidly along the brook-side under the trees, and so in the soft spring starlight vanished
from my sight forever.

The next morning came the President's proclamation. Winthrop went immediately to town and enrolled
himself in the artillery corps of the Seventh Regiment. During the two or three following days
he was very busy and very happy. On Friday afternoon, the 19th of April, I stood at the corner
of Courtland Street and saw the regiment as it marched away. Two days before, I had seen the
Massachusetts troops going down the same street. During the day the news had come that they
were already engaged, that some were already dead in Baltimore. And the Seventh, as they went,
blessed and wept over by a great city, went, as we all believed, to terrible battle. The setting
sun in a clear April sky shone full up the street. Mothers' eyes glistened at the windows upon
the glistening bayonets of their boys below. I knew that Winthrop and other dear friends were
there, but I did not see them. I saw only a thousand men marching like one hero. The music
beat and rang and clashed in the air. Marching to death or victory or defeat, it mattered not.
They marched for Justice, and God was their captain.

From that moment he has told his own story in these pages until he went to Fortress Monroe,
and was made acting military secretary and aid by General Butler. Before he went, he wrote
the most copious and gayest letters from the camp. He was thoroughly aroused, and all his powers
happily at play. In a letter to me soon after his arrival in Washington, he says,--

"I see no present end of this business. We must conquer the South. Afterward we must be prepared
to do its police in its own behalf, and in behalf of its black population, whom this war must,
without precipitation, emancipate. We must hold the South as the metropolitan police holds
New York. All this is inevitable. Now I wish to enroll myself at once in the _Police of the
Nation_, and for life, if the nation will take me. I do not see that I can put myself--experience
and character--to any more useful use..... My experience in this short campaign with the Seventh
assures me that volunteers are for one purpose and regular soldiers entirely another. We want
regular soldiers for the cause of order in these anarchical countries, and we want men in command
who, though they may be valuable as temporary satraps or proconsuls to make liberty possible
where it is now impossible, will never under any circumstances be disloyal to _Liberty_, will
always oppose any scheme of any one to constitute a military government, and will be ready,
when the time comes, to imitate Washington. We must think of these things, and prepare for
them..... Love to all the dear friends..... This trip has been all a lark to an old tramper
like myself."

Later he writes,--

"It is the loveliest day of fullest spring. An aspen under the window whispers to me in a chorus
of all its leaves, and when I look out, every leaf turns a sunbeam at me. I am writing in Viele's
quarters in the villa of Somebody Stone, upon whose place or farm we are encamped. The man
who built and set down these four great granite pillars in front of his house, for a carriage-porch,
had an eye or two for a fine _site_. This seems to be the finest possible about Washington.
It is a terrace called Meridian Hill, two miles north of Pennsylvania Avenue. The house commands
the vista of the Potomac, all the plain of the city, and a charming lawn of delicious green,
with oaks of first dignity just coming into leaf. It is lovely Nature, and the spot has snatched
a grace from Art. The grounds are laid out after a fashion, and planted with shrubbery. The
snowballs are at their snowballiest..... Have you heard or--how many times have you used the
simile of some one, Bad-muss or Cadmus, or another hero, who sowed the dragon's teeth, and
they came up dragoons a hundred-fold and infantry a thousand-fold? _Nil admirari_ is, of course,
my frame of mind; but I own astonishment at the crop of soldiers. They must ripen awhile, perhaps,
before they are to be named quite soldiers. Ripening takes care of itself; and by the harvest-time
they will be ready to cut down.

"I find that the men best informed about the South do not anticipate much severe fighting.
Scott's Fabian policy will demoralize their armies. If the people do not bother the great Cunetator
to death before he is ready to move to assured victory, he will make defeat impossible. Meanwhile
there will be enough outwork going on, like those neat jobs in Missouri, to keep us all interested......
Know, O comrade, that I am already a corporal,--an acting corporal, selected by our commanding
officer for my general effect of pipe-clay, my rapidity of heel and toe, my present arms, etc.,
but liable to be ousted by suffrage any moment. _Quod faustum sit_, ... I had already been
introduced to the Secretary of War..... I called at ----'s and saw, with two or three others,----
on the sofa. Him my prophetic soul named my uncle to be..... But in my uncle's house are many
nephews, and whether nepotism or my transcendent merit will prevail we shall see. I have fun,--I
get experience,--I see much,--it pays. Ah, yes! But in these fair days of May I miss my Staten
Island. War stirs the pulse, but it wounds a little all the time.

"Compliment for me Tib [a little dog] and the Wisterias,--also the mares and the billiard-table.
Ask ---- to give you t'other lump of sugar in my behalf.... Should ---- return, say that I
regret not being present with an unpremeditated compliment, as thus,--'Ah! the first rose of
summer!'.... I will try to get an enemy's button for ----, should the enemy attack. If the
Seventh returns presently, I am afraid I shall be obliged to return with them for a time. But
I mean to see this job through, somehow."

In such an airy, sportive vein he wrote, with the firm purpose and the distinct thought visible
under the sparkle. Before the regiment left Washington, as he has recorded, he said good-bye
and went down the bay to Fortress Monroe. Of his unshrinking and sprightly industry, his good
head, his warm heart, and cool hand, as a soldier, General Butler has given precious testimony
to his family. "I loved him as a brother," the General writes of his young aid.

The last days of his life at Fortress Monroe were doubtless also the happiest. His energy and
enthusiasm, and kind, winning ways, and the deep satisfaction of feeling that all his gifts
could now be used as he would have them, showed him and his friends that his day had at length
dawned. He was especially interested in the condition and fate of the slaves who escaped from
the neighboring region and sought refuge at the fort. He had never for an instant forgotten
the secret root of the treason which was desolating the land with war; and in his view there
would be no peace until that root was destroyed. In his letters written from the fort he suggests
plans of relief and comfort for the refugees; and one of his last requests was to a lady in
New York for clothes for these poor pensioners. They were promptly sent, but reached the fort
too late.

As I look over these last letters, which gush and throb with the fulness of his activity, and
are so tenderly streaked with touches of constant affection and remembrance, yet are so calm
and duly mindful of every detail, I do not think with an elder friend, in whom the wisdom of
years has only deepened sympathy for all generous youthful impulse, of Virgil's Marcellus,
"_Heu, miserande puer!_" but I recall rather, still haunted by Philip Sidney, what he wrote,
just before his death, to his father-in-law, Walsingham,--"I think a wise and constant man
ought never to grieve while he doth play, as a man may say, his own part truly."

The sketches of the campaign in Virginia, which Winthrop had commenced in this magazine, would
have been continued, and have formed an invaluable memoir of the places, the men, and the operations
of which he was a witness and a part. As a piece of vivid pictorial description, which gives
the spirit as well as the spectacle, his "Washington as a Camp" is masterly. He knew not only
what to see and to describe, but what to think; so that in his papers you are not at the mercy
of a multitudinous mass of facts, but understand their value and relation. Immediately upon
his arrival at Fort Monroe he had commenced a third article, which was to have occupied the
place of this. It is inserted here just as he left it, with one brief addition only to make
his known meaning more clear. The part called "Voices of the Contraband" was written previously,
and is not paged in the manuscript. It was to have been introduced into the article; but it
is placed first here, that the sequence of the paper, as far as the author had written it,
may remain undisturbed.

VOICES OF THE CONTRABAND.

_Solvuntur risu tabulae_. An epigram abolished slavery in the United States. Large wisdom,
stated in fine wit, was the decision. "Negroes are contraband of war." "They are property,"
claim the owners. Very well! As General Butler takes contraband horses used in transport of
munitions of war, so he takes contraband black creatures who tote the powder to the carts and
flagellate the steeds. As he takes a spade used in hostile earthworks, so he goes a little
farther off and takes the black muscle that wields the spade. As he takes the rations of the
foe, so he takes the sable Soyer whose skilful hand makes those rations savory to the palates
and digestible by the stomachs of the foe and so puts blood and nerve into them. As he took
the steam-gun, so he now takes what might become the stoker of the steam part of that machine
and the aimer of its gun part. As he takes the musket, so he seizes the object who in the Virginia
army carries that musket on its shoulder until its master is ready to reach out a lazy hand,
nonchalantly lift the piece, and carelessly pop a Yankee.

The third number of Winthrop's Sketches of the Campaign in Virginia begins here.

PHYSIOGNOMY OF FORTRESS MONROE.

The "Adelaide" is a steamer plying between Baltimore and Norfolk. But as Norfolk has ceased
to be a part of the United States, and is nowhere, the "Adelaide" goes no farther than Fortress
Monroe, Old Point Comfort, the chief somewhere of this region. A lady, no doubt Adelaide herself,
appears in _alto rilievo_ on the paddle-box. She has a short waist, long skirt _sans_ crinoline,
leg-of-mutton sleeves, lofty bearing, and stands like Ariadne on an island of pedestal size,
surrounded by two or more pre-Raphaelite trees. In the offing comes or goes a steamboat, also
pre-Raphaelite; and if Ariadne Adelaide's Bacchus is on board, he is out of sight at the bar.

Such an Adelaide brought me in sight of Fortress Monroe at sunrise, May 29, 1861. The fort,
though old enough to be full-grown, has not grown very tall upon the low sands of Old Point
Comfort. It is a big house with a basement story and a garret. The roof is left off, and the
stories between basement and garret have never been inserted.

But why not be technical? For basement read a tier of casemates, each with a black Cyclops
of a big gun peering out; while above in the open air, with not even a parasol over their backs,
lie the barbette guns, staring without a wink over sea and shore.

In peace, with a hundred or so soldiers here and there, this vast inclosure might seem a solitude.
Now it is a busy city,--a city of one idea. I seem to recollect that D'Israeli said somewhere
that every great city was founded on one idea and existed to develop it. This city, into which
we have improvised a population, has its idea,--a unit of an idea with two halves. The east
half is the recovery of Norfolk,--the west half the occupation of Richmond; and the idea complete
is the education of Virginia's unmannerly and disloyal sons.

Why Secession did not take this great place when its defenders numbered a squad of officers
and three hundred men is mysterious. Floyd and his gang were treacherous enough. What was it?
Were they imbecile? Were they timid? Was there, till too late, a doubt whether the traitors
at home in Virginia would sustain them in an overt act of such big overture as an attempt here?
But they lost the chance, and with it lost the key of Virginia, which General Butler now holds,
this 30th day of May, and will presently begin to turn in the lock.

Three hundred men to guard a mile and a half of ramparts! Three hundred to protect some sixty-five
broad acres within the walls! But the place was a Thermopylae, and there was a fine old Leonidas
at the head of its three hundred. He was enough to make Spartans of them. Colonel Dimmick was
the man,--a quiet, modest, shrewd, faithful, Christian gentleman; and he held all Virginia
at bay. The traitors knew, that, so long as the Colonel was here, these black muzzles with
their white tompions, like a black eye with a white pupil, meant mischief. To him and his guns,
flanking the approaches and ready to pile the moat full of Seceders, the country owes the safety
of Fortress Monroe.

Within the walls are sundry nice old brick houses for officers' barracks. The jolly bachelors
live in the casemates and the men in long barracks, now not so new or so convenient as they
might be. In fact, the physiognomy of Fortress Monroe is not so neat, well-shorn, and elegant
as a grand military post should be. Perhaps our Floyds, and the like, thought, if they kept
everything in perfect order here, they, as Virginians, accustomed to general seediness, would
not find themselves at home. But the new _régime_ must change all this, and make this the biggest,
the best equipped, and the model garrison of the country. For, of course, this must be strongly
held for many, many years to come. It is idle to suppose that the dull louts we find here,
not enlightened even enough to know that loyalty is the best policy, can be allowed the highest
privilege of the moral, the intelligent, and the progressive,--self-government. Mind is said
to march fast in our time; but mind must put on steam hereabouts to think and act for itself,
without stern schooling, in half a century.

But no digressing! I have looked far away from the physiognomy of the fortress. Let us turn to the

PHYSIOGNOMY OF THE COUNTRY.

The face of this county, Elizabeth City by name, is as flat as a Chinaman's. I can hardly wonder
that the people here have retrograded, or rather, not advanced. This dull flat would make anybody
dull and flat. I am no longer surprised at John Tyler. He has had a bare blank brick house,
entitled sweetly Margarita Cottage, or some such tender epithet, at Hampton, a mile and a half
from the fort. A summer in this site would make any man a bore. And as something has done this
favor for His Accidency, I am willing to attribute it to the influence of locality.

The country is flat; the soil is fine sifted loam running to dust, as the air of England runs
to fog; the woods are dense and beautiful and full of trees unknown to the parallel of New
York; the roads are miserable cart-paths; the cattle are scalawags; so are the horses, not
run away; so are the people, black and white, not run away; the crops are tolerable, where
the invaders have not trampled them.

Altogether the whole concern strikes me as a failure. Captain John Smith & Co. might as well
have stayed at home, if this is the result of the two hundred and thirty years' occupation.
Apparently the colonists picked out a poor spot; and the longer they stayed, the worse fist
they made of it. Powhattan, Pocahontas, and the others without pantaloons and petticoats, were
really more serviceable colonists.

The farm-houses are mostly miserably mean habitations. I don't wonder the tenants were glad
to make our arrival the excuse for running off. Here are men claiming to have been worth forty
thousand dollars, half in biped property, half in all other kinds, and they lived in dens such
as a drayman would have disdained and a hod-carrier only accepted on compulsion.

PHYSIOGNOMY OF WATER.

Always beautiful! the sea cannot be spoilt. Our fleet enlivens it greatly. Here is the flag-ship
"Cumberland" _vis-à-vis_ the fort. Off to the left are the prizes, unlucky schooners, which
ought to be carrying pine wood to the kitchens of New York, and new potatoes and green peas
for the wood to operate upon. This region, by the way, is New York's watermelon patch for early
melons; and if we do not conquer a peace here pretty soon, the Jersey fruit will have the market
to itself.

Besides stately flag-ships and poor little bumboat schooners, transports are coming and going
with regiments or provisions for the same. Here, too, are old acquaintances from the bay of
New York,--the "Yankee," a lively tug,--the "Harriet Lane," coquettish and plucky,--the "Catiline,"
ready to reverse her name and put down conspiracy.

On the dock are munitions of war in heaps. Volunteer armies load themselves with things they
do not need, and forget the essentials. The unlucky army-quartermaster's people, accustomed
to the slow and systematic methods of the by-gone days at Fortress Monroe, fume terribly over
these cargoes. The new men and the new manners of the new army do not altogether suit the actual
men and manners of the obsolete army. The old men and the new must recombine. What we want
now is the vigor of fresh people to utilize the experience of the experts. The Silver-Gray
Army needs a frisky element interfused. On the other hand, the new army needs to be taught
a lesson in _method_ by the old; and the two combined will make the grand army of civilization.

THE FORCES.

When I arrived, Fort Monroe and the neighborhood were occupied by two armies.

1. General Butler.

2. About six thousand men, here and at Newport's News.

Making together more than twelve thousand men.

Of the first army, consisting of the General, I will not speak. Let his past supreme services
speak for him, as I doubt not the future will.

Next to the array of a man comes the army of men. Regulars a few, with many post officers,
among them some very fine and efficient fellows. These are within the post. Also within is
the Third Regiment of Massachusetts, under Colonel Wardrop, the right kind of man to have,
and commanding a capital regiment of three-months men, neatly uniformed in gray, with cocked
felt hats.

Without the fort, across the moat, and across the bridge connecting this peninsula of sand
with the nearest side of the mainland, are encamped three New York regiments. Each is in a
wheat field, up to its eyes in dust. In order of precedence they come One, Two, and Five; in
order of personal splendor of uniform they come Five, One, Two; in order of exploits they are
all in the same negative position at present; and the Second has done rather the most robbing
of hen-roosts.

The Fifth, Duryea's Zouaves, lighten up the woods brilliantly with their scarlet legs and scarlet
head-pieces.

       *       *       *       *       *

These last words were written upon the day that the attack in which Winthrop fell was arranged.

The disastrous day of the 10th of June, at Great Bethel, need not be described here. It is
already written with tears and vain regrets in our history. It is useless to prolong the debate
as to where the blame of the defeat, if blame there were, should rest. But there is an impression
somewhat prevalent that Winthrop planned the expedition, which is incorrect. As military secretary
of the commanding general, he made a memorandum of the outline of the plan as it had been finally
settled. Precisely what that memorandum (which has been published) was he explains in the last
letter he wrote, a few hours before leaving the fort. He says,--"If I come back safe, I will
send you my notes of the plan of attack, part made up from the General's hints, part my own
fancies." This defines exactly his responsibility. His position as aid and military secretary,
his admirable qualities as adviser under the circumstances, and his personal friendship for
the General, brought him intimately into the council of war. He embarked in the plan all the
interest of a brave soldier contemplating his first battle. He probably made suggestions some
of which were adopted. The expedition was the first move from Fort Monroe, to which the country
had been long looking in expectation. These were the reasons why he felt so peculiar a responsibility
for its success; and after the melancholy events of the earlier part of the day, he saw that
its fortunes could be retrieved only by a dash of heroic enthusiasm. Fired himself, he sought
to kindle others. For one moment that brave, inspiring form is plainly visible to his whole
country, rapt and calm, standing upon the log nearest the enemy's battery, the mark of their
sharpshooters, the admiration of their leaders, waving his sword, cheering his fellow-soldiers
with his bugle voice of victory,--young, brave, beautiful, for one moment erect and glowing
in the wild whirl of battle, the next falling forward toward the foe, dead, but triumphant.

On the 19th of April he left the armory-door of the Seventh, with his hand upon a howitzer;
on the 21st of June his body lay upon the same howitzer at the same door, wrapped in the flag
for which he gladly died, as the symbol of human freedom. And so, drawn by the hands of young
men lately strangers to him, but of whose bravery and loyalty he had been the laureate, and
who fitly mourned him who had honored them, with long, pealing dirges and muffled drums, he
moved forward.

Yet such was the electric vitality of this friend of ours, that those of us who followed him
could only think of him as approving the funeral pageant, not the object of it, but still the
spectator and critic of every scene in which he was a part. We did not think of him as dead.
We never shall. In the moist, warm midsummer morning, he was alert, alive, immortal.

DIRGE

FOR ONE WHO FELL IN BATTLE.

  Room for a Soldier! lay him in the clover;
  He loved the fields, and they shall be his cover;
  Make his mound with hers who called him once her lover:
  Where the rain may rain upon it,
  Where the sun may shine upon it,
  Where the lamb hath lain upon it,
  And the bee will dine upon it.

  Bear him to no dismal tomb under city churches;
  Take him to the fragrant fields, by the silver birches,
  Where the whippoorwill shall mourn, where the oriole perches:
  Make his mound with sunshine on it,
  Where the bee will dine upon it,
  Where the lamb hath lain upon it,
  And the rain will rain upon it.

  Busy as the busy bee, his rest should be the clover;
  Gentle as the lamb was he, and the fern should be his cover;
  Fern and rosemary shall grow my soldier's pillow over:
  Where the rain may rain upon it,
  Where the sun may shine upon it,
  Where the lamb hath lain upon it,
  And the bee will dine upon it.

  Sunshine in his heart, the rain would come full often
  Out of those tender eyes which evermore did soften;
  He never could look cold, till we saw him in his coffin.
  Make his mound with sunshine on it,
  Where the wind may sigh upon it,
  Where the moon may stream upon it,
  And Memory shall dream upon it.

  "Captain or Colonel,"--whatever invocation
  Suit our hymn the best, no matter for thy station,--
  On thy grave the rain shall fall from the eyes of a mighty nation!
  Long as the sun doth shine upon it
  Shall grow the goodly pine upon it,
  Long as the stars do gleam upon it
  Shall Memory come to dream upon it.

REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

_Currents and Counter-Currents in Medical Science._ With other Addresses and Essays. By OLIVER
WENDELL HOLMES. Boston; Ticknor & Fields. 12mo.

This volume contains seven occasional addresses and essays, written at various periods between
1812 and 1860. The subjects of which it treats are "Homoeopathy, and its Kindred Delusions,"
"Puerperal Fever, as a Private Pestilence," "The Position and Prospects of the Medical Student,"
"The Duties of the Physician,"--a Valedictory Address to the Medical Graduates of Harvard University,--"The
Mechanism of Vital Actions," "Some more Recent Views of Homoeopathy," and "Currents and Counter-Currents
in Medical Science." They are characterized by extensive information, fertile thought, strong
convictions, keen wit, sound sense, and unflinching intellectual courage and self-trust. They
are valuable contributions to the literature of the medical profession, and at the same time
have that peculiar fascination which distinguishes all the productions of Dr. Holmes's ingenious
and opulent mind. The style is clear, crisp, sparkling, abounding in originalities of verbal
combination and felicities of descriptive phrase. In its movement, it bears the marks of a
kind of mental impatience of the processes of slower, more dogged, and more cautious intellects,
natural to a keen, bright, and swift intelligence, desirous of flashing the results of its
operation in the briefest and most brilliant expression. The argument, though founded on premises
which have been gathered by careful observation and study, often disregards the forms of the
logic whose spirit it obeys, and, by its frequent use of analogy and illustration, may sometimes
dazzle and confuse the minds it seeks to convince. In regard to opponents, it is not content
with mere dialectic victory, but insinuates the subtle sting of wit to vex and irritate the
sore places of defeat and humiliation.

The reputation which Dr. Holmes enjoys, as one of the most popular poets and prose-writers
of the day, has made the public overlook the fact that literature has been the recreation of
a life of which medical science has been the business. By far the larger portion of his time,
for the last thirty years, has been devoted to his profession. Perhaps the value and validity
of the conclusions he records in this volume may be questioned from the very circumstance that
he expresses them in the lucid and vigorous style of an accomplished man of letters. "People,"
says Macaulay, "are loath to admit that the same man can unite very different kinds of excellence.
It is soothing to envy to believe that what is splendid cannot be solid, that what is clear
cannot be profound. Very slowly was the public brought to acknowledge that Mansfield was a
great jurist, and that Burke was a great master of political science. Montagu was a brilliant
rhetorician, and therefore, though he had ten times Harley's capacity for the driest parts
of business, was represented by detractors as a superficial, prating pretender." Indeed, that
peculiar vital energy which is the characteristic of genius carries the man of genius cheerfully
through masses of drudgery which would dismay and paralyze the vigor of industrious mediocrity.
The present volume, bright as it is in expression, is full of evidences that the author has
submitted to the austerest requirements of his laborious profession; and if his opinions generally
coincide with those which have been somewhat reluctantly adopted by the most eminent physicians
of the age, it is certain that he has not jumped to his conclusions, but has reached them by
patient and independent thought, study, and observation.

The courage which Dr. Holmes displays throughout this volume is of a refreshing kind. His frank,
bold utterance of his convictions not only subjects him to the adverse criticism of a numerous
and powerful body of able men in his own profession, but brings him into direct hostility with
many persons who, outside of his profession, are among the warmest lovers of his literary genius.
Some of the most intelligent admirers and appreciators of "The Autocrat" and "The Professor"
are adherents of Homoeopathy; and of Homoeopathy Dr. Holmes is not only a scientific, but a
sarcastic opponent. He both acknowledges and satirizes the fact, that intellectual men, eminent
in all professions but that of medicine, are champions of the system he derides; but he does
not the less spare one bitter word or cutting fleer against the system itself. By thus daring,
provoking, and defying opposition both to his professional and literary reputation, he seems
to us to indicate a real, if somewhat impatient love of truth. He valorously invites and courts
the malicious sharpness of the most unfriendly criticism. Some people may call by the name
of conceit this honest and unwithholding devotion of his whole powers to what he deems the
cause of truth; but, we must be allowed to object, conceit is commonly anxious for the safety
of the individual, while Dr. Holmes intrepidly exposes his individuality to the fire of hostile
cannon, which are prevented from being discharged against each other only by the lucky thought
that they can do more execution by being converged upon him. Had he appeared as an intelligent,
knowing, and efficient controversialist on the side of the traditions of his profession, his
wholesale denunciation of quackery, vulgar or genteel, might be referred to conceit; had he
turned state's evidence against the accredited deceptions of his own profession, and gone over
entirely to the enthusiasts who think that medicine is not an experimental science, but a series
of hap-hazard hits at the occult laws of disease, he might be accused of conceit; but we think
the charge is ridiculously false as directed against a man who boldly puts his professional
and literary fame at risk in order to advance the cause of reason, learning, and common sense.
Nobody can justly appreciate Holmes who does not perceive an impersonal earnestness and insight
beneath the play of his provoking personal wit. We admit that he makes enemies needlessly;
but all fair minds must still concede that even his petulances of sarcasm are but eccentric
utterances of a love of truth which has its source in the deepest and gravest sentiments of
his nature.

The object of Dr. Holmes's volume is to bring physicians and the people over whom they hold
dominion into sensible relations with each other. A beautiful scorn of deception and humbug
shines through his clear exposition of the facts and laws of disease. A high sense of the duties
and dignity of the medical profession animates every precept he enforces on the attention of
those who are to deal with disease. Like all the advanced thinkers of his profession, he relies,
in the art of curing, more on Nature than on drugs; but in thus assisting to dispel the notion
that the prescriptions either of the regular doctor or the irregular empiric possess the power
to heal, he injures the quack only to aid the good physician. The strength of the quack consists
in the two-fold ignorance of the sick,--in their ignorance of the superficial character of
their common ailments, and in their ignorance of the deadly nature of their exceptional diseases.
Panaceas, seeming to cure the former, are eagerly taken for the latter; but it is well known
that they do not cure in either case. Physicians are tempted into quackery by the desire to
dislodge ignorant pretenders from bedsides which it is their proper function to attend, and
in ministering to sick imaginations they are too apt to pour a needless amount of nauseous
medicine into sick bodies. If people, while in health, would heed the honest advice which Dr.
Holmes gives in this volume, they would force physicians to be less hypocritical in their management
of them when they are ill, and they would destroy the wide-spread evil of quackery under which
the world now groans.

_History of Civilization in England._ By HENRY THOMAS BUCKLE. Vol. II. From the Second London
Edition. To which is added an Alphabetical Index. New York: D. Appleton & Co. 8vo.

The present volume of Mr. Buckle's history consists of a deductive application to the history
of Spain and Scotland of certain leading propositions, which, in his previous volume, he claims
to have inductively established. These are four; "1st, That the progress of mankind depends
on the success with which the laws of phenomena are investigated, and on the extent to which
a knowledge of those laws is diffused; 2d, That, before investigation can begin, a spirit of
skepticism must arise, which, at first aiding the investigation, is afterwards aided by it;
3d, That the discoveries thus made increase the influence of intellectual truths, and diminish,
relatively, not absolutely, the influence of moral truths,--moral truths being more stationary
than intellectual truths, and receiving fewer additions; 4th, That the great enemy of this
movement, and therefore the great enemy of civilization, is the protective spirit, or the notion
that the good of society depends on its concerns being watched over and protected by a State
that teaches men what to do, and a Church which teaches them what to believe."

Mr. Buckle, with great abundance of learning and fulness of thought, attempts to prove that
the history of Spain and Scotland verifies these propositions. The general causes which, according
to him, have sunk Spain so low in the scale of civilization are loyalty and superstition. The
Church and State have been supreme, and the consequence has been that the people are profoundly
ignorant. Under able rulers, like Ferdinand, Charles V., and Philip II., the loyal nation attained
a great height of power and glory; under their incompetent successors, the loyal nation, obedient
to crowned sloth and stupidity as to crowned energy and genius, descended with frightful rapidity
from its high estate, thus proving that the progress which depends on the character of individual
monarchs or statesmen is necessarily unstable. Circumstances similar to those which made Spain
loyal made it superstitious; and loyalty and superstition early formed an alliance by which
all independent energy of conduct and thought was suppressed. According to Mr. Buckle, the
prosperity of nations, in modern times, "depends on principles to which the clergy, as a body,
are invariably opposed." This proposition is, to him, true of Protestant as well as Catholic
clergymen; and a nation like Spain, looking to the Government for what it should do, and to
the Church for what it should believe, has necessarily become inefficient and ignorant.

Spain has few friends among English readers, and Mr. Buckle's contemptuous opinion of its civilization
may not, therefore, rouse much opposition that he will be compelled to heed. But it is not
so in respect to Scotland, a caustic survey of whose civilization occupies three-quarters of
the present volume. The position is taken, that Scotland, of all the countries of Protestant
Europe, has been and is the most superstitious and priest-ridden. The only thing that saved
the people from the fate of Spain was the fact, that their insubordination to temporal authority
was as marked as their slavery to spiritual authority. They had the good fortune to be rebels
as well as fanatics; but the reforming clergy having, after 1580, allied themselves heartily
with the people against the king and nobles, increased as patriots the influence they exerted
as priests. The love of country being thus associated with love of the Church, the people were
enslaved by the very religious leaders who aided them in the fight against those forms of arbitrary
power they mutually detested. The tyranny of the Presbyterian minister was lovingly accepted
by the same population by which the tyranny of bishop and king was abhorred.

Mr. Buckle, with the malicious delight which only a philosopher in search of facts to fit his
theory can know, has delved in a stratum of theological literature now covered from the common
eye by more important deposits, in order to prove that in the seventeenth century the people
of Scotland were ruled by a set of petty theological tyrants, as ignorant and as inhuman as
ever disgraced a civilized society, and that their ignorance and inhumanity were all the more
influential from being called by the name and acting by the authority of religion.

The author then proceeds to consider the philosophical and scientific reaction against this
ecclesiastical despotism, which occurred in the eighteenth century. Why did it not emancipate
the Scottish intellect?

Because, says Mr. Buckle, the method of the philosophers, like the method of the theologians,
was deductive, and not inductive; and this, he thinks, characterizes the operation of the intellect
of Scotland in all departments. Now the deductive method, or reasoning from principles to facts,
does not strike the senses with the force of the inductive, or reasoning from facts to principles,
and it is accordingly less accessible to the average understanding. The result was, that the
writings of Hutcheson, Adam Smith, and Hume had little effect on the popular intellect of Scotland,
and its people are now the most bigoted and intolerant of those of any country in Europe, except
Spain. This portion of Mr. Buckle's volume, containing an analytical estimate, not only of
Hutcheson, Hume, and Adam Smith, but of Black, Leslie, Hutton, Cullen, and John Hunter, is
full of original thought and valuable information, however questionable may be some of its
statements.

Whatever may be thought of the general ideas which Mr. Buckle enforces, few will be inclined
to dispute the extent of his learning, the breadth of his understanding, the suggestiveness
of his generalizations, the earnestness of his purpose, the mental honesty with which he seeks
truth, the mental hardihood with which he assails what he considers error. He has not only
no intellectual timidity, but no intellectual reserve, and is indifferent to the opprobrium
which may proceed from the collision of his speculations with the strongest of prejudices and
the most immovable of convictions. But this intrepid sincerity is not without the alloy of
arrogance. He belongs to that school of able, but dogmatic positivists, who are apt to consider
their minds the measure of the human mind, who are intolerant of those human sentiments and
qualities in which they are deficient, and who, occupying the serene heights of a purely scientific
wisdom, look down with pitying contempt on all intellects, however powerful, which are not
emancipated from the dominion of theological ideas. Individually, he lacks both the sympathy
and the imaginative insight by which a man pierces to the heart of a nation, and appreciates
its life as distinguished from its opinions. All readers of those portions of the literature
of Spain and Scotland in which genius exhibits the vital manners and representative character
of those nations will feel how partial and inadequate is Mr. Buckle's historic sketch. The
fundamental idea of his system, that human progress depends on the success with which the laws
of phenomena are investigated and the extent to which a knowledge of them is diffused, overlooks
the essential element of _movement,_ which is not abstract knowledge, but vital force. Men
and nations move in virtue of their passionate, moral, and spiritual forces, and these determine
the character of their intellectual development and expression. A nation which knew all the
laws of phenomena, but which was utterly lacking in moral force, would not only not be civilized,
but would hardly be alive. Mr. Buckle insists that moral truths being relatively stationary,
while intellectual truths are constantly advancing and multiplying, civilization cannot depend
upon them. But even admitting that moral truths are stationary, still moral life, the conversion
of these truths into character, is capable of indefinite advancement. There are moral truths
more universal than any scientific truths, and it is owing to the fact that these truths have
so imperfectly passed from abstractions into conduct, that civilization is yet so imperfect,
and the achievements of the intellect still so limited. Out of the heart, and not out of the
head, are the issues of life; and how a mere knowledge of "the laws of phenomena" can regenerate
men from selfishness, ferocity, and malignity, can purify and invigorate the will, can even
of itself stimulate the intellect to a further investigation of those laws, Mr. Buckle has
not shown. Even the theological abuses of which he gives so exaggerated a representation are
expressions of the passions and character of the people to which the theology was accommodated,
and not of the sense and spirit of the New Testament, which the theology violated, so far as
it was false in its ideas or inhuman in its teachings.

RECENT AMERICAN PUBLICATIONS

RECEIVED BY THE EDITORS OF THE ATLANTIC MONTHLY.

The Uprising of a Great People: The United States in 1861. From the French of Count Agénor
de Gasparin, by Mary L. Booth. New York. Charles Scribner. 16mo. pp. 263. 75 cts.

Volunteers' Camp and Field Book, containing useful General Information on the Art and Science
of War. By J.P. Curry. New York. D. Appleton & Co. 32mo. pp. 146. 25 cts.

Lloyd's Military Campaign Chart. Pocket Edition. Arranged by E.L. Viele and Charles Haskins.
New York. H.H. Lloyd & Co. 18mo. pp. 12, and Map. 50 cts.

Hints on the Preservation of Health in Armies, for the Use of Volunteer Officers and Soldiers.
By J. Ordronaux, M.D. New York, D. Appleton & Co. 24mo. pp. 142. 38 cts.

Tom Brown at Oxford. A Sequel to "School Days at Rugby." By the Author of "School Days at Rugby,"
etc. Boston. Ticknor & Fields. 12mo. pp. 430. $1.00.

A Day's Ride, a Life's Romance. By Charles Lever. New York. Harper & Brothers. 8vo. paper,
pp. 152. 50 cts.

The North American Review, No. CXCII., for July, 1861. Boston. Crosby, Nichols, Lee, & Co.
8vo. pp. 300. $1.25.

