THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 20 No. 571.] SUPPLEMENTARY NUMBER. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTICES OF THE LIFE AND WRITINGS OF THE LATE SIR WALTER SCOTT, BART.

With Five Engravings:

  1. ABBOTSFORD, (_from the Garden_.)
  2. THE ARMOURY.
  3. THE POET'S STUDY.
  4. PORTRAIT--(_from the last painting_.)
  5. DRYBURGH ABBEY.

[Illustration: ABBOTSFORD, (FROM THE GARDEN, see page 247.)]

Sir Walter Scott was the third son of Walter Scott, Esq., Writer to the Signet, in Edinburgh,
and Anne, daughter of Dr. John Rutherford, Professor of Medicine in the University of the above
city. His ancestry numbers several distinguished persons; though the well-earned fame of Sir
Walter Scott readers his pedigree comparatively uninteresting; inasmuch as it illustrates the
saw of an olden poet, that

  Learning is an addition beyond
  Nobility of birth: honour of blood,
  Without the ornament of knowledge, is
  A glorious ignorance.

SHIRLEY.

Sir Walter was born at Edinburgh, on the 15th of August, 1771--or, on the birthday of Napoleon
Buonaparte. His father was a man of prosperous fortune and good report; and for many years
was "an elder in the parish church of Old Grey Friars, while Dr. Robertson, the historian,
acted as one of the ministers. The other clergyman was Dr. John Erskine, of whom Sir Walter
has given an animated picture in his novel of _Guy Mannering_."[1] Mrs. Scott is described
as a well-educated gentlewoman, possessing considerable natural talents; though she did not
enjoy the acquaintance of Allan Ramsay, Blacklock, Beattie, and Burns, as has been stated by
some biographers. She, however, advantageously mixed in literary society, and from her superintendence
of the early education of her eldest son, Walter, there is reason to infer that such advantages
may have influenced his habits and taste. He was the third of a family, consisting of six sons
and one daughter. The cleverest of the sons is stated by Sir Walter to have been Daniel, a
sailor, who died young. Thomas, the next brother to Sir Walter, was a man of considerable talent,
and before the avowal of the authorship of the Waverley Novels, report ascribed to him a great
part or the whole of them. Sir Walter observes--"Those who remember that gentleman (of the
70th regiment, then stationed in Canada) will readily grant, that, with general talent at least
equal to those of his elder brother, he added a power of social humour, and a deep insight
into human character, which rendered him an universally delightful member of society, and that
the habit of composition alone was wanting to render him equally successful as a writer. The
Author of Waverley was so persuaded of the truth of this, that he warmly pressed his brother
to make such an experiment, and willingly undertook all the trouble of correcting and superintending
the press." Ill health, however, unfitted Mr. Scott for the task, though "the author believes
his brother would have made himself distinguished in that striking field, in which, since that
period, Mr. Cooper has achieved so many triumphs."[2]

    [1] Chamber's Life of Sir Walter Scott.

    [2] General Preface to the Waverley Novels, 41 vols.

The house in which Sir Walter Scott was born no longer exists. It was situated at the head
of the College Wynd, at its entrance into North College-street. It was thus described by Sir
Walter in 1825:--"It consisted of two flats above Mr. Keith's, and belonged to my father, Mr.
Walter Scott, Writer to the Signet. There I had the chance to be born, 15th of August, 1771.
My father, soon after my birth, removed to George's Square, and let the house in the College
Wynd, first to Mr. Dundas, of Philipstoun, and afterwards to Mr. William Keith, father of Sir
Alexander Keith. It was purchased by the public, together with Mr. Keith's (the inferior floors),
and pulled down to make way for the new College."

CHILDHOOD.

Mr. Cunningham relates some interesting particulars of this period. Before Sir Walter was two
years old, his nurse let him fall out of her arms, so as to injure his right foot, and render
him lame for life: "This accident did not otherwise affect his health; he was, as I have been
informed by a lady who chanced to live near him, a remarkably active and dauntless boy, full
of all manner of fun, and ready for all manner of mischief. He calls himself, in one of his
introductions to _Marmion_--

    A self-willed imp; a grondame's child;

and I have heard it averred, that the circumstance of his lame foot prompted him to take the
lead among all the stirring boys in the street where he lived, or the school which he attended:
he desired, perhaps, to show them, that there was a spirit which could triumph over all impediments."[3]
If this statement be correct, it is a somewhat remarkable coincidence with the circumstance
of Lord Byron's lameness; though, happily, the influence of the accident on the temperament
of Scott is not traceable beyond his early years.

    [3] Life of Sir Walter Scott; in the Athenaeum, No. 258.

Sir Walter was subsequently removed from Edinburgh, for the improvement of his health, to the
farm-house of Sandyknowe, then inhabited by his paternal grandfather, and situated in the loveliest
part of the Vale of Tweed. In the neighbourhood, upon a considerable eminence, stands Smailholm
Tower, a Border fort which the future poet enshrined in his admirable ballad, _The Eve of St.
John_. The romantic influence of the scenery of the whole district is told with much vigour
and sweetness in the introduction to the third canto of _Marmion_.

EDUCATION.

Little is known of the schooldom of Scott, that denotes anything like precocious talent. It
is, however better ascertained that his early rambles amidst the Tweed scenery retarded his
educational pursuits. He received the rudiments of knowledge under the home tuition of his
mother; next attended an ordinary school at Edinburgh, and was then placed at the High School,
his name first appearing in the school register in the year 1779. His masters, Mr. Luke Fraser,
and Dr. Adam, were erudite and pains-taking teachers; but, to borrow a phrase from Montaigne,
they could neither lodge it with him, nor make him espouse it, and Chambers illustratively
relates, "apparently, neither the care of the master, nor the inborn genius of the pupil, availed
much in this case; for it is said that the twenty-fifth place was no uncommon situation in
the class for the future Author of the Waverley Novels." Perhaps the only anecdote of any early
indication of talent that can be relied on is that related by Mr. Cunningham, of Burns:--"The
poet, while at Professor Ferguson's one day, was struck by some lines attached to a print of
a Soldier dying in the snow, and inquired who was the author: none of the old or the learned
spoke, when the future author of _Marmion_ answered, 'They are by Langhorne.' Burns, fixing
his large, bright eyes on the boy, and, striding up to him, said, it is no common course of
reading which has taught you this--'this lad,' said he to the company, will be heard of yet."

At school, Sir Walter represents himself to have excelled in what may be termed the _art_,
or, as Swift calls it, the "knack," of narrating a story, which, by the way, is as companionable
an acquirement at school as elsewhere. His account is as follows:--"I must refer to a very
early period of my life, were I to point out my first achievements as a tale-teller--but I
believe some of my old school-fellows can still bear witness that I had a distinguished character
for that talent, at a time when the applause of my companions was my recompense for the disgraces
and punishments which the future romance writer incurred for being idle himself, and keeping
others idle, during hours that should have been employed on our tasks. The chief enjoyment
of my holydays was to escape with a chosen friend, who had the same taste with myself, and
alternately to recite to each other such wild adventures as we were able to devise. We told,
each in turn, interminable tales of knight-errantry and battles and enchantments, which were
continued from one day to another as opportunity offered, without our ever thinking of bringing
them to a conclusion. As we observed a strict secresy on the subject of this intercourse, it
acquired all the character of a concealed pleasure; and we used to select for the scenes of
our indulgence, long walks through the solitary and romantic environs of Arthur's Seat, Salisbury
Crags, Braid Hills, and similar places in the vicinity of Edinburgh, and the recollection of
those holydays still forms an _oasis_ in the pilgrimage which I have to look back upon."[4]

    [4] General Preface, p. ii.

This excellence in tale-telling drew Scott's attention from graver studies; but it was an indication
of genius which may be regarded as the corner-stone of his future fame. This reminds us of
Steele's idea, that "a story-teller is born as well as a poet." Scott, about this time, received
some instructions in music, which was then considered a branch of ordinary education in Scotland;
but the future poet, to use a familiar expression, wanted "an ear." Throughout life he, however,
was highly susceptible of the delights of music, though his own execution was confined to a
single song, with which he attempted to enliven the social board, but, it is stated, with such
unmusical oddity as to content his hearers with a single specimen of his vocal talent. His
early rambles around the "hills and holms of the border," is said to have kindled in Scott
the love of painting landscapes, not strictly in accordance with the rules of art, though certainly
from nature herself. Such attempts in art, by the way, are by no means uncommon in the early
lives of men of genius; and, they are to be regarded, in many instances as their earliest appreciation
of the beauties of nature.

In 1783, Scott was placed at the University of Edinburgh, where his studies were as irregular
as at the High School: at the latter he is said to have made his first attempt at versification
in the description of a thunderstorm in six lines, the recital of which afforded his mother
considerable pleasure and promise; and, on another occasion, he is stated to have remarked,
during a journey over a sterile district of Scotland, in a day of drizzling rain, "It is only
nature weeping for the barrenness of her soil."

LOVE OF READING.

Scott's early love of reading is described to have been of enthusiastic character, and to have
been fostered by an accident at this period of his life. He had just given over the amusements
of boyhood, and began to prepare himself for the serious business of life, or the study of
the law, when, to use his own words, "a long illness threw him back on the kingdom of fiction,
as it were by a species of fatality." His autobiography of this period is extremely interesting:--"My
indisposition arose in part at least, from my having broken a blood-vessel; and motion and
speech were for a long time pronounced positively dangerous. For several weeks I was confined
strictly to my bed, during which time I was not allowed to speak above a whisper, to eat more
than a spoonful or two of boiled rice, or to have more covering than one thin counterpane.
When the reader is informed that I was at this time a growing youth, with the spirits, appetite,
and impatience of fifteen, and suffered, of course, greatly under this severe regimen, which
the repeated return of my disorder rendered indispensable, he will not be surprised that I
was abandoned to my own discretion, so far as reading (my almost sole amusement) was concerned,
and still less so, that I abused the indulgence which left my time so much at my own disposal.

"There was at this time a circulating library at Edinburgh, founded, I believe, by the celebrated
Allan Ramsay, which, besides containing a most respectable collection of books of every description,
was, as might have been expected, peculiarly rich in works of fiction. I was plunged into this
great ocean of reading without compass or pilot; and unless when some one had the charity to
play at chess with me, I was allowed to do nothing save read, from morning to night. As my
taste and appetite were gratified in nothing else, I indemnified myself by becoming a glutton
of books. Accordingly, I believe, I read almost all the old romances, old plays, and epic poetry,
in that formidable collection, and no doubt was unconsciously amassing materials for the task
in which it has been my lot to be so much employed.

"At the same time, I did not in all respects abuse the license permitted me. Familiar acquaintance
with the specious miracles of fiction brought with it some degree of satiety, and I began by
degrees to seek in histories, memoirs, voyages and travels, and the like, events nearly as
wonderful as those which were the works of the imagination, with the additional advantage that
they were, at least, in a great measure true. The lapse of nearly two years, during which I
was left to the service of my own free will, was followed by a temporary residence in the country,
where I was again very lonely, but for the amusement which I derived from a good, though old-fashioned,
library. The vague and wild use which I made of this advantage I cannot describe better than
by referring my reader to the desultory studies of Waverley in a similar situation; the passages
concerning whose reading were imitated from recollections of my own."[5]

    [5] General Preface, &c.

STUDIES IN THE LAW.

Upon the re-establishment of his health, Scott returned to Edinburgh, and resumed his studies
in the law, which had been interrupted by illness. He states his progress to have been neither
slow nor unsatisfactory, though by others he is said to have been an indolent student. He speaks
of his "severe studies" occupying the greater part of his time, and amidst their dulness he
seems to have underrated the incidents of his private life, which he afterwards related to
the world with some share of self-satisfaction.

He appears to have succeeded tolerably in his legal lucubrations; for, in 1792, he was called
to the bar as an advocate. He established himself in good style in Edinburgh, but had little
practice; though the accounts of his progress are somewhat contradictory. That he passed much
of his time in acquiring other than professional knowledge is more certain, though he rarely
attempted composition. Mr. Chambers, with all his diligence and advantages for research, (and
they are very meritorious and considerable,) "has not been able to detect any fugitive pieces
of Sir Walter's in any of the periodical publications of the day, nor even any attempt to get
one intruded (?) unless the following notice in Dr. Anderson's _Bee_ for May 9, 1792, refers
to him:--'The Editor regrets that the verses of _W.S._ are _too defective for publication_.'"

FIRST LITERARY ATTEMPTS.

About this time Sir Walter employed his leisure in collecting the ballad poetry of the Scottish
Border. His inducement to this task was subsequently described by him as follows:--

"A period," says Sir Walter, "when this particular taste for the popular ballad was in the
most extravagant degree of fashion, became the occasion, unexpectedly indeed, of my deserting
the profession to which I was educated, and in which I had sufficiently advantageous prospects
for a person of limited ambition. * * I may remark that, although the assertion has been made,
it is a mistake to suppose that my situation in life or place in society were materially altered
by such success as I attained in literary attempts. My birth, without giving the least pretension
to distinction, was that of a gentleman, and connected me with several respectable families
and accomplished persons. My education had been a good one, although I was deprived of its
full benefit by indifferent health, just at the period when I ought to have been most sedulous
in improving it." He then describes his circumstances as easy, with a moderate degree of business
for his standing, and "the friendship of more than one person of consideration, efficiently
disposed to aid his views in life." In short, he describes himself as "beyond all apprehension
of want." He then notices the low ebb of poetry in Britain for the previous ten years; the
fashionable but slender poetical reputation of Hayley, then in the wane; "the Bard of Memory
slumbered on his laurels, and he of Hope had scarce begun to attract his share of public attention;"
Cowper was dead, and had not left an extensive popularity; "Burns, whose genius our southern
neighbours could hardly yet comprehend, had long confined himself to song-writing; and the
realms of Parnassus seemed to lie open to the first bold invader." The gradual introduction
of German literature into this country during such a dearth of native talent, now led Sir Walter
to the study of the German language. He also became acquainted with Mr. G. Lewis, author of
_The Monk_, who had already published some successful imitations of the German ballad school.
"Out of this acquaintance," says Sir Walter, "consequences arose, which altered almost all
the Scottish ballad-maker's future prospects of life. In early youth I had been an eager student
of ballad poetry, and the tree is still in my recollection, beneath which I lay and first entered
upon the enchanting perusal of Percy's Reliques of Ancient Poetry. The taste of another person
had strongly encouraged my own researches into this species of legendary lore; but I had never
dreamed of an attempt to imitate what gave me so much pleasure." He then speaks of some successful
metrical translations which he made at the High School; but in original rhyme he was less fortunate.
"In short," says Sir Walter, "except the usual tribute to a mistress' eyebrow, which is the
language of passion rather than poetry, I had not for ten years indulged the wish to couple
so much as _love_ and _dove_, when finding Lewis in possession of so much reputation, and,
conceiving that, if I fell behind him in poetical powers, I considerably exceeded him in general
information, I suddenly took it into my head to attempt the style by which he had raised himself
to fame." Sir Walter next hearing a striking passage from Mr. W. Taylor's translation of Bürger's
_Leonore_, was induced to procure a copy of the original poem from Germany, and "the book had
only been a few hours in my possession, when I found myself giving an animated account of the
poem to a friend, and rashly added a promise to furnish a copy in English ballad verse. I well
recollect that I began my task after supper, and finished it about daybreak the next morning,
(it consists of 66 stanzas,) by which time the ideas which the task had a tendency to summon
up, were rather of an uncomfortable character." This success encouraged Sir Walter to publish
his translation of _Leonore_ with that of _Der Wilde Jager_ (the Wild Huntsman,) in a thin
quarto; but, other translations appearing at the same time, Sir Walter's adventure proved a
dead loss: "and a great part of the edition was condemned to the service of the trunk-maker."
This failure did not discourage Sir Walter; for, early in 1799 he published _Goetz of Berlinchingen_,
a tragedy, from the German of Goëthe. We thus see that Sir Walter did not conceal his obligation
to Lewis, for his aid in his translations; but Lord Byron's assertion that Monk Lewis corrected
Scott's verse, and that he understood little then of the mechanical part of it--is far from
true, as a comparison of their productions warrants us to conclude.

Sir Walter's first attempt at originality was in ballad poetry. He says:--"The ballad called
_Glenfinlas_ was, I think, the first original poem which I ventured to compose. After _Glenfinlas_,
I undertook another ballad, called _The Eve of St. John_. The incidents, except the hints alluded
to in the notes, are entirely imaginary; but the scene was that of my early childhood. Some
idle persons had of late years during the proprietor's absence, torn down the iron-grated door
of Smailholm Tower from its hinges, and thrown it down the rock." Sir Walter prevailed on the
proprietor to repair the mischief, on condition that the young poet should write a ballad,
of which the scene should lie at Smailholm Tower, and among the crags where it is situated.
The ballad, as well as _Glenfinlas_, was approved of, and procured Sir Walter many marks of
attention and kindness from Duke John of Roxburgh, who gave him the unlimited use of the Roxburgh
club library.

MINSTRELSY OF THE SCOTTISH BORDER.

This work, although not original, may be said to be the superstructure of Sir Walter Scott's
fame. It consists, as we have already hinted, of the ballad poetry of the Border district;
but to obtain this vernacular literature was not the work of mere compilation. The editor's
task was not performed in the closet, but in a sort of literary pilgrimage through a land of
song, story, and romance. The farmers and peasantry from whose recitation the ballads were
to be set down, were a primitive race; and the country among which oral traditions, anecdotes,
and legends were to be collected for notes illustrative of the ballads, was of the most romantic
character. Sir Walter found the most fertile field in the pastoral vale of Liddesdale, whither
he travelled in an old gig with Mr. Shortreed, an intelligent observer of the manners of the
people. In these researches, Sir Walter evinced a most retentive memory: he is stated to have
used neither pencil nor pen, but to have made his own memoranda by cutting notches on twigs,
or small sticks.[6] The _Minstrelsy_ was published in 1802, in two volumes; it was reprinted
in the following year with a third volume, of imitations, by Scott and others, of the ancient
ballad; but Sir Walter refers to the second edition as rather a heavy concern.

    [6] Many anecdotes are related in illustration of Sir Walter
        Scott's excellent memory. The Ettrick Shepherd tells of
        his attempting to sing his ballad of _Gilmanscleuch_,
        which had never been printed or penned, but which the
        Shepherd had sung once over to Sir Walter three years
        previously. On the second attempt to sing it, says the
        Shepherd, "in the eighth or ninth verse, I stuck in it,
        and could not get on with another line; on which he (Sir
        Walter) began it a second time, and recited it every word
        from beginning to the end of the eighty-eighth stanza:"
        and, on the Shepherd expressing his astonishment, Sir
        Walter related that he had recited that ballad and one of
        Southey's, but which ballads he had only heard once from
        their respective authors, and he believed he had recited
        them both without missing a word. Sir Walter also used to
        relate that his friend, Mr. Thomas Campbell, called upon
        him one evening to show him the manuscript of a poem he
        had written--_The Pleasures of Hope_. Sir Walter happened
        to have some fine old whisky in his house, and his friend
        sat down and had a tumbler or two of punch. Mr. Campbell
        left him, but Sir Walter thought he would dip into the
        manuscript before going to bed. He opened it, read, and
        read again--charmed with the classical grace, purity, and
        stateliness of that finest of all our modern didactic
        poems. Next morning Mr. Campbell again called, when to his
        inexpressible surprise, his friend on returning the
        manuscript to its owner, said he should guard well against
        piracy, for that he himself could repeat the poem from
        beginning to end! The poet dared him to the task, when Sir
        Walter Scott began and actually repeated the whole,
        consisting of more than two thousand lines, with the
        omission of only a few couplets.--_Inverness Courier_.

MARRIAGE--SHERIFFDOM--LEAVES THE BAR.

Reverting to Sir Walter's domestic life, we should mention that in 1797, he married Miss Carpenter,
a lady of Jersey, with an annuity of 400_l._; soon after which he established himself during
the vacations, in a delightful retreat at Lasswade, on the banks of the Esse, about five miles
to the south of Edinburgh. In 1799, he obtained the Crown appointment of sheriff of Selkirkshire,
with a salary of 300_l._ a year; the duties of which office he is said to have performed with
kindness and justice. Mr. Cunningham relates that Sir Walter had a high notion of the dignity
which belonged to his post, and sternly maintained it when any one seemed disposed to treat
it with unbecoming familiarity. On one occasion, it is said, when some foreign prince passed
through Selkirk, the populace, anxious to look on a live prince, crowded round him so closely,
that Scott, in vain attempted to approach him; the poet's patience failed, and exclaiming "Room
for your sheriff! Room for your sheriff!" he pushed and elbowed the gapers impatiently aside,
and apologised to the prince for their curiosity.[7]

    [7] Memoir in the _Athenaeum_.

By the death of Sir Walter's father, his income was increased, and this addition, with the
salary of his sheriffdom, left him more at leisure to indulge his literary pursuits. Soon after
this period, about 1803, Sir Walter finding that his attempts in literature had been unfavourable
to his success at the bar, says:--"My profession and I, therefore, came to stand nearly upon
the footing on which honest Slender consoled himself with having established with Mrs. Anne
Page. 'There was no great love between us at the beginning, and it pleased Heaven to decrease
it on farther acquaintance!' I became sensible that the time was come when I must either buckle
myself resolutely to 'the toil by day, the lamp by night,' renouncing all the Dalilahs of my
imagination, or bid adieu to the profession of the law, and hold another course.

"I confess my own inclination revolted from the more severe choice, which might have been deemed
by many the wiser alternative. As my transgressions had been numerous, my repentance must have
been signalized by unusual sacrifices. I ought to have mentioned that, since my fourteenth
or fifteenth year, my health, originally delicate, had been extremely robust. From infancy
I had laboured under the infirmity of a severe lameness, but, as I believe is usually the case
with men of spirit who suffer under personal inconveniences of this nature, I had, since the
improvement of my health, in defiance of this incapacitating circumstance, distinguished myself
by the endurance of toil on foot or horseback, having often walked thirty miles a-day, and
rode upwards of a hundred without stopping. In this manner I made many pleasant journeys through
parts of the country then not very accessible, gaining more amusement and instruction than
I have been able to acquire since I have travelled in a more commodious manner. I practised
most sylvan sports also with some success and with great delight. But these pleasures must
have been all resigned, or used with great moderation, had I determined to regain my station
at the bar." After well weighing these matters, Sir Walter resolved on quitting his avocations
in the law for literature; though he determined that literature should be his staff but not
his crutch, and that the profits of his labour, however convenient otherwise, should not become
necessary to his ordinary expenses.

THE LAY OF THE LAST MINSTREL.

Sir Walter's secession from the law was followed by the production of his noblest poem--_the
Lay of the Last Minstrel_--the origin of which is thus related by the author:

"The lovely young Countess of Dalkeith, afterwards Harriet, Duchess of Buccleuch, had come
to the land of her husband, with the desire of making herself acquainted with its traditions
and customs. Of course, where all made it a pride and pleasure to gratify her wishes, she soon
heard enough of Border lore; among others, an aged gentleman of property, near Langholm, communicated
to her ladyship the story of Gilpin Horner--a tradition in which the narrator and many more
of that county were firm believers. The young Countess, much delighted with the legend, and
the gravity and full confidence with which it was told, enjoined it on me as a task to compose
a ballad on the subject. Of course, to hear was to obey; and thus the goblin story, objected
to by several critics as an excrescence upon the poem, was, in fact, the occasion of its being
written."

Sir Walter having composed the first two or three stanzas of the poem--taking for his model
the _Christabel_ of Coleridge--showed them to two friends, "whose talents might have raised
them to the highest station in literature, had they not preferred exerting them in their own
profession of the law, in which they attained equal preferment." They were more silent upon
the merits of the stanzas than was encouraging to the author; and Sir Walter, looking upon
the attempt as a failure, threw the manuscript into the fire, and thought as little as he could
of the matter. Sometime afterwards, Sir Walter meeting his two friends, was asked how he proceeded
in his romance;--they were surprised at its fate, said they had reviewed their opinion, and
earnestly desired that Sir Walter would proceed with the composition. He did so; and the poem
was soon finished, proceeding at the rate of about a canto per week. It was finally published
in 1805, and produced to the author 600_l._; and, to use his own words, "it may be regarded
as the first work in which the writer, who has been since so voluminous, laid his claim to
be considered as an original author." We thus see that Sir Walter Scott was in his 34th year
before he had published an original work.

MARMION.

Sir Walter's second poem of consequence appeared in 1808, he having published a few ballads
and lyrical pieces during the year 1806. The publishers, emboldened by the success of _the
Lay of the Last Minstrel_, gave the author 1,000_l._ for _Marmion_. Its success was electric,
and at once wrought up the poet's reputation. In his preface to the last edition, April, 1830,
he states 36,000 copies to have been printed between 1808 and 1825, besides a considerable
sale since that period; and the publishers were so delighted with the success, as "to supply
the author's cellars with what is always an acceptable present to a young Scotch house-keeper--namely,
a hogshead of excellent claret."

CLERK OF SESSION.

Between the appearance of _the Lay of the Last Minstrel_ and _Marmion_, hopes were held out
to him from an influential quarter of the reversion of the office of a Principal Clerk in the
Court of Session; and, Mr. Pitt, having expressed a wish to be of service to the author, of
_the Lay of the Last Minstrel_, Sir Walter applied for the reversion. His desire was readily
acceeded to; and, according to Chambers, George III. is reported to have said, when he signed
the commission, that "he was happy he had it in his power to reward a man of genius, and a
person of such distinguished merit." The King had signed the document, and the office fees
alone remained to be paid, when Mr. Pitt died, and a new and opposite ministry succeeded. Sir
Walter, however, obtained the appointment, though not from the favour of an administration
differing from himself in politics, as has been supposed; the grant having been obtained before
Mr. Fox's direction that the appointment should be conferred as a favour coming directly from
his administration. The duties were easy, and the profits about 1,200_l._ a year, though Sir
Walter, according to arrangement, performed the former for five or six years without salary,
until the retirement of his colleague.

EDITIONS OF DRYDEN AND SWIFT.

Sir Walter's next literary labour was the editorship of the _Works of John Dryden_, with Notes.
Critical and Explanatory, and a Life of the Author: the chief aim of which appears to be the
arrangement of the "literary productions in their succession, as actuated by, and operating
upon, the taste of an age, where they had so predominating an influence," and the connexion
of the Life of Dryden with the history of his publications. This he accomplished within a twelvemonth.
Sir Walter subsequently edited, upon a similar plan, an edition of the _Works of Swift_.--Neither
of these works can be said to entitle Sir Walter to high rank as a biographer.

THE LADY OF THE LAKE

Was written in 1809, and published in 1810, and was considered by the author as the best of
his poetic compositions. He appears to have taken more than ordinary pains in its accuracy,
especially in verifying the correctness of the local circumstances of the story. In his introduction
to a late edition of the poem, he says--"I recollect, in particular, that to ascertain whether
I was telling a probable tale, I went into Perthshire, to see whether King James could actually
have ridden from the banks of Loch Venachar to Stirling Castle within the time supposed in
the poem, and had the pleasure to satisfy myself that it was quite practicable." The success
of the poem "was certainly so extraordinary, as to induce him for the moment to conclude, that
he had at last fixed a nail in the proverbially inconstant wheel of Fortune, whose stability
in behalf of an individual, who had so boldly courted her favours for three successive times,
had not as yet been shaken."

ABBOTSFORD.--(_See the Cuts_.)

Since Sir Walter's appointment to the sheriffdom of Selkirkshire, he had resided at Ashiesteel,
on the banks of the Tweed, of which he was but the tenant. He was now desirous to purchase
a small estate, and thereon build a house according to his own taste. He found a desirable
site six or seven miles farther down the Tweed, in the neighbourhood of the public road between
Melrose and Selkirk, and at nearly an equal distance from both of those towns: it was then
occupied by a little farm onstead, which bore the name of Cartley Hole. The mansion is in what
is termed the castellated Gothic style, embosomed in flourishing wood. It takes its name from
a ford, formerly used by the monks of Melrose, across the Tweed, which now winds amongst a
rich succession of woods and lawns. But we will borrow Mr. Allan Cunningham's description of
the estate, written during a visit to Abbotsford, in the summer of 1831:--"On the other side
of the Tweed we had a fine view of Abbotsford, and all its policies and grounds. The whole
is at once extensive and beautiful. The fast rising woods are already beginning to bury the
house, which is none of the smallest; and the Tweed, which runs within gun-shot of the windows,
can only be discerned here and there through the tapestry of boughs. A fine, open-work, Gothic
screen half conceals and half shows the garden, as you stand in front of the house--(_see the
Engraving_.) It was the offspring of necessity, for it became desirable to mask an unseemly
old wall, on which are many goodly fruit-trees. What we most admired about the estate, was
the naturally useful and elegant manner in which the great poet has laid out the plantations--first,
with respect to the bounding or enclosing line; and secondly, with regard to the skilful distribution
of the trees, both for the contrast of light and shade, and for the protection which the strong
affords to the weak.[8] The horizontal profile of the house is fine, crowded with towers and
clustered chimneys: it looks half castle, half monastery. The workmanship, too, is excellent:
indeed we never saw such well-dressed, cleanly, and compactly laid whinstone course and gage
in our life: it is a perfect picture."[9] "The external walls of Abbotsford, as also the walls
of the adjoining garden, are enriched with many old carved stones, which, having originally
figured in other situations, to which they were calculated by their sculptures and inscriptions,
have a very curious effect. Among the various relics which Sir Walter has contrived to collect,
may be mentioned the door of the old Tolbooth of Edinburgh, which, together with the hewn stones
that composed the gateway, are now made to figure in a base court at the west end of the house."[10]

    [8] Sir Walter possessed a practical as well as theoretical
        knowledge of Landscape Gardening, as may be seen in a
        valuable paper contributed by him to No. 47, of the
        _Quarterly Review_. The details of this paper were,
        however, disputed by some writers on the subject.

    [9] Communicated to No. 199, of _The Athenaeum_. The mansion
        was built from designs by Atkinson. Sir Walter may,
        however, be termed the amateur architect of the pile, and
        this may somewhat explain its irregularities. We have been
        told that the earliest design of Abbotsford was furnished
        by the late Mr. Terry, the comedian, who was an intimate
        friend of Sir Walter, and originally an architect by
        profession. His widow, one of the Nasmyths, has painted a
        clever View of Abbotsford, from the opposite bank of the
        Tweed; which is engraved in No. 427, of _The Mirror_.

    [10] Picture of Scotland, by Chambers.

[Illustration: (_Armoury_.)]

