After supper he went to the hotel barber shop, and had his hair cut to the length it was worn
by New Yorkers.  He wanted to go out and get a new suit, but he knew the clothing stores would
not be open at night.

His trunk arrived the next morning, and, having arranged his things in his room, the boy from
the ranch set out to buy some new garments, following De Royster's advice.

"Well, I certainly don't look like a cowboy now," thought Roy, as he surveyed himself in the
glass, after the change.  "Now to call on Mr. Annister.  I don't believe he'll suspect me of
being on his trail."

A little later Roy was on his way down-town, having inquired from the clerk how to get to the
office of the real estate agent.  He was soon at the place, a big office building, in which
several firms had their quarters.

He got in the express elevator, which went up at a speed that took away his breath, and was
let out at the twentieth floor, where the real estate agent had his rooms.

"Is Mr. Annister in?" Roy asked the office boy.

"I don't know.  What's your business?"

"My business is with Mr. Annister."

"What's your name?"

"That doesn't matter.  Tell Mr. Annister I called to see him regarding the renting of some
property on Bleecker street," for that was where the building was located in which Roy and
his father were interested.

"All right.  I'll tell him, but I don't believe he'll see you," replied the office boy, not
very good-naturedly, as he went into an inner room. In a little while he returned and said:

"Walk in.  He'll see you a few minutes, but he's very busy."

A few seconds later Roy stood in the presence of Caleb Annister.

CHAPTER XIV

ROY'S TRICK

"What can I do for you, sir?" asked the real estate agent as Roy entered.  "Take a chair."

Caleb Annister had been a little curious to see the young man whom his office boy described.
He could not imagine what was wanted, but he scented a possible customer to engage some of
the offices in the structure, for which he collected the rents.

"I want to make some inquiries regarding an office in your Bleeker street building," said Roy,
for such was the designation of the property in question.

"Ah, yes.  You are going to open an office, perhaps?"

"I may."  This was the truth as Roy's father had said, if the agent was found to be dishonest,
a new one, with an office in the Bleecker street building might be engaged.

"Aren't you rather young to go in business?"

"Perhaps, but I am representing other persons.  Have you any offices to rent in that building?"

"A few."

"What do they rent for?"

It was Roy's idea to make inquiries in the guise of a possible tenant, and, see what prices
Mr. Annister was charging.  What his next move was you shall very soon see.

"Well, young man, rents are very high in that building.  It is in a good neighborhood, where
property is increasing in value all the while, and we have to charge high rents.  Besides there
is a good demand for offices there."

This, Roy thought, was not the sort of information Mr. Annister had sent to Mr. Bradner at
the ranch.

"Do you own the building?" asked the western lad, wanting to see what the agent would say.

"No, but I am in full charge.  It would be no use for you to see the owner, as he leaves everything
to me.  He would not give you any lower rent rate than I would.  Besides, he lives away out
West, and never comes to New York."

"Can you give me an idea of what the rents are for such offices as are vacant?" asked Roy,
trying not to let any Western expressions slip into his talk, as he wanted to pose as a New Yorker.

"Is it for yourself?"

"No, for parties I represent."

"I can give you a list of such offices as are vacant, with the prices, and you can go and see
them.  The janitor will show them to you, if I send him a note."

"That will do very well."

