The morrow was almost spent while we lingered in the neighborhood of the lake. The road makes
a wide circuit to avoid its far-reaching arms and bays: only here and there are glimpses of
the water seen through the trees and cart-tracks leading off to exquisite points of view upon
its banks. We are in the flat woods again--palmetto-clumps under the pine trees, pitcher-plants
and orchis in the low spots, violets and pinguicula beside the ditches, vetches and lupines
and pawpaw and the trailing mimosa in the sand. The park-like character of the woods is gone.
Still, there are here and there gentle undulations upon which the long lines of western sunlight
slope away; the lake gleams silvery through the trees; the air is pure and sparkling as in
high altitudes.

It was evening before we could leave the lakeside and plunge into the dense new growth which
adds to the ancient name of Ekoniah the modern appellation of "Scrub." Amid its close-crowding
thickets night came upon us speedily. How hospitably we were received in the bare new "homestead"
of Parson H----; how generously our hosts relinquished their one "barred" bed and passed a
night of horror exposed to the fury of myriad mosquitos, whose songs of triumph we heard from
our own protected pillows; how basely Barney requited all this kindness by breaking into the
corn-crib and "stuffing himself as full as a sausage," as the Small Boy reported,--may not
here be dwelt upon.

The early morning was exquisite. Soft mists veiled all the glorious colors; great spider-webs,
strung thick with diamonds, stretched from tree to tree; a little "pot-hole" pond of lilies
exhaled sweet odors; the lark's ecstatic song thrilled down from upper air. There was a gentle
hill before us, and halfway up a view to the right of a broad lake, with the log huts of a
"settle_ment_" on the high bank. The sun has drunk up all the mists, and shines bright upon
the soft gray satin of the girdled pine trees in the clearing; flowers are crowding everywhere--orange
milkweed, purple phlox, creamy pawpaw, azure bluebells, spotted foxgloves, rose-tinted daisies,
brown-eyed coreopsias and unknown flowers of palest blue. Butterflies flit noiselessly among
them, and mocking-birds sing loud in the leafy screens above. A red-headed woodpecker taps
upon a resounding tree and screams in exultation as he seizes his prey.

We skirted Viola Lake, cresting the high hill, and descending to a shaded valley where the
lapping waters plashed upon the roadside: then mounted another hill, among thick clustering
oaks and giant pines, to where three lakes are seen spreading broadly out upon a grassy plain
between high wooded slopes. And these are Ekoniah! Twenty years ago a tiny rivulet, wandering
through broad prairies; eight years later a wider stream, already beginning to encroach upon
the grassy borderland; now a chain of ever-broadening lakes, already drawing near to the hills
which frame in the widespread plain. Famous grazing-lands these were once, the favored haunts
of cattle-drovers, more famous hunting-grounds in older days, before firm prairie had given
place to watery savanna. There were Indian villages upon the heights above and bloody battles
in the plains below. But who shall tell the story of those days? The Indians are gone; the
cattle-drovers have followed them to the far South; the new settler of twenty years ago cared
nothing for antiquities or for the legends of an older time. The dead past is buried: even
the sonorous old Indian name has been softened down to Etonia: be it the happy lot of this
chronicler to rescue it from oblivion!

The lakes of the lately-traversed "Lake Region," frequent as they had been, were as nothing
to those of Ekoniah Scrub. The road rose and fell over a succession of low hills, each ascent
gained discovering a new sheet of water to right, to left or before us, deep sunk among thick-clustering
trees. At rare intervals the forest would fall away on either hand, opening up a wide view
of cultivated fields, sweeping grandly down in long stripes of tender green to the billowy
verdure of the broad savanna, where silvery-sparkling lakes lay imbedded and great round "hummocks"
of dark trees uprose like islands in the grassy sea. In the distance would be barren slopes
of rich dark red and silvery gray, swelling upward to the far dim mystery of pine woods and
the blue arch above.

We ate our dinner beside Lake Rosa, a circular basin of clearest water rippling and dimpling
under the soft breeze. Toward evening we found the ford, which a paralytic old woman sitting
in a sunny corner of a farm-house piazza had indicated to us as "right pretty." Pretty it was,
indeed, as we came down to it through the most luxuriant of hummocks of transparent-foliaged
sweet-gums and shining-leaved magnolias with one great creamy flower. "Right pretty" it was,
too, in the old woman's meaning of the word, for Barney drew us through in safety, scarce up
to his knees in the transparent water which reflected so perfectly every flower and leaf of
the dense water-growth. The road beyond was cut through an arch of close-meeting trees, and
farther on it skirted a broad lake, which already, in its slow, sure, upward progress, had
covered the roadway and was reaching even to the fence which bounds the field above. In this
field is a large mound, never investigated, although the farmer who owns the property says
he has no doubt that it is the site of an Indian village, for the plough turns up in the fields
around not only arrow-heads, but fragments of pottery and household utensils. It was not our
good-fortune to obtain any of those relics, as they have not been preserved, and this was the
only mound of any extent which we saw. Such mounds are said, however, to be not infrequent
in this district, and Indian relics are found everywhere.

As we drove along the hillside we began to notice frequent basin-like depressions of greater
or less size, always perfectly circular, always with the same saucer-shaped dip, always without
crack or fissure, yet appearing to have been formed by a gradual receding of the substructure,
reminding one of the depression in the sand of an hour-glass or of the grain in a hopper. Many
of these concaves were dry; others had a little water in the bottom; all of them had trees
growing here and there, quite undisturbed, whether in the water or not; and there was no one
who had cared to note how long a time had elapsed since they had begun their "decline and fall."
There is little doubt, however, that the future traveller will find them developed into lakes,
as, indeed, we found one here and there upon the hilltops.

[Illustration: "THE ONLY GIRL IN THE PLACE."]

How many times we got lost among the lakes and "pot-holes," the fallen trees and thickets of
Ekoniah Scrub, it would be tedious to relate. How many times we came down to the prairie-level,
and, fearful to trust ourselves upon the treacherous, billowy green, were forced to "try back"
for a new road along the hillside, it would be difficult to say. The county clerk's itinerary
had ended here, and William Townsend proved to be less ubiquitous than we had been led to expect.
Thus it was that night came down upon us one evening before we had reached a place of shelter--suddenly,
in the thick scrub, not lingeringly, as in the long forest glades of the lake country. For
an hour we pushed on, trusting now to Barney's sagacity, now to the pioneering abilities of
Artist and Scribe, who marched in the van. Fireflies flitted about, their unusual brilliancy
often cheating us into the fond hope that shelter was at hand. The ignes-fatui in the valley
below often added to the deception, and after many disappointments we were about to spread
our blankets upon the earth and prepare for a night's rest _al fresco_ when we heard a distant
cow-call. Clear and melodious as the far-off "Ranz des Vaches" it broke upon the stillness,
gladdening all our hearts. How we answered it, how we hastened over logs and through thickets
in the direction of answering voices and glancing lights--no ignes-fatui now--how we were met
halfway by an entire family whom we had aroused, and with what astonishment we heard ourselves
addressed by name,--can better be imagined than described. By the happiest of chances we had
come upon the home of some people whom we had casually met upon the St. John's River only a
few weeks before, and our dearest and oldest friends could not have welcomed us more cordially
or have been more gladly met by us.

In the early morning we heard again, between sleeping and waking, the musical cow-call. It
echoed among the hills and over the lakes: there were the tinkling of bells, the pattering
of hoofs, the eager, impatient sounds of a herd of cattle glad of morning freedom. It was like
a dream of Switzerland. And, hastening out, we found the dream but vivified by the intense
purity of the air surcharged with ozone, the exquisite clearness of the outlines of the hills,
the sparkling brightness of the lakes in the valley, the freshness of glory and beauty which
overspread all like a world new made.

One of the great events of that day was a desperate fight between two chameleons in a low oak-scrub
on the hilltop. The little creatures attacked each other with such fury, with such rapid changes
of color from gray to green and from green to brown, with such unexpected mutations of shape
from long and slender to short and squat, with such sudden dartings out and angry flamings
of the transparent membrane beneath the throat, with such swift springs and flights and glancings
to and fro, as were wonderful to see. It seemed as though both must succumb to the fierce scratchings
and clawings; and when at last one got the entire head of his adversary in his mouth and proceeded
deliberately to chew it up, we thought that the last act in the tragedy was at hand. The Small
Boy made a stealthy step forward with a view to a capture, when, presto! change! two chameleons
with heads intact were calmly gazing down upon us with that placid look of their kind which
seemed to assure us that fighting was the last act of which they were capable.

That day, too, is memorable for the charming scenes it brought us, impossible for the pencil
to reproduce with all their sweet accessories. We have found the ford at last, where the blue
ribbon of the stream lies across the white sand of our road. The prairie stretches out broad
and green with many circular islets of tree-mounds in the ocean-like expanse. The winding road
beyond the ford leads, between cultivated fields on one side and the tree-bordered prairie
on the other, up to the low horizon, where soft white thunderheads are heaped in the hazy blue.
The tinkling of cow-bells comes sweetly over the sea of grass; slow wavelets sob softly in
the sedges of the stream; fish glance through the water; a duck flies up on swiftly-whirring
wing. A great moss-draped live-oak leans over the stream, and the perfume of the tender grapes
which crown it floats toward us on the air.

Again, after we have climbed the hill to Swan Lake, and have dined beside Half-moon Pond, and
have "laid our course," as the sailors say, by our map and the sun, straight through the Scrub
to visit Lake Ella, we come out upon the heights above Lake Hutchinson. The dark greens of
the foreground soften into deep-blue shadows in the middle distance. Lake Hutchinson sparkles,
a vivid sapphire, against the distant silvery-gray of Lake Geneva, while far away the low blue
hills melt, range behind range, into the pale-blue sky.

[Illustration: SANTA FÉ LAKE.]

