"'Devil take me!' cried one, advancing towards the wretched man, 'If there doesn't sit Lying
Klaus from _Starving Castle_!'

"Klaus was surrounded in an instant. The whole assembly hooted him, and he for shame and rage
would gladly have buried himself for ever in the earth.

"Well, I will say," continued the unfeeling boor, "the rich Klaus has become the very careful
and thrifty. I wonder if the churchwarden means to give him the bell-purse money for ever!"[1]
Well, Liar, how gets on the stick trade? Will you soon be able to patch your coat out of your
earnings? If you happen now to have a sixpence more than you want, I think we may do a little
business together. I have some four-year-old straw that will come in well for your palace.
It is eaten away a little by the mice, but that doesn't matter. Why, what are you thinking
of, you nincompoop? Don't you know when Klaus wants straw, or money, or an honest name, he
has only to go to his couch-grassed stubble-fields, and sneeze three times into the Dwarf's
wall, and then he gets directly what he asks for? Who wouldn't have a Dwarf for his godfather!
a fellow just three cheeses high, and a fiddle-scrapper A pretty scrape he has made of it for
you--only scraped your precious soul into hell, as he would have done if Holy Peter had bound
it three times round his key-bit. It is a great pity though, that Dwarf-piper don't fiddle
money into his darling's pocket, as well as out of it. Kick the blackguard out, pull his ears
for him--I say he isn't honest. He can't be, for he has dealings with the devil!'

[1] The churchwardens go about the church during the service, and collect alms from the congregation
_in a purse with a bell_.--TRANSLATOR.

"Many sinewy arms were stretched out at the moment to grasp the weak defenceless man, who sat
gnashing his teeth, and awaiting the assault, whilst in his heart he cursed himself and all
the world besides. The miller called upon the company to desist, and they retreated a stop
or two, whilst he stepped forth, and placed himself at the side of the unprotected wanderer.

"'Come, come!' said the unexpected friend, 'this isn't fair. Klaus is a very worthy fellow,
though things are going against him, because, as I believe, his old father bore too hard upon
that imp Stringstriker. If Klaus were only a clever fellow, and knew how to say a private word
or so to his godfather, he would soon make it all right with him again. Dwarfs must be managed.
Bless you, I have one in my own mill. Every ninth night he hammers away on the twenty-first
cog of the third wheel; and as soon as he begins, three honey cells must be put upon the millstone
for him, if I don't wish the mill to stand still immediately, and all the grain to breed worms.
It is nothing but Dwarf's roguery, and so I say let Klaus go quietly his way. I'll wager what
you like, if the fellow asks the Dwarf's pardon, and makes it up with him, he'll be as rich
as ever again. For you see, masters, Dwarfs must sometimes play all sorts of pranks with poor
mortals, that they may so have occasion to help them at a future time, and secure for themselves
a place in Heaven at last.'

"This learned address so dumbfoundered the peasants, that they retreated by degrees further
and further from their intended victim, who, like a shrewd fellow, seized his opportunity,
and made his escape. He was not long in harnessing his hack, mounting his cart, and driving
from the inhospitable spot. The words of the miller had made a deep impression on his mind.
The wish to hold communion by any means with the world of spirits, which had been closed upon
him from the moment that he had hurled his curse against one of them--grew strong and lively
within him. His miserable condition subdued him into sorrow and repentance, and, in a loud
and earnest voice, he implored his godfather to take pity upon him, to forgive him, and to
show him the means by which he might be reconciled again to _him_, and made worthy of the regard
and consideration of his people.

"He had reached _Hörnitz_ when his stricken heart indulged itself in such outpourings. _Breiteberg_
arose at a short distance before him, with the few acres of land that still belonged to him
lying waste for want of hands. Klaus threw a look of sullen discontent towards the land, and
lo--he beheld there the figure of the Dwarf gliding along, and surrounded by countless sparkling
lights. The lad stood still, and stared with astonishment at the apparition. Dissevered tones,
as of a violin, floated in the disturbed air; and when the phantom lifted his fiddlestick,
it seemed as if he sent a recognising nod towards his godchild. Klaus urged his beast forward,
and at the same moment the Dwarf turned off at a cross-road, and with the speed of an arrow
swept towards the neighbourhood of the Dwarf's well.

"Klaus lay awake half the night dwelling upon this encounter, and when he fell to sleep, it
was the subject of his dreams. 'The miller,' thought he, 'is right, after all! Godfather may
be pacified yet, if he is properly and becomingly spoken to. How kindly he nodded to me! O,
if I could get only half my fortune back!' Before Klaus was out of bed again, he resolved to
have a trial, and, on the very next day, humbly to present himself to his godfather, if that
great personage would deign him an interview. He had to go to the wood for sticks, and time
and place were both favourable to a meeting with the spirit.

"The road to the wood lay hard by the Dwarf's well. Klaus, arriving there, reined his horse
up, and looked upon the spring with profoundly cogitative eyes. It was clear and still. Pearly
bright the water ascended from the rent basaltic bottom, and rippled in a small thread-like
rill through whispering rushes, across meadows and fields, until it reached the village.

"'Now, this is the strangest well!' quoth Klaus, knocking out the ashes from his short stump
of a pipe--'always humming and brumming when I take my way by it--and when I have passed it,
it is just as though I had loaded on another hundred-weight. The poor thing regularly gasps,
and plants her hoof as if she were pulling the church after her. Now, wo-ho, Whiteface!--wo-ho!"

As Klaus spoke, the horse snorted, gasped, and stamped, without making any way. It was as though
the devil had tied a hair about the spokes. After fearful struggling and long agony, the wood
was at length reached. Klaus fell manfully to work. A sheaf of young trees were presently down
before his axe. In the haste of the felling, he cut down some shrubbery, of no use in the manufacture
of twirling-sticks, but trees and shrubs were heaped together on his cart; he stopped his pipe,
and with provision at least for the next week, he gaily pushed towards home.

"It was a fine warm evening of autumn. The moon stood in the cloudless heavens above the blue
hills, and the rich region lay in her splendour. Klaus hummed a careless tune; smoked and hummed,
hummed and smoked. In the swampy marsh meadows to the right and left of him, number of social
frogs joined in the concert; the streams were steaming in the valleys, and silvery mists strayed,
catching the radiance, along the mountain forests.

"'Wo-ho, Blässe!' growled Klaus, as his favourite began to snort and caracole. 'No shying,
Whiteface! It is only the night-fog bubbling up a bit. 'Twon't singe thy poor bones, wo-ho!'
and then he cracked his whip, and made it sing about the ears of the mulish beast. At the same
moment, a bright flame sprang up before him--but only like a flash of lightning; for in an
instant all was again hushed, dim, and lonely. The moon was visible through the mist, and in
Hörnitz the lights were seen glimmering.

"'Oho!' thought Klaus, 'godfather is lighting his pipe, is he? We shall soon see, then, how
the world wags with him. Hollo! Godfather Stringstriker, be good and kind to your child, and
show yourself. Tell me, dear godfather, how I am to fill my money-bags again; for you know
who had the emptying of them! There's a nice dear old gentleman, come out to me--I do so long
to see you!'

"It was all very proper for Klaus to evince such amiability, but it had not the effect intended.
Not a sound could he hear in reply. He waited for a space; then bellowed again into the open
air--waited again, and holloed again. But all was quiet save the water of the spring which
purled amongst the pebbles, and the grassy reeds that rustled and sighed through the mist,
now reeking thicker and thicker around the speaker and his sorry jade. Klaus waxed spiteful.

"'Godfather!' he cried, striking poor Whiteface in his wrath, 'thou art a thick-lipped, crooked-legged
lubber; that's what you are! Every question is worth an answer; it is a rule that holds good
with man and beast; and why not amongst ghosts? Why did you beckon to me yesterday if you did
not mean to show? You invited me here, and now that I have come, the tortoise creeps into his
hole. You are a cruel, hard-hearted godfather. But never mind--good-night, Dwarf-piper Here's
a present for thee. I bear thee no malice!'

"So speaking, Klaus threw a pocket-knife into the well, which he passed at the moment. The
knife dropped into the water; a flame shot suddenly up, and was as quickly out. Klaus pressed
his nag again; but the poor beast reared, snorted, and dragged at the gearing, without being
able to move the cart an inch. The fog severed a little, and the moonbeams lay in great beauty
upon a hundred acres. Klaus attempted to give his animal ease; but let Whiteface tug as she
would, the cart stood still as if it had been frost-bound.

"'That ugly thick head of godfather's has certainly caught amongst the felloes," said Klaus,
almost worried to death, and looking about him half-curiously, half-timorously. It wanted very
little to pitch him backwards out of the vehicle, so astonished and affrighted was he with
all that he beheld. The ghost-seer had seen many sights, but this beggared them all. His cart,
in length and breadth, was covered with millions of dwarfs; every fir-spray, every dark green
spike of a leaf, every pole, nay, even wheels and wheelspokes to the nave itself, were beset
with the creatures. And what were they all about? Tiny, miraculous beings! labouring with unexampled
diligence at the prettiest dancing-pumps ever seen! The Lilliput shoelings glistered like Spelt
in the tiny brown hands of the workmen, as, turned to and fro, they came under the numerous
and almost invisible hammers and awls. Every brilliant pair finished, and out of hand, was
briskly strung up on cobwebs, with which the cart, vaultwise, was overwoven; and upon which,
at the very first glance, Klaus himself could count more than three hundred thousand finished
shoes. The astounded waggoner could for a long time do nothing more than fold his arms, and
stare on in silence. The little rogues looked inexpressibly comical, it must be confessed.
They were exactly half an inch in length, with great thick heads, on which were fixed leathern-coloured
caps, at least six times the size, every one being decorated in front, by way of clasp, with
a tiny glow-worm. Their legs were very slender and very crooked, although their feet were delicate
and beautifully formed. Their little bodies, endowed in excess with high shoulders, were clad
in fine dark-brown satin jackets, and about the waist were girdles of glistening silver, from
which jingled the needful workman's apparatus. As soon as one of the little fellows had to
hammer a sole, he adroitly tucked round his left leg, and, upon his tiny heel, beat out the
bit of leather into order.

"'This must be profitable work any how!' quoth Klaus, breaking out at length, and, at the instant,
the busy workers raised their headikins, and goggled so drolly at the young boor, that the
latter was seized with a laughter which he found it impossible to control. The Dwarfs were
set off also, and for some time they roared together; that is to say, Klaus roared, but the
voicelets of the Dwarfs sounded only like a light whisper. Their laughing, however, did not
prevent the smoking of their twirling-stick pipes, which they seemed to take much delight in;
each Dwarf, it must be known, carrying in his mouth the strangest little twirling-stick, the
four little arms of which reeked like pipe-heads.

"'If it is quite allowable, gentlemen!' said Klaus, taking off his hat-- a politeness which
was immediately responded to by every dwarf--'I should be glad to have a minute's chat with
you; and to ask, first and foremost, for whom all this tremendous stock is that you are finishing
off so busily and magnificently?'

"One of the cordwainers fastened the shoe that he had just finished, close before the young
boor's eyes, upon the cobweb; then he folded his arms in imitation of Klaus, stared at him
roguishly, and answered,

"'They are dancing-pumps for thy wedding, Klaus!'

"'For my what?' exclaimed the youth.

"'Thy wedding, Klaus!'

"'Ah, my pretty shoemakers, that's a long way off, I fear. Annie has no great longing to milk
the spiders in my stalls, and who can blame her? But who gave you the order? Who took the measures?
I guess our Marthas and Marys will want a considerable shoe-horn to get the pumps on, if the
greater number don't prove misfits!'

"The Dwarfs laughed and clapped their hands for joy, nodding to one another with such vivacity,
that the glow-worms upon their bonnets flew one amongst another.

"'Don't believe it, gossip--don't believe it,' rejoined the spokesman. 'We work for ourselves
only. We mean to dance at thy wedding--every one of us, regularly one after the other, with
thy virtuous bride."

"'What! all of you?' asked Nicholas, hurriedly.

"'All, all! as many of us as there are pairs of shoes!'

"'Thank you for nothing!' returned Klaus. 'Why, you would make me a widower before my wedding
was over. Annie is a good strapping girl I know, and she carries her bushel of winter wheat,
in defiance of Geordie, the miller's man, up three flights without stop or sigh; and that,
from old time, has always been with us a sign of sound lungs: but a man can't drink, my little
cobblers, beyond his thirst. You understand? Now would it not be better--mind you I am much
obliged to you for the honour, all the same--if you sent a few delegates, say two or three;
wouldn't that be more considerate to the lady, and show your politeness just as well?'

"'Not a bit of it, not a bit of it!' screamed the broad-bonnets. 'We must all eat, and all dance!'

"'Just like all the world!' muttered Klaus to himself. 'If you invite one of the townsfolk
to a church ale he'll take three cakes for one, and stuff himself till the steps groan as he
goes down again. I say, gentlemen,' he continued, turning to the Dwarfs, 'are you aware that
I am your king's godson, and on the most intimate terms with him?'

"'And that thy father made him fiddle himself to death?' answered the little one resentfully;
'and that thou hast grown a good-for-nought, ready to bung up our whole gracious kingdom in
a mouse-hole, had'st thou thy will? Eh, Master Nicholas?"

'Ah, don't be too hard now! Recollect what your king did to my father, and all that I have
suffered for the last six months. Look at me! Hasn't Gossip Crookleg stripped me of money,
field, and house?'

Again the dwarfs laughed.

'Ha, Klaus!' said the speaker, "Tell us, now, wouldn't you like to see all that went out at
the doors fly in again, ere to-morrow, at the windows?"

