_Observation._--In this sort of family discussion, "I will say no more" is the most effective
thing you can close up with.

I am not an alarmist. I hope I am as cool as anybody this hot summer. But I am quite ready
to say to Polly or any other woman, "You can have the ballot; only leave me the vegetables,
or, what is more important, the consciousness of power in vegetables." I see how it is. Woman
is now supreme in the house. She already stretches out her hand to grasp the garden. She will
gradually control everything. Woman is one of the ablest and most cunning creatures who have
ever mingled in human affairs. I understand those women who say they don't want the ballot.
They purpose to hold the real power while we go through the mockery of making laws. They want
the power without the responsibility. (Suppose my squash had not come up, or my beans--as they
threatened at one time--had gone the wrong way: where would I have been?) We are to be held
to all the responsibilities. Woman takes the lead in all the departments, leaving us politics
only. And what is politics? Let me raise the vegetables of a nation, says Polly, and I care
not who makes its politics. Here I sat at the table, armed with the ballot, but really powerless
among my own vegetables. While we are being amused by the ballot, woman is quietly taking things
into her own hands.

NOTES

=comparative philology=:--The comparison of words from different languages, for the purpose
of seeing what relationships can be found.

=protoplasm=:--"The physical basis of life"; the substance which passes life on from one vegetable
or animal to another.

=attic salt=:--The delicate wit of the Athenians, who lived in the state of Attica, in Greece.

=parvenu=:--A French word meaning an upstart who tries to force himself into good society.

=Aaron's rod=:--See Numbers, 17:1-10.

=Bacchus and Venus=:--Bacchus was the Greek god of wine; Venus was the Greek goddess of love.

=Darwinian theory=:--Charles R. Darwin (1809-1882) was a great English scientist who proved
that the higher forms of life have developed from the lower.

=natural selection=:--One of Darwin's theories, to the effect that nature weeds out the weak
and unfit, leaving the others to continue the species; the result is called "the survival of
the fittest."

=steal a while away=:--A quotation from a well known hymn beginning,--

    I love to steal a while away
    From every cumbering care.

It was written in 1829, by Deodatus Dutton.

=Roman supper=:--The Romans were noted for the extravagance of their evening meals, at which
all sorts of delicacies were served.

=John Stuart Mill=:--An English philosopher (1806-1873). He wrote about theories of government.

=Polly=:--The author's wife.

=the day of my destiny=:--A quotation from Lord Byron's poem, _Stanzas to Augusta_ [his sister].
The lines run:--

    Though the day of my destiny's over,
      And the star of my fate hath declined,
    Thy soft heart refused to discover
      The faults that so many could find.

=sack-cloth and ashes=:--In old Jewish times, a sign of grief or mourning. See Esther, 4:1;
Isaiah, 58:5.

=Bordeaux=:--A province in France noted for its wine.

QUESTIONS FOR STUDY

The author is writing of the ninth and tenth weeks of his work; he now has time to stop and
moralize about his garden. Do not take what he says too seriously; look for the fun in it.
Is he in earnest about the moral qualities of vegetables? Why cannot the bean figure in poetry
and romance? Can you name any prose or verse in which corn does? Explain what is said about
the resemblance of some people to cucumbers. Why is celery more aristocratic than potato? Is
"them" the right word in the sentence: "I do not pull them up"? Explain what is meant by the
paragraph on salads. Why is the tomato a "_parvenu_"? Does the author wish to cast a slur on
the Darwinian theory? Is it true that moral character is influenced by what one eats? What
is the catechism? What do you think of the author's theories about scarecrows? About "saving
men from any particular vice"? Why does raising one's own vegetables make one feel generous?
How does the author pass from vegetables to woman suffrage? Is he in earnest in what he says?
What does one get out of a selection like this?

THEME SUBJECTS

My Summer on a Farm A Garden on the Roof The Truck Garden My First Attempt at Gardening Raspberrying
Planting Time The Watermelon Patch Weeding the Garden Visiting in the Country Getting Rid of
the Insects School Gardens A Window-box Garden Some Weeds of our Vicinity The Scarecrow Going
to Market "Votes for Women" How Women Rule A Suffrage Meeting Why I Believe [or do not Believe]
in Woman's Suffrage The "Militants"

SUGGESTIONS FOR WRITING

=My First Attempt at Gardening=:--Tell how you came to make the garden. Was there any talk
about it before it was begun? What were your plans concerning it? Did you spend any time in
consulting seed catalogues? Tell about buying (or otherwise securing) the seeds. If you got
them from some more experienced gardener than yourself, report the talk about them. Tell how
you made the ground ready; how you planted the seeds. Take the reader into your confidence
as to your hopes and uncertainties when the sprouts began to appear. Did the garden suffer
any misfortunes from the frost, or the drought, or the depredations of the hens? Can you remember
any conversation about it? Tell about the weeding, and what was said when it became necessary.
Trace the progress of the garden; tell of its success or failure as time went on. What did
you do with the products? Did any one praise or make fun of you? How did you feel? Did you
want to have another garden?

=The Scarecrow=:--You might speak first about the garden--its prosperity and beauty, and the
fruit or vegetables that it was producing. Then speak about the birds, and tell how they acted
and what they did. Did you try driving them away? What was said about them? Now tell about
the plans for the scarecrow. Give an account of how it was set up, and what clothes were put
on it. How did it look? What was said about it? Give one or two incidents (real or imaginary)
in which it was concerned. Was it of any use? How long did it remain in its place?

=Votes for Women=:--There are several ways in which you could deal with this subject:--

(_a_) If you have seen a suffrage parade, you might describe it and tell how it impressed you.
(_b_) Perhaps you could write of some particular person who was interested in votes for women:
How did she [or he] look, and what did she say? (_c_) Report a lecture on suffrage. (_d_) Give
two or three arguments for or against woman's suffrage; do not try to take up too many, but
deal with each rather completely. (_e_) Imagine two people talking together about suffrage--for
instance, two old men; a man and a woman; a young woman and an old one; a child and a grown
person; two children. (_f_) Imagine the author of the selection and his wife Polly talking
about suffrage at the dinner table.

COLLATERAL READINGS

My Summer in a Garden                           Charles Dudley Warner
Being a Boy                                        "      "      "
In the Wilderness                                  "      "      "
My Winter on the Nile                              "      "      "
On Horseback                                       "      "      "
Back-log Studies                                   "      "      "
A Journey to Nature                             A.C. Wheeler
The Making of a Country Home                     "      "
A Self-supporting Home                          Kate V. St. Maur
Folks back Home                                 Eugene Wood
Adventures in Contentment                       David Grayson
Adventures in Friendship                          "      "
The Friendly Road                                 "      "
New Lives for Old                               William Carleton
A Living without a Boss                         Anonymous
The Fat of the Land                             J.W. Streeter
The Jonathan Papers                             Elizabeth Woodbridge
Adopting an Abandoned Farm                      Kate Sanborn
Out-door Studies                                T.W. Higginson
The Women of America                            Elizabeth McCracken
The Country Home                                E.P. Powell
Blessing the Cornfields (in _Hiawatha_)         H.W. Longfellow
The Corn Song (in _The Huskers_)                J.G. Whittier
Charles Dudley Warner
  (in _American Writers of To-day_, pp. 89-103) H.C. Vedder

THE SINGING MAN

JOSEPHINE PRESTON PEABODY

I

    He sang above the vineyards of the world.
      And after him the vines with woven hands
    Clambered and clung, and everywhere unfurled
      Triumphing green above the barren lands;
    Till high as gardens grow, he climbed, he stood,
      Sun-crowned with life and strength, and singing toil,
    And looked upon his work; and it was good:
            The corn, the wine, the oil.

    He sang above the noon. The topmost cleft
      That grudged him footing on the mountain scars
    He planted and despaired not; till he left
      His vines soft breathing to the host of stars.
    He wrought, he tilled; and even as he sang,
      The creatures of his planting laughed to scorn
    The ancient threat of deserts where there sprang
            The wine, the oil, the corn!

    He sang not for abundance.--Over-lords
      Took of his tilth. Yet was there still to reap,
    The portion of his labor; dear rewards
      Of sunlit day, and bread, and human sleep.
    He sang for strength; for glory of the light.
      He dreamed above the furrows, 'They are mine!'
    When all he wrought stood fair before his sight
            With corn, and oil, and wine.

    _Truly, the light is sweet_
          _Yea, and a pleasant thing_
            _It is to see the Sun._
        _And that a man should eat_
            _His bread that he hath won_;--
        (_So is it sung and said_),
          _That he should take and keep_,
            _After his laboring_,
        _The portion of his labor in his bread_,
          _His bread that he hath won_;
          _Yea, and in quiet sleep_,
            _When all is done._

    He sang; above the burden and the heat,
      Above all seasons with their fitful grace;
    Above the chance and change that led his feet
      To this last ambush of the Market-place.
    'Enough for him,' they said--and still they say--
      'A crust, with air to breathe, and sun to shine;
    He asks no more!'--Before they took away
            The corn, the oil, the wine.

    He sang. No more he sings now, anywhere.
      Light was enough, before he was undone.
    They knew it well, who took away the air,
      --Who took away the sun;
    Who took, to serve their soul-devouring greed,
      Himself, his breath, his bread--the goad of toil;--
    Who have and hold, before the eyes of Need,
            The corn, the wine,--the oil!

        _Truly, one thing is sweet_
        _Of things beneath the Sun_;
    _This, that a man should earn his bread and eat_,
        _Rejoicing in his work which he hath done._
            _What shall be sung or said_
              _Of desolate deceit_,
            _When others take his bread_;
            _His and his children's bread?_--
            _And the laborer hath none._
    _This, for his portion now, of all that he hath done._
              _He earns; and others eat._
            _He starves;--they sit at meat_
              _Who have taken away the Sun._

II

    Seek him now, that singing Man.
    Look for him,
    Look for him
    In the mills,
    In the mines;
    Where the very daylight pines,--
    He, who once did walk the hills!
    You shall find him, if you scan
    Shapes all unbefitting Man,
    Bodies warped, and faces dim.
    In the mines; in the mills
    Where the ceaseless thunder fills
    Spaces of the human brain
    Till all thought is turned to pain.
    Where the skirl of wheel on wheel,
    Grinding him who is their tool,
    Makes the shattered senses reel
    To the numbness of the fool.
    Perisht thought, and halting tongue--
    (Once it spoke;--once it sung!)
    Live to hunger, dead to song.
    Only heart-beats loud with wrong
    Hammer on,--_How long?_
    ... _How long?_--_How long?_

    Search for him;
    Search for him;
    Where the crazy atoms swim
    Up the fiery furnace-blast.
    You shall find him, at the last,--
    He whose forehead braved the sun,--
    Wreckt and tortured and undone.
    Where no breath across the heat
    Whispers him that life was sweet;
    But the sparkles mock and flare,
    Scattering up the crooked air.
    (Blackened with that bitter mirk,--
    Would God know His handiwork?)

    Thought is not for such as he;
    Naught but strength, and misery;
    Since, for just the bite and sup,
    Life must needs be swallowed up.
    Only, reeling up the sky,
    Hurtling flames that hurry by,
    Gasp and flare, with _Why_--_Why_,
    ... _Why?_...

    Why the human mind of him
    Shrinks, and falters and is dim
    When he tries to make it out:
    What the torture is about.--
    Why he breathes, a fugitive
    Whom the World forbids to live.
    Why he earned for his abode,
    Habitation of the toad!
    Why his fevered day by day
    Will not serve to drive away
    Horror that must always haunt:--
    ... _Want_ ... _Want!_
    Nightmare shot with waking pangs;--
    Tightening coil, and certain fangs,
    Close and closer, always nigh ...
    ... _Why?_... _Why?_

    Why he labors under ban
    That denies him for a man.
    Why his utmost drop of blood
    Buys for him no human good;
    Why his utmost urge of strength
    Only lets Them starve at length;--
    Will not let him starve alone;
    He must watch, and see his own
    Fade and fail, and starve, and die.
    .     .     .     .    .    .    .
    ... _Why?_... _Why?_
    .     .     .     .    .    .    .
    Heart-beats, in a hammering song,
    Heavy as an ox may plod,
    Goaded--goaded--faint with wrong,
    Cry unto some ghost of God
    ... _How long_?... _How long?_
                       ... _How long?_

III

    Seek him yet. Search for him!
    You shall find him, spent and grim;
    In the prisons, where we pen
    These unsightly shards of men.
    Sheltered fast;
    Housed at length;
    Clothed and fed, no matter how!--
    Where the householders, aghast,
    Measure in his broken strength
    Nought but power for evil, now.
    Beast-of-burden drudgeries
    Could not earn him what was his:
    He who heard the world applaud
    Glories seized by force and fraud,
    He must break,--he must take!--
    Both for hate and hunger's sake.
    He must seize by fraud and force;
    He must strike, without remorse!
    Seize he might; but never keep.
    Strike, his once!--Behold him here.
    (Human life we buy so cheap,
    Who should know we held it dear?)

    No denial,--no defence
    From a brain bereft of sense,
    Any more than penitence.
    But the heart-beats now, that plod
    Goaded--goaded--dumb with wrong,
    Ask not even a ghost of God
              ... _How long_?

      _When the Sea gives up its dead,_
      _Prison caverns, yield instead_
      _This, rejected and despised;_
      _This, the Soiled and Sacrificed!_
      _Without form or comeliness;_
      _Shamed for us that did transgress_
      _Bruised, for our iniquities,_
      _With the stripes that are all his!_
      _Face that wreckage, you who can._
      _It was once the Singing Man._

IV

    Must it be?--Must we then
    Render back to God again
    This His broken work, this thing,
    For His man that once did sing?
    Will not all our wonders do?
    Gifts we stored the ages through,
    (Trusting that He had forgot)--
    Gifts the Lord requirèd not?

    Would the all-but-human serve!
    Monsters made of stone and nerve;
    Towers to threaten and defy
    Curse or blessing of the sky;
    Shafts that blot the stars with smoke;
    Lightnings harnessed under yoke;
    Sea-things, air-things, wrought with steel,
    That may smite, and fly, and feel!
    Oceans calling each to each;
    Hostile hearts, with kindred speech.
    Every work that Titans can;
    Every marvel: save a man,
    Who might rule without a sword.--
      Is a man more precious, Lord?

    Can it be?--Must we then
    Render back to Thee again
    Million, million wasted men?
    Men, of flickering human breath,
    Only made for life and death?

    Ah, but see the sovereign Few,
    Highly favored, that remain!
    These, the glorious residue,
    Of the cherished race of Cain.
    These, the magnates of the age,
    High above the human wage,
    Who have numbered and possesst
    All the portion of the rest!

    What are all despairs and shames,
    What the mean, forgotten names
    Of the thousand more or less,
    For one surfeit of success?

    For those dullest lives we spent,
    Take these Few magnificent!
    For that host of blotted ones,
    Take these glittering central suns.
    Few;--but how their lustre thrives
    On the million broken lives!
    Splendid, over dark and doubt,
    For a million souls gone out!
    These, the holders of our hoard,--
      Wilt thou not accept them, Lord?

V

    Oh in the wakening thunders of the heart,
    --The small lost Eden, troubled through the night,
    Sounds there not now,--forboded and apart,
            Some voice and sword of light?
    Some voice and portent of a dawn to break?--
      Searching like God, the ruinous human shard
    Of that lost Brother-man Himself did make,
            And Man himself hath marred?

    It sounds!--And may the anguish of that birth
      Seize on the world; and may all shelters fail,
    Till we behold new Heaven and new Earth
            Through the rent Temple-vail!
    When the high-tides that threaten near and far
      To sweep away our guilt before the sky,--
    Flooding the waste of this dishonored Star,
            Cleanse, and o'ewhelm, and cry!

    Cry, from the deep of world-accusing waves,
      With longing more than all since Light began,
    Above the nations,--underneath the graves,--
            'Give back the Singing Man!'

NOTES

=and it was good=:--Genesis, 1:31: "And God saw all that he had made, and, behold, it was very
good."

=the ancient threat of deserts=:--Isaiah, 35:1-2: "The desert shall rejoice and blossom as
the rose."

=after his laboring=:--Luke, 10:7, and 1st Timothy, 5:18: "The laborer is worthy of his hire."

=portion of his labor=:--Ecclesiastes, 2:10: "For my heart rejoiced in my labor; and this was
my portion of all my labor."

=the light is sweet=:--Ecclesiastes, 11:7: "Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing
it is for the eyes to behold the sun."

=How long=:--Revelation, 6:10: "How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge
our blood on them that dwell on the earth?"

=when the sea=:--Revelation, 20:13: "And the sea gave up the dead which were in it."

=rejected and despised=:--For this and the remainder of the stanza, see Isaiah, 53.

=Titans=:--In Greek mythology, powerful and troublesome giants.

=Cain=:--See the story of Cain, Genesis, 4:2-16.

=searching like God=:--Genesis, 4:9: "And the Lord said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother?
And he said, I know not! Am I my brother's keeper?"

=Temple-vail=:--At the death of Christ, the vail of the temple was rent; see Matthew, 27:51.

SUGGESTIONS FOR STUDY[15]

Read the poem slowly and thoughtfully. The "singing man" is the laborer who, in days gone by,
was happy in his work. People were not crowded into great cities, and there was more simple
out-door labor than there is now, and less strife for wealth.

_Above the vineyards_: In Europe, vineyards are often planted on the slopes of hills and mountains.
What ancient country do you think of in connection with "the corn [grain], the oil, the wine"?
Were the laborers happy in that country? What were the "creatures" of man's planting (second
stanza)? What was the "ancient threat" of deserts? Of what kind of deserts, as described here?
Of what deserts would this be true after the rainy season? _Laughed to scorn_: Does this mean
"outdid"? Mentally insert the word _something_ after _still_ in the second line of the third
stanza. If the laborer in times gone by did not sing for abundance, what did he sing for (stanza
three)? The verses in italics are a kind of refrain, as if the laborer were singing to himself.
_So is it said and sung_ refers to the fact that these lines are adapted from passages in the
Bible. _This last ambush_: What does the author mean here by suggesting that the laborer has
been entrapped? Who are "they" in the line "'Enough for him,' they said"? How did they take
away "the corn, the oil, the wine"? How did they take away "the air and the sun"? Who now has
the product of the workman's toil? What are "the eyes of Need"? Is it true that one may work
hard and still be in need? If it is true, who is to blame? What are "dim" faces? Why does the
author begin the word _Man_ with a capital? What effect does too much hard work have upon the
laborer? What is "the crooked air"? Who is represented as saying _Why_? How does the world
forbid the laborer to live? Why are there dotted lines before and after _Why_ and _What_ and
_How long_? Who are meant by _Them_ in the line beginning "Only lets"? Why does the author
say that the prisons are filled with ill-used laborers? What does she mean by saying that the
prisoners are "bruised for our iniquities"? What is gained here by using the language of the
Bible? _The all-but-human_ means "almost intelligent"--referring to machinery. Does the author
mean to praise the "sovereign Few"? Who are these "Few magnificent"? Are they really to blame
for the sufferings of the poor? _Himself_ in the line beginning "Of that lost," refers to God.
What is meant here by "a new Heaven and a new Earth"? What is "this dishonored Star"? What
conditions does the author think will bring back the singing man? Are they possible conditions?

Re-read the poem, thinking of the author's protest against the sufferings of the poor and the
selfishness of the rich. What do you think of the poem?

COLLATERAL READINGS

The Singing Man and Other Poems          Josephine Preston Peabody The Piper              
"        "       " The Singing Leaves                           "        "       " Fortune
and Men's Eyes                       "        "       " The Wolf of Gubbio                
"        "       " The Man with the Hoe                     Edwin Markham

THE DANCE OF THE BON-ODORI

LAFCADIO HEARN

(From _Glimpses of Unfamiliar Japan_, Volume I, Chapter VI)

I

At last, from the verge of an enormous ridge, the roadway suddenly slopes down into a vista
of high peaked roofs of thatch and green-mossed eaves--into a village like a colored print
out of old Hiroshige's picture-books, a village with all its tints and colors precisely like
the tints and colors of the landscape in which it lies. This is Kami-Ichi, in the land of Hoki.

We halt before a quiet, dingy little inn, whose host, a very aged man, comes forth to salute
me; while a silent, gentle crowd of villagers, mostly children and women, gather about the
kuruma to see the stranger, to wonder at him, even to touch his clothes with timid smiling
curiosity. One glance at the face of the old inn-keeper decides me to accept his invitation.
I must remain here until to-morrow: my runners are too wearied to go farther to-night.

Weather-worn as the little inn seemed without, it is delightful within. Its polished stairway
and balconies are speckless, reflecting like mirror-surfaces the bare feet of the maid-servants;
its luminous rooms are fresh and sweet-smelling as when their soft mattings were first laid
down. The carven pillars of the alcove (toko) in my chamber, leaves and flowers chiseled in
some black rich wood, are wonders; and the kakemono or scroll-picture hanging there is an idyl,
Hotei, God of Happiness, drifting in a bark down some shadowy stream into evening mysteries
of vapory purple. Far as this hamlet is from all art-centres, there is no object visible in
the house which does not reveal the Japanese sense of beauty in form. The old gold-flowered
lacquer-ware, the astonishing box in which sweetmeats (kwashi) are kept, the diaphanous porcelain
wine-cups dashed with a single tiny gold figure of a leaping shrimp, the tea-cup holders which
are curled lotus-leaves of bronze, even the iron kettle with its figurings of dragons and clouds,
and the brazen hibachi whose handles are heads of Buddhist lions, delight the eye and surprise
the fancy. Indeed, wherever to-day in Japan one sees something totally uninteresting in porcelain
or metal, something commonplace and ugly, one may be almost sure that detestable something
has been shaped under foreign influence. But here I am in ancient Japan; probably no European
eyes ever looked upon these things before.

A window shaped like a heart peeps out upon the garden, a wonderful little garden with a tiny
pond and miniature bridges and dwarf trees, like the landscape of a tea-cup; also some shapely
stones of course, and some graceful stone lanterns, or t[=o]r[=o], such as are placed in the
courts of temples. And beyond these, through the warm dusk, I see lights, colored lights, the
lanterns of the Bonku, suspended before each home to welcome the coming of beloved ghosts;
for by the antique calendar, according to which in this antique place the reckoning of time
is still made, this is the first night of the Festival of the Dead.

As in all other little country villages where I have been stopping, I find the people here
kind to me with a kindness and a courtesy unimaginable, indescribable, unknown in any other
country, and even in Japan itself only in the interior. Their simple politeness is not an art;
their goodness is absolutely unconscious goodness; both come straight from the heart. And before
I have been two hours among these people, their treatment of me, coupled with the sense of
my utter inability to repay such kindness, causes a wicked wish to come into my mind. I wish
these charming folk would do me some unexpected wrong, something surprisingly evil, something
atrociously unkind, so that I should not be obliged to regret them, which I feel sure I must
begin to do as soon as I go away.

While the aged landlord conducts me to the bath, the wife prepares for us a charming little
repast of rice, eggs, vegetables, and sweetmeats. She is painfully in doubt about her ability
to please me, even after I have eaten enough for two men, and apologizes too much for not being
able to offer me more.

"There is no fish," she says, "for to-day is the first day of the Bonku, the Festival of the
Dead; being the thirteenth day of the month. On the thirteenth, fourteenth, and fifteenth of
the month nobody may eat fish. But on the morning of the sixteenth day, the fishermen go out
to catch fish; and everybody who has both parents living may eat of it. But if one has lost
one's father or mother then one must not eat fish, even upon the sixteenth day."

While the good soul is thus explaining I become aware of a strange remote sound from without,
a sound I recognize through memory of tropical dances, a measured clapping of hands. But this
clapping is very soft and at long intervals. And at still longer intervals there comes to us
a heavy muffled booming, the tap of a great drum, a temple drum.

"Oh! we must go to see it," cries Akira; "it is the Bon-odori, the Dance of the Festival of
the Dead. And you will see the Bon-odori danced here as it is never danced in cities--the Bon-odori
of ancient days. For customs have not changed here; but in the cities all is changed."

So I hasten out, wearing only, like the people about me, one of those light wide-sleeved summer
robes--yukata--which are furnished to male guests at all Japanese hotels; but the air is so
warm that even thus lightly clad, I find myself slightly perspiring. And the night is divine,--still,
clear, vaster than the nights of Europe, with a big white moon flinging down queer shadows
of tilted eaves and horned gables, and delightful silhouettes of robed Japanese. A little boy,
the grandson of our host, leads the way with a crimson paper lantern; and the sonorous echoing
of geta, the _koro-koro_ of wooden sandals, fills all the street, for many are going whither
we are going, to see the dance.

A little while we proceed along the main street; then, traversing a narrow passage between
two houses, we find ourselves in a great open space flooded by moonlight. This is the dancing-place;
but the dance has ceased for a time. Looking about me, I perceive that we are in the court
of an ancient Buddhist temple. The temple building itself remains intact, a low, long peaked
silhouette against the starlight; but it is void and dark and unhallowed now; it has been turned,
they tell me, into a schoolhouse. The priests are gone; the great bell is gone; the Buddhas
and the Bodhisattvas have vanished, all save one,--a broken-handed Jizo of stone, smiling with
eyelids closed, under the moon.

In the centre of the court is a framework of bamboo supporting a great drum; and about it benches
have been arranged, benches from the schoolhouse, on which the villagers are resting. There
is a hum of voices, voices of people speaking very low, as if expecting something solemn; and
cries of children betimes, and soft laughter of girls. And far behind the court, beyond a low
hedge of sombre evergreen shrubs, I see soft white lights and a host of tall gray shapes throwing
long shadows; and I know that the lights are the _white_ lanterns of the dead (those hung in
cemeteries only), and that the gray shapes are the shapes of tombs.

Suddenly a girl rises from her seat, and taps the huge drum once. It is the signal for the
Dance of Souls.

II

Out of the shadow of the temple a professional line of dancers files into the moonlight and
as suddenly halts,--all young women or girls, clad in their choicest attire; the tallest leads;
her comrades follow in order of stature. Little maids of ten or twelve years compose the end
of the procession. Figures lightly poised as birds,--figures that somehow recall the dreams
of shapes circling about certain antique vases; those charming Japanese robes, close-clinging
about the knees, might seem, but for the great fantastic drooping sleeves, and the curious
broad girdles confining them, designed after the drawing of some Greek or Etruscan artist.
And, at another tap of the drum, there begins a performance impossible to picture in words,
something unimaginable, phantasmal,--a dance, an astonishment.

All together glide the right foot forward one pace, without lifting the sandal from the ground,
and extend both hands to the right, with a strange floating motion and a smiling, mysterious
obeisance. Then the right foot is drawn back, with a repetition of the waving of hands and
the mysterious bow. Then all advance the left foot and repeat the previous movements, half-turning
to the left. Then all take two gliding paces forward, with a single simultaneous soft clap
of the hands, and the first performance is reiterated, alternately to the right and left; all
the sandaled feet gliding together, all the supple hands waving together, all the pliant bodies
bowing and swaying together. And so slowly, weirdly, the processional movement changes into
a great round, circling about the moon-lit court and around the voiceless crowd of spectators.

And always the white hands sinuously wave together, as if weaving spells, alternately without
and within the round, now with palms upward, now with palms downward; and all the elfish sleeves
hover duskily together, with a shadowing as of wings; and all the feet poise together with
such a rhythm of complex motion, that, in watching it, one feels a sensation of hypnotism--as
while striving to watch a flowing and shimmering of water.

And this soporous allurement is intensified by a dead hush. No one speaks, not even a spectator.
And, in the long intervals between the soft clapping of hands, one hears only the shrilling
of the crickets in the trees, and the _shu-shu_ of sandals, lightly stirring the dust. Unto
what, I ask myself, may this be likened? Unto nothing; yet it suggests some fancy of somnambulism,--dreamers,
who dream themselves flying, dreaming upon their feet.

And there comes to me the thought that I am looking at something immemorially old, something
belonging to the unrecorded beginning of this Oriental life, perhaps to the crepuscular Kamiyo
itself, to the magical Age of the Gods; a symbolism of motion whereof the meaning has been
forgotten for innumerable years. Yet more and more unreal the spectacle appears, with silent
smilings, with its silent bowings, as if obeisance to watchers invisible; and I find myself
wondering whether, were I to utter but a whisper, all would not vanish forever, save the gray
mouldering court and the desolate temple, and the broken statue of Jizo, smiling always the
same mysterious smile I see upon the faces of the dancers.

Under the wheeling moon, in the midst of the round, I feel as one within the circle of a charm.
And verily, this is enchantment; I am bewitched, by the ghostly weaving of hands, by the rhythmic
gliding of feet, above all by the flittering of the marvellous sleeves--apparitional, soundless,
velvety as a flitting of great tropical bats. No; nothing I ever dreamed of could be likened
to this. And with the consciousness of the ancient hakaba behind me, and the weird invitation
of its lanterns, and the ghostly beliefs of the hour and the place, there creeps upon me a
nameless, tingling sense of being haunted. But no! these gracious, silent, waving, weaving
shapes are not of the Shadowy Folk, for whose coming the white fires were kindled: a strain
of song, full of sweet, clear quavering, like the call of a bird, gushes from some girlish
mouth, and fifty soft voices join the chant:--

    _Sorota soroimashita odorikoga sorota,
    Soroikita, kita hare yukata._

"Uniform to view [as ears of young rice ripening in the field] all clad alike in summer festal
robes, the company of dancers have assembled."

Again only the shrilling of the crickets, the _shu-shu_ of feet, the gentle clapping; and the
wavering hovering measure proceeds in silence, with mesmeric lentor,--with a strange grace,
which by its very naïveté, seems as old as the encircling hills.

