The curious pipe is from India, the tobacco first came from America but the coffee is Arabian.
Let us listen to the story of the cup of coffee: In a book published in 1566 by an Arab scholar
on the virtues of coffee it is stated that a knowledge of coffee was first brought to Arabia
from Abyssinia about the year 1400 by a pious man whose tomb is still venerated in Yemen. The
knowledge of coffee spread from Yemen in south Arabia over the whole world. In 1690 Van Hoorne,
a general of the Dutch East India company, received a few coffee seeds from the Arabs at Mocha
and planted them in Batavia on the island of Java. In this way Mocha coffee has become the
mother of Java and of all other kinds of coffee sold at your grocers'. Nothing can be more
beautiful than the green hills and fertile gardens in the Arabian coffee country. The coffee
berry grows on an evergreen tree of about eighteen feet high; its leaves are a beautiful dark,
shining green and the blossom of the tree is pure white with a most delicate and fragrant odour.
Each tree bears an enormous number of coffee-berries; a single tree is said to have yielded
sixteen pounds! Arabia not only produces the finest coffee in the world, but I think the Arabs
know how to prepare a good cup of coffee better than other peoples. The raw bean is roasted
just before it is used and so keeps all its strength; it is _pounded_ fine, much finer than
you can grind it, in a mortar, with an iron pestle; lastly two smelling herbs, _heyl_ and saffron
are added when it is boiled just enough to give a flavour. Some fibres of palm bark are stuck
into the spout of the coffee-pot to act as a strainer and then the clear brown liquid is poured
into a tiny cup and handed to you in the coffee-shop. No wonder the Arab dervishes smack their
lips over this, their only luxury.

But how did the tobacco get into our picture? You can hunt up the story for yourselves in your
school histories. Had not Sir Walter Raleigh in 1586 introduced the weed to the court of Queen
Elizabeth from Virginia, our picture and social life in Arabia would be very different. The
custom of puffing tobacco has spread like a prairie fire and it is now so common in the East
that very few realise it was not always found there. There they are all together, an Indian
pipe, Arabian coffee and American tobacco! How much faster and further tobacco has travelled
than the Bible; how many people had begun to drink Mocha before Arabia had a missionary!

But, of course, nothing can travel for nothing; and somebody must pay the travelling expenses.
America pays many millions more for tobacco in a year than it pays for missionaries. It is
not surprising, therefore, that all Arabians smoke and only a very few have ever heard of the
Son of God, the Saviour of the world. As Jesus Himself said, "the children of this world are
wiser in their generation than the children of light." When people learn to love missions as
much and as often as they do a good cigar and a cup of coffee there will be no need of mite
boxes. God hasten the day.

V

AT THE CORNER GROCERY

