NOTE to THE THORN--This Poem ought to have been preceded by an introductory Poem, which I have
been prevented from writing by never having felt myself in a mood when it was probable that
I should write it well.--The character which I have here introduced speaking is sufficiently
common. The Reader will perhaps have a general notion of it, if he has ever known a man, a
Captain of a small trading vessel for example, who being past the middle age of life, had retired
upon an annuity or small independent income to some village or country town of which he was
not a native, or in which he had not been accustomed to live. Such men having little to do
become credulous and talkative from indolence; and from the same cause, and other predisposing
causes by which it is probable that such men may have been affected, they are prone to superstition.
On which account it appeared to me proper to select a character like this to exhibit some of
the general laws by which superstition acts upon the mind. Superstitious men are almost always
men of slow faculties and deep feelings; their minds are not loose but adhesive; they have
a reasonable share of imagination, by which word I mean the faculty which produces impressive
effects out of simple elements; but they are utterly destitute of fancy, the power by which
pleasure and surprize are excited by sudden varieties of situation and by accumulated imagery.

It was my wish in this poem to shew the manner in which such men cleave to the same ideas;
and to follow the turns of passion, always different, yet not palpably different, by which
their conversation is swayed. I had two objects to attain; first, to represent a picture which
should not be unimpressive yet consistent with the character that should describe it, secondly,
while I adhered to the style in which such persons describe, to take care that words, which
in their minds are impregnated with passion, should likewise convey passion to Readers who
are not accustomed to sympathize with men feeling in that manner or using such language. It
seemed to me that this might be done by calling in the assistance of Lyrical and rapid Metre.
It was necessary that the Poem, to be natural, should in reality move slowly; yet I hoped,
that, by the aid of the metre, to those who should at all enter into the spirit of the Poem,
it would appear to move quickly. The Reader will have the kindness to excuse this note as I
am sensible that an introductory Poem is necessary to give this Poem its full effect.

Upon this occasion I will request permission to add a few words closely connected with THE
THORN and many other Poems in these Volumes. There is a numerous class of readers who imagine
that the same words cannot be repeated without tautology: this is a great error: virtual tautology
is much oftener produced by using different words when the meaning is exactly the same. Words,
a Poet's words more particularly, ought to be weighed in the balance of feeling and not measured
by the space which they occupy upon paper. For the Reader cannot be too often reminded that
Poetry is passion: it is the history or science of feelings: now every man must know that an
attempt is rarely made to communicate impassioned feelings without something of an accompanying
consciousness of the inadequateness of our own powers, or the deficiencies of language. During
such efforts there will be a craving in the mind, and as long as it is unsatisfied the Speaker
will cling to the same words, or words of the same character. There are also various other
reasons why repetition and apparent tautology are frequently beauties of the highest kind.
Among the chief of these reasons is the interest which the mind attaches to words, not only
as symbols of the passion, but as _things_, active and efficient, which are of themselves part
of the passion. And further, from a spirit of fondness, exultation, and gratitude, the mind
luxuriates in the repetition of words which appear successfully to communicate its feelings.
The truth of these remarks might be shewn by innumerable passages from the Bible and from the
impassioned poetry of every nation.

  "Awake, awake Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song:"

  "Arise Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou Son of Abinoam."

  "At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet be bowed,
  he fell; where he bowed there he fell down dead."

  "Why is his Chariot so long in coming? Why tarry the Wheels of his
  Chariot?"--Judges, Chap. 5th. Verses 12th, 27th, and part of 28th.
      --See also the whole of that tumultuous and wonderful Poem.

NOTE to the ANCIENT MARINER, p. 155.--I cannot refuse myself the gratification of informing
such Readers as may have been pleased with this Poem, or with any part of it, that they owe
their pleasure in some sort to me; as the Author was himself very desirous that it should be
suppressed. This wish had arisen from a consciousness of the defects of the Poem, and from
a knowledge that many persons had been much displeased with it. The Poem of my Friend has indeed
great defects; first, that the principal person has no distinct character, either in his profession
of Mariner, or as a human being who having been long under the controul of supernatural impressions
might be supposed himself to partake of something supernatural: secondly, that he does not
act, but is continually acted upon: thirdly, that the events having no necessary connection
do not produce each other; and lastly, that the imagery is somewhat too laboriously accumulated.
Yet the Poem contains many delicate touches of passion, and indeed the passion is every where
true to nature; a great number of the stanzas present beautiful images, and are expressed with
unusual felicity of language; and the versification, though the metre is itself unfit for long
poems, is harmonious and artfully varied, exhibiting the utmost powers of that metre, and every
variety of which it is capable. It therefore appeared to me that these several merits (the
first of which, namely that of the passion, is of the highest kind,) gave to the Poem a value
which is not often possessed by better Poems. On this account I requested of my Friend to permit
me to republish it.

NOTE to the Poem ON REVISITING THE WYE, p. 201.--I have not ventured to call this Poem an Ode;
but it was written with a hope that in the transitions, and the impassioned music of the versification
would be found the principal requisites of that species of composition.

END OF VOL. I.

