BUT though the Jews had had no influence on the French Revolution and no share in Napoleon's
revolutionary reorganization of West Europe, the benefit they reaped from both movements was
second only to that of the serfs. For the Jews and the serfs were the two most oppressed classes
under the feudal system still surviving. And so the Jews imbibed with enthusiasm the libertarian
principles of the Revolution and the "open career" administration of Napoleon. They threw off
with avidity most of the shackles which prevented their joining in general European culture,
and Jewish parents of means immediately began giving their sons and, what is more, their daughters,
the secular education which would adapt them to the careers now seemingly open to them, as
publicists, lawyers, and civil servants. When the reaction came, under the Holy Alliance, with
its attempt to revive the Church-State and the closed career of prerogative, Jews everywhere
in Western Europe joined the Liberal forces, from whose triumph alone they could hope for a
dispersal of the clouds which once more obscured the sun of liberty in which they had basked
for a few short years. Jews soon ranked among the intellectual leaders of continental Liberalism,
and from 1815 to 1848 exercised an appreciable influence on the course of public opinion. In
particular a brilliant band of Jewish litterateurs in Germany helped to mediate between French
Liberalism and German public opinion, and practically led the movement known as Young Germany,
which opposed the cosmopolitan tendencies of the eighteenth century to the narrow nationalism
of the Reaction and advocated the Revolution principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity,
as against the revival of the claims of Authority and Privilege by the Holy Alliance. Boerne
and Heine, Hartmann and Saphir, Jacoby and Karl Marx, are recognized by friends and foes alike
as among the leading influences which led ultimately to the downfall of Metternich and his school.

_The Salons of Jewish Women and Their Liberalizing Influence_

THEY were aided in their Liberal tendencies by a remarkable group of emancipated Jewesses,
who introduced into Germany the vogue of the political Salon after the manner of Madame Roland
and Madame de Staël. They were mostly from the Berlin Circle, which had arisen around Moses
Mendelssohn, and carried his tendencies towards rationalism and culture to extreme limits.
His two daughters Dorothea and Henriette, and their friends Henriette Herz and Rahel Lewin,
created salons to which were attracted some of the more liberal spirits of the cultured world
of Berlin. Dorothea Mendelssohn ultimately married Friedrich von Schlegel and became one of
the Muses of the German Romantic School. Publicists of distinction like Wilhelm von Humboldt
and Friedrich von Gentz formed, with Dorothea and others of her circle, a "Bond of Virtue"
(Tugendbund) which according to all appearance was named on the principle of _locus a non lucendo_.
Rahel, "the little woman with a great soul," as Goethe called her, was even a more striking
personality. She numbered, among her friends, men of such different types as Schelling and
Schleiermacher, the Prince de Ligne, and Fichte, Schlegel and Gutzkow, Prince Louis Ferdinand,
Frederick the Great's nephew, and Fouqué, Gentz, and the Humboldts, and she finally married
Varnhagen van Ense. She was the first to appreciate, in its full extent, the multiform genius
of Goethe, and helped the rise to fame of Boerne, Heine, and Victor Hugo. She was undoubtedly
the most striking personality among the women of her age in Germany, and she is nowadays regarded
as one of the chief forerunners of the Feminist movement.[C]

These salons had an air of cultured Bohemianism, which attracted many men of rank in Mid-Europe
who were beginning to be repelled by the exactions of social gathering in which all associations
were determined by armorial bearings. A similar salon was held in Vienna by Baroness von Arnstein,
in whose mansion all the diplomats of the Congress of Vienna met as on neutral ground. Such
gatherings, while helping to liberalize good society in Mid-Europe, also brought the position
of Jews to the notice of the ruling classes and, in many cases, aroused a determination to
repair their wrongs. You cannot accept a man socially yet refuse him the most elementary rights
politically.[D]

_The Liberal Leadership of Heine and Boerne_

THE Revolution of 1830 brought into European prominence the two most brilliant members of Rahel's
coterie, Ludwig Boerne and Heinrich Heine. Both had made their mark as litterateurs in the
preceding decade, but Boerne's "Letters from Paris" and Heine's "French Conditions" (contributed
to the _Augsburger Zeitung_) drew the attention of all liberal Germany to the new hopes aroused
by the downfall of the absolutist monarchy in France. Henceforth they were the dominating voices
in arousing among the German Liberals the hope of similar liberty, while in France itself they
helped to make known to French culture the deeper currents of German thought and literature.
In particular their brilliant wit and incisive sarcasm set the tone for the feuilleton literature
of all Mid-Europe. By their very isolation they were enabled to regard men and affairs with
a certain detachment, and both wrote with an iridescent insolence which can only be described
by the Jewish technical word _Chutzpah_. Treitschke complained of their frequent irreverences
and flippancies but in both respects Heine, "the wittiest Frenchman since Voltaire," was merely
following in the footsteps of his predecessor, and Boerne, like Diderot, knew that the most
effective weapon against authority is sarcasm.

Under the leadership of Heine and Boerne a whole school of liberal journalists arose in Germany
and Austria, many of them Jews like Saphir and Hartmann, and they gave a tone to Mid-European
journalism which has lasted to the present day. They thus helped to internationalize Liberalism
of the French form, with its rather vague and indefinite strivings after liberty, equality,
and fraternity, as contrasted with the Liberalism of the English type dominated by Jeremy Bentham,
which aimed at constitutional, economic, and social reforms of a definite character. Young
Germany, as represented by Heine and Boerne, left the latter type of Liberalism severely alone.

Yet in the struggle for constitutional liberty, which led to the revolutions of 1848, Jews
took a considerable part on the more practical side. Everywhere during that critical year Jews
had a hand in the upheaval against absolutism.[E]

_Among the Conservatives: Stahl and Disraeli_

BUT Jews were not altogether unrepresented among the Conservative forces, counting indeed two
of the chief leaders, F. J. Stahl in Prussia and Benjamin Disraeli in England. Disraeli's is
the better known name, but it is probable Stahl was equally influential. Stahl is described
by Sir A. W. Ward in the Cambridge Modern History, xi. 395, as "the intellectual leader of
the conservative aristocratic party and the most remarkable brain in the Upper Chamber. . .
. He largely supplied the ruling party with the learning and wealth of ideas on which to found
their claims. Their organ was the _Kreuzzeitung_, and the party was called by its name." Bluntschli
calls him, "after Hegel the most important representative of the philosophical theory of the
State. He, in many ways, advanced political science by his dialectical and critical ability
in founding new points of view." (_The Theory of the State_, p. 73). But Stahl's historic influence
will probably rest on his connection with Bismarck at the formative period of his career, when
the future chancellor was also a member of the _Kreuzzeitung_ party.

Disraeli's career and influence is far better known and need not be further adverted to in
this place. The fact that both were converts has little significance from our present point
of view, since many of the Jewish leaders on the Liberal side had also adopted Christianity.
It is more pertinent to remark that one cannot trace their conservatism to their Judaism since
there was everything in the Jewish position of their time to range Jews on the Liberal side.
Stahl and Disraeli are, therefore, to be regarded merely as examples of Jewish ability. There
is nothing specifically Jewish in their influence unless we regard the socialistic strain in
Disraeli's conception of "Young England" as a part of the Jewish sympathy with the "under dog,"
which can be attributed to their own experiences and to the traditions of the Prophets.

_The Contribution of the Jews to Socialism_

CERTAINLY we find a strong Jewish participation throughout the socialistic movement which,
from its inception up to the present day, has been largely dominated by Jewish influences.
Although modern socialism can be traced back to St. Simon, the whole movement would have collapsed
at the death of the master but for the organizing ability of Olinde Rodrigues and the religious
enthusiasm of his brother Eugene. A practical turn was also given by their cousins, Isaac and
Jacob Pereire, who, as bankers, had thought out the best means of carrying out the principles
of the school into practical life. An extension of the facilities for banking would lower the
rate of interest and therefore leave more to be distributed to the workers, while the development
of railways would reduce the cost of transportation and thus lower the cost of living and raise
real wages. Accordingly the Pereires devoted themselves, with religious enthusiasm, to creating
the Credit Foncier, and later the Credit Mobilier, and were the chief agents in developing
the railway system of Northern France, incidentally making themselves multi-millionaires in
the process, though they never lost their enthusiasm for the socialistic ideals.[F]

Most of these left the St. Simonian Church when it diverged into the sexual vagaries of Enfantin,
though one of his creeds was, "I believe that God has raised up Saint Simon to teach the Father
(Enfantin) through Rodrigues." Felicien David the musician, however, accompanied Enfantin on
his epoch-making journey to Egypt, during which he implanted the idea of the Suez Canal in
the minds of Mehemet Ali and Ferdinand de Lesseps, and Gustave d'Eichthal devoted his enthusiasm
and energies to creating, out of the ideas of St. Simon and Enfantin, a new religion which
should revert to the socialism of the Prophets, while denying or ignoring, like them, any other
life than this. It is said that he consulted Heine as to the best means of founding such a
religion. "Get crucified and rise again on the third day," was Heine's caustic reply. The socialistic
tone of J. S. Mill's _Principles of Political Economy_, which differentiates it from its Ricardian
predecessors, is undoubtedly due in large measure to his intercourse with d'Eichthal. Enfantin's
vagaries, while they destroyed any direct practical outcome for St. Simonism, drew wide attention
to its views, and Jews helped to spread them throughout Europe, Moritz Veit performing that
function in Germany, and M. Parma in Italy. The cosmopolitan position of Jews is seen at its
best in such propagandism, and it is not surprising that they should have been attracted by
views of which the kernel is in the Prophets of Israel, whom indeed Renan, in his _Histoire
d'Israel_, brilliantly characterized as socialistic preachers.

The later stages of socialism in Europe were, as is well known, dominated by Karl Marx, who
based upon Ricardo's "iron law" of wages the imposing edifice of _Das Kapital_, for long the
gospel of advanced socialism. The brilliant Ferdinand Lassalle introduced its principles into
German politics, and the most recent stages of German socialism have been controlled by the
opportunism of E. Bernstein, while among its most prominent leaders have been V. Adler and
Paul Singer.

_The Struggle for Political Emancipation_

THIS participation of Jewish intellect and sympathies with the Liberal current in European
politics made Jewish emancipation a part of the Liberal creed throughout Europe. Jews were
fighting for themselves in fighting for the general liberties, and their position in the forefront
of the struggle was thus justified by the representative principle at the root of modern Liberalism.
Jewish disabilities were the last stronghold of the old Church-State conception, and the struggle
on the side of the Reaction to retain this fundamental principle was the more intense. If Jews
were granted full civil and political rights it could no longer be contended that Christianity
was a fundamental principle of the State (or, as the English _obiter dictum_ put it, "Christianity
is a parcel of the common law"). Hence the extreme violence of the defense which seems, at
first sight, out of all proportion to the interests or numbers involved. Thus the struggle
was as embittered in Switzerland as anywhere, though the Jews there only constituted a handful,
and the traditions of the country were in favor of toleration.

From this aspect the fight in England is typical. As soon as the Catholics had obtained emancipation
in 1828 (the Jews had stood aside in order not to complicate the question), Jewish emancipation
became part of the Liberal creed, and the struggle was waged in Parliament, or rather in the
House of Lords, for the ensuing thirty years. England was the home of toleration, and her Toleration
Act, passed as early as 1689, formed the third stage in the European progress towards religious
liberty. Yet the more conservative elements in English life fought against the removal of Jewish
disabilities because it meant the visible proof of the secularization of English politics.
It is perhaps characteristic that the Tory resistance was mainly broken down by Disraeli, of
Jewish, and by Lord George Bentinck, of Dutch, descent.

_The High Tide of Liberalism_

