It was nearly a mile to the Union lines, and as they advanced over the open plain the Federal
artillery opened again, ploughing great lanes through their solid ranks, but they closed up
to '_guide centre_' as if upon dress-parade; when half way over Pickett halted his division
amidst a terrible fire of shot and shell, and changed his direction by an oblique movement
coolly and beautifully made. But here occurred the greatest mistake of all. Wilcox paid no
attention to this change of movement, but kept straight on to the front, thus opening a tremendous
gap between the two columns and exposing Pickett's right to all the mishaps that afterwards
overtook it. To those who have ever faced artillery fire it is marvellous and unexplainable
how human beings could have advanced a mile under the terrific fire of a hundred cannon, every
inch of air being laden with the missiles of death; but in splendid formation they still came
bravely on till within range of the musketry; then the blue line of Hancock's corps arose and
poured into their ranks a murderous fire. With a wild yell the rebels pushed on, unfalteringly
crossed the Federal line and laid hands upon eleven cannon.

Men fired in each others faces; there were bayonet thrusts, cutting with sabres, hand to hand
contests, oaths, curses, yells and hurrahs. The second corps fell back behind the guns to allow
the use of grape and double canister, and as it tore through the rebel ranks at only a few
paces distant the dead and wounded were piled in ghastly heaps. Still on they came up to the
very muzzles of the guns; they were blown away from the cannon's mouth but yet they did not
waver. Pickett had taken the key to the position and the glad shout of victory was heard, as,
the very impersonation of a soldier, he still forced his troops to the crest of Cemetery Ridge.
Kemper and Armistead broke through Hancock's line, scaled the hill and planted their flags
on its crest. Just before Armistead was shot, he placed his flag upon a captured cannon and
cried "_Give them the cold steel, boys_!"; but valor could do no more, the handful of braves
had won immortality but could not conquer an army. Pettigrew's weak division was broken fleeing
and almost annihilated. Wilcox, owing to his great mistake in separating his column was easily
routed, and Stannard's Vermonters thrown into the gap were creating havoc on Pickett's flank.
Pickett, seeing his supports gone, his generals, Kemper, Armistead and Garnett killed or wounded,
every field officer of three brigades gone, three-fourths of his men killed or captured, himself
untouched but broken-hearted, gave the order for retreat, but band of heroes as they were they
fled not; but amidst that still continuous, terrible fire they slowly, sullenly, recrossed
the plain,--all that was left of them, but few of five thousand.

[Illustration: Position of troops at time of attack on left centre on 3rd day of battle of
Gettysburg.]

Thus ended the greatest charge known to modern warfare. Made in a most unequal manner against
a great army and amidst the most terrific cannonade known in wars, and yet so perfect was the
discipline, so audacious the valor that had this handful of Virginians been properly supported
they would perhaps have rendered the Federal position untenable, and possibly have established
the Southern Confederacy. While other battle-fields are upturned by the plough and covered
with waving grain, Cemetery Ridge will forever proudly uphold its monuments telling of glory
both to the Blue and the Gray, and our children's children while standing upon its crest will
rehearse again of Pickett's wonderful charge.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PATRIOT, SAMUEL ADAMS.

BY EDWARD P. GUILD.

[Illustration: SAMUEL ADAMS. FROM COPLEY'S PAINTING.[1]]

Three years ago the old State House in Boston was restored to its original architectural appearance.
After having fallen a prey to the ruthless hand of commerce, been surmounted with a "Mansard
roof," disfigured by a legion of business signs, made a hitching place for scores of telegraph
wires, and lastly been threatened with entire demolition by the ever arrogant spirit of "business
enterprise"; the sentiment of patriotic veneration asserted itself and came to the rescue.
With an appropriation of $35,000 from the city, work was begun in the fall of 1881, and by
the following July the ancient building had been restored to almost exactly its appearance
in the last century. As the Old State House now stands, it is identical with the Town House
which Boston first used for its town meeting May 13, 1713. This was nine years before the birth
of the man destined to become the foremost character in the Boston town meeting of the eighteenth
century--Samuel Adams. Probably no other man who ever lived has been so identified with the
history of the Old State House as was he. The town meetings were held in Faneuil Hall after
1742, but through the stormy years when the Assembly met in the old building, Samuel Adams
was in constant attendance as clerk. His desk, on which he wrote the first sentences ever ventured
for American independence, and by which he arose, and, with hands often tremulous with nervous
energy, directed the exciting debates, is to-day in the old Assembly chamber in the western
end of the building. In 1774 he went to Congress, but for a long period afterward the Old State
House was again his field of labor, as senator, as lieutenant governor and then as governor.

The life of Samuel Adams ought to be more familiar than it is to the patriotic young men of
to-day, but some excuse is found in the fact that a popular, concise biography has, until lately,
not been written. The excellent three volume work of Mr. Wells, Adams' great grandson, although
admirable as an exhaustive biography, is too voluminous for the common reader; but since the
appearance of Prof. Hosmer's recent book[2] there can be no reason why any schoolboy should
not have a clear idea of the life of the man who organized the Revolution.

It is only as a patriot that Samuel Adams claims our attention. Although college bred he was
a man of letters only so far as his pen could write patriotic resolutions and scathing letters
against the government of King George. These letters were printed for the most part in the
"Boston Gazette," published by Edes & Gill in Court Street. As a business man he was never
a success. For years he kept the old malt house on Purchase Street, but he gave the business
little thought, for his mind was constantly engrossed in public matters, and at last he made
no pretext of attending to any matter of private business, depending for support only upon
his small salary as clerk of the assembly. No one will ever accuse Samuel Adams of any selfish
ambition, and, although his every act will not bear the closest application of the square and
rule, yet he never deceived nor used a doubtful method in the least degree for personal gain.

Adams did not begin his public career early in life. In 1764 he was chosen a member of the
committee to instruct the representatives just elected to the General Court, and the paper
drafted on that occasion is the first document from his pen of which we now have any trace,
and is memorable, moreover, because it contains the first public denial of the authority of
the Stamp Act. Adams was now forty-two, his hair was already touched with gray, and "a peculiar
tremulousness of the head and hands made it seem as if he were already on the threshold of
old age." He had, however, a remarkably sound constitution, a medium sized, muscular frame,
and clear, steel-gray eyes.

[Illustration: OLD STATE HOUSE IN 1793.]

Among those closely connected with Adams in the public service, which, from this time on, became
his only thought, were John Hancock and James Otis. Adams contrasted strongly with both of
these men. Hancock was the richest man in the province and as liberal as he was wealthy. In
the general jubilation that followed the repeal of the Stamp Act, he opened a pipe of Madeira
wine before his elegant mansion opposite the Common, and so long as it lasted it was freely
dispensed to the crowd. The dress of Hancock when at home is described as a "red velvet cap,
within which was one of fine linen, the edge of this turned up over the velvet one, two or
three inches. He wore a blue damask gown lined with silk, a white plaited stock, a white silk
embroidered waistcoat, black silk small-clothes, white silk stockings and red morocco slippers."
Adams was in marked contrast with Otis in temperament. The former, always cool and collected
and his words based on deliberate reason, was the extreme of the other who carried his arguments
in a flood of impetuous eloquence. "Otis was a flame of fire," says Sewall. But although Otis
was once almost the ideal of the people, his erratic tendencies at last unfitted him for a leader.

One reason of Sam Adams' prestige with the masses was his common and familiar intercourse with
mechanics and artisans. Hancock, Otis, Bowdoin and Curtis, on account of their wealth and ideas
of aristocracy, kept more or less aloof from the workmen; while Adams, plainly clad and with
familiar but dignified manner, was often found in the ship yards or at the rope walks engaged
in earnest conversation with the homely craftsmen. Indeed, nothing pleased him more than to
be talking with a ship carpenter as they sat side by side on a block of oak, or with some shopkeeper
in a sheltered fence corner. Most of his writing was done in a little room in his Purchase
Street house where night after night his busy mind and quill were kept at work on his trenchant
letters for the "Gazette," which were signed with significant nom de plumes in Latin.

The year 1768 was made notable by the arrival in Boston from England of the 14th and the 29th
regiments. The main guard was quartered in King (now State) Street, with the cannon pointed
toward the State House, and the troops occupied various houses in the vicinity. In the next
year the Governor, Bernard, was recalled, and Thomas Hutchinson, although remaining nominally
lieutenant governor, became acting chief magistrate. He now appeared the most conspicuous figure
among the royalists, and Samuel Adams became more distinctly the leader of the patriots. Neglecting
all other affairs, he was content to live on a pittance, which he was enabled to do by a frugal
and helpful wife.

Affairs were now approaching a crisis. A consignment of goods from England, sent in defiance
of the non-importation agreements, was not allowed to land and had to be returned. One importer,
a Scotchman, would not sign the agreements, so after much remonstrance, Samuel Adams arose
in town meeting and grimly moved that the number present, about two thousand, should resolve
itself into a committee of the whole, wait upon the obstinate merchant and use such persuasion
as should be necessary to secure a compliance. But no vote was needed, for the Scotchman was
present, and rushing to the front with knees trembling and in a squeaking voice, rolling his
r's like a well-played drum, exclaimed:-- "Mr. Mode-r-r-rater, I agr-r-ree, I agr-r-ree!" greatly
to the amusement of the people.

It was early in the next year, 1770, that the hostility between towns-people and soldiers led
for the first time to the shedding of blood. In February a boy, Christopher Snyder, was shot
and killed during a disturbance, and in March occurred the "Boston Massacre." The story has
been many times told. Quarrels had grown frequent between the soldiers and the rope-walk hands,
the soldiers usually getting the worst of it. On the evening of the 5th, an altercation began
just below the Old State House, between the sentinel of the guard and a crowd of townsfolk.
An alarm was rung from one of the steeples, and many citizens hurried to the place, most of
them thinking that a fire had broken out. A sentry was at the corner of King and Exchange streets,
where the Custom House stood, and he was assaulted by the boys with snowballs. Captain Preston
with seven or eight men rushed to the scene, loaded their muskets and made ready to fire. The
mob hooted, struck their muskets and dared them to fire. At last a volley came. Three were
killed and eight wounded. At once there was a tumult. The bells were all rung and the populace
hurried to and fro. The bodies of the slain lay on the ground which was sprinkled with a light
snow, serving to plainly reveal in the clear moon-light the stains of blood.

[Illustration: OLD STATE HOUSE IN 1801.]

The 29th regiment repaired to the spot prepared for firing, and there would have been a fierce
contest but for the excellent conduct of the acting governor, Hutchinson. He took Captain Preston
severely to task for firing at the people without the orders of a civil magistrate, and then,
quickly working his way to the State House, took his stand in the balcony of the council-chamber
looking down King Street, and made an address promising that the law should prevail and justice
should be done to all. The next morning Hutchinson was waited upon by the selectmen who informed
him that there would be no peace until the soldiers should depart. Hutchinson claimed, however,
that the regiments were not under his command.

A mass meeting was soon held in Faneuil Hall, and was addressed by Samuel Adams. It may readily
be believed that he advocated no compromise, and a committee of fifteen was immediately appointed
of which Adams was a member. According to instructions, they at once repaired to the council
chamber, and demanded the instant removal of the troops. At three o'clock a regular town meeting
assembled in Faneuil Hall, but, owing to the great number present, adjourned to the Old South
Meeting House. Then the committee of fifteen appeared making their way from the council-chamber
to the meeting-house. Samuel Adams was at the head, and as the crowd made way on either hand
he bared his head, and, inclining to the right and left, as he passed through the line, kept
repeating: "Both regiments or none!" "Both regiments or none!"

[Illustration: STATUE IN ADAMS SQUARE.]

In the presence of the dense multitude in the Old South, the governor's reply was rendered:
the 29th regiment should go to the castle, but the 14th must remain. Then the cry arose, "Both
regiments or none!" and as the shout echoed from every quarter it was plain that the people
had caught the meaning of the watchword, given shortly before by Adams. A new committee, also
including Adams, was appointed and sent back to the governor, and as they stood in the council
chamber the scene was one that John Adams pronounced long after as worthy a historical painting.
A few sentences from Adams' address to Hutchinson are clear enough to show the intense earnestness
and patriotism of the man.

  "It is well known," he said, "that acting as governor of the Province,
  you are by its charter the commander-in-chief of the military forces
  within it; and as such, the troops now in the capital are subject to
  your orders. If you, or Colonel Dalrymple under you, have the power to
  remove one regiment, you have the power to remove both; and nothing
  short of their total removal will satisfy the people or preserve the
  peace of the Province. A Multitude highly incensed now wait the result
  of this application. The voice of ten thousand freemen demands that
  both regiments be forthwith removed. Their voice must be respected,
  their demand obeyed. Fail not then at your peril to comply with this
  requisition! On you alone rests the responsibility of this decision;
  and if the just expectations of the people are disappointed, you must
  be answerable to God and your country for the fatal consequences that
  must ensue. The committee have discharged their duty, and it is for
  you to discharge yours. They wait your final determination."

Hutchinson for a long time stood firm, but yielded at last and the troops were removed.

It is not the purpose of this paper to follow Samuel Adams through his active career in the
years of the Revolution and the succeeding period. It is always Samuel Adams, the unswerving
patriot, the adroit leader, the man of the people. It had long been felt in England that his
was the most active spirit in the cause of the patriots, and there was much talk of effecting
his arrest and bringing him to trial on the charge of treason, but the move was never made.
Adams' courage never failed. He had long given up the idea of any compromise between the colonies
and the Crown, and there is nothing conciliatory in his words or acts. When the tea was emptied
into Boston Harbor it was easily understood that Adams was the real leader in the action. No
one familiar with the life of the great town meeting man, as Prof. Hosmer likes to call him,
can doubt that he had the essential qualities of an adroit strategist. Cromwell once locked
Parliament out, Adams once locked the Assembly in. He had secured a majority of the members
to vote for a Continental Congress, but could the resolve be presented and brought to a final
vote before Governor Gage could prorogue the Assembly, as he would use all speed to do, the
instant the first knowledge of the scheme reached his ears? On the 17th of June, just one year
before the Battle of Bunker Hill, that question was answered. The resolve was offered that
day providing for the appointment of delegates to such a congress. Tory members at once essayed
to leave the hall to dispatch the news to the governor, but the bolts were fast, and Samuel
Adams had the key in his pocket. Two months later the delegates were on their way to Philadelphia,--Thomas
Cushing, Samuel and John Adams and Robert Treat Paine.

Events then transpired rapidly. So far, Samuel Adams was almost wholly alone in the idea of
independence, but it was declared by Congress less than two years later. For more than twenty
years longer, Adams continued in public life, but his greatest work was before the Declaration
of Independence rather than after. There were times when the cause of the patriots must have
fallen through but for the nerve and skill of this man. Bowdoin, Cushing, Hancock, Otis, and
even John Adams could not have been thoroughly trusted in the last years of the colony to bring
affairs to a successful issue. But Samuel Adams was fitted by intellect and character, adroitness
and courage, tireless energy and by never failing devotion to the public good, to be the man
for the time.

When America had become a Republic, and Adams had returned from Congress to his native town,
he served as presiding officer of the Senate, then as lieutenant governor, and, upon the death
of Hancock, governor, to which office he was several times chosen by the people. He died in
1803, and his dust lies to-day in the old Granary Burying Ground, close by the common grave
of the four victims of the Boston Massacre.

The statue in bronze now standing in Adams Square is noble in design, and appropriate for situation.
It is in almost the busiest position of the great city, and daily across its shadow pass tens
of thousands of mechanics and artisans--the class of men with whom Samuel Adams used to love
to hold intercourse. The Old State House and Faneuil Hall are only a stone's-throw distant
from the statue, but the face is not looking in the direction of either; it is turned directly
toward the visible shaft of granite on Bunker Hill--the monument which marks the first great
battle in the struggle for that Independence toward which, in all his labors for so many years,
the eyes of Samuel Adams were ever turned.

[Footnote 1: For the reproduction of the above portrait and the two following views of the
Old State House, we are indebted to the courtesy of Messrs. Ticknor & Co., the well-known Boston
publishers.--Ed.]

[Footnote 2: Samuel Adams. By James K. Hosmer, 1 vol., 442 pp. American Statesmen Series. Boston:
Houghton, Mifflin & Co. 1883.]

       *       *       *       *       *

AUTHORITATIVE LITERATURE OF THE CIVIL WAR.

BY GEORGE LOWELL AUSTIN.

II.

  THE LIFE AND PUBLIC SERVICES OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN, sixteenth
  President of the United States: together with His State Papers,
  including his Speeches, Addresses, Messages, Letters, and Proclamations,
  and the closing Scenes connected with his life and death. By Henry J.
  Raymond. To which are added Anecdotes and Personal Reminiscences of
  President Lincoln, by Frank B. Carpenter, with a steel portrait, and
  other illustrations, 1 vol. octavo, pp. 808. New York: Derby and Miller,
  1865.

During the Presidential canvass of 1864, the author of this volume prepared a work upon the
administration of President Lincoln. That canvass resulted in the re-election of Mr. Lincoln,
whose death occurred soon after his second inauguration. As the editor of the _New York Times_,
Mr. Raymond possessed at the time ample facilities to prepare such a book as was needed to
interest the public in the life of one whose work was at once as great as it was successful.
Up to the day of its publication, this book was the best and most authoritative that had been
published. Twenty years have since elapsed, and in many respects it still maintains a just
superiority and a historical value that cannot be questioned. Its errors are of omission, rather
than of commission; while its merits are so great as to render it indispensable to all future
writers on the subject. Every public speech, message, letter, or document of any sort of Mr.
Lincoln's, so far as accessible in 1865, will be found included in the volume. The rapidly
occuring events of the civil war, with much of their secret history, are tersely and graphically
described. The "Reminiscences" of Mr. Carpenter, covering about thirty pages, add interest
to the volume.

  ABRAHAM LINCOLN: The True Story of a Great Life. Showing the
  inner growth, special training and peculiar fitness of the Man for his
  work. By William O. Stoddard. Illustrated. 1 vol. octavo, pp. 508. New
  York: Fords, Howard & Hurlbert, 1884.

