The plan which mademoiselle had proposed and I had adopted in the forest by St. Gaultier--when
it seemed to us that our long absence and the great events of which we heard must have changed
the world and opened a path for our return--had failed utterly. Things were as they had been;
the strong were still strong, and friendship under bond to fear. Plainly we should have shewn
ourselves wiser had we taken the lowlier course, and, obeying the warnings given us, waited
the King of Navarre's pleasure or the tardy recollection of Rosny. I had not then stood, as
I now stood, in instant jeopardy, nor felt the keen pangs of a separation which bade fair to
be lasting. She was safe, and that was much; but I, after long service and brief happiness,
must go out again alone, with only memories to comfort me.

It was Simon Fleix's voice which awakened me from this unworthy lethargy--as selfish as it
was useless--and, recalling me to myself, reminded me that precious time was passing while
I stood inactive. To get at me he had forced his way through the curious crowd, and his face
was flushed. He plucked me by the sleeve, regarding the varlets round him with a mixture of
anger and fear.

'Nom de Dieu! do they take you for a rope-dancer?' he muttered in my ear. 'Mount, sir, and
come. There is not a moment to be lost.'

'You left her at Madame Catherine's?' I said.

'To be sure,' he answered impatiently. 'Trouble not about her. Save yourself, M. de Marsac.
That is the thing to be done now.'

I mounted mechanically, and felt my courage return as the horse moved under me. I trotted through
the crowd, and without thought took the road by which we had come. When we had ridden a hundred
yards, however, I pulled up 'An hour is a short start,' I said sullenly. 'Whither?'

'To St. Cloud,' he answered promptly. 'The protection of the King of France may avail for a
day or two. After that, there will still be the League, if Paris have not fallen.'

I saw there was nothing else for it, and assented, and we set off. The distance which separates
Meudon from St. Cloud we might have ridden under the hour, but the direct road runs across
the Scholars' Meadow, a wide plain north of Meudon. This lay exposed to the enemy's fire, and
was, besides, the scene of hourly conflicts between the horse of both parties, so that to cross
it without an adequate force was impossible. Driven to make a circuit, we took longer to reach
our destination, yet did so without mishap; finding the little town, when we came in sight
of it, given up to all the bustle and commotion which properly belong to the Court and camp.

It was, indeed, as full as it could be, for the surrender of Paris being momentarily expected,
St. Cloud had become the rendezvous as well of the few who had long followed a principle as
of the many who wait upon success. The streets, crowded in, every part, shone with glancing
colours, with steel and velvet, the garb of fashion and the plumes of war. Long lines of flags
obscured the eaves and broke the sunshine, while, above all, the bells of half a dozen churches
rang merry answer to the distant crash of guns. Everywhere on flag and arch and streamer I
read the motto, 'Vive le Roi!'--words written, God knew then, and we know now, in what a mockery
of doom!

CHAPTER XXXIV. ''TIS AN ILL WIND.'

