The German Jean Paul Richter says an admirable thing: "There are so many tender and holy emotions
flying about in our inward world, which, like angels, can never assume the body of an outward
act; so many rich and lovely flowers spring up, which bear no seed, that it is a happiness
poetry was invented, which receives into its limbus all these incorporeal spirits, and the
perfume of all these flowers." True: but the tremendous domain of Tragedy--emotion neither
holy nor tender--has been most fruitful of poetic power, and that finds here no recognition.

Edmund Burke's rather disparaging remark that poetry is "the art of substituting shadows, and
of lending existence to nothing," has yet a vital suggestion, reminding one of Shakespeare's
graphic touch in "The Tempest":

  "And, as imagination bodies forth
  The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
  Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothings
  A local habitation and a name";

and this again recalls in Holy Writ that clarifying description of the imaginative power of
"seeing the invisible" which is called "faith," as being "the substance of things hoped for,
the evidence of things not seen."

These varied sayings concern the elements of poetry, and help to an apprehension of its scope
and power; yet they but partially satisfy the desire to know what is meant by that familiar
word,--which we constantly use, and use understandingly, while yet the very makers of poetry
find difficulty in telling just what is signified by it.

Let us turn to the dictionary, and see how the matter looks to the cold-minded definer. Webster
gives Poetry as "the art of apprehending and interpreting ideas by the faculty of the imagination;
the art of idealizing in thought and in expression;" and then, specifically, "imaginative language
or composition, whether expressed rhythmically or in prose." This seems to come nearer the
mark; although, by admitting poetical prose, the popular idea of poetry is expanded to include
all writing that is infused with the imaginative quality. Thus is found place for Walt Whitman,
who defies all metre, and who yet lays strong hold upon the reader--despite his whimsicalities--by
the very multiplicity and suggestiveness of his imaginings among real things.

Perhaps as satisfactory a presentation of the matter as can be found is in a casual phrase
of Stedman's in the Introduction to his "American Anthology." This true poet and master-critic,
in pursuit of another idea, alludes to poetry as "being _a rhythmical expression of emotion
and ideality_." Here at last we have form, spirit, and theme combined in one terse utterance.
In poetry we look for the musical metre, the recurrent refrain of rhythm; while that which
inspires it arises from the universal motives which Coleridge names as ministers to Love,--

  "All thoughts, all passions, all delights,
  _Whatever stirs_ this mortal frame."

With this view, then, of the vast range of poetical thinking and feeling--such as most arouse
interest in all possible moods of the reader, and recalling the fact that the aim of the poet
is to set forth his strains in musical measures that allure the attention and satisfy the sense
of perfect expression, it will be of interest to note a few passages concerning this art of
all arts from notable thinkers.

In his introduction to Ward's admirable selections from "The English Poets," Matthew Arnold--critic
and poet--to whom allusion has already been made, says:

"The future of poetry is immense, because in poetry, where it is worthy of its high destinies,
our race, as time goes on, will find an ever surer and surer stay....

"We are here invited to trace the stream of English poetry. But whether we set ourselves, as
here, to follow only one of the several streams that make the mighty river of poetry, or whether
we seek to know them all, our governing thought should be the same. We should conceive of poetry
worthily, and more highly than it has been the custom to conceive of it. We should conceive
of it as capable of higher uses, and called to higher destinies, than those which in general
men have assigned to it hitherto. More and more mankind will discover that we have to turn
to poetry to interpret life for us, to console us, to sustain us....

"But if we conceive thus highly of poetry, we must also set our standard for poetry high, since
poetry, to be capable of fulfilling such high destinies, must be poetry of a high order of
excellence.

... The best poetry is what we want; the best poetry will be found to have a power of forming,
sustaining, and delighting us, as nothing else can. A clearer, deeper sense of the best in
poetry, and of the strength and joy to be drawn from it, is the most precious benefit which
we can gather from a poetical collection such as the present."

Macaulay in his brilliant essay on Milton, which, published in the _Edinburgh Review_ in 1825,
gave him instant recognition as "a new literary power," set up an interesting theory. A few
extracts will give it:--

"Milton, it is said, inherited what his predecessors created; he lived in an enlightened age;
he received a finished education; and we must therefore, if we would form a just estimate of
his powers, make large deductions for these advantages.

"We venture to say, on the contrary, paradoxical as the remark may appear, that no poet has
ever had to struggle with more unfavorable circumstances than Milton....

"We think that, as civilization advances, poetry almost necessarily declines. Therefore, though
we admire those great works of imagination which have appeared in dark ages, we do not admire
them the more because they have appeared in dark ages. On the contrary, we hold that the most
wonderful and splendid proof of genius is a great poem produced in a civilized age....

"Of all people, children are the most imaginative. They abandon themselves without reserve
to every illusion. Every image which is strongly presented to their mental eye produces on
them the effect of reality.... In a rude state of society, men are children with a greater
variety of ideas. It is therefore in such a state of society that we may expect to find the
poetical temperament in its highest perfection. He who, in an enlightened and literary society,
aspires to be a great poet, must first become a little child. He must take to pieces the whole
web of his mind. He must unlearn much of that knowledge which has perhaps constituted hitherto
his chief title to superiority. His very talents will be a hinderance to him. His difficulties
will be proportioned to his proficiency in the pursuits which are fashionable among his contemporaries;
and that proficiency will in general be proportioned to the vigor and activity of his mind....

"If these reasonings be just, no poet has ever triumphed over greater difficulties than Milton.
He received a learned education. He was a profound and elegant classical scholar; he had studied
all the mysteries of Rabbinical literature; he was intimately acquainted with every language
of modern Europe from which either pleasure or information was then to be derived. He was perhaps
the only great poet of later times who has been distinguished by the excellence of his Latin
verse."

And yet Macaulay goes on to say:

"The public has long been agreed as to the merit of the most remarkable passages, the incomparable
harmony of the numbers, and the excellence of that style which no rival has been able to equal,
and no parodist to degrade, which displays in their highest perfection the idiomatic powers
of the English tongue, and to which every ancient and every modern language has contributed
something of grace, of energy, or of music."

