It is natural to raise the query whether these considerations, which are so obvious and are
of the very kind that would have appealed to Schiller, were overlooked by him or were set aside
for reasons of his own. Virtually he takes the Catholic side of the controversy. The ugly traits
of Mary's character, while we cannot say that they are concealed with partisan intent, are
so wrought into the picture that they do not impress the imagination as ugly at all. They are
consigned to the dim limbo of the past and have the effect of winning for her that sympathy
which human nature is always ready to bestow, in art if not in life, upon the Magdalen type.
On the other hand, the ignoble traits of Queen Elizabeth are brought into the foreground and
made the most of, while her great qualities are hardly more than adumbrated in the picture.
The result is a canonization and a caricature; and one cannot help wondering how Schiller was
brought thereto, when it would seem that his Protestant sympathies, as we have known him hitherto,
should have led him in the contrary direction.

The key to the riddle is, no doubt, that he had begun to feel the influence of the Romantic
movement, which was well under way when 'Mary Stuart' was written. The influence is difficult
to prove, because Schiller always maintained ostensibly a very cool and critical attitude toward
the efforts of the new school. His relations with its leaders were not intimate, and one of
them at least, the younger Schlegel, was his particular aversion. Nevertheless he read their
works; and while he always professed to be but little edified, there is abundant evidence that
his ideas of literary art were considerably affected by the new propaganda. So, too, Goethe
was never a partisan of the Romanticists, and he often spoke derisively of them; yet when he
published the Second Part of 'Faust', the world saw that he had learned from them all there
was to be learned. An author is not always most influenced by that which he consciously approves.

As for Schiller there was much in common between him and the Romanticists. He had worked out
an aesthetic religion which completely satisfied him. In religious dogma of any kind he had
ceased to take a practical interest. His ethical ideal was an ideal of harmony, of equipoise.
His critical studies had cured him of his one-sided Hellenism, and his historical studies had
taught him that the Middle Ages were not without their own peculiar greatness. It was thus
natural enough that the Catholicizing drift of the Romantic school should appeal to his aesthetic
sympathies. When a man of poetic temper drifts away from his theological moorings and becomes
indifferent to positive dogma, he is apt to value the historical religions according to their
aesthetic qualities. That is best which has the most warmth and color and makes the strongest
appeal to the imagination.

It is along this line of reflection that we must seek the explanation of Schiller's Catholicizing
tendency in 'Mary Stuart'. Her creed, if reduced to dogma, would have offended his intellect,
just as her political claims would have been rejected by his historical judgment. But he saw
in her character that which could be poetically transmuted into a type of the noble sufferer,
burdened with remorse, fated to contend with injustice, and betrayed by her own rebellious
nature; but triumphing at last in the peaceful assurance that her death is the divinely appointed
expiation of her sins. The drama was to represent a process of inward purification,--the attainment,
after fierce storms and buffetings, of a calm haven for the soul. Queen Mary was to appear
at last as the embodiment of all the qualities that seem most noble and enviable in one who
"feels the winnowing wings of death". And of this idea what better dramatic setting can be
imagined than the ceremony of confession and absolution in accordance with the forms of the
Catholic Church? The solemn searching of the heart gives to Mary's character a saintly dignity,
as of one already beatified, and invests the whole scene with an incomparable pathos.[122]
Swinburne makes his Mary declare, in angry scorn of woman's weakness, that

        Even in death,
  As in the extremest evil of all our lives,
  We can but curse or pray, but prate and weep,
  And all our wrath is wind that works no wreck,
  And all our fire as[*] water.

[* Transcriber's note: So in original.]

Schiller's Mary meets her fate in a nobler mood. She sees in death the 'solemn friend' who
comes to lift the ancient burden from her soul. Not only does she forgive and bless her enemies,
but she sees in the very injustice of her death a part of the divine benediction:

  God deems me fit, through this unmerited death,
  To expiate my heavy guilt of yore.

Such a sentiment, it must be admitted, is rather too sublimated to harmonize perfectly with
the political complications that precede. We seem to have come suddenly into another world;
and so we have in truth,--the world of medieval mysticism. That which begins as a drama of
conflicting political passions, ends as a drama of mystical edification. The rationalist does
not see how the divine order can be vindicated by the triumph of gross injustice; nevertheless
he recognizes that the ways of God are inscrutable, and he knows that such ideas, of the winning
of peace through blood-atonement, were once intensely real to the Christian world. Schiller
requires the rationalist to return in his imagination to this time and place himself in the
emotional _milieu_ of the medieval church.

Returning now, in the light of these considerations, to the famous quarrel-scene in the third
act, we see that a more favorable portrait of Elizabeth, while it would have had the advantage
pointed out, would have weakened the final effect which Schiller wished to produce. It was
necessary that Mary appear as the victim of injustice in order that her saintly triumph might
shine with the greater luster. Moreover, Mary's outburst of passion, for which there would
have been no room if her enemy had been given a nobler character, was needed in order to make
her earlier sins credible. Without that scene we should have difficulty in believing that so
excellent a lady could ever have committed those crimes of hot blood which weigh upon her soul.
All this means that a noble-minded Elizabeth would not have fallen in with Schiller's artistic
idea, but it hardly justifies him in making her the monster that she appears. In making her
heartless he might at least have left her head in the possession of ordinary common sense.
Her off-hand employment of the stranger, Mortimer, as an assassin; her stagy signing of the
death-warrant, after a speech indicating that she acts from pusillanimous motives of personal
spite; her silly comedy with Davison about the execution of the death-sentence; her coquettish
airs with the wretched Leicester,--these are repulsive touches which are difficult to justify
on any aesthetic grounds, and the total effect of which approaches perilously near to caricature.

'Mary Stuart' may be described, then, as a tragedy of self-conquest in the presence of an undeserved
death. The stage climax is the meeting of the two queens in the third act, but the psychological
climax occurs in the fifth act, when Queen Mary gives up her hopes of freedom and of life and
welcomes the 'solemn friend' who is to lift the burden from her soul. In working out this conception
Schiller did not trouble himself greatly about the historical verisimilitude of his chief personages.
One who looks for the real Mary, Elizabeth, Burleigh and Leicester, will not find them in his
pages. The principal figures are drawn with less impartiality than in 'Wallenstein', the subjective
presence of the author is more noticeable. And yet, looked at in a large way, the play is an
excellent piece of historical fresco-painting. The whole spirit of the time with its warring
passions, its intrigues of fanaticism, is vividly and powerfully brought before us. The author's
partisanship is aesthetic only, not religious or political. The many counts in the long indictment
of Queen Mary, the motives and arguments of the English government, even the higher traits
of Queen Elizabeth, are all brought out in the course of the play. Nothing of importance is
neglected, and the whole complicated situation is made admirably clear. The historical background,
with its luminous vistas of European politics, really leaves very little to be desired.

Masterly, too, in the main, is the constructive skill with which all this history is brought
to view in a dramatic action concentrated into the last three days of Queen Mary's life. The
great difficulty which always besets the 'drama of the ripe situation',--to use a modern phrase
for a thing as old as Euripides,--is the difficulty of explaining the past without forcing
the dialogue into unnatural channels; in other words, of orienting the public without seeming
to have that object in view. As regards this merit of good craftsmanship, 'Mary Stuart' is
here and there vulnerable. For example: in the fourth scene of the first act, the nurse, Hannah
Kennedy, recounts to her mistress at great length the latter's past sins and sufferings, describing
her motives, her infatuation, her heart-burnings and much else that the queen must know far
better than any one else in the world. Such passages, obviously intended for the instruction
of the audience, were permitted by the traditions of the drama, but they are bad for the illusion.
In 'Wallenstein' they are much less noticeable,--a fact which indicates that Schiller was now
disposed to make his labor easier by availing himself of conventional privileges. In most respects,
however, the technique of 'Mary Stuart' is excellent. The scenes are lively, varied and very
rarely too long. Everything is well articulated. Dramatic interest is not sacrificed to any
sort of private enthusiasm or special pleading.

One who reads the history of Mary Queen of Scots in any good historian, and endeavors to follow
the maze of intrigues, uprisings, plots, assassinations and what not, is impressed by no other
characteristic of the age more strongly than by its complete dissociation of religion from
humane ethics. The religion of love to one's neighbor, though the neighbor be an enemy, had
become a fierce fanaticism which scrupled at nothing and recognized no fealty higher than the
supposed secular interest of the church. In his 'Mary Stuart in Scotland' Björnson makes the
queen put to Bothwell the question: 'You are surely no gloomy Protestant, you are certainly
a Catholic, are you not?' To which Bothwell replies: 'As for myself, I have never really figured
up the difference, but I have noticed that there are hypocrites on both sides.' For the modern
man this is an eminently natural point of view, and we might have expected, from all we know
of Schiller, that he would introduce into his play some representative of this sentiment. Or
if not that, we might have expected some representative of the religion of love. Instead of
either we have a romantic youth who has forsworn the Protestant creed on purely aesthetic grounds.

Mortimer is on the whole the most interesting of the subordinate characters. He was obviously
suggested by Babington, but the coarse fanatic of history was too repulsive for a proper champion
of Schiller's idealized heroine. So the name was changed, and we get an imaginary youth who
has been intoxicated by the glamour of the Catholic forms as he has seen them at Rome. The
description of Mortimer's conversion,--his sudden resolve to abjure the dismal, art-hating
religion of the incorporeal word, and to go over to the communion of the joyous,--is one of
the telling declamatory passages of the play. With the sentiment expressed Schiller can have
had, in the bottom of his heart, but little sympathy; but his artistic nature had begun to
respond to the Romantic propaganda. For the rest, Mortimer is not a very convincing creation.
One is a little surprised that a youth who purports to be so very soft-hearted, so very susceptible
to the religion of the beautiful, should undertake so jauntily the rôle of murderer. As for
his amorous passion, that is credible enough if, in accordance with Schiller's direction, we
think of Queen Mary as twenty-five years old. But in that case one's imagination has difficulty
with that perspective of years which have accumulated the ancient burden of guilt.

FOOTNOTES:

[Footnote 119: In a letter to Iffland, written June 22, 1800, Schiller directed that his Queen
Elizabeth be represented as a woman thirty years old, Mary as twenty-five.]

[Footnote 120: The thought is expressed thus by Harnack, "Schiller", page 324: "Der eigentliche
tragische Konflikt, der den Helden vor grosze Entscheidungen stellt und endlich in sein Verhängnis
hinabreiszt, _fehlt_ in 'Maria Stuart'. Die gefangene Königin befindet sich im Konflikt mit
ihrer unwürdigen äuszeren Lage, aber nicht mit sich selbst."]

[Footnote 121: Compare, however, Fielitz, "Studien zu Schillers Dramen", page 49.]

[Footnote 122: Even Macaulay, who was certainly not the man to be captivated by anything in
the scene save its poetry, thought the "Fotheringay scenes in the fifth act ... equal to anything
dramatic that had been produced in Europe since Shakspere."--Trevelyan, "Life and Letters of
Lord Macaulay", II, 182.]

CHAPTER XVIII

The Maid of Orleans

    Die Schönheit ist für ein glückliches Geschlecht; ein unglückliches
    musz man erhaben zu rühren suchen.--_Letter of July 26, 1800_.

It was well observed by Wilhelm von Humboldt that Schiller's plays are not repetitions of the
same thing, such as talent is wont to produce when it has once met with a success, but the
productions of a spirit that ever kept wrestling anew with the demands of art. With each fresh
attempt he essayed a really new theme, and taken as a whole his works exhibit a remarkable
variety of substance. Each one has its own individuality, its own atmosphere. And he himself
wished that this should be so; it was a part of his study to avoid repeating himself. 'One
must not become the slave of any general concept',--so he wrote to Goethe in July, 1800,--'but
have the courage to invent a new form for each new matter and keep the type-idea flexible in
one's mind.'

These words were penned with direct reference to 'The Maid of Orleans', which was begun very
soon after the completion of 'Mary Stuart'. Whether Schiller then had in mind all those elements
which subsequently led to the sub-title, 'a romantic tragedy', is not at all certain; it would
be natural to surmise that he may have thought at first of a drama within the lines of authentic
tradition. However, we know very little in detail about the genesis of this particular play.
The letter just quoted tells of the usual initial difficulty in concentrating the action, the
interesting occurrences being so widely separated in time and place. Later letters hardly do
more than occasionally to report progress; they do not discuss artistic questions, nor give
any information as to books read. Three acts were finished by mid-winter, and the whole on
the 15th of April, 1801. Schiller had now learned his routine; he felt confidence in himself
and went ahead in his own way, with but little discussion of his plans. What he finally gave
to the world is a tragedy in which he proceeds still further along the path of romantic idealization,--proceeds
indeed so far that one can no longer follow him without some rather serious misgivings.

The French peasant girl becomes an ambassadress of heaven, gifted with second sight and the
power of working miracles. She not only leads the French troops in battle, but she herself
fights with a magic sword and kills English soldiers with the ruthlessness of a veteran in
slaughter. Through it all, however, she is supposed to remain a tender-hearted and lovable
maiden, such as the highest officers of France may wish to marry. By the command of the Holy
Virgin, from whom her mission and power derive, she is bound to refrain from all earthly love.
A momentary tenderness for the English general, Lionel, which leads her to spare his life,
presents itself to her conscience as an infraction of the divine command. She is overwhelmed
with remorse and loses all her power. Arm and soul are paralyzed. Taxed by her superstitious
father with witchcraft, she cannot find speech to defend herself and imagines that a thunder-clap
is heaven's testimony against her. Then she wanders about as a helpless and disgraced fugitive
and is captured by English soldiers. With fettered hands she is compelled to witness a new
battle, in which her countrymen, deprived of her aid, are about to be worsted. But through
adversity she has been purged of her sin. Her self-confidence returns, and with it her miraculous
power. By the efficacy of prayer she breaks her chains and rushes into the fray. Her reappearance
brings victory to the French arms, but she herself is mortally wounded and dies in glory on
the battle-field.

It is evident that such a conception carries us back into the dreamland of pious romance. It
presupposes a world in which things did not happen as they happen now; in which the incredible
is assumed to be real and the course of events is shaped by miracle. To be sure, miracle is
but sparingly used in the dramatic action itself, and the totality of the play is only a little
more wonderful than the Maid's actual history as given by authentic records. Johanna's vision
of the Virgin is merely described retrospectively and is parallel to the Voices of the historical
Joan. So too her recognition of the King, whom she has never seen before; her reading of his
mind; her wonderful influence over the French army, and much more of the kind, are part of
a well-authenticated tradition with which the skeptical mind must make its peace as best it
can. And the feat is not altogether easy. The modern rationalist will say, and is no doubt
right in saying, that if we knew all the pertinent facts accurately from first to last, the
Maid's story would fit perfectly into our scheme of scientific knowledge and would appear no
more mysterious than other stories of obsession, genius and devotion. Still the fact remains
that upon ordinary human nature, without regard to religious prepossessions, the record of
the Maid's life, as brought out at her trial, makes an impression of the marvelous. This is
quite enough for the purposes of a dramatic poet. But when Schiller introduces a magic sword;
when he makes his heroine talk with a ghost upon the battle-field, and break her heavy fetters
by the power of prayer; and when we not merely hear these things reported, but see them,--then
we are clearly in the realm of pure miracle.

Schiller's ultra-romantic treatment of the Maid's story has often been sharply criticised,
even by those who are in the main friendly to his genius; while those who are not friendly
have always seen in it the complete flowering of his worst tendencies. Critics have debated
at great length the question whether he was 'justified' in introducing the supernatural at
all. They have fallen back upon the ghost in 'Hamlet' for a precedent and have tried to illuminate
the subject with the light of Lessing's famous comparison of Shakspere's ghost with Voltaire's
in 'Semiramis'. Others have been shocked by Schiller's bold departure from history at the close.
On a first reading of 'The Maid of Orleans', Macaulay recorded in his journal an opinion that
"the last act was absurd beyond description. Schiller might just as well have made Wallenstein
dethrone the emperor and reign himself over Germany--or Mary become Queen of England and cut
off Elizabeth's head--as make Joan fall in the moment of victory."[123]

Now opinions of this kind have a certain interest for the student of literature, but it is
best not to take them too seriously. A dramatist is 'justified' if his intention is good and
he succeeds in it. The proof of the pudding is not in the cook's recipe. If any dramatist in
the wide world chooses, for reasons of his own, to experiment with an imaginary reversal of
the verdict of history, there is no abstract reason why he should not do so. It is just as
well, as Schiller said, to 'keep the type-idea flexible in one's mind',--especially when we
know that his experiment was received with ecstasy at its first performance and has ever since
held its place in the affection of German play-goers. They are not troubled by its irrationalities,
but receive them with pious awe, as Schiller intended. For the reader, too, 'The Maid of Orleans'
has a deep and perennial fascination. Theorize about it as we may, it is a great popular classic,
which has exerted an enormous educative influence and proves how thoroughly its author knew
the heart of the German people.

It is perfectly safe to conjecture, even without documentary evidence, that when Schiller began
to think of Joan the Maid as the possible heroine of a tragedy, his first perplexity related
to the question of her 'guilt'. This was for him an indispensable ingredient of the tragic,
whatever later theorists may think of it.

