
                           ANTI-SLAVERY POEMS

                       SONGS OF LABOR AND REFORM

                                   BY

                        JOHN GREENLEAF WHITTIER

CONTENTS:

IN WAR TIME.
     TO SAMUEL E. SEWALL AND HARRIET W. SEWALL
     THY WILL BE DONE
     A WORD FOR THE HOUR
     "EIN FESTE BURG IST UNSER GOTT"
     TO JOHN C. FREMONT
     THE WATCHERS
     TO ENGLISHMEN
     MITHRIDATES AT CHIOS
     AT PORT ROYAL
     ASTRAEA AT THE CAPITOL
     THE BATTLE AUTUMN OF 1862
     OF ST. HELENA'S ISLAND, S. C.
     THE PROCLAMATION
     ANNIVERSARY POEM
     BARBARA FRIETCHIE
     HAT THE BIRDS SAID
     THE MANTLE OF ST. JOHN DE MATRA
     LADS DEO!
     HYMN FOR THE CELEBRATION OF EMANCIPATION
          AT NEWBURYPORT

                               IN WAR TIME.

TO SAMUEL E. SEWALL AND HARRIET W. SEWAll, OF MELROSE.

These lines to my old friends stood as dedication in the volume which contained a collection
of pieces under the general title of In War Time. The group belonging distinctly under that
title I have retained here; the other pieces in the volume are distributed among the appropriate
divisions.

OLOR ISCANUS queries: "Why should we Vex at the land's ridiculous miserie?" So on his Usk banks,
in the blood-red dawn Of England's civil strife, did careless Vaughan Bemock his times. O friends
of many years! Though faith and trust are stronger than our fears, And the signs promise peace
with liberty, Not thus we trifle with our country's tears And sweat of agony. The future's
gain Is certain as God's truth; but, meanwhile, pain Is bitter and tears are salt: our voices
take A sober tone; our very household songs Are heavy with a nation's griefs and wrongs; And
innocent mirth is chastened for the sake Of the brave hearts that nevermore shall beat, The
eyes that smile no more, the unreturning feet! 1863

THY WILL BE DONE.

WE see not, know not; all our way Is night,--with Thee alone is day From out the torrent's
troubled drift, Above the storm our prayers we lift, Thy will be done!

The flesh may fail, the heart may faint, But who are we to make complaint, Or dare to plead,
in times like these, The weakness of our love of ease? Thy will be done!

We take with solemn thankfulness Our burden up, nor ask it less, And count it joy that even
we May suffer, serve, or wait for Thee, Whose will be done!

Though dim as yet in tint and line, We trace Thy picture's wise design, And thank Thee that
our age supplies Its dark relief of sacrifice. Thy will be done!

And if, in our unworthiness, Thy sacrificial wine we press; If from Thy ordeal's heated bars
Our feet are seamed with crimson scars, Thy will be done!

If, for the age to come, this hour Of trial hath vicarious power, And, blest by Thee, our present
pain, Be Liberty's eternal gain, Thy will be done!

Strike, Thou the Master, we Thy keys, The anthem of the destinies! The minor of Thy loftier
strain, Our hearts shall breathe the old refrain, Thy will be done! 1861.

A WORD FOR THE HOUR.

THE firmament breaks up. In black eclipse Light after light goes out. One evil star, Luridly
glaring through the smoke of war, As in the dream of the Apocalypse, Drags others down. Let
us not weakly weep Nor rashly threaten. Give us grace to keep Our faith and patience; wherefore
should we leap On one hand into fratricidal fight, Or, on the other, yield eternal right, Frame
lies of law, and good and ill confound? What fear we? Safe on freedom's vantage-ground Our
feet are planted: let us there remain In unrevengeful calm, no means untried Which truth can
sanction, no just claim denied, The sad spectators of a suicide! They break the links of Union:
shall we light The fires of hell to weld anew the chain On that red anvil where each blow is
pain? Draw we not even now a freer breath, As from our shoulders falls a load of death Loathsome
as that the Tuscan's victim bore When keen with life to a dead horror bound? Why take we up
the accursed thing again? Pity, forgive, but urge them back no more Who, drunk with passion,
flaunt disunion's rag With its vile reptile-blazon. Let us press The golden cluster on our
brave old flag In closer union, and, if numbering less, Brighter shall shine the stars which
still remain. 16th First mo., 1861.

"EIN FESTE BURG IST UNSER GOTT."

LUTHER'S HYMN. WE wait beneath the furnace-blast The pangs of transformation; Not painlessly
doth God recast And mould anew the nation. Hot burns the fire Where wrongs expire; Nor spares
the hand That from the land Uproots the ancient evil.

The hand-breadth cloud the sages feared Its bloody rain is dropping; The poison plant the fathers
spared All else is overtopping. East, West, South, North, It curses the earth; All justice
dies, And fraud and lies Live only in its shadow.

What gives the wheat-field blades of steel? What points the rebel cannon? What sets the roaring
rabble's heel On the old star-spangled pennon? What breaks the oath Of the men o' the South?
What whets the knife For the Union's life?-- Hark to the answer: Slavery!

Then waste no blows on lesser foes In strife unworthy freemen. God lifts to-day the veil, and
shows The features of the demon O North and South, Its victims both, Can ye not cry, "Let slavery
die!" And union find in freedom?

What though the cast-out spirit tear The nation in his going? We who have shared the guilt
must share The pang of his o'erthrowing! Whate'er the loss, Whate'er the cross, Shall they
complain Of present pain Who trust in God's hereafter?

For who that leans on His right arm Was ever yet forsaken? What righteous cause can suffer
harm If He its part has taken? Though wild and loud, And dark the cloud, Behind its folds His
hand upholds The calm sky of to-morrow!

Above the maddening cry for blood, Above the wild war-drumming, Let Freedom's voice be heard,
with good The evil overcoming. Give prayer and purse To stay the Curse Whose wrong we share,
Whose shame we bear, Whose end shall gladden Heaven!

In vain the bells of war shall ring Of triumphs and revenges, While still is spared the evil
thing That severs and estranges. But blest the ear That yet shall hear The jubilant bell That
rings the knell Of Slavery forever!

Then let the selfish lip be dumb, And hushed the breath of sighing; Before the joy of peace
must come The pains of purifying. God give us grace Each in his place To bear his lot, And,
murmuring not, Endure and wait and labor! 1861.

TO JOHN C. FREMONT. On the 31st of August, 1861, General Fremont, then in charge of the Western
Department, issued a proclamation which contained a clause, famous as the first announcement
of emancipation: "The property," it declared, "real and personal, of all persons in the State
of Missouri, who shall take up arms against the United States, or who shall be directly proven
to have taken active part with their enemies in the field, is declared to be confiscated to
the public use; and their slaves, if any they have, are hereby declared free men." Mr. Lincoln
regarded the proclamation as premature and countermanded it, after vainly endeavoring to persuade
Fremont of his own motion to revoke it.

THY error, Fremont, simply was to act A brave man's part, without the statesman's tact, And,
taking counsel but of common sense, To strike at cause as well as consequence. Oh, never yet
since Roland wound his horn At Roncesvalles, has a blast been blown Far-heard, wide-echoed,
startling as thine own, Heard from the van of freedom's hope forlorn It had been safer, doubtless,
for the time, To flatter treason, and avoid offence To that Dark Power whose underlying crime
Heaves upward its perpetual turbulence. But if thine be the fate of all who break The ground
for truth's seed, or forerun their years Till lost in distance, or with stout hearts make A
lane for freedom through the level spears, Still take thou courage! God has spoken through
thee, Irrevocable, the mighty words, Be free! The land shakes with them, and the slave's dull
ear Turns from the rice-swamp stealthily to hear. Who would recall them now must first arrest
The winds that blow down from the free Northwest, Ruffling the Gulf; or like a scroll roll
back The Mississippi to its upper springs. Such words fulfil their prophecy, and lack But the
full time to harden into things. 1861.

THE WATCHERS.

BESIDE a stricken field I stood; On the torn turf, on grass and wood, Hung heavily the dew
of blood.

Still in their fresh mounds lay the slain, But all the air was quick with pain And gusty sighs
and tearful rain.

Two angels, each with drooping head And folded wings and noiseless tread, Watched by that valley
of the dead.

The one, with forehead saintly bland And lips of blessing, not command, Leaned, weeping, on
her olive wand.

The other's brows were scarred and knit, His restless eyes were watch-fires lit, His hands
for battle-gauntlets fit.

"How long!"--I knew the voice of Peace,-- "Is there no respite? no release? When shall the
hopeless quarrel cease?

"O Lord, how long!! One human soul Is more than any parchment scroll, Or any flag thy winds unroll.

"What price was Ellsworth's, young and brave? How weigh the gift that Lyon gave, Or count the
cost of Winthrop's grave?

"O brother! if thine eye can see, Tell how and when the end shall be, What hope remains for
thee and me."

Then Freedom sternly said: "I shun No strife nor pang beneath the sun, When human rights are
staked and won.

"I knelt with Ziska's hunted flock, I watched in Toussaint's cell of rock, I walked with Sidney
to the block.

"The moor of Marston felt my tread, Through Jersey snows the march I led, My voice Magenta's
charges sped.

"But now, through weary day and night, I watch a vague and aimless fight For leave to strike
one blow aright.

"On either side my foe they own One guards through love his ghastly throne, And one through
fear to reverence grown.

"Why wait we longer, mocked, betrayed, By open foes, or those afraid To speed thy coming through
my aid?

"Why watch to see who win or fall? I shake the dust against them all, I leave them to their
senseless brawl."

"Nay," Peace implored: "yet longer wait; The doom is near, the stake is great God knoweth if
it be too late.

"Still wait and watch; the way prepare Where I with folded wings of prayer May follow, weaponless
and bare."

"Too late!" the stern, sad voice replied, "Too late!" its mournful echo sighed, In low lament
the answer died.

A rustling as of wings in flight, An upward gleam of lessening white, So passed the vision,
sound and sight.

But round me, like a silver bell Rung down the listening sky to tell Of holy help, a sweet
voice fell.

"Still hope and trust," it sang; "the rod Must fall, the wine-press must be trod, But all is
possible with God!" 1862.

TO ENGLISHMEN. Written when, in the stress of our terrible war, the English ruling class, with
few exceptions, were either coldly indifferent or hostile to the party of freedom. Their attitude
was illustrated by caricatures of America, among which was one of a slaveholder and cowhide,
with the motto, "Haven't I a right to wallop my nigger?"

You flung your taunt across the wave We bore it as became us, Well knowing that the fettered
slave Left friendly lips no option save To pity or to blame us.

You scoffed our plea. "Mere lack of will, Not lack of power," you told us We showed our free-state
records; still You mocked, confounding good and ill, Slave-haters and slaveholders.

We struck at Slavery; to the verge Of power and means we checked it; Lo!--presto, change! its
claims you urge, Send greetings to it o'er the surge, And comfort and protect it.

But yesterday you scarce could shake, In slave-abhorring rigor, Our Northern palms for conscience'
sake To-day you clasp the hands that ache With "walloping the nigger!"

O Englishmen!--in hope and creed, In blood and tongue our brothers! We too are heirs of Runnymede;
And Shakespeare's fame and Cromwell's deed Are not alone our mother's.

"Thicker than water," in one rill Through centuries of story Our Saxon blood has flowed, and
still We share with you its good and ill, The shadow and the glory.

Joint heirs and kinfolk, leagues of wave Nor length of years can part us Your right is ours
to shrine and grave, The common freehold of the brave, The gift of saints and martyrs.

Our very sins and follies teach Our kindred frail and human We carp at faults with bitter speech,
The while, for one unshared by each, We have a score in common.

We bowed the heart, if not the knee, To England's Queen, God bless her We praised you when
your slaves went free We seek to unchain ours. Will ye Join hands with the oppressor?

And is it Christian England cheers The bruiser, not the bruised? And must she run, despite
the tears And prayers of eighteen hundred years, Amuck in Slavery's crusade?

Oh, black disgrace! Oh, shame and loss Too deep for tongue to phrase on Tear from your flag
its holy cross, And in your van of battle toss The pirate's skull-bone blazon! 1862.

MITHRIDATES AT CHIOS.

It is recorded that the Chians, when subjugated by Mithridates of Cappadocia, were delivered
up to their own slaves, to be carried away captive to Colchis. Athenxus considers this a just
punishment for their wickedness in first introducing the slave-trade into Greece. From this
ancient villany of the Chians the proverb arose, "The Chian hath bought himself a master."

KNOW'ST thou, O slave-cursed land How, when the Chian's cup of guilt Was full to overflow,
there came God's justice in the sword of flame That, red with slaughter to its hilt, Blazed
in the Cappadocian victor's hand?

The heavens are still and far; But, not unheard of awful Jove, The sighing of the island slave
Was answered, when the AEgean wave The keels of Mithridates clove, And the vines shrivelled
in the breath of war.

"Robbers of Chios! hark," The victor cried, "to Heaven's decree! Pluck your last cluster from
the vine, Drain your last cup of Chian wine; Slaves of your slaves, your doom shall be, In
Colchian mines by Phasis rolling dark."

Then rose the long lament From the hoar sea-god's dusky caves The priestess rent her hair and
cried, "Woe! woe! The gods are sleepless-eyed!" And, chained and scourged, the slaves of slaves,
The lords of Chios into exile went.

"The gods at last pay well," So Hellas sang her taunting song, "The fisher in his net is caught,
The Chian hath his master bought;" And isle from isle, with laughter long, Took up and sped
the mocking parable.

Once more the slow, dumb years Bring their avenging cycle round, And, more than Hellas taught
of old, Our wiser lesson shall be told, Of slaves uprising, freedom-crowned, To break, not
wield, the scourge wet with their blood and tears. 1868.

AT PORT ROYAL.

In November, 1861, a Union force under Commodore Dupont and General Sherman captured Port Royal,
and from this point as a basis of operations, the neighboring islands between Charleston and
Savannah were taken possession of. The early occupation of this district, where the negro population
was greatly in excess of the white, gave an opportunity which was at once seized upon, of practically
emancipating the slaves and of beginning that work of civilization which was accepted as the
grave responsibility of those who had labored for freedom.

THE tent-lights glimmer on the land, The ship-lights on the sea; The night-wind smooths with
drifting sand Our track on lone Tybee.

At last our grating keels outslide, Our good boats forward swing; And while we ride the land-locked
tide, Our negroes row and sing.

For dear the bondman holds his gifts Of music and of song The gold that kindly Nature sifts
Among his sands of wrong:

The power to make his toiling days And poor home-comforts please; The quaint relief of mirth
that plays With sorrow's minor keys.

Another glow than sunset's fire Has filled the west with light, Where field and garner, barn
and byre, Are blazing through the night.

The land is wild with fear and hate, The rout runs mad and fast; From hand to hand, from gate
to gate The flaming brand is passed.

The lurid glow falls strong across Dark faces broad with smiles Not theirs the terror, hate,
and loss That fire yon blazing piles.

With oar-strokes timing to their song, They weave in simple lays The pathos of remembered wrong,
The hope of better days,--

The triumph-note that Miriam sung, The joy of uncaged birds Softening with Afric's mellow tongue
Their broken Saxon words.

SONG OF THE NEGRO BOATMEN.

Oh, praise an' tanks! De Lord he come To set de people free; An' massa tink it day ob doom,
An' we ob jubilee. De Lord dat heap de Red Sea waves He jus' as 'trong as den; He say de word:
we las' night slaves; To-day, de Lord's freemen. De yam will grow, de cotton blow, We'll hab
de rice an' corn; Oh nebber you fear, if nebber you hear De driver blow his horn!

Ole massa on he trabbels gone; He leaf de land behind De Lord's breff blow him furder on, Like
corn-shuck in de wind. We own de hoe, we own de plough, We own de hands dat hold; We sell de
pig, we sell de cow, But nebber chile be sold. De yam will grow, de cotton blow, We'll hab
de rice an' corn; Oh nebber you fear, if nebber you hear De driver blow his horn!

We pray de Lord: he gib us signs Dat some day we be free; De norf-wind tell it to de pines,
De wild-duck to de sea; We tink it when de church-bell ring, We dream it in de dream; De rice-bird
mean it when he sing, De eagle when be scream. De yam will grow, de cotton blow, We'll hab
de rice an' corn Oh nebber you fear, if nebber you hear De driver blow his horn!

We know de promise nebber fail, An' nebber lie de word; So like de 'postles in de jail, We
waited for de Lord An' now he open ebery door, An' trow away de key; He tink we lub him so
before, We hub him better free. De yam will grow, de cotton blow, He'll gib de rice an' corn;
Oh nebber you fear, if nebber you hear De driver blow his horn!

So sing our dusky gondoliers; And with a secret pain, And smiles that seem akin to tears, We
hear the wild refrain.

We dare not share the negro's trust, Nor yet his hope deny; We only know that God is just,
And every wrong shall die.

Rude seems the song; each swarthy face, Flame-lighted, ruder still We start to think that hapless
race Must shape our good or ill;

That laws of changeless justice bind Oppressor with oppressed; And, close as sin and suffering
joined, We march to Fate abreast.

Sing on, poor hearts! your chant shall be Our sign of blight or bloom, The Vala-song of Liberty,
Or death-rune of our doom! 1862.

ASTRAEA AT THE CAPITOL.

ABOLITION OF SLAVERY IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, 1862.

WHEN first I saw our banner wave Above the nation's council-hall, I heard beneath its marble
wall The clanking fetters of the slave!

In the foul market-place I stood, And saw the Christian mother sold, And childhood with its
locks of gold, Blue-eyed and fair with Saxon blood.

I shut my eyes, I held my breath, And, smothering down the wrath and shame That set my Northern
blood aflame, Stood silent,--where to speak was death.

Beside me gloomed the prison-cell Where wasted one in slow decline For uttering simple words
of mine, And loving freedom all too well.

The flag that floated from the dome Flapped menace in the morning air; I stood a perilled stranger
where The human broker made his home.

For crime was virtue: Gown and Sword And Law their threefold sanction gave, And to the quarry
of the slave Went hawking with our symbol-bird.

On the oppressor's side was power; And yet I knew that every wrong, However old, however strong,
But waited God's avenging hour.

I knew that truth would crush the lie, Somehow, some time, the end would be; Yet scarcely dared
I hope to see The triumph with my mortal eye.

But now I see it! In the sun A free flag floats from yonder dome, And at the nation's hearth
and home The justice long delayed is done.

Not as we hoped, in calm of prayer, The message of deliverance comes, But heralded by roll
of drums On waves of battle-troubled air!

Midst sounds that madden and appall, The song that Bethlehem's shepherds knew! The harp of
David melting through The demon-agonies of Saul!

Not as we hoped; but what are we? Above our broken dreams and plans God lays, with wiser hand
than man's, The corner-stones of liberty.

I cavil not with Him: the voice That freedom's blessed gospel tells Is sweet to me as silver
bells, Rejoicing! yea, I will rejoice!

Dear friends still toiling in the sun; Ye dearer ones who, gone before, Are watching from the
eternal shore The slow work by your hands begun,

Rejoice with me! The chastening rod Blossoms with love; the furnace heat Grows cool beneath
His blessed feet Whose form is as the Son of God!

Rejoice! Our Marah's bitter springs Are sweetened; on our ground of grief Rise day by day in
strong relief The prophecies of better things.

Rejoice in hope! The day and night Are one with God, and one with them Who see by faith the
cloudy hem Of Judgment fringed with Mercy's light 1862.

THE BATTLE AUTUMN OF 1862.

THE flags of war like storm-birds fly, The charging trumpets blow; Yet rolls no thunder in
the sky, No earthquake strives below.

And, calm and patient, Nature keeps Her ancient promise well, Though o'er her bloom and greenness
sweeps The battle's breath of hell.

And still she walks in golden hours Through harvest-happy farms, And still she wears her fruits
and flowers Like jewels on her arms.

What mean the gladness of the plain, This joy of eve and morn, The mirth that shakes the beard
of grain And yellow locks of corn?

Ah! eyes may well be full of tears, And hearts with hate are hot; But even-paced come round
the years, And Nature changes not.

She meets with smiles our bitter grief, With songs our groans of pain; She mocks with tint
of flower and leaf The war-field's crimson stain.

Still, in the cannon's pause, we hear Her sweet thanksgiving-psalm; Too near to God for doubt
or fear, She shares the eternal calm.

She knows the seed lies safe below The fires that blast and burn; For all the tears of blood
we sow She waits the rich return.

She sees with clearer eve than ours The good of suffering born,-- The hearts that blossom like
her flowers, And ripen like her corn.

Oh, give to us, in times like these, The vision of her eyes; And make her fields and fruited
trees Our golden prophecies

Oh, give to us her finer ear Above this stormy din, We too would hear the bells of cheer Ring
peace and freedom in. 1862.

HYMN,

SUNG AT CHRISTMAS BY THE SCHOLARS OF ST. HELENA'S ISLAND, S. C.

OH, none in all the world before Were ever glad as we! We're free on Carolina's shore, We're
all at home and free.

Thou Friend and Helper of the poor, Who suffered for our sake, To open every prison door, And
every yoke to break!

Bend low Thy pitying face and mild, And help us sing and pray; The hand that blessed the little
child, Upon our foreheads lay.

We hear no more the driver's horn, No more the whip we fear, This holy day that saw Thee born
Was never half so dear.

The very oaks are greener clad, The waters brighter smile; Oh, never shone a day so glad On
sweet St. Helen's Isle.

We praise Thee in our songs to-day, To Thee in prayer we call, Make swift the feet and straight
the way Of freedom unto all.

Come once again, O blessed Lord! Come walking on the sea! And let the mainlands hear the word
That sets the islands free! 1863.

THE PROCLAMATION.

President Lincoln's proclamation of emancipation was issued January 1, 1863.

SAINT PATRICK, slave to Milcho of the herds Of Ballymena, wakened with these words "Arise,
and flee Out from the land of bondage, and be free!"

Glad as a soul in pain, who hears from heaven The angels singing of his sins forgiven, And,
wondering, sees His prison opening to their golden keys,

He rose a man who laid him down a slave, Shook from his locks the ashes of the grave, And outward
trod Into the glorious liberty of God.

He cast the symbols of his shame away; And, passing where the sleeping Milcho lay, Though back
and limb Smarted with wrong, he prayed, "God pardon him!"

So went he forth; but in God's time he came To light on Uilline's hills a holy flame; And,
dying, gave The land a saint that lost him as a slave.

O dark, sad millions, patiently and dumb Waiting for God, your hour at last has come, And freedom's
song Breaks the long silence of your night of wrong!

Arise and flee! shake off the vile restraint Of ages; but, like Ballymena's saint, The oppressor
spare, Heap only on his head the coals of prayer.

Go forth, like him! like him return again, To bless the land whereon in bitter pain Ye toiled
at first, And heal with freedom what your slavery cursed. 1863.

ANNIVERSARY POEM.

Read before the Alumni of the Friends' Yearly Meeting School, at the Annual Meeting at Newport,
R. I., 15th 6th mo., 1863.

ONCE more, dear friends, you meet beneath A clouded sky Not yet the sword has found its sheath,
And on the sweet spring airs the breath Of war floats by.

Yet trouble springs not from the ground, Nor pain from chance; The Eternal order circles round,
And wave and storm find mete and bound In Providence.

Full long our feet the flowery ways Of peace have trod, Content with creed and garb and phrase:
A harder path in earlier days Led up to God.

Too cheaply truths, once purchased dear, Are made our own; Too long the world has smiled to
hear Our boast of full corn in the ear By others sown;

To see us stir the martyr fires Of long ago, And wrap our satisfied desires In the singed mantles
that our sires Have dropped below.

But now the cross our worthies bore On us is laid; Profession's quiet sleep is o'er, And in
the scale of truth once more Our faith is weighed.

The cry of innocent blood at last Is calling down An answer in the whirlwind-blast, The thunder
and the shadow cast From Heaven's dark frown.

The land is red with judgments. Who Stands guiltless forth? Have we been faithful as we knew,
To God and to our brother true, To Heaven and Earth.

How faint, through din of merchandise And count of gain, Have seemed to us the captive's cries!
How far away the tears and sighs Of souls in pain!

This day the fearful reckoning comes To each and all; We hear amidst our peaceful homes The
summons of the conscript drums, The bugle's call.

Our path is plain; the war-net draws Round us in vain, While, faithful to the Higher Cause,
We keep our fealty to the laws Through patient pain.

The levelled gun, the battle-brand, We may not take But, calmly loyal, we can stand And suffer
with our suffering land For conscience' sake.

Why ask for ease where all is pain? Shall we alone Be left to add our gain to gain, When over
Armageddon's plain The trump is blown?

To suffer well is well to serve; Safe in our Lord The rigid lines of law shall curve To spare
us; from our heads shall swerve Its smiting sword.

And light is mingled with the gloom, And joy with grief; Divinest compensations come, Through
thorns of judgment mercies bloom In sweet relief.

Thanks for our privilege to bless, By word and deed, The widow in her keen distress, The childless
and the fatherless, The hearts that bleed!

For fields of duty, opening wide, Where all our powers Are tasked the eager steps to guide
Of millions on a path untried The slave is ours!

Ours by traditions dear and old, Which make the race Our wards to cherish and uphold, And cast
their freedom in the mould Of Christian grace.

And we may tread the sick-bed floors Where strong men pine, And, down the groaning corridors,
Pour freely from our liberal stores The oil and wine.

Who murmurs that in these dark days His lot is cast? God's hand within the shadow lays The
stones whereon His gates of praise Shall rise at last.

Turn and o'erturn, O outstretched Hand Nor stint, nor stay; The years have never dropped their
sand On mortal issue vast and grand As ours to-day.

Already, on the sable ground Of man's despair Is Freedom's glorious picture found, With all
its dusky hands unbound Upraised in prayer.

Oh, small shall seem all sacrifice And pain and loss, When God shall wipe the weeping eyes,
For suffering give the victor's prize, The crown for cross.

BARBARA FRIETCHIE.

This poem was written in strict conformity to the account of the incident as I had it from
respectable and trustworthy sources. It has since been the subject of a good deal of conflicting
testimony, and the story was probably incorrect in some of its details. It is admitted by all
that Barbara Frietchie was no myth, but a worthy and highly esteemed gentlewoman, intensely
loyal and a hater of the Slavery Rebellion, holding her Union flag sacred and keeping it with
her Bible; that when the Confederates halted before her house, and entered her dooryard, she
denounced them in vigorous language, shook her cane in their faces, and drove them out; and
when General Burnside's troops followed close upon Jackson's, she waved her flag and cheered
them. It is stated that May Qnantrell, a brave and loyal lady in another part of the city,
did wave her flag in sight of the Confederates. It is possible that there has been a blending
of the two incidents.

Up from the meadows rich with corn, Clear in the cool September morn.

The clustered spires of Frederick stand Green-walled by the hills of Maryland.

Round about them orchards sweep, Apple and peach tree fruited deep,

Fair as the garden of the Lord To the eyes of the famished rebel horde,

On that pleasant morn of the early fall When Lee marched over the mountain-wall;

Over the mountains winding down, Horse and foot, into Frederick town.

Forty flags with their silver stars, Forty flags with their crimson bars,

Flapped in the morning wind: the sun Of noon looked down, and saw not one.

Up rose old Barbara Frietchie then, Bowed with her fourscore years and ten;

Bravest of all in Frederick town, She took up the flag the men hauled down;

In her attic window the staff she set, To show that one heart was loyal yet.

Up the street came the rebel tread, Stonewall Jackson riding ahead.

Under his slouched hat left and right He glanced; the old flag met his sight.

"Halt!"--the dust-brown ranks stood fast. "Fire!"--out blazed the rifle-blast.

It shivered the window, pane and sash; It rent the banner with seam and gash.

Quick, as it fell, from the broken staff Dame Barbara snatched the silken scarf.

She leaned far out on the window-sill, And shook it forth with a royal will.

"Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, But spare your country's flag," she said.

A shade of sadness, a blush of shame, Over the face of the leader came;

The nobler nature within him stirred To life at that woman's deed and word.

"Who touches a hair of yon gray head Dies like a dog! March on!" he said.

All day long through Frederick street Sounded the tread of marching feet.

All day long that free flag tost Over the heads of the rebel host.

